

Google on Thursday showed off a sleek touch-screen laptop based on its Chrome
operating system, making a big bet on a premium-price, cloud-based machine in
direct aim at Apple.

The  search giant unveiled the new touch laptop, called the Chromebook Pixel, at
a press event here. The  device has the highest screen resolution available in a
laptop, Google said. "It's clear touch is here to stay, and it's the future,"
said Sundar Pichai, senior vice president of Chrome at Google.

Google's Chromebook Pixel, a sleek aluminum-encased machine, in many ways
physically resembles Apple's Mac lineup.

But the Pixel targets a generation of people whose photos and applications are
accessed  from  cloud-based services.  Nowadays, people spend most of their time
in a Web browser on Google, Facebook, Twitter, Amazon or any number of services.
The Chromebook Pixel will provide people 1 terabyte of data storage in the cloud
for three years.

"We think this is a real game changer in terms of people living in the cloud,"
Pichai said.

Google's Pixel tops the 2560-by-1600 resolution of Apple's Macbook Pro with its
Retina display, which Apple has touted as the highest-resolution notebook ever.

"What you're getting from our hardware in many ways is far superior" to Apple,
Pichai said.

Pixel laptops will be available at $1,299 for a 32-gigabyte  Wi-Fi version
(shipping next week) and $1,449 for a 64-GB 4G LTE version (scheduled to ship
the first week of April). People can order them  at the Google Play store and
at Best Buy stores.

Google has been turning up the heat on Microsoft's Windows and Office
franchises. Chromebooks from their  beginning featured a boot-up time of a few
seconds and quick access to Chrome search, Maps, Gmail, YouTube and Docs.  The
Pixel has added an integrated Google Drive with the massive storage addition.

Hardware manufacturers of those non-touch models include Samsung, Acer, Lenovo
and Hewlett-Packard, with prices starting at just $199.

"Google smells blood" at Microsoft, IDC analyst Crawford Del Prete said. "They
are an incredibly interesting proposition."

The new Chromebook is slightly more than half an inch thick and and weighs 3.3
pounds.

The Pixel has a 12.85-inch display that has twice as many pixels as a standard
HDTV, with 2560-by-1700 resolution, and uses Gorilla Glass, the durable glass
used in Apple's iPhones.

The Pixel packs an Intel Core i5, a dual-core 1.8GHz processor, and has 4GB of
DDR3 RAM memory. Google says the device's battery lasts up to five hours.

