                              107 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Say hi to the new Pixel, Pixel XL smartphones



BYLINE: Thomas J. Donegan, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 229 words





Google is getting back into making phones.



The search giant and creator of the Android operating system debuted its two

newest flagship phones -- the Pixel and the Pixel XL -- at an event in San

Francisco on Tuesday.



Google has previously helped design "Nexus" phones such as the Huawei-made Nexus

6P and LG-made Nexus 5X, but the Pixel and Pixel XL will be the first phones to

bear the Google brand, with the tagline "Phone by Google."



Their return takes aim at Samsung, the top maker of Android phones, and

iPhone-maker Apple with state-of-the art hardware and artificial

intelligence-driven software -- the feature seen as giving the edge to tech

companies vying to dominate consumers' time and spending.



From a design and specification standpoint, the two Pixel phones are similar to

other current flagship smartphones on the market, with large high- definition

displays, 12-megapixel f/2.0 rear cameras and metal bodies. Google claims the

new phone is the best smartphone camera yet.



The Pixel will offer a 5-inch display and the Pixel XL will have a 5.5-inch

screen.



The first two features Google focused on during the announcement were the Google

Assistant and the improved camera software. Assistant allows you to have

Siri-like interactions that can leverage the full power of Google's search

results and the smart integration found in things such as the Google Now

launcher.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo photos by JOHN G. MABANGLO, European pressphoto agency



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





