

Google has made it very clear to Pixel and Pixel XL users that they will receive
software updates, at least until 2018 is finally over

Google has made it very clear that both its Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones are
going to receive software updates for at least 2 years. This ultimately means
that they will receive software updates till 2018. Unfortunately, those that are
in possession of Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P are going to receive software updates
till 2017, and after that, Google cannot guarantee that these two previous
generation phones will receive those much-awaited software updates.

One thing that we should point out is that if you do not root your Pixel or your
Pixel XL, then Google will roll out software updates for your device much
quicker than any other company on the planet that manufacturers Android phones.
These software updates can be triggered on your smartphone through an OTA
process, where all the necessary downloads and installation processes are going
to take place from within your phone.

Google has stated that after 2018, it cannot guarantee if these Pixel devices
will continue to receive software updates or not. It is possible that the
factory images of these smartphones are introduced which will allow you to flash
the software update on your Pixel and Pixel XL, but you'll have to be careful
with these. As for security updates, Google has also stated that both of its
flagship smartphones will receive these particular updates for at least 3 years,
which is a good sign.

However, we feel that the 2-year time period is far too less for devices that
are being sold for premium prices. Keep in mind that both Pixel and Pixel XL are
offered at the same price tag as the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, but software
support for iOS is much better since they will be compatible for these devices
over a larger stretch of time. Still, if you want stock-Android exclusive
features, then you should still opt to purchase a Pixel or a Pixel XL.

