

Looking to finally enter the smartphone hardware business, Alphabet Inc's

Google is going after a familiar foe: Apple Inc. The Mountain View-based maker
of the Android mobile operating system unveiled new smartphones on Tuesday , the
Pixel and a larger Pixel XL, that compete head on with the iPhone.

The Pixel phones feature thin aluminum and glass frames that come in black,
silver, or blue (a limited edition for the US). The smaller model, which starts
at $649 for 32-gigabytes of storage, features a 5inch screen, while the bigger
model, priced at $769, has a 5.5inch screen to match the iPhone 7 Plus. A
128-gigabyte storage option is also available, with the larger device topping
out at $869 -also in line with the equivalent iPhone 7 Plus.

The models feature highresolution displays that Google said are sharper than the
iPhones', along with 12 mega pixel rear cameras, 8 mega pixel front cameras, and
Qualcomm's Snapdragon processors. The phones are the first to run Google's new
Siri-like digital Assistant and include new features for editing photos.

The Pixel phones are the first conceptualized, designed, engineered and tested
inhouse by Google. Similar to Apple's partnership with Foxconn in China, Google
is getting HTC Corp. to assemble the Pixel devices, Google's hardware chief Rick
Osterloh, said

in a recent interview.

Besides similar functionality and pricing, Google is going right after Apple
customers with a new option to automatically transfer data such as con

tacts and photos from an iPhone to the Pixel when it's first switched on. Google
included a physical adapter in the box that plugs the new devices into iPhones
to conduct the process. Apple added a similar feature to the iPhone last year,
allowing users to port their information over from Android gadgets.

\x93Premium is a very important category ,\x93 Hiroshi Lockheimer, head of
Android, said in a recent interview. \x93It's where Apple is also very strong.
Is there room for another player there? We think so.\x93

The Pixel phones run a new version of Android, called Nougat 7.1, and have a
user interface customized by Google.The home screen includes a translucent
launcher that reveals circular icons as it gradually blurs the background
wallpaper when users swipe up from the bottom. There's also a shortcut to summon
technical support. BLOOMBERG

To cost Rs 57,000 onwards in India

Starting at Rs 57,000, Pixel will be available for pre-order in India starting
October 13, 2016 on Flipkart and at over 1,000-plus organized and multi-brand
retail stores with leading retail partners, including Reliance Digital, Croma
and Vijay sales, among others, Google said. India is among the first six
countries where Pixel is being launched.

Pixel will be available in India in two sizes -5\x93 or 5.5\x93 -and two colors
-Quite Black and Very Silver -with memory configurations of 32GB and 128GB.

