                              10 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                           October 13, 2016 Thursday



Google Pixel starts pre-booking in India: Here's all you need to know;

The much awaited Google Pixel and Google Pixel Xl on Thursday went for pre-order

in the country. The post Google Pixel starts pre-booking in India: Here's all

you need to know appeared first on The Financial Express.



BYLINE: FE Online



LENGTH: 392  words





The much awaited Google Pixel and Google Pixel Xl on Thursday went for pre-order

in the country.



The much awaited Google Pixel and Google Pixel Xl on Thursday went for pre-order

in the country. With this, India becomes one of the only 6 nations where the

pre-booking for Google's revolutionary new smartphone has started. The

deliveries of these products are expected to be starting by the end of this

month. Both the smartphones have been designed to give stiff competition to the

Apple and Samsung's flagship smartphones. Google claims that this time it has

complete control over its products; from start to finish, as it contracted with

HTC instead of its previous alliances to manufacture handsets.



Google also claims that the Pixel handsets are the first phones that have been

completely produced by the company; both hardware and the software. And by doing

so, Google is asserting its presence among the likes of Apple and Samsung.

Although, these new smartphones are actually manufactured by Taiwanese

smartphone Company HTC. Google has also teamed up with HTC to provide after sale

services to the Pixel smartphones' users. The smartphones are to be made

available for sale in over 1,000 retail outlets. Google has also announced a

customer care number, that is toll-free, to deal with all the customer

grievances.



The smartphones will be mad available in Blue, Quite Black and Silver colour

variants. Although, Blue is the colour that is said to be most sought after. The

smartphones are offering an internal storage of 32GB and 128GB, depending on the

model and the price. The 32GB Pixel would cost you around Rs, 57,000, whereas

the 128GB variant would make you pay RS 66,000. Similarly, the Pixel XL starts

with a price tag of RS 67,000 for the 32GB variant, whereas the 128GB model

costs RS 76,000. The Google Pixel sports a 5-inch full HD screen with 10801920

pixels and AMOLED display. The display is protected by Corning Gorilla Glass 4.

The Pixel XL has a slightly bigger screen with 5.5-inch Full HD with the same

resolution and protection. The smartphones also offer cloud services, which

means that the users get to store as many photos and videos as they want. Both

the smartphones run on Qualcomm's Snapdragon 821 61-bit-quad-core chipset, that

clock 2.15GHz. Both the smartphones offer 4GB RAM and run on the new Android

Nougat 7.1 OS.



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





