

THERE are some swanky new phones in town and they've got Google's name written
all over them.

The Pixel and Pixel XL are the first smartphones designed and made by the
internet giant.

They have stunning screens, fast processors, top-notch cameras and a
ridiculously high price. So are they worth it.

The phones officially go on sale today and here's our full review.

DESIGN

WHEN we first got our hands on the Pixel we were not that impressed.

Compared to Samsung's Galaxy S7 Edge, the Pixel felt a little bland.

However, the simplistic design has grown on us and one thing is certain, this is
a premium device.

Google's new call maker features an aerospace-grade aluminium case which feels
solid in your hand and is definitely built to last.

To help the Pixel stand out, Google has added a touch of glass on the rear of
the device.

On first impressions we did wonder why it was plonked there, but we've actually
grown quite fond of this two-tone design.

The frosted glass also houses the rear-mounted fingerprint scanner which not
only unlocks the phone but also allows you to interact with the screen - a bit
like a laptop trackpad.

SCREEN

GOOGLE Pixel packs a screen good enough for any blockbuster movie.

The Pixel has a stunning five-inch AMOLED display, while its bigger brother gets
a pin-sharp Quad HD 5.5inch screen.

Unlike Samsung's newest devices, there's no edge-toedge design, but the Pixel
packs plenty of punch with content looking crisp, clean and bursting with
colour.

CAMERA

GOOGLE has made a big song and dance about its camera, boasting that it is the
best smartphone snapper on the market and they might just be right.

Pictures taken on the Pixel look incredible, particularly impressive considering
the small size of the lens.

Video can also be shot in Ultra HD 4K, while electronic image stabilisation is
included to keep your footage wobblefree. And all your snaps get backed-up
automatically for free in the cloud.

Bargain!

ASSISTANT

THE Pixel might not have a waterproof design or dual-lens camera but don't
panic, there are still plenty of party tricks.

This is the first smartphone to feature Google Assistant, which is there to help
guide you through life via the power of your voice. You can ask the Pixel
anything and get an instant reply, but where things get clever is the way
conversations continue.

Saying "Where's my nearest fish and chip shop" will bring up the usual
recommendations. But with a few follow-up questions, Google Assistant will give
you directions, opening times and even book you a table.

The voice control is hugely impressive. But talking to your phone still feels
odd.

BATTERY & SPEED

LEAVE your charger at home, the Pixel will easily plough through your daily fix
of Facebook, emails and WhatsApp chats.

We ran our gruelling Star Wars Trilogy test and it passed with flying colours,
with over 50% still left in the tank. That is far better than Apple's iPhone 7.
It also fastcharges in 15 minutes.

With the latest Qualcomm processor tucked inside, it's also fast and you
shouldn't find anything it cannot cope with.

PRICE

LOOK away now if you were hoping for a bargain.

The Pixel is not a budget smartphone and you'll need a healthy bank balance to
afford one.

Prices for the 5-inch Pixel start from £599 and rise to £819 for the
top-of-the-range XL. Ouch.

GOOGLE PIXEL REVIEW

****

from £599

Verdict

AFTER a few initial doubts, we have become quite smitten with the Pixel.

Google's first phone is friendly enough to make anyone at home with Android.

From its great camera, free back-up, and helpful assistant, everything about the
Pixel tries to make your life easier.

It's not water resistant, and nowhere near as sexy as its nearest competition,
but that's fine. If you can stomach the price, the Pixel is almost perfect.

