                              113 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                               The Sun (England)



                             October 9, 2016 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Scotland



Attack of the clone;

keeps you up to date with technology which future



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 45



LENGTH: 530 words





GOOGLE is planning a full-scale assault to steal customers from arch-rival Apple

- with handsets that look just like the iPhone 7. But the software giant is keen

to point out one key difference between its new Pixel and Pixel XL devices.



They have a headphone jack - a feature controversially ditched from the Apple

product.



And, in a clear sign it wants to lure users, Google showed off a new feature to

move content such as photos, contacts and settings from an iPhone.



They are even including a lead in the box to connect a Pixel to an iPhone.



Crucially, Google and EE, the network selling the devices, plan a

multimillion-pound marketing campaign that will see the Pixel splashed across

adverts on TV, in print and on billboards.



An insider said: "By Christmas everyone will have heard of these phones."



Not only do the Pixel phones look like the iPhone 7, they have similar features

- detailed screens, top-of-the-range cameras and powerful processors.



They don't, however, have the dual-lens camera of the bigger 7 Plus. Pixel

handsets also feature Google Assistant, a new voiceactivated virtual personal

assistant that promises to answer questions and help organise users' days for

them.



Google reckons it is smarter than Apple's similar Siri service.



When demonstrated on stage, the feature let Pixel offer details on a restaurant

mentioned in a text message conversation - offering contact details, photos and

directions.



First to have 'Phone by Google' branding Google drew laughs when it announced

the Pixel devices have a headphone jack.



They also come with unlimited "cloud" storage, a service where you can back-up

your photos, videos, contacts and emails on Google's computers.



It is similar to Apple's iCloud but that has a charge once you max out your free

allowance.



Many say they don't swap phones because of the hassle of moving settings between

rival devices, which is a key issue when switching between iPhones and devices

running Android.



To help make that easier, Google has come up with the new software and thrown in

a cable adapter.



The Pixel, with a 5in screen, and Pixel XL, which has a 5.5in one, are out on

October 20 and can be pre-ordered from EE.



On two-year contracts, the Pixel is free on a £50.99 a month deal and the XL on

£55.99. They come with unlimited minutes, texts and 10GB of data.



The phone can also be bought sim-free from £599 with 32GB of storage up to £819

with 128GB from Google or from Carphone Warehouse, which will also offer the

phone on contracts with other networks.



Google has been involved in handsets before, under the Nexus name, but these are

the first the company has fully designed.



And they are first to come under the "Phone by Google" branding.



The Nexus devices were produced with manufacturers including LG and Huawei and

were not sold or marketed widely.



APPLE iPHONE 7 Price: £599 Screen: 4.7in Resolution: 750 x 1,334 Camera: 12MP

front, 7MP rear Storage: 32GB, 128GB or 256GB RAM: 2GB Operating system: iOS 10

Weight: 4.87oz Ports: Lightning GOOGLE PIXEL Price: £599 Screen: 5in Resolution:

1,080 x 1,920 Camera: 12MP front, 8MP rear Storage: 32GB or 128GB RAM: 4GB

Operating system: Android 7.1 Weight: 5.04oz Ports: USB, headphones



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SUN





                    Copyright 2016 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              All Rights Reserved





