

As if to say it's got a better alternative for you if you would rather not deal
with the combusting Galaxy Note 7 smartphone, Google, last week, unveiled its
new smartphone called Pixel. Early reports suggest that Pixel sounds like a
hardcore Android fan's dream phone. The attributes include cutting-edge specs,
premium hardware, class-leading cameras, the latest and greatest Nougat software
from Google, Virtual Reality capabilities, and much more.

Before now, the Galaxies dominated Android-domain high-end smartphones. However,
with the Pixel, the battle may be on. Google unveiled two versions of Pixel, one
simply called Pixel, and the other, Pixel XL. Optimists are suggesting these
might be shaping up to be two of the hottest smartphones of the year.

Right on time, I'll say, given that Samsung doesn't seem to be getting a handle
on its problem with Galaxy Note 7, which was released a few weeks ago but were
found to burst into flames in numerous instances around the world. Even the
shipments to China, which were initially believed to be safe, turned out to be
also defective. More worrisome perhaps is the fact replacement phones have also
been found to explode. Southwest Airlines in the US was forced to evacuate its
passengers and crew before taking off last week Wednesday from a Louisville,
Kentucky airport after smoke was detected from a replacement Samsung smartphone.
Brian Green, the owner of the phone told the media that his Galaxy Note 7
started to smoke after he powered it down in the cabin. He also said the
exploding phone was actually a replacement for one recalled last month. The
incident will complicate safety concerns for Samsung. Moreover, Samsung's
efforts toward restoring customer loyalty by implementing a worldwide recall
plan might have been undermined by the event of last week.

Zack Epstein, who had published a rousing approval of Galaxy Note 7 when it was
released, is now reversing his accolades for the device. In fact, in his 6
October 2016 online article, he is of the opinion that "... but for the time
being, things are not looking good at all - and consumers cannot and should not
be confident that Samsung's replacement Note 7 handsets are safe." Furthermore,
he is asking consumers to not buy Galaxy Note 7: "So, until Samsung and the CPSC
complete their investigations, do not purchase a Galaxy Note 7." (CPSC stands
for "Consumer Product Safety Commission," an agency of the U.S.)

How will existing Android-based smartphones fair in the face of Pixel? Unlike
Google's phone Nexus, Pixel is coming in as a very high-end phone with tons of
capabilities and features that compare well with iPhone by Apple. So, the
current development should be of real concern to the companies peddling one type
of Android phone or another. Moreover, as was the case for the Nexus devices,
the Pixel phones will be running a special version of Android OS that does not
seem to be available to other smartphone vendors and carriers. The Pixels will
also be able to instantly access Android OS updates as soon as they are
released. Thus, if the Pixel phones have competitive basic high-end smartphone
features, they might not be operating on a level-playing ground relative to
Android-based phones manufactured by other companies.

These are the rumored features of Pixel - the relatively "low-end" version:
Display is 5 inch with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels. The phone weighs
143g, uses Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 quad-core 2.1GHz processor, and has the
graphical processing unit (GPU) Adreno 530. The RAM is 4GB while storage is 32GB
or 128GB, with a MicroSD of up to 256GB of extra storage. There is a 12 MP Rear
camera and an 8 MP Front camera. The battery is 2770mAh Quick Charge. The phone
runs Android 7.1 Nougat. It is available in Silver and Black. The "higher end"
phone, Pixel XL, has similar features, except that it is larger - 5.5 inch; has
better resolution (2560 x 1440 pixels), is a bit heavier 168g, and has a longer
battery life: 3450mAh Quick Charge. The Taiwanese company HTC, which
manufactured the very first Nexus for Google, is also making Pixel.

There are speculations as to why Google is getting away from Nexus and into
Pixel. But then, why Pixel now, when the demand for smartphones seems to have
saturated? May be Google wants a platform to display its tech prowess, such as
Google's DayDream Virtual Reality, which the Pixel phones will support? Some
suggest that Pixel is Google's reaction to the news that both Samsung and Huawei
are working on a future without Android running their phones. Increased revenues
from phone sales are always attractive, as is the ability to have more control,
the way Apple does with its products.

Pixel will play catchup to both iPhone and the Galaxies, and so it is not easy
to predict the eventual performance of Pixel in the marketplace.

