

Google unveiled a touchscreen notebook computer Thursday designed for high-end
users, throwing down the gauntlet to Apple and its MacBooks.

Google said its Chromebook Pixel computers blending tablet and laptop
technology, boasting heavyweight Intel chips and screens tailored for rich
graphics, were released in the United States and Britain, starting at $1,299.

"People will give up a MacBook Air for this," Google Chrome senior vice
president Sundar Pichai said.

A Pixel model featuring built-in connectivity to the Verizon mobile Internet
service will hit the US market in April at a price of $1,449.

The newly unveiled version can connect online with wireless hot-spot technology
or cables. "It's a great looking product," Om Malik of technology news website
GigaOM said at the Pixel debut in San Francisco.

"But Google is facing a selling problem, they have to compete on price
originally and build a developer base for a high-end product."

Google is hoping enthusiasts will forego price comparisons with competitors such
as MacBooks or laptops built on Windows 8 software and focus instead on the
Pixel's touchscreen feature and the massive terabyte of Google Drive online data
storage included.

"It seems like a pretty hard sell," said Forrester analyst James McQuivey. "I
hope they are not planning to make a lot of money off it."

While the Pixel seems aimed at the MacBook market, it also faces fierce
competition from touchscreen laptops based on Windows 8 software.

"It seems like more of a symbolic product release with Google trying to make a
point that it is no longer just a low-end provider of devices," McQuivey said.

Analyst Rob Enderle of Enderle Group branded the Pixel move "a train wreck,"
arguing that notebook computers above $600 have historically not sold well and
that Apple even sells a slick MacBook Air model for $999.

The booming popularity of tablet computers is also eroding the overall market
for laptops. "It just boggles the mind," Enderle said. "I have no clue what the
hell Google was thinking."

The announcement adds a new dimension to the rivalry between the two tech
giants, locked in a fierce battle over smartphones and tablets.

"This is for power users we expect to live completely in the cloud," Pichai
said. "The Pixel is about pushing the state of the art."

Google custom built Pixel and is producing it with the help of electronics
manufacturers in Taiwan.

"It is clear that touch is here to stay and that it is the future," Pichai said.
He described the Pixel screen resolution as superior to that on any laptop
shipped today.

Within three months, Google will release Quickoffice software for handling
documents and spreadsheets after complaints by Chrome notebook users over
difficulties when trying to work with Microsoft's widely used Word or Excel
software, according to Pichai.

Google's main intent with the Pixel is to more deeply mesh the California-based
Internet giant's money-generating products and services into people's lives.
Google was working with third-party application developers to tailor Pixel
programs.

"The goal is to get the Pixel in the hands of all our early adopters as well as
developers," Pichai said. "We think our ecosystem will respond well."

Google introduced the first Chromebook in mid-2010 in a challenge to Windows
operating software at the heart of Microsoft's empire.

The array of Chromebook makers has grown to include Acer, Lenovo, Samsung and
Hewlett-Packard, with previous models offered at bargain prices when compared to
high-end laptops.

Shifting operating software to banks of servers online means that Google updates
programs and fends off hackers and malicious software.

The disk drive-free Pixel machines feature a quick startup and can dive into a
user's desktop data from anywhere online.

Google remains devoted to its Android software for powering tablets and
smartphones, following two paths when it comes to Internet-synched hardware,
according to Pichai.

