

Google is pushing into the hardware business - but it still can't stop talking
about software.

The search giant on Tuesday unveiled the first-ever Google-made smartphone,
called the Pixel, as well as a virtual-reality headset and a $129 home speaker
called Google Home that will take aim at Amazon's popular $180 Echo.

"We're just getting started" with the hardware push, Google Chief Executive
Sundar Pichai admitted at a San Francisco shindig that was webcast Tuesday
afternoon.

While the hardware certainly stole the show, Google brass were equally keen on
showing off how the new gadgets worked with Google Assistant, the latest version
of the company's voice-activated competitor to Apple's Siri and Amazon's Alexa.

"In many ways, we've been working on this since Google was founded 18 years
ago," Pichai said, touting Google Assistant's prowess in voice recognition,
image recognition, machine learning and artificial intelligence.

"Remember my bike combo is 3-2-6," a user told the digital helper in a video
demo, getting the response, "Got it." More than a few attendees must have sensed
the executives at the Mountain View, Calif., tech behemoth were oblivious to
growing privacy concerns around voice-activated software.

Google's Pixel phone will cost $649 - less than Apple's iPhone 7, priced at
about $800 - but otherwise it's a gadget that looks a lot like the iPhone 7.
Except the Pixel has a headphone jack.

A larger, $769 "Pixel XL" model with a 5.5-inch screen, versus 5 inches for the
regular Pixel, will also be available. Pixels can also get seven hours of
battery time on a 15-minute charge, execs said. Both will be launched
exclusively on Verizon.

"There's no unsightly 'camera bump,' " added Google hardware chief Rick
Osterloh, noting that the Pixel's camera lens didn't awkwardly protrude from the
back the way those of recent iPhone models do.

The real selling point, execs said, is that the Pixel's integration with Google
Assistant, which it says can give smoother interactions and better answers than
the competition can.

Brian Rakowski, head of software product management for the Pixel, demonstrated
how the new phone used Google Assistant's advanced algorithms to give directions
and reviews for an Italian restaurant his wife mentioned in a text message -
without even being asked to do so.

Google Home will hit retail stores next month.

Amazon released the Echo nearly two years ago. The Echo has a software
developer's kit that's now used by more than 3,000 third-party developers to
play music, provide weather forecasts, keep shopping lists and order food.

Google Assistant will launch an SDK for third parties next year, execs said.

Elsewhere, Google unveiled a VR headset it calls Daydream View, which uses a
smartphone and will begin selling next month for $79. Google also is launching a
new line of Wi-Fi routers ($129 each, $299 for a set of three), and is updating
its ChromeCast TV dongle to stream 4K videos.

jcovert@nypost.com

