

Google has well and truly sought revenge on its rivals Apple with their latest
phone release.

They unveiled their two latest models the Google Pixel and Pixel XL during their
annual Autumn event on Tuesday night where they also announced other products
including daydream View headset, a new Chromecast and the Google Home speaker.

The tech-giant claims the biggest selling point for their new mobile models are
their new Google assistant- which is a voice activated controller, which claims
to be able to have a conversation with users.

How much will the new iPhone 7 cost in the UK?

The handsets will also provide unlimited storage for photos, and a headphone
jack which make it stand-out against competing models from Apple and Motorolla.

Google also claim by charging both Pixel models for only 15 minutes, the phones
will have seven hours of battery life. Another claim is the camera shutter speed
will make it the fastest on the market.

There are three colour options available; very silver, quite black or really
blue.

Google Pixel phone - what you need to know about the iPhone's new rival

The main difference is the size.

The Pixel has a five-inch screen while the XL model has a 5.5 inch display.

Both models promise to automatically install the latest operating systems and
security updates- which can be a big selling point.

They both in a glass and high-end aluminium case.

iPhone 7 review - what the critics say about Apple's new handset

This new technology, means Google can close in on competition from Apple's Siri
and Microsoft's Cortana.

On their previous models they have had Google Now, however Google assistant
claims to have an edge over everything else currently on the market.

It can be accessed by holding down the menu button, by doing this users can then
search for pictures, places and things and so far reviewers have claimed it to
be very accurate.

Apple iOS 10 release time - How to install, and everything you need to know
about Apple's new software

According to the search engine giant, this new software will have a
conversational feel to it.

For example, users will be able to ask Google Assistant, which has been
integrated into Google home, 'What films are on in their local cinema' and then
narrow down the options by adding 'child-friendly'.

The Pixel costs £599 for 32GB model or £699 for 128GB of storage.

The Pixel XL starts at £719 for 32GB this increases to £819 if you choose the
128GB option.

The phone will be on sale on October 20 from The Carphone Warehouse and EE
stores.

