                              122 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                          February 27, 2013 Wednesday

                                 FINAL EDITION



Chromebook Pixel has head in the cloud;

But lovely laptop is a pleasure to use



BYLINE: Edward C. Baig, ebaig@usatoday.com, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B



LENGTH: 864 words





Here's what you thought you knew about Google's Chromebook laptops: They're

designed for  Internet computing and  are known for plain designs and

bargain-basement prices.



The former is still true. You're supposed to be connected to the Internet when

using a Chromebook, at least a good chunk of the time. But the latter two are

now only partially the case. You can still purchase an Acer Chromebook in the

Google Play store for  $199, or a Samsung for $249.



However, the  Chromebook Pixel laptop that began shipping this week is not only

beautiful, it fetches $1,299 for a Wi-Fi-only model.  The Pixel that I tested is

even pricier, a $1,449 model that complements Wi-Fi with fast LTE cellular

service from Verizon Wireless. It ships in April.



With Pixel, Google is now competing in the high-rent computing district against

Apple's MacBook Air and entry-level MacBook Pros, as well as some of the more

expensive Windows 8 Ultrabooks.



My test unit was an immense pleasure to use, but I'm still hesitant to recommend

the machine to everybody. Aside from its high price, Pixel has puny onboard

storage, so-so battery life, and perhaps most important, is diminished when

you're offline, since the Web-based Chrome operating system at its core mostly

depends on a pipeline to the cloud. Sadly, you cannot watch a movie you buy or

rent from the Google Play store when you lack an Internet connection.



There's certainly no mistaking Pixel's premium pedigree. The premium hardware is

crafted from anodized aluminum. Pixel is a handsome, solidly built gray

3.35-pound machine with a high-resolution 12.85-inch Gorilla Glass touch-screen

that is something to behold.



The computer is so named because of the stunning screen, which rivals the Retina

displays on some MacBook Pros. It packs 4.3 million pixels -- more than twice as

many, Google emphasizes, as a standard HDTV. In techie terms, it has a pixel

density of 239 pixels per inch, a measure of sharpness that tops its laptop

rivals.



An LED on the back cover lights up in different colors to add a nice aesthetic.

A sturdy piano hinge lets you open and close it  with a thumb. Google says the

hinge dissipates heat and augments Wi-Fi antennas.



The back-lit Chrome keyboard is first rate, and so are  hidden and surprisingly

powerful stereo speakers. Vents and screws are also concealed.



The etched-glass  trackpad is smooth and responsive. There's an HD webcam,  a

pair of USB 2.0 ports and a memory card reader. Inside, Pixel has a 1.8-GHz Dual

Core Intel Core i5 processor. The combination of hardware and software led to a

zippy experience.



While the onboard storage is quite modest -- just 32 gigabytes on the

solid-state drive that is on the Wi-Fi-only model or 64GB on the step-up model,

Google provides a complimentary 1 terabyte of storage on Google Cloud Drive for

three years -- another recruiting effort for cloud computing.  You also get a

dozen free sessions of GoGo Inflight Internet.



Google says there are now hundreds of  apps in the Chrome Web Store that work

without an Internet connection. The current list includes Angry Birds, Kindle

Cloud Reader and offline Gmail. You can use Google Docs offline, too.  But while

you can listen to songs you download when you're off line, purchased movies and

TV shows from Google Play require that cyberconnection, a serious drawback.



By embracing a touch-screen, Google is following a path similar to the one

Microsoft is taking with Windows 8.  For the most part, you'll stick with the

mouse and keyboard.



But touch made it simpler to navigate Google Maps and to travel through an

interactive 3-D visualization of the solar system known as 100,000 Stars.



One snag: I couldn't play a few ".mov" video files that were on an inserted

memory card, even though Google says ".mov" is a supported video format.



As with other Chromebooks, the  computer boots up quickly, and Google can serve

up regular updates to keep the operating system fresh and free of viruses.



One future update:  integration with QuickOffice, an  app that will let you open

and edit Microsoft Office files within their native format, without  having to

rely on Google Docs. The computer also boots up quickly.



Google says you'll get about five hours of battery under "normal" use. In my own

harsh  test, in which I cranked up the brightness all the way and streamed a

movie over Wi-Fi, the battery pooped out after  3 hours.



Is Pixel worth buying? I suspect those  who buy it will be perfectly happy, at

least when they have an online connection and  a power source. Touch is a nice

benefit, too, even if you don't use it much.  The computer is fast, attractive

and secure,  with a display that's tough to match.



Pixel isn't for the mainstream, yet. But it is the kind of showpiece Google can

use to make the case that it, too, can deliver pretty impressive hardware.



E-mail: ebaig@usatoday.com Follow @edbaig on Twitter.



---



The bottom line



Google Chromebook Pixel



play.google.com



Price: $1,299 to $1,449



Pro. Beautiful touch-screen. First-rate keyboard, trackpad, speakers. Cloud

storage. Computer is fast, automatically upgraded and secure.



Con. Expensive. So-so battery life. Cloud computer is diminished offline.

Limited onboard storage.



LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Google



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





