                              124 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                     October 5, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Google Pixel Event: Complete Coverage



BYLINE: Chandrakant 'CK' Isi



LENGTH: 258  words





The search-giant unveils peculiar hardware at its San Francisco event.



At its event in San Francisco, Google unveiled interesting hardware. For the

first time, the search-giant introduced phones and other products completely

designed by the in-house teams. Till now, most of its gadgets were made in

collaboration with its hardware partners including Samsung, LG, Huawei, and Asus

to name a few. Without further ado, here are the key announcements from Google's

event:



Pixel



Made of premium glass and metals, the Pixel takes on the iPhpne 7. It features a

5-inch Full HD AMOLED screen. In terms of fire power, you get Qualcomm's

Snapdragon 821 chipset. Among other things, it sports a 5-inch Full HD OLED

screen. The phone will run the latest Android 7.1 Nougat out-of-the-box. For

more details, follow this link.



Pixel XL



If you like plus size phones, Google has you covered with its Pixel XL

smartphone. Just like its younger sibling, the Pixel XL features metal and glass

construction. The phone boasts of Pixel Imprint, which is Google's way of saying

fingerprint sensor. Thanks to its bigger footprint, the Pixel XL packs-in a

bigger 3450 mAh battery compared to that of the Pixel. Click here, for more

information.



Daydream View



In addition to the Pixel phones, Google showcased its latest Virtual Reality

headset. Dubbed as Daydream View, Google's new VR gear is made of lightweight

fabric to provide you comfort in long VR sessions. What separates it from

hundreds of Android VR gear is the bundled wireless controller that features a

motion sensor.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





