                              125 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

                                 FIRST EDITION



OK, Google: Will Pixel be a hit?;

If it can keep up with high demand



BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 292 words





When Google's new smartphone goes on sale this week, no one is expecting an

iPhone-like hit -- at least not right away.



Despite a splashy launch and a "Made by Google" marketing campaign, not to

mention some positive reviews, the Pixel is still taking on the likes of the

wildly popular iPhone. Samsung's recent spate of troubles may boost Pixel sales

with defecting Note and Galaxy owners, but not enough to make a serious dent in

the high-end smartphone market, analysts say.



And, say analysts, the new smartphone's price tag -- the Pixel comes at an

iPhone price, starting at $649 -- and lack of availability with major carriers

other than Verizon could undermine its debut.



"I'm sure the Pixel will get a deeper look from users, especially those that are

Google and Android loyalists. But I would not expect Pixel to gain significant

market share as it's still a very competitive market," Gartner analyst Brian

Blau said.



Google won't say how many Pixel smartphones it has produced or how many it

projects it will sell. An early supply chain-based estimate from Digitimes, a

Taiwanese trade publication, suggests Google could ship from 3 million to 4

million Pixel phones in the second half of 2016. Apple sells that many iPhones

in a week.



"People are reporting today that there are significant wait times for phones or

the phone is out of stock completely," said CFRA analyst Scott Kessler.



In an email, Google said: "We're thrilled to see the excitement for our new

Pixel phones and frankly pre-order demand has exceeded our expectations. We're

working to restock our inventory as soon as possible."



With Pixel, Android is powering the first line of phones designed in-house by

Google, giving the Internet giant control over the software and the hardware.



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





