                              126 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday



Google Pixel XL (HTC Marlin) smartphone key specs, camera details emerge online



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 280 words





NEW DELHI: Recent reports hint that Google may finally pull plug on its 'Nexus'

line of smartphones and replace it with 'Pixel' branding. The two handsets

codenamed HTC Marlin and Sailfish are said to carry Pixel XL and Pixel names.

This will streamline the handset naming scheme with the company's Pixel laptops

and tablets range.



Now, as we come close to speculated launch of the Pixel devices, some more leaks

about the smartphones have surfaced online. Google Pixel XL (aka HTC Marlin) has

showed up on GeekBench mobile benchmarking website. As per the listing, the

smartphone will run on Android NMR1 or Android Nougat Manufacturer Release 1,

and will feature a quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon processor, which is likely to

be the flagship Snapdragon 820 processor. Also mentioned is the inclusion of 4GB

of RAM. Another rumour revolving around the Google Pixel XL is that it could

sport camera sensors made by Sony.LlabTooFeR, a tipster has also posted the

Pixel XL's camera specifications on Twitter. The smartphone is said to feature a

12MP Sony IMX378 rear camera sensor and an 8MP front-facing IMX179 camera

sensor. Google is yet to give details on the aforementioned information.Last

month, HTC Sailfish or Google Pixel surfaced on AnTuTu and Geekbench

benchmarking websites along with specifications. The handset is expected to

feature a full-HD (1080x1920 pixels) resolution display and quad-core Qualcomm

Snapdragon 820 processor, clubbed with 4GB RAM. The listing suggests the device

to house 32GB inbuilt storage as well. On the camera front, the Nexus Sailfish

might come with an 8MP front-facing camera along with a 13MP rear camera.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





