
DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


HARDWARE WARS

SAN FRANCISCO - Google launched an aggressive challenge to consumer electronics
giants like Apple and Samsung on Tuesday, introducing a new line of smartphones
called Pixel and other gadgets designed to showcase a digital helper the company
calls "Google Assistant."

The new devices represent a big push by Google to make and sell its own
hardware, instead of largely just supplying software for other manufacturers. At
a starting price of roughly $650, the new Pixel phones are aimed at the same
markets as Apple's iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy flagship phones.

GADGETS ON PARADE

During a media event Tuesday, Google executives showed off a series of gadgets
in rapid succession. Its new Home device is a sleek internet-connected speaker
that's designed to respond to voice commands, like Amazon's popular Echo. A new
virtual reality headset called Daydream View will work with the new Pixel phones
and other Android devices. Also unveiled were a new Wi-Fi router and an update
to the company's Chromecast streaming media device.

In announcing the new Pixel phones, Google executives touted features like a
powerful camera, a long-lasting battery - and a dedicated headphone jack, which
Apple recently eliminated from its latest iPhones. The Pixel phones will be sold
in two screen sizes - 5 inches and 5.5 inches - and three colors: black, silver
and blue.

But they're clearly hoping that the new Pixel phones will be distinguished by
their use of Google's software. A central element of all the new devices is the
Google Assistant, which uses artificial intelligence to deliver what CEO Sundar
Pichai described as "a personal Google for each and every user."

HARDWARE IS HARD

New devices could help Google keep its services front and center in the battle
for consumers' attention, said analyst Julie Ask at Forrester Research. Unlike a
new mobile app or other software, she noted, it can be an expensive gamble to
build and ship new hardware products. "But if you're Google, you can't afford to
stop placing bets."

Google will sell its Pixel phones online and through retail chains like Best Buy
and various wireless carriers around the world, although the company said it has
an exclusive deal with Verizon in the United States.

HOME, BUT NOT ALONE

Like the Pixel phones, the "Home" device uses Google's digital "Assistant"
service, a voice-activated personal butler that can search the internet, play
music or perform other useful tasks. "Assistant" is the company's answer to
similar concierge services from rivals, including Siri, Amazon's Alexa and
Microsoft's Cortana.

Google said the Home device will sell for roughly $130 online and at electronics
retailers starting next month.

IT'S IN YOUR HEAD

Google's new virtual-reality headset, Daydream View, will differ from other
headsets like Samsung's Gear VR in having a companion motion controller and
compatibility with a wide range of phones, including Pixel.

Daydream View and the controller will be out in November for $79. You'll need a
new Android phone, as existing phones won't have the right hardware.

Google also plans to share design guidelines with other manufacturers to make
Daydream headsets and controllers.

