                              133 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                            October 25, 2016 Tuesday

                               Australian Edition



Google's premium Pixel too smart for its own good



BYLINE: Chris Griffith, Smartphones



SECTION: AUSTRALIANIT; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 1062  words





Can an intelligent smartphone help write its own phone review? To find out, I

conscripted the natural-language Assistant found on Google's new Pixel XL

smartphone to the journalistic process. And my first question was: "why aren't

you waterproof?" If you don't know about Pixel (5-inch display) and Pixel XL

(5.5-inch display), they are Google's first premium handsets designed by the

company top-to-bottom.



Google this year is playing serious. For the first time, it is directly

challenging the might of the iPhone and premium Android handsets such as

Samsung's Galaxy S7 with its own premium handset that targets their market with

a phone of similar price.



Pixel is a different proposition to the previous Google Nexus-branded phones

such as last year's Nexus 5X and 6P. At $300 to $500 they were great value, but

weren't competing in the big league.



One of the developments around Google is the Assistant. It's a smarter, more

intelligent version of Google Now that understands the context of questions.



When I asked "why aren't you waterproof?", the Assistant in my Pixel XL review

unit understood that when I said "you", I was talking about it, a smartphone. It

displayed a blog entry in Quora that went through this issue chapter-and-verse.

"The problem with -waterproofing is that it adds cost and liability," this post

said. "If you say something is waterproof then you had better mean it." And on

it went.



This is a bittersweet result for Pixel because while it handled this particular

query well, the fact is this phone lacks what is now a standard feature of

premium handsets - water resistance.



Is that a big deal? Yes it is, because this summer, a big proportion of

Australians who head to the beach or the pool with their iPhone 7, Samsung S7,

Sony Xperia XZ and the like won't worry if their phone is sprayed with some

water or gets sand on it.



Of course, I wouldn't use a water and dust-resistant smartphone as a shovel for

building sand castles but with minimal care (such as rinsing it in clean water

afterwards) a water resistant phone gives you confidence to take it anywhere.

With the Pixel range you can't do that yet, which is a mistake if Google is

playing in the 2016 league.



As for Assistant, it's excellent for showing me the nearby Thai restaurants,

Woolworths supermarkets and police stations, although it makes mistakes. When I

ask it for movies in Newtown it shows them for Newtown, Virginia. At times it

doesn't understand my accent. Over time its capability to be useful will improve

as more Australian public utilities put their data online and you get answers to

anything and everything.



In other regards, the XL is a very good phone. It has a very high resolution

quadHD screen (534 pixels per inch), a fast Snapdragon 821 quad core processor,

and a big 3450 milliampere hour battery with more capacity than even an iPad

battery.



If you like Android phones that are fast and don't have bloatware, Pixel could

be for you. They run a pure form of the Android operating system that hasn't

been modified by manufacturers and is minus add-ons that slow down operation.

They are the first to get Android updates. I found Pixel XL to be very fast to

open apps and to move between screens.



With Android Nougat 7.1, operation is simple. From a home screen, swiping down

from the top brings up notifications, swiping from the bottom the app drawer,

and swiping to the right shows your Google cards: weather, calendar events,

stocks, relevant news stories and so on. There is also stunning live wallpapers

to choose from. Press and hold an icon and you'll get shortcuts to chosen app

options, as with iOS10. The home screen has a small search tab instead of a

search bar, which is less intrusive.



Google knew a frightening lot about my tastes, the type of political stories I

read, the football codes I follow, the devices I like reading about - all

gleaned from its previous encounters with Chrome.



There are other big-ticket items on this phone. They start with the 12.3 and 8

megapixel back and front-facing cameras. Google has been plugging the virtues of

this phone, its DuoMark Mobile camera score of 89, but the proof is in the

pudding.



There's no question about the clarity, sharpness and colour of daytime images.

Press down the camera app button and you invoke an intelligent burst mode where

it separates out the cleanest, sharpest shots from the rest. You can also blur

the background, which proved useful in our office where it is busy and

distracting.



The selfie snapper offers equal resolution to some premium smartphone

back-facing cameras. With a 1.55 micron pixel size, this camera purports to take

great low-light photos, but I found those taken by iPhone 7 Plus to be more

reliable, and more accurate colour wise.



On some occasions, the auto setting for the light source would select the wrong

light type (for example, fluorescent versus tungsten), which meant I sometimes

took shots with a blue or yellow tinge in low light. You can set this manually

but this is a complication I don't have with other phones.



Software is another factor making Google (and) Pixel increasingly attractive.

Pixel has the Google Duo, a new video calling app and rival to Apple Facetime.

It's cross platform, so you can call iPhones and Android phones.



And there's Google's Photos app, which uses machine learning to identify people

and other objects in photos. From this it can stitch together a collage of old

photos of a friend or family member. It uses machine learning to comb through a

video and select a pivotal moment for an animation and it can straighten photos

too.



If that doesn't convince you, Google offers free unlimited cloud storage of

photos you take with Pixel.



Battery wise Pixel XL wasn't that impressive with 6.5 hours of battery life

playing video at 50 per cent brightness. That's probably due to the Quad HD

display. Battery saver mode will prolong use. AnTuTu benchmark testing scored

this phone at 138,916, making it one of the fastest-performing phones around.



With Assistant aboard, Pixel and Pixel XL give you not only a great phone but

also a window into the future of smartphone communications. It's fast and

bloatware free. But be careful around the pool and at the beach.The Pixel with

its 5-inch display costs $1079 (32GB) or $1229 (128GB). Pixel XL costs $1269

(32GB) and $1419 (128GB). While it's a great phone, I think that's too much.



LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





