                              135 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 4:12 PM GMT



Cryptic Legend of Zelda reference in Google event countdown hints that NINTENDO

could be joining the Pixel party;

A quote from the Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask has made it into Google's promo

material - and fans are getting excited



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 296 words





When Apple launched the iPhone 7 last month it announced a partnership with

Nintendo that finally brought Mario to the smartphone world .



Could the famed gaming company be about to do the same with another of its epic

franchises?



Eagle-eyed fans on Reddit spotted a line from the Legend of Zelda on Google's

YouTube channel in the hours leading up to today's launch of the new Pixel

smartphone.



How much will the Google Pixel and Pixel XL phones cost? Best UK deals and where

to find them



The teaser "Dawn of the Final Day - 24 Hours Remain" is a title card from the

Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask - released on the Nintendo 64 back in 2000.



The appearance of the hint was quickly screengrabbed and dissected on the

Nintendo Reddit forum .



As with the iPhone 7, many of the details of the Pixel phone have been leaked

online prior to this evening's announcement.



Google Pixel XL vs iPhone 7 Plus - which smartphone will win when Google takes

on Apple?



If there is some kind of Zelda-based announcement then both companies have

managed to keep it tightly under wraps so far.



"To be fair and realistic: it could be a simple tribute, or it could be that

tomorrow Nintendo is announcing something the likes of a Mario Run but on The

Legend Of Zelda franchise for android," wrote Reddit user teo_many .



"If by now we've all agreed that this free to play games are ADS for Nintendo,

since Android is the leading platform of mobile market it makes so much sense."



Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer day before official

announcement



The Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones are believed to be the key announcements from

this evening's event in San Francisco, but Google is also tipped to reveal a new

version of the Chromecast and a smart speaker for your house called Google Home.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





