

Google Inc. unveiled a revamped line of smartphones, the first to be fully
conceptualized and designed by the tech giant in-house, marking a major
strategic departure that puts it in direct competition with Apple Inc.'s iPhone
in the premium device market.

With the new line of Pixel smartphones, Alphabet Inc's Google said it is
"getting serious" about hardware, merging several product departments that
designed the device to ensure that software - Android - and device work better
together.

Available for pre-order starting Tuesday, the aluminum-body Pixel smartphone
will come in two screen sizes: 5-inch and 5.5-inch. Each model will be available
in black and silver and have 32 gigabyte and 128GB options. Prices are US$899
(32GB) and US$1,029 (128GB) for the 5-inch, then US$1,049 (32GB) and US$1,179
(128GB) for the 5.5-inch off contract, putting the Pixel right in iPhone
territory as far as price.

Pixel's battery has a quick charging feature that Google said will get seven
hours of battery life after plugging it in for just 15 minutes. The
12.3-megapixel camera has a feature called Lens Blur that uses software to
create a shallow depth of field and bokeh effects similar to a DSLR camera.

Launching with the Pixel are Live Cases, US$50 accessories for the phone that
have a programmable shortcut button and live wallpapers. The cases are
customizable, and can include a favourite photo, place in Google Maps or even
pre-designed artwork from creators like Chris Hadfield or FAILE.

According to Google, the Pixel marks the "start of a journey" for the company
and a long-term strategy of bringing high-quality smartphones to market. While
the device sounds interesting on paper, it's the software's integration with
hardware designed by Google that the company hopes will be appealing to
consumers. For example, Pixel phones come with unlimited cloud storage for
full-resolution photos and videos. There is also a one-tap video calling feature
through Google Duo and a built-in Google Support button if a user needs help.

But the most significant example of Google integrating software and hardware is
with Google Assistant, the company's virtual assistant that was announced in the
spring and is now integrated into the new Pixel phones.

"It's sort of like a natural evolution at Google," said Gummi Hafsteinsson,
product management director at Google, in an interview with Financial Post. "
Google Search has been this interface that people can turn to for information,
and... we feel like it is time now to add a fully formed conversational
interface with Google." Right now, Assistant is available in text format within
Google's chat app Allo for Android and iOS, but the Pixel phones will see the
company doubling down on the service with voice commands and eventually
thirdparty integration. In Allo, the user can call on the text-based Assistant
in the middle of a conversation with friends or in a separate bot-like chat to
help do tasks such as book a restaurant reservation.

But with Pixel and voice commands, Hafsteinsson said users can also use Google
Assistant to help with typical phone tasks (such as crafting a text message or
reminder) or ask questions you might have used another Google app for (such as
looking for nearby cafés). In addition, Assistant will be able to recognize
what's on the screen to help you within your current context.

What makes Assistant stand out from competitors such as Apple's Siri,
Microsoft's Cortana or Amazon's Alexa, Hafsteinsson says, is it's more
conversational, capable of intelligent follow-up questions, and it can be
personalized, getting to know the user over time through interaction with your
Google account.

The amount of personal data it takes to make the most of Assistant may raise
privacy concerns for some, but Hafsteinsson said the user has full control over
what can be accessed.

Google's long-term strategy for Assistant is offering full conversational
experiences with a third party, as opposed to just accessing databases.

"For example, if I asked Assistant for an Uber, then imagine an agent
(temporarily) joins the conversation and I'm talking to them directly," said
Hafsteinsson. "We really want to build an ecosystem around helping you get
things done." !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

