                              139 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Open Source FOR You



                                October 5, 2016



Google reshapes into hardware company with Pixel phone



BYLINE: Jagmeet Singh



LENGTH: 323  words





Google on Tuesday unveiled its first-ever "made by Google" smartphone, called

the Pixel. The new handset has brought the search giant to the ever-growing

world of hardware that already has Apple and Samsung as the leaders.



The Google Pixel is the world's first smartphone with Android 7.1 Nougat. It

includes Google Assistant to let users have natural conversations with Google

and find answers to their real-life questions. Additionally, Google is offering

pre-installed Google Duo and Allo apps to give an advanced communication

experience.



Developers would get a chance to integrate their apps with Google Assistant

sometime in the future. However, the experience is so far limited to Google's

core apps and services.



Just another high-end offering



While the software-side of the Pixel is novel and innovative from the current

market, its hardware is just another high-end offering. The smartphone comes in

two different variants, with 5-inch and 5.5-inch AMOLED display options.

Additionally, there is the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 chipset and up to

128GB of storage.



The phone also comes with a 12.3-megapixel primary camera sensor with PDAF and

LDAF technologies and f/2.0 aperture. Google is touting that these inputs enable

the smartphone to offer the "best rear camera" experience.



The Pixel starts at $649 in the US (Rs. 57,000 in India) to rival Apple iPhone 7

and Samsung Galaxy S7.



Not a first attempt



Although the Pixel is a fresh offering in the smartphone market, it is not the

first attempt by Google. The company launched several Android-running mobile

devices under its Nexus brand. Likewise, it had even acquired Motorola in 2011

to manufacture smartphones with vanilla Android experience.



That being said, the Pixel is a major step to help Google reach new levels. This

might not attract masses but would bring the Sundar Pichai-led company directly

to the smartphone market that predicted to hit 2 billion sales in 2020.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





