                              141 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                           September 20, 2016 Tuesday



Google Pixel launch date announced; Nexus era comes to an end;

A new youtube video from Google on Monday confirmed the launch of its new Pixel

smartphones on October 4.-- Delivered by Feed43 service



BYLINE: FE Online



LENGTH: 283  words





A new youtube video from Google on Monday confirmed the launch of its new Pixel

smartphones on October 4. The teaser video shows a box taking the shape of a

smartphone with the date October 4 flashing next to it. The Google logo appears

at the end of the video. Google is expected to shut down the Nexus brand this

year and start with the "Pixel" name as it already has on its tablets and the

Chromebook. These two smartphones are being produced by a collaboration with

HTC. The names of the two devices are Pixel and Pixel XL.



The phones are to run on the new Android Nougat 7.1 OS and are code named

'Sail-Fish' and 'Marlin'. Though Google's rolling out of the Android Nougat 7.1

OS comes as a surprise as the company rolls out the new Operating System at the

time of the launch of the new Nexus. Google also has plans of announcing the

launch of a 4K Chromecast and the Google Home speaker. The Home speaker was

first announced at Google's annual I/O conference.



if leaks are to be believed, Marlin is the flagship smartphone of both the

devices. Marlin has a 5.5-inch Quad HD display and runs on the Snapdragon 821

and has an internal memory storage of 128GB storage space. The smartphone will

also have a RAM of 4GB. The Pixel smartphone will also have a 5-inch did play

and will run on a Snapdragon 820 processor with an Adreno 530 chipset. It will

have an internal memory storage of 32GB and have a RAM of 4GB. The Sailfish or

the Pixel smartphone will also sport a rear camera of 11 megapixels. It will

also support 4K video recording. The front camera is rumoured to be of 7

megapixels.



October 4, 2016, will not only see the launch of the Pixel smartphones but also

the end of the nexus era.



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





