                              146 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 7:21 PM GMT



Google unveils new Pixel smartphones in bid to challenge Apple's iPhone;

A STANDARD 5-inch model and a larger 5.5-inch version called the Pixel XL have

been released featuring fingerprint scanners and an AI-powered assistant called

Allo.



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: NEWS,SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 467 words





GOOGLE has unveiled it's much-anticipated "Pixel" smartphones in a bid to

challenge Apple's iPhone at the high end of the mobile market.



The company's CEO Sundar Pichai launched the phones in San Francisco and was met

with plenty of applause.



Taking over from the Nexus brand, Pixel is a shift towards a more premium phone

that will compete with both the iPhone 7 and Samsung's popular Galaxy S7.



As expected, Google revealed two different versions of the Pixel - a standard

5-inch model and a larger 5.5-inch version called the Pixel XL.



Inside the Pixel is a quad-core 2.0GHz 64-bit processor, 4GB of RAM and a

non-removable 2,770mAh lithium ion battery. The phone comes with either 32GB or

128GB of storage.



The Pixel XL meanwhile has a 2,560 x 1,440 AMOLED display with a quad-core

Qualcomm processor, 4GB of RAM and a big 2,450mAh battery.



Both phones boast the same 12MP rear-facing camera and 8M front-facing one. And

what's more, in Google's own words, "there's no unsightly camera bump".



Samsung offers cash incentives to Galaxy Note 7 customers after exploding

battery kerfuffle



They both have fingerprint scanners on the back of the phone and the new USB-C

charging port on the bottom. And, unlike Apple, both phones come with 3.5mm

headphone ports.



One of the biggest benefits of the new Pixel phones is that they will ship with

the latest version of Android pre-installed. Also, when it comes to future

updates, Google's own phones tend to be updated first compared with other

Android phone makers like Samsung or Sony.



Android "Nougat" is notable for a new AI-powered assistant called Allo.



Google are keen to expend artificial intelligence into their devices. The Allo

Assistant is designed to show information that people need. For instance, it can

scan what is on a screen if someone asks "How far to this restaurant?", and then

call on Google's voice and picture recognition technology, as well as

information from places like Google Maps, to show the answer to a user's

question.



The company say they also built the phone specifically for VR by adding sensors

and other features that will link up a new headset called Daydream View.



How waterproof is the iPhone 7? We put Apple's new smartphone to the test



If you're keen to ditch the iPhone and get hold of either of the Pixels then you

won't have to wait long as they're going to be available on October 20th.



However, it won't be cheap. Buying directly from Google or Carphone Warehouse

means you can pick up the phones SIM free and unlocked for the one-off price of

£599 for the 5-inch Pixel and £719 for the 5.5-inch Pixel XL.



That puts them in exactly the same kind of territory as Apple's iPhone models.



It looks like EE is the only network in the UK that will stock the phone on

contract, and we'll update this as soon as it is known for certain.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





