                              148 of 997 DOCUMENTS





             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)



                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

                                National Edition



Google's hybrid tablet packs a lot of muscle; Review: Pixel C



BYLINE: April Fong, Financial Post



SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. FP8



LENGTH: 838 words





Google Inc.'s Pixel C is an answer to new hybrid tablets like Microsoft Corp.'s

Surface Pro 4 and Apple Inc.'s iPad Pro. But then again, it's not.



This is no 12-to 13-inch large-screen giant, and it's also not designed with a

stylus pen in mind. This is a device that is comfortably smaller with a

10.2-inch display and its fancy trick lies in the ways Google has put search at

the forefront.



At a time when interest in tablets is waning, the first Android tablet wholly

built by Google is a powerful, compact and elegant device that Android users

will love. But, with a price tag of nearly $850 (if you include the keyboard,

which is sold separately), it's built for the high-end market and may make you

wonder - should I just buy a laptop?



Like its big brother, Google's Chromebook Pixel laptop, the Pixel C (which

stands for "convertible") is crafted from anodized aluminum and sports a USB

Type-C port. The tablet has a smooth, sturdy feel and, by itself, it's

featherlight and just 7mm thin.



Yet, when you add on the keyboard - which weighs 400 grams (0.88 lbs.) on its

own - suddenly the device feels quite hefty at more than two lbs. (900 g). That

may be a drawback for some, but I loved the solid feel of the keyboard. Even

though it's a fraction of the size of a regular sized keyboard, my hands quickly

adapted because the full-sized keys are spaced out, and there's a nice depth

that I felt while typing. Not exactly a wrist pad, there's even a

centimetre-tall padded palm rest at the bottom of the keyboard.



To save on space, there are obviously a number of keys missing, which you can

pull up on the tablet's touchscreen. What's also missing is a capslock key; in

its place is a search button, useful if you want to Google something quickly.



Pairing the keyboard is incredibly easy. You snap the back of the tablet onto

the keyboard's magnet strip, and then fold the tablet up. The Pixel C's software

automatically knows when it's paired, so I didn't need to fiddle around with

settings. It just knew.



Unlike many other hybrid tablets, if there was a glare on the screen, I was able

to adjust it at different angles from 100 to 135 degrees. That magnetic strip is

surprisingly strong, too. Every time I picked up the tablet from its top edge, I

never feared the keyboard would fall off or flop around. It stayed on as snugly

as when it was sitting on a table. I even flung it around a few times, and the

keyboard and tablet remained securely attached - it's as if it's made to be a

laptop.



Another way the Pixel C is more laptop-like than tablet-like is its powerful

specifications. Google opted for NVIDIA's Tegra X1 processor with Maxwell GPU -

the same chip that NVIDIA put inside its SHIELD Android TV units. That means the

Pixel C is not only a powerhouse for everyday needs like checking email,

watching Netflix or working on a document, but also running advanced graphics.

When I played the graphics-rich car racing game Asphalt 8: Airborne on the Pixel

C, for example, the races looked crisp, rich with colour and it ran smoothly.



That's helped by the fact that Google has packed 308 pixels per inch in its

screen (more than the iPad Pro's 264 ppi). Videos and pictures look gorgeous and

bright on this display, but I wonder - will users like this relatively small

10.2-inch screen when it comes to productivity?



That said, Google's big business is search and what helps set Pixel C apart from

other tablets is its emphasis on helping you find information - from the

keyboard's magnifying glass key, to its search functions in the Android 6.0

Marshmallow operating system, as well as its Google Drive suite of productivity

tools.



While writing in Google Docs, for example, I used the "Research in Docs"

function, which created a split-screen where I could still work on my document

on top, while searching for information on the second, bottom window.



When I read a Financial Post article about Husky Energy considering cutting

spending in Alberta, I was able to look up different elements in the story by

activating "Now on Tap" by pressing and holding the home button. That brought up

a number of information cards related to the story, including for Husky Energy,

its CEO Asim Ghosh and OPEC , which I could then select to look through news,

images and Google search results.



For the Pixel C, Google has poured the best-of-the-best into designing and

building its first tablet. That, of course, comes at a price. In Canada, the

32GB tablet costs $649 or you can shell out another $150 for the 64GB version.

Both models are available starting Tuesday in the Google Store.



As with most other hybrid tablets, its star accessory - the keyboard - is sold

separately and will set you back another $199.



The Pixel C is smaller than its rivals and isn't designed with a stylus in mind,

but users will love how that makes it ultra-portable. Those shopping for a

2-in-1 now have a premium Android option with a lot of muscle.



afong@nationalpost.com Twitter.com/aprilfong !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia

Network Inc. All rights reserved.



LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Davi D Paul Morris, Bloomberg News; Google Inc.'s Pixel C tablet puts a

lot of computing power into a small unit, but the device doesn't come cheap. Its

star accessory - the keyboard - is sold separately.;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2015 National Post

                              All Rights Reserved





