                              151 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 Guardian.com.



                            February 22, 2013 Friday



Google aims for Apple's core with high-end Chromebook Pixel



BYLINE: Jemima Kissguardian.co.uk



LENGTH: 466 words



ABSTRACT



Latest high-spec device features high resolution touchscreen and is aimed at

developers, early adopters and businesses



FULL TEXT



Google made an ambitious assault on the high-end laptop market on Thursday,

confirming months of rumour by announcing the Chromebook Pixel, which features a

large-format, high resolution touchscreen.



Demonstrating the new Pixel, Chrome head Sundar Pichai said Google's aim had

been to make a device to satisfy developers and early adopters.



"This is about power users. Some of them buy Mac, some buy Windows 8. We wanted

to make sure Chrome OS is in that segment," said Pichai. The high resolution

touchscreen is designed to help developers build apps and services that work

seamlessly across multiple devices. "This is the future - high resolution and

touchscreen, and we're behind in the laptop world," he said. "We want to push

the ecosystem and web development forward, so this can be thought of as a

reference device, in the same way as the Nexus, that will inspire a whole new

generation of devices."



Google has said that it does not think in terms of market share, but a high-end

laptop puts it in direct competition with Apple, particularly with the Macbook

Air. Pichai insisted the Pixel offered better specifications for its price.



Pichai said: "It will stand up well against a Macbook Air. Air doesn't have

touchscreen or a high resolution screen, so with Pixel you get a lot for your

money."



The Pixel's screen is higher than conventional laptop screens at a 3:2 ratio or

2560 x 1700, at 239 pixels per inch. A new Google Plus Photo app, launching in

the Chrome store in three weeks, is designed to showcase the screen, and will

allow users to browse and organise photos offline as well as share them.



Pichai also referred to a target business audience where companies are using

cloud applications including Google Apps, and said Google's June 2012

acquisition of QuickOffice would mean Word and Excel documents can be

integrated.



Google's first Chromebook, the low-end CR-48, was released with Google branding,

but subsequent models featured branding from partners Samsung, Acer, Lenovo and

HP. The first Pixel has also been designed and manufactured by Google, and is

intended to be a 'reference device' for partners.



The laptop shell has been streamlined to hide cooling vents, screw fittings and

speakers, part of a principle of making it as inconspicuous as possible, while

the software is designed to make access to web content simple. Specifications

include an Intel i5 processor, a 32GB or 64GB solid state drive and one terabyte

of Google Drive storage for three years. Battery life, despite the

energy-sapping high resolution screen, is claimed to be 5 hours.



Pixel is available to order in the UK from Google Play for [#xfffd]1049, with

shipping in April.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies

                              All Rights Reserved

                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396

   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP





