                              154 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             Waterloo Region Record



                           October 13, 2016 Thursday

                                 First Edition



Samsung trouble opens door for Google's new Pixel phone



BYLINE: George Avalos, The Mercury News



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C11



LENGTH: 313 words





The Samsung phone debacle has opened the door - just a crack - for Google to

make headway with its fledgling smartphone offering, Pixel, analysts said

recently.



South Korea-based Samsung permanently halted production on the Galaxy Note 7

smartphone after reports of the phone overheating and, in some cases, catching

fire.



"It's a huge opportunity for the Google Pixel," said Rob Enderle, an

Oregon-based analyst who tracks the tech sector. "The Pixel is the best phone to

take advantage of this problem. But its carrier limitations are going to offset

what would otherwise be an incredibly well-timed opportunity."



Google faces plenty of challenges even as the tech behemoth manoeuvres to

capitalize on Samsung's woes.



"Google can use Samsung's problems to their advantage, but they have a really

big upward climb," said Ben Bajarin, a principal analyst with Campbell-based

Creative Strategies.



For one thing, the Pixel phone is available only for the Verizon platform and

isn't being offered for other big carriers such as Sprint, AT&T and T-Mobile.



"Google is just starting out, and consumers still need to learn what the Pixel

phone is," Bajarin said. "Samsung's problems will benefit the established brands

such as Apple, LG and HTC. Established brands are very powerful things."



Mountain View, Calif.-based Google, nevertheless, has the potential to cast a

mammoth shadow over Samsung as it scrambles to reverse its misfortunes with the

Galaxy Note 7.



"Samsung has created a market for a phone like this, but doesn't have a phone

for this market," Enderle said. "Google Pixel can slide right into that spot.

But the Pixel just won't be able to take over a lot of shelf space because it's

only available on one carrier."



Apple is certain to be the top vendor for smartphones during the final three

months of 2016, Bajarin said. That stretch that covers the vital holiday

shopping season.



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





