                              157 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 Business Line



                           October 20, 2016 Thursday



The Pixel: a very Google phone



LENGTH: 823  words



DATELINE: Bengaluru





Bengaluru, Oct. 20 -- I have seen prettier phones. I have seen more affordable

phones. But never have I seen a smartphone that is so very Google.

 From the front, the Pixel looks like any phone, which in turn looks like the

iPhone because everyone has copied heavily from Apple's design. From the back,

the Pixel looks like no other. The top one-third is made of a glossy material

with the camera on top and fingerprint sensor in the middle, and the other

two-third is a smooth brushed metal look with a proud G in the centre. As you

boot up the phone, the first thing you see is the Google logo and that should

tell you that this device is really a home for Google's services.





 I like to capture those first impressions, before I lose myself in all sorts of

features and specifications. Each phone has a personality - and sometimes phones

have a distinct lack of it. The Pixel (I had the 5.5-inch Pixel XL for review)

has an all encompassing clean feel about it. Just like the Google search page.

The whole busy feel of phones made by others is mercifully missing, leaving it

much more of a blank canvas. Right from the start, you have the option of

increasing the text size or even using voice feedback in case your eyesight is

not up to the mark. And since mine is not, I appreciated this very thoughtful

touch. I am very conflicted about the physical design of the Pixel, but the

squeaky clean feel on the inside is something I immediately loved. The look and

feel is thanks to the Pixel launcher, which by the way, you can pick up from the

Play Store for whichever Android phone you have. Of course, that will not get

you the famous Google Assistant...

 Long-pressing the virtual Home button on the Pixel will pop up Google

Assistant, ready to listen and asking how she can help you. I am afraid I

quickly got rid of the Indian English voice and used the United States one

because I have never reconciled myself to the former's accent. It is the

assistant who is the heart of this device and who outdoes Siri with her

promptness and artificial intelligence. She can understand context much better

and even though she is nowhere near perfect and can be quickly tripped up, she

is easy to relate to and very useful. We just had a long chat about chamomile

tea.

 If we had not already done so, I would have said you wave your privacy goodbye

with the Pixel. Google will now know I like chamomile tea and it will not be

surprising if I see ads for it somewhere. This privacy and usefulness trade-off

is just probably too late to reverse in our technology driven world. There are

many who will opt to stop worrying about it and give in to whatever services are

being offered. I am probably one of them.

 The Pixel's 12.3MP f2.0 camera became a talking point well before the device

was out in the wild. Camera experts DXoMark rated it as the best smartphone

camera leading to much skepticism given the iPhone 7 Plus and Galaxy S7 cameras

a competition. But taking photos with it, and speaking at a surface and casual

level, this camera definitely has something. First of all, it shoots fast. The

burst mode, if you long press on the trigger, sounds like a cat purring, it is

that fast and that smooth. Casual comparison it with the S7, iPhone 7 Plus and

OnePlus 3, I found the Pixel's images brighter and more vivid.

 Shaky hands in very low light will still get you a blurry photo but for the

most part images are pleasing - so it depends on what you want. The iPhone

tended to have a slight pink tinge or warmer tones in some light conditions but

it and the S7 and Pixel did well with the shallow depth of field effect. We

constantly bemoan low light and that is where the Pixel is the one that shines.

Using bigger pixels, as it were, the camera on the Pixel fills an image with

light without introducing noise. Shooting indoors with this phone will not go

wrong too often. There are a lot of other tricks with the camera that are most

enjoyable. The camera is not perfect though and there is much annoyance over the

absence of optical image stabilisation without which this phone seems to be

doing pretty well.

 Purely as a phone, there are many more pluses and minuses to be considered.

There is no dual SIM version; no FM radio; no fabulous design. But there is

Google's own virtual reality readiness, Android 7.1, a 3,450mAh battery that

lasts fine through the day and a buttery smooth experience. The biggest minus of

all, however, is the price of the phone, starting at [#x20b9]57,000 for the

Pixel and going up to [#x20b9]76,000 for the Pixel XL. So far it is just the

iPhone that is 'allowed' to touch these price levels in India. Even if we are

talking about Google, pricing a device that high unexpectedly is unlikely to be

to the new phone's advantage.

 Price: [#x20b9]57,000 for Pixel and [#x20b9]76,000 for Pixel XL

 Love: The vivid low light camera, prompt helpful chatty assistant, fast clean

performance, no clutter

 Hate: The prohibitive price tag, odd design



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





