                              160 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                24 Hours Toronto



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

                                 Final Edition



Next hot smartphone?; 4 Things you need to know about Google's Pixel



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5



LENGTH: 374  words





"OK Google. Tell me about your new device."



In an announcement widely expected by the technology community, Google revealed

its new smartphone on Tuesday, introducing Pixel, the 'first phone designed by

Google inside and out.'



Aside from Pixel, the announcementalso included news about Google's VR platform,

Daydream, plus updated TV streaming device Chromecast Ultra (alongwith Google

Home and Google Wifi, products that aren't yet available in Canada). The phone,

which is already available for pre-sale, comes in two sizes (5" and 5.5"

display) and two colours with quirky names (Quite Black and Very Silver). The 5"

retails for $899 for the 32GB edition and $1029 for the 128GB version, while the

5.5" is priced at $1049 for the 32GB model and $1179 for the 128GB behemoth.



In a commercial that debuted during Google's keynote on Tuesday, the company

also took a subtle swipe at Apple, highlighting the fact that Pixel comes with a

3.5 mm headphone jack - something that Apple has eliminated with the iPhone 7,

to the dismay of some music-loving mobile users.



Here are some other things we discovered about Pixel:



1 It has Google Assistant built in Google CEO Sundar Pichai mentioned that he

wanted to "build a personal Google for each and every user," and the Siri-like

Google Assistant helps them achieve that. Saying 'OK Google' or holding down the

Home button will awaken your own personal assistant, which can give you

directions to the movies, text your girlfriend or fire up the latest Lumineers

video.



2It boasts a pretty high-end camera Google is really proud of the camera on this

one. The 12.3 megapixel rear-facing camera will reportedly help users capture

great images at low light, and the Smartburst mode will automatically select the

best picture from a rapid-fire sequence of shots.



3It gives you access to unlimited storage The tech company is offering Pixel

owners unlimited storage for their full-resolution pictures and videos in Google

Photos, so you won't be seeing any 'storage full' notifications any time soon.



4It contains a powerful battery According to Google, the Pixel's battery lasts

all day and will charge fast, so you'll be able to get up to seven hours of

battery life from just 15 minutes of charging.



spilleddata



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 24 Hours Toronto

                              All Rights Reserved





