

Google is entering a space it has never been to before -the Indian mobile phone
retail store.

The company will directly sell its new Pixel smartphones to consumers through at
least seven prominent large-format retail stores in India, besides multi-brand
stores, and promote the flagship device just as much as top brands Apple and
Samsung.

And it's entering with a bang. Analysts expect Google to start with about 1 lakh
devices -more than ever before -to make a dent in India's premium smartphone
segment, which is dominated by Samsung and Apple. Until now, manufacturers of
Google phones such as Nexus were responsible for marketing, which has been
extremely low key and limited.

Google is raising the stakes in the

premium segment -' . 30,000-plus -right after Samsung's huge setback with the
Galaxy Note 7 debacle. Still, the search giant faces a huge challenge as Apple
has already shipped in about 2 lakh units of its iPhone 7 ahead of Diwali.
Samsung is redirecting its marketing budget to promote the S7 and S7 Edge.
Bookings for the

two Pixel models opened on October 13 through Flipkart and offline retailers.
Google's marketing play is expected to escalate next week -before Diwali
-although the launch date isn't known. Google is holding a media event on
October 25. The 5-inch Pixel and 5.5-inch Pixel XL went on sale in the US a
couple of

days ago. \x93It's a shift of strategy (for Google), as it follows the
make-yourown-phone plans, but it's also required,\x93 said Santosh Desai,
managing director of Future Brands. \x93Google is going up against formidable
brands, so it can't go half-way on end-consumer communication...the Samsung
(incident) opens up the opportunity for Google vs Apple, so all the more reason
for them to go full throttle.\x93

Google is aware of the task at hand and plans to respond accordingly.

\x93We will run a 360 degree above-theline campaign with TV , cinema,
out-of-home in top seven metro cities, print and digital, to build the
brand,\x93 a Google spokesperson said, indicating the heavy spending planned for
spreading the word on the Pixel smartphones. The base model for Pixel costs '.
57,000.

Print advertisements will run for the next three to four months, while
television ad spots will target Hindi and English entertainment channels.Google
will also use YouTube and its other digital platforms to promote the devices.

Google will showcase the Pixel and

Pixel XL in key stores of large-format retail chains including Croma, Reliance
Digital, Spice Mobility and Jumbo. Tie-ups with other chains, including the
Mobile Store, are in the works, sources said.

\x93Displays for Pixel will be set up in top 50 stores of the total 300 that we
have. They will carry the Google branding, something that a consum

er would have not seen before,\x93 the CEO of a retail chain said, asking not to
be identified.

A full-fledged strategy is necessary, especially in the premium segment, to
convince users that Google can compete, said Jaipal Singh, a senior analyst at
IDC India.

It has failed in the past, a case in point being the Nexus 5X and 6P

launched last year, which sold a combined less than a lakh units from October
last year to date.

Comparatively, an average of about 600,000 premium units are sold in the country
each month.

Apple is spending about ' . 100 crore on marketing and advertising in India
during the festive period, ET reported previously.

