                              162 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk



                       October 3, 2016 Monday 2:27 PM GMT



What time does the Google event start on October 4?;

Google Pixel release start time, cost and more



BYLINE: By Matthew Cooper



SECTION: WHAT'S ON



LENGTH: 316 words





As the 'season to be jolly' approaches so does the season to buy all the new

tech stuff.



The iPhone 7 is already here and this week Google are launching their new device

into the world.



The official announcement is set for tomorrow but thanks to some leaks from

Carphone Warehouse, we already know a fair few details about the new phone.



The Pixel phone event is on October 4. It will take place in San Francisco and

starts at 9am Pacific Standard Time which is 5pm UK time.



The tech powerhouse's newest phone models are called the Pixel and the Pixel XL.



iPhone 7 review



Well if the Carphone Warehouse leak is to be believed the Pixel has a five-inch

screen while the larger Pixel XL has a 5.5-inch display.



The OS the phone runs will have a new AI assistant called Allo.



Owners of the Pixel will also have free unlimited storage on Google Photos.



Engadget reports that the phone will have rapid charging through its USB-C port.



The Verge lists the phone as having either 32GB or 128GB of internal storage.

There are rumours the phone will come in black, white, silver and electric blue.



Well, obviously Google is the biggest search engine in the world. But beyond

that they are the company behind Chromebook computers, the current Nexus phones,

the Chrome browser and much more.



According to Android Police, the normal model will cost $649 (£498) for the

smaller 32GB device with prices getting gradually higher from there. So it's

certainly not a cheap option.



At this rate Google could just be telling us things we already know so hopefully

the Pixel and the Pixel XL will have a super cool USP that hasn't trickled out

onto the internet yet.



A new Chromecast and a new router are expected to be unveiled as well as

announcing the release date for AI-powered speaker Google Home. Google Home is

effectively a rival to Amazon's popular Echo speaker.



Free PlayStation Plus games for October on PS4, PS3 and Vita



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





