                              163 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review



                             April 12, 2013 Friday



Google's Pixel off the mark



BYLINE: by ANICK JESDANUN



LENGTH: 380 words





SIEM REAP, Cambodia - Google's first high-end laptop, the Chromebook Pixel, is

an impressive machine. It feels light and comfortable in my hands and on my lap.

Its high-resolution display makes photos look sharp and video come to life. From

a hardware standpoint, it's everything I'd want a laptop to be.



But the Pixel isn't very practical - at least not yet - for most people. It

works well when you have a steady Internet connection, but can't do much once

you lose that connection. And because it uses Google's own operating system, it

doesn't run enough software yet to replace your other machines.



I brought the Pixel along for a nearly three-week trip to Thailand and Cambodia.

I was surprised by how much I could do, but quickly got frustrated when I

couldn't do more.



Such frustration doesn't come cheap. Prices for the Pixel start at $1,299, just

$200 less than a MacBook with a comparable screen and the ability to do much

more offline. A higher-end Pixel with cellular access costs $150 more than the

basic model and is scheduled to start shipping Monday.



For those unfamiliar with Google's entry into the laptop marketthe Pixel and

other Chromebooks run a Google operating system called Chrome OS. Based on the

Chrome Web browser available for Windows and Mac computers, Chrome OS

underscores Google's vision of letting the Internet do all the heavy lifting

instead of your computer.



There's not a lot of storage on the machine either. The idea is to keep as much

as you can online, through a storage service such as Google Drive or Dropbox.



Think of the Chromebook as a gateway to the Internet.



You can download apps from Google and others to run on the Chromebook, but many

of those apps do little more than access a website on your Chrome browser when

you're online.



The basic Pixel model comes with 32 gigabytes of storage and has a slot for

external storage, such as a camera's SD card.



Each machine has a three-year subscription for 1 terabyte of online storage

through Google Drive.



It's normally $50 a month. Google offers a $1,449 model that has double the

internal storage, at 64 GB, and 100 megabytes a month of LTE cellular data

access through Verizon Wireless for two years.



Anick Jesdanun is deputy technology editor for The Associated Press.



LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2013 Tribune Review Publishing Company

                              All Rights Reserved





