                              165 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)



                           February 21, 2013 Thursday



Google adds touch screen to laptop in bid to answer rivals



SECTION: NEWS; Business



LENGTH: 288 words





SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- Google is adding a new and more expensive touch to its

line of Chrome laptops in an attempt to outshine personal computers running on

software made by rivals Microsoft and Apple.



The Chromebook Pixel unveiled Thursday includes a nearly 13-inch display screen

that responds to the touch or swipe of a finger. That duplicates a key feature

in Microsoft Corp.'s Windows 8, a dramatic makeover of the world's leading

operating system for PCs.



The Pixel's high-resolution screen displays 239 pixels per inch, slightly more

than Apple Inc.'s MacBooks with high-resolution Retina displays. A MacBook Pro

with a screen that measures 13.1 inches diagonally can handle 227 pixels per

inch, while the 15.4-inch model is at 220 pixels per inch.



"This is the future: high-resolution screens and touch," said Sundar Pichai, a

senior vice president who oversees Google's Chrome Web browser and operating

system.



Google Inc. designed and built the Pixel for "power users" -- a fastidious and

generally more affluent segment of the PC market willing to pay more for

machines equipped with compelling features and components not found in cheaper

laptops.



The strategy is a departure for Google, which had positioned Chromebooks based

on its Chrome operating system as affordable options for homes and offices

looking for a quick and easy way to connect to the Web.



The Pixel, which Google is building without a partner, will cost $1,299 for a

Wi-Fi only model with 32 gigabytes of flash storage. A 64-gigabyte machine that

can connect on both Wi-Fi and a 4G LTE cellular network will cost $1,499. That's

the same price as the cheapest MacBook Pro with a comparable screen, though the

Apple laptop comes with 128 gigabytes of storage.



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: The Google Chromebook Pixel laptop computer boasts a nearly 13-inch,

high-resolution display screen that responds to the touch or swipe of a finger.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





