

Intended as a flagship for its Chrome operating system, Google's new Chromebook
Pixel feels too much like overkill.

Chrome OS was conceived of as a simple and inexpensive computing platform. The
software is built around a Web browser and cloud-based applications; everything
you do on a Chrome device is done through a browser window.

Previous Chromebooks were basic and inexpensive. They generally lacked the
latest processors and didn't come with any high-end features.

By contrast, offering premium features is the Pixel's reason for being. Google
representatives said the Pixel is their attempt to create a Chromebook that the
boss would be proud to take home.

In terms of design, the Google folks have achieved their goal. The Pixel is
thinner and lighter than Apple's comparable MacBook Pro, but feels just as
sturdy. Like the Apple laptops, the Pixel's case is made from aluminum, not from
the plastic found on the less-expensive Chromebooks. The Pixel has sharper edges
and is much more rectangular than the MacBook Pros, which gives it a sleek,
modern look.

The Pixel takes another page from Apple by including a high-resolution screen
similar to Apple's "Retina" display. In fact, the Pixel's screen is even higher
resolution than those in Apple's new MacBook Pros. It's beautiful and bright,
making text and pictures super-sharp.

But Google has looked beyond Apple for inspiration. The Pixel features a touch
screen like those found in many of the latest Windows laptops. And it includes a
powerful Intel Core i5 processor, standard fare on Apple and Windows-based
notebooks, but unique for a Chromebook.

The processor makes a difference. The Pixel is snappy and responsive, instantly
resuming from sleep and quickly switching among tabbed Web pages.

All models of the Pixel come with 1 terabyte of space on the Google Drive cloud
storage service for free for three years. That's a bargain, because Google
typically charges $50 a month for that much space.

Despite its bells and whistles, the Pixel is still a Chromebook and suffers the
same limitations.

Because Chrome is designed to run Web-based apps, the operating system lacks
many popular PC applications. No Skype, Photoshop or many high-end video games.
And if you need to use special software for work or to connect to a device in
your house, you can almost be certain that software won't be available for
Chrome.

That lack of applications means you simply can't do as much with a Chromebook as
you can with a Mac or Windows PC. If you're spending only $250 for a basic
Chromebook, that shortcoming is acceptable. But it's not when you're spending
$1,300, which is the starting price of the Pixel.

For that money, you can get a very nice Windows machine or Apple's MacBook Air.

