                              168 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           December 10, 2015 Thursday

                                 FINAL EDITION



Google's Pixel C: Great hardware, lesser software;

Tablet isn't for everyone, but it has pluses



BYLINE: Ed Baig, ebaig@usatoday.com, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B



LENGTH: 461 words





As the very first Android tablet made and designed from scratch by Google, the

Pixel C is an impressive piece of hardware. The software is another story.



This machine is crafted of solid anodized aluminum with no visible screws, in

the mold of Google's premium Chromebook Pixel laptop. The bright, 10.2-inch

display on the new tablet is gorgeous, the internal components powerful.



And then there's what I consider to be the standout feature: a near full-size

QWERTY-style physical keyboard that transforms Pixel C into a slate off which

you can get some meaningful work done. It's the finest implementation I've seen

yet of combining a physical keyboard on a convertible tablet.



All that said, however, there are questions about whether Pixel C is the right

purchase for you. I'm still not sold on Android as the best operating system for

a tablet, even with the latest version of Marshmallow.  Productivity tablet apps

for Android are lacking, and there's no split-screen multitasking option. I

encountered Wi-Fi connectivity snags.



The cost is $499 for a model with 32 gigabytes of storage, or $599 for a 64GB

version. But you'll almost certainly want to budget an extra $149 for the

aforementioned physical Pixel C keyboard. Granted, Microsoft Surface tablets,

which also rely on accessory keyboards, aren't exactly inexpensive either, and

the same can be said for the larger display iPad Pro.



The physical Bluetooth keyboard on Pixel C, which I used in part to write this

column, is as good as it gets on a tablet.



The magnetic attachment is remarkably sturdy. I was able to hold Pixel C by the

tablet or by the display without worrying the other part would fall off, even

when I held it upside down or shook it up a little. And Google managed to fit

the QWERTY keyboard with minimal compromises. Typing didn't feel cramped.



The keyboard has a small battery that is automatically inductively charged when

the keyboard and tablet are closed and snapped together. As for the tablet

itself, Google says you can get more than 10 hours off the battery -- I didn't

do a formal test.



Not everything went smoothly. I had intermittent problems connecting to Wi-Fi,

though other devices in the room seemed to connect to the same network just

fine.



Google's tablet has an 8-megapixel rear camera and 2-megapixel front camera.



Pixel C isn't a tablet for everyone. But Google has come up with a hardware

slate that certainly demands high praise. The software, not so much.



Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow USA TODAY Personal Tech Columnist @edbaig on

Twitter



THE BOTTOM LINE



GOOGLE PIXEL C



www.google.com



$499 or $599, keyboard is $149



Pro. Beautiful display, impressive hardware, keyboard accessory.



Con. Keyboard is an option. Some Wi-Fi snags. Android software still isn't great

for tablets



LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Google



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





