

The Samsung phone debacle has opened the door   just a crack   for Google to
make headway with its fledgling smartphone offering, Pixel, analysts said
Tuesday.

South Korea-based Samsung permanently halted production on the Galaxy Note 7
smartphonecafter reports of the phone overheating and, in some cases, catching
fire.

cItcs a huge opportunity for the Google Pixel,c said Rob Enderle, an
Oregon-based analyst who tracks the tech sector. cThe Pixel is the best phone to
take advantage of this problem. But its carrier limitations are going to offset
what would otherwise be an incredibly well-timed opportunity.c

Google faces plenty of challenges even ascthe tech behemoth maneuvers to
capitalize on Samsungcs woes.

cGoogle can use Samsungcs problems to their advantage, but they have a really
big upward climb,c said Ben Bajarin, a principal analyst with Campbell-based
Creative Strategies.

For one thing, the Pixel phone is available only for the Verizon platform and
isnct being offered for other big carriers such as Sprint, AT&T and T-Mobile.

cGoogle is just starting out, and consumers still need to learn what the Pixel
phone is,c Bajarin said. cSamsungcs problems will benefit the established brands
such as Apple, LG and HTC. Established brands are very powerful things.c

Mountain View-based Google, nevertheless, has the potential to cast a mammoth
shadow over Samsung as it scrambles to reverse its misfortunes with the Galaxy
Note 7.

cSamsung has created a market for a phone like this, but doesnct have a phone
for this market,c Enderle said. cGoogle Pixel can slide right into that spot.
But the Pixel just wonct be able to take over a lot of shelf space because itcs
only available on one carrier.c

Cupertino-based Apple is certain to be the top vendor for smartphones during the
final three months of 2016, Bajarin said. That stretch that covers the vital
holiday shopping season.

cWe acknowledge the inconvenience this may cause in the market,c Samsung said of
the recall of the phone and the halt in production cThis is to ensure that
Samsung continues to deliver the highest quality products to our customers.c

c

Photo: Rick Osterloh, Google senior vice president of hardware, introduces the
new Google Pixel phone Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2016, in San Francisco. (Eric
Risberg/AP)

The post Can Google Pixel capitalize on Samsung phone woes? appeared first on
SiliconBeat .

