                              175 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)



                            October 6, 2016 Thursday



Meet Google's new smartphone



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 11



LENGTH: 787 words





Looking to finally enter the smartphone hardware business, Google is going after

a familiar foe: Apple.



The maker of the Android mobile operating system unveiled new smartphones

yesterday, the Pixel and a larger Pixel XL, that compete head on with the

iPhone. However, Kiwis might have to wait a while to get the phones as New

Zealand is not on a list of countries getting the phones next month.



No New Zealand prices are available, but Kiwis can expect to pay about $1000 for

the smallest option.



The Pixel phones feature thin aluminum and glass frames that come in black,

silver, or blue (a limited edition for the US).



The smaller model, which starts at US$649 ($900) for 32GB of storage, features a

5-inch screen, while the bigger model, priced at US$769 ($1070), has a 5.5-inch

screen to match the iPhone 7 Plus.



A 128GB storage option is also available, with the larger device topping out at

US$869 ($1200) - also in line with the equivalent iPhone 7 Plus.



The models feature high- resolution displays that Google said are sharper than

the iPhones', along with 12MP rear cameras, 8MP front cameras, and Qualcomm's

Snapdragon processors. The phones are the first to run Google's new Siri-like

digital Assistant and include new features for editing photos.



The Pixel phones are the first conceptualised, designed, engineered and tested

in-house by Google. Besides similar functionality and pricing, Google is going

right after Apple customers with a new option to automatically transfer data

such as contacts and photos from an iPhone to the Pixel when it's first switched

on.



Google included a physical adaptor in the box that plugs the new devices into

iPhones to conduct the process.



Apple added a similar feature to the iPhone last year, allowing users to port

their information over from Android gadgets.



The Pixel phones run a new version of Android, called Nougat 7.1, and have a

user interface customised by Google.



The home screen includes a translucent launcher that reveals circular icons as

it gradually blurs the background wallpaper when users swipe up from the bottom.

There's also a shortcut to summon technical support and a digital home button to

wake up Google's digital Assistant.



The Android update will be available for other Android partners, but getting the

new features will be dependent on support from those other phone manufacturers.



The update includes a mechanism that adjusts the screen's lighting based on time

of day, and support for a Daydream virtual reality headset that Google also

debuted yesterday. The Pixel phones will be available in the US, UK, Australia,

Canada, and Germany this month.



Home device



Like the Pixel phones, the Home device uses the digital Google Assistant

service, a voice-activated personal butler that can search the internet, play

music or perform other useful tasks.



Google said the Home device will sell for roughly US$130 ($180) online.



Along with answering questions and playing music, the device can be used to

control streaming video through Google's Chromecast device, at voice command.



4K Chromecast



Google is updating its Chromecast video-streaming device for watching Netflix

and other online video on big screens.



The new device, Chromecast Ultra, will support a higher- resolution format

called 4K. Ultra will cost about US$70 ($100).



Chromecast's low price has won over a lot of households. But you need a

companion phone to play, pause and fast forward video, disrupting email,

Facebook and other tasks you might want to do while watching TV.



Google Assistant



Google is hoping the new Pixel phones and gadgets will be distinguished by their

use of its software.



A central element of all the new gadgets is the Google Assistant, which uses

artificial intelligence to deliver what chief executive Sundar Pichai described

as "a personal Google for each and every user".



Pichai said the company's goal is to let customers interact "naturally and

seamlessly" with artificial intelligence through devices like the Home device

and their smartphone.



Still, while Google showed its new Assistant performing a variety of impressive

tasks, analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights and Strategy cautioned that

similar services, which include Apple's Siri and Microsoft's Cortana, don't

always live up to their early promises.



On the other hand, Moorhead said that Google was smart to emphasise the

performance of the new smartphone cameras, since "consumers care about this a

lot".



But he said other features in the new phones didn't seem that much different

from what Samsung and Apple have offered in their latest devices. Bloomberg/AP



--------------------



CAPTION:



The Google Pixel phone is displayed during the presentation of new Google

hardware in San Francisco. PHONE: REUTERS



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





