                              184 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                      October 3, 2016 Monday 11:13 AM GMT



Google Pixel phone leaked before unveiling;

Google's own-brand phone revealed in promotional images by Carphone Warehouse

before official unveiling on Tuesday



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 296 words





Google's new own-brand Pixel smartphones have been revealed a day before their

official unveiling after Carphone Warehouse leaked promotional content.



The new Pixel phone by Google marks a step-change for the Android-maker, putting

the Google brand front and centre in an obvious direct challenge to Apple and

its iPhone. Both Apple, and now Google, have the advantage of being able to

develop both hardware and software simultaneously.



Most other smartphone manufacturers, including the world's largest, Samsung, use

Android but do not actively develop the software, only modify it, relying on

Google for primary development.



Google has previously used Nexus branding for its smartphones, where it has

partnered with manufacturers such as Huawei, LG and HTC. The new Pixel brand is

in-keeping with that used for Google's Chromebook Pixel and recent Pixel C

Android tablet.



The leaked images captured by Android Police show two sizes of the phone -a

regular and "XL" version, USB-C fast charging, a new interface, video calling

and the Google Assistant, which first launched within the company's Allo

messaging app.



Both devices will have 32GB or 128GB of storage, 4GB of RAM, Qualcomm's latest

821 processor, AMOLED screens, fingerprint scanners on the back, an

eight-megapixel selfie camera and a 12-megapixel camera on the back with optical

image stabilisation, according to the smartphone retailers listings which have

since been removed.



Google is expected to unveil the new smartphones at an event on Tuesday along

with the next version of Android Nougat 7.1, which will feature more of Google's

conversational AI in the form of Assistant.





     ·    Google launches WhatsApp competitor Allo - with Google Assistant

     ·    Duo video calling app: Google launches cross-platform answer to

          FaceTime





LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





