                              185 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                     October 12, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Here's Why Google Pixel Does Not Need OIS Feature On Its Camera



BYLINE: Wrik Sen



LENGTH: 354  words





The mystery is their software based algorithm, which helps in taking good shots

in low-light conditions.



With the competition in higher end of smartphone market heating up with the

introduction of the Google Pixel handsets earlier this month, it is time that

the nitty-gritties of the phone be scrutinized, even by the fanbase of Google

and Android. This time, the issue is the absence of OIS (Optical Image

Stabilization) a staple feature in most smartphones these days, including some

lower cost models, including some mid-range handsets. Everyone is already

wondering, what could be the reason behind it, and what trick Google has up its

sleeve, since it claims that it takes the best pictures in low-light conditions,

and 4K definition. The answer lies, in the software algorithm, hence EIS

(Electronic Image Stabilization).



On a dedicated forum for Google Pixel, an employee with user id IsaacOnCamera,

detailed out the Google reason for opting out of the OIS feature on the Pixel

Handsets. Though the reasoning itself omitted the technical feature like

1.55-micron rear and 1.4-micron front pixel size of the cameras, which are

extremely crucial to taking good quality images on the handsets, the reasoning

has based on EIS.



He explained, "It compensates for hand shake, allowing longer exposures in low

light, but this in turn increases motion blur within the frame. And it comes

with all kinds of trade-offs, starting off with its physical size (meaning it

would be harder to produce the slim/small device that Pixel is." However, in

comparison, the Pixel handsets use the HDR+ algorithm, which is the in-house

developed algorithm from the company, to take images of that quality which other

premium handsets take.



For further clarifications on videos, Google Pixel is actually using EIS to

improve upon the shaky videos by bringing in a consistency in framing between

multiple video frames. According to IsaacOnCamera, this is the reason by despite

the absence of OIS, the EIS advanced feature helps Pixel handsets take such high

quality videos and pictures, even in 4K resolution, while also maintaining the

slim profile.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





