                              187 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 Business Line



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google's Pixel may be more a threat to Samsung than Apple



LENGTH: 469  words



DATELINE: Mumbai





Mumbai, Oct. 5 -- Google's latest attempt to beat Apple at its core could end up

hurting its Android partners, especially Samsung, at least in the Indian market.





 Google's new Pixel phones, scheduled for pre-bookings from October 13, will

come with a starting price tag of [#x20b9]57,000. Apple currently commands the

premium handset market in India and may appear to be the clear target going by

the not-so-subtle jibes that Google took at Apple during the launch event in San

Francisco.

 Yet, experts believe it'll not be the iPhone's market share that'll get hit in

India but that of Google's own Android partners.

 Faisal Kawoosa, lead analyst, telecoms practice at CMR, said: "I strongly

believe it is very difficult to pull anyone from iPhone to an Android,

irrespective of specs and premium finish. It will not have an impact on the

iPhone. It will however, impact Blackberry, Sony and Samsung".

 With Blackberry exiting the mobile handset market and Sony struggling to sell

high-end phones, Samsung could the only Android player losing out to Google's

Pixel phones.

 Galaxy Note 7

 "Samsung has about 96 per cent of the market in the [#x20b9]55,000-65,000 price

band in India. Thus, it is pretty much the only player that will be affected by

the Android launch," Kawoosa said.

 The timing of the launch couldn't be worse for Samsung, which had to recall

millions of Galaxy Note 7 devices after many of them started exploding and were

even banned on most airlines.

 Google's seamless hardware-software integration in the Pixel phones, which is

expected to bring an iPhone-like experience to Android for the first time, could

be another big worry for Google's partners.

 "Google's Nexus phones were co-branded, unlike Pixel, which does not instil

enough confidence among partners. With the Nexus series, Google was prioritising

OS updates to partners, but it won't continue to be the case," said Sanchit

Gogia, CEO, Greyhound Research.

 "Also, with the help of seamless hardware-software integration (which Apple is

known for), a Samsung phone with the same hardware and OS as the Pixel phone

will not be able to provide the same experience that Pixel would be able to

provide. That is a big threat to any Android partner," he added.

 For consumers, a major worry, with the launch of Pixel is that of privacy. The

centrestage of the launch of the device was not its hardware or software but its

Artificial Intelligence platform, Google Assistant.

 The tool, similar to Apple's Siri, will be able to listen in to your

conversations and provide suggestions even before you ask for anything.

 "Google has already been scanning e-mails of consumers for advertising

purposes. There is no reason to believe they wouldn't use your everyday

conversations as well for the same. That should worry a lot of users about their

privacy," Gogia. said.



LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





