                              188 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                            i-Independent Print Ltd



                                October 5, 2016

                                 First Edition



Google uses artificial intelligence in battle with smartphone giants;

TECHNOLOGY



BYLINE: Rhiannon Williams TECHNOLOGY CORRESPONDENT



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19



LENGTH: 490 words





Google has unveiled its latest smartphones in an artificially intelligent-led

bid to challenge Apple and Samsung's stranglehold on the market.



The Pixel and Pixel XL, sized at 5in and 5.5in respectively, are the latest

phablets (phone-tablet hybrids) to go on the market, competing with the recently

released iPhone 7 and Samsung's Galaxy S7.



The phones mark a new hardware direction for Google, which has previously

released its own handsets under Nexus branding. They will both run a pure

version of the company's latest Android 7.1 Nougat operating system, whereas

Android-running phones from other manufacturers such as LG and HTC run slightly

modified versions.



They feature 12MP and 8MP cameras and rear-mounted fingerprint scanners, and are

the first phones to sport inbuilt Google Assistant, a digital personal assistant

capable of answering queries in a conversational tone thanks to Google's natural

language processing algorithm. This comes in the wake of Amazon launching its

smart speaker, Amazon Echo. Echo's digital assistant, Alexa, responds to spoken

questions and commands.



Google's chief executive, Sundar Pichai, said at the launch of the smartphones

in San Francisco how we are moving from a "mobile-first to an AI-first world".



Pricing in the UK for the phablet is yet to be announced, but US prices start

from $649 (£510). The pair will go on sale on 20 October.



Google also announced its own smartphone-powered virtual reality headset, called

Daydream View VR, priced at $79. It has been covered with fabric to sit more

comfortably on the wearer's face, and will ship with a miniature controller

which can be stored inside the headset.



The company helped to pioneer the use of phones in virtual reality with its

Google Cardboard viewer in 2014, and launched its Android VR platform, Daydream,

in May.



Phone wars Why pick up a Pixel? Will people buy the Pixel handsets? Both phones

are flagship-quality for (relatively) low prices, which Google knows is its best

chance of chipping away at the market share of Samsung and other Android

manufacturers.



What's different about them? Google claims the Pixel and Pixel XL sport the best

cameras ever made for a smartphone. The rear-facing lens is 12MP, which is the

same as the iPhone 7, but the Pixel uses artificial intelligence to select the

best image out of numerous shots taken in a burst, and hardware designed to turn

raw data into an image more quickly.



Is AI really that important? Artificial intelligence is the next big advancement

in tech. Screens may become a thing of the past, meaning we could control our

devices entirely using voice commands.



When can I buy one? The Pixel and Pixel XL will be on sale from 20 October,

while the Daydream View VR headset will retail from early November.



While 87 per cent of the world's smartphones run Android, Samsung is by far the

biggest manufacturer, with a worldwide market share of around 23 per cent,

according to the analyst IDC.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: III





                    Copyright 2016 Independent Print Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





