
DATELINE: San Francisco


San Francisco, Oct. 5 -- At an event here in San Francisco, Google CEO Sundar
Pichai took the stage to make several announcements. The most interesting news
was the launch of the first-ever phone fully made by Google - the Pixel. Google
is calling it the Pixel as the company has launched premium hardware products
such as Chromebooks and tablets under the Pixel banner in the past and Google
aims to set the benchmark for premium smartphones with the Pixel phones. The
Pixel phones feature an aerospace grade aluminum body and Corning Gorilla Glass
4 and come in 2 sizes - 5 and 5.5 inches and are otherwise identical in terms of
other features.

Powering the phones are the new Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 processor with 4GB of
RAM alongside. The Pixel is the first phone to ship with Google Assistant which
lets you interact with your phone and other Google services easily with simple
voice and contextual commands. The new phones come with Google Duo and Allo
pre-installed and run on the latest version of Android Nougat 7.1. Google claims
the Pixel phones have the best camera in the market with a 12.3Megapixel camera
on the rear and an8 Megapixel front-facing camera.

Surprisingly, India is one of first 6 countries to get the Pixel phones with
pre-orders starting on October 13th on Flipkart and will later be available at
Croma and Reliance Digital stores. The Pixel and Pixel XL will not come cheap
and starts at Rs.57000 for the 32GB version of the Pixel and goes all the way up
to Rs. 76,000 for the 128GB version of the Pixel XL and at the price directly
competes with other high end devices such as the iPhone 7 and Samsung Galaxy
phones. Google is planning to offer Interest free financing optionsat launch and
Pixel users will get unlimited storage for photos and video content captured on
the phone for life.

Google announced the DayDream VR headset priced at $79 and aims to simplify
consumer VR headsets by making it very comfortable and easy to use.

Google also announced the Google Home for $129 which takes on Amazon Echo and
brings the Google Assistant to the home. Google WiFi also priced at $129 aims to
solve WiFi woes either in a standalone or paired configuration. Chromecast Ultra
finally brings 4K support to the Chromecast.

Courtesy: fonearena.com

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

