                              193 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Siasat Daily (India)



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google unveils Pixel smartphones; to cost Rs 57,000 in India



LENGTH: 558 words



DATELINE: San Francisco





San Francisco, Oct. 5 -- Google today unveiled its new 'Pixel' brand of phones,

geared up with Google Assistant and virtual reality capabilities, as it looks to

challenge Apple in the premium smartphone market.



The two phones - Pixel and Pixel XL - will be available in India, priced at Rs

57,000 onwards, in 32GB and 128GB versions. The eagerly awaited smartphones

replace the existing Nexus line.



The devices will be put up for pre-order from October 13 in India and will be

sold by the end of October. The handsets would be available through channels

like Flipkart, Reliance Retail, Croma and Vijay Sales in India.



India is among the first six countries where Pixel is being launched. "Hardware

isn't a new area for Google but we are now taking steps to showcase the very

best of Google across a family of devices designed and built by us. This is a

natural step and we are in it for the long haul," Google SVP Hardware Rick

Osterloh said at an event here.



Building hardware and software together would let the company take full

advantage of capabilities like its Google Assistant, harnessing its expertise in

machine learning and artificial intelligence.



While most handset vendors, other than Apple, use Google's Android operating

system, the company has made various approaches to building its own hardware.



It sold Nexus phones from 2010 with the devices being made by various vendors

like HTC, Huawei, LG and Motorola.



Pixel would be the first phone to ship with Google Assistant built in and the

latest operating system, Android 7.1 Nougat. The devices will get software and

security updates as soon as they are available, directly from Google.



Google has also made the update process easier, with the download and

installation happening in the background, so users no longer have to wait for

the phone to update. Also, unlike the Nexus range, the Pixel phones do not sport

the branding of the handset vendor.



The company has also unveiled a new VR headset, priced at USD 79 that will be

available from November. Google is partnering a number of companies to increase

immersive content available to users across the world.



India is one of the fastest growing smartphone markets globally. According to

IDC, smartphone market in India grew 17.1 per cent sequentially to 27.5 million

units in April-June quarter of 2016. The move to launch Pixel in India among the

first few countries is similar to the strategy adopted by Apple.



Apple will sell the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus in India from October 7, a month

after the device was unveiled in the US. The latest version, which would be

available through Flipkart, will be priced Rs 60,000 onwards.



Devices by both Apple and Google will compete in the premium category, which

industry experts estimate to be about 26 per cent of the Indian handset market.

Other prominent players in the premium segment (Rs 20,000 onwards) include

Samsung, Sony and LG.



The segment is estimated to be growing at 22 per cent, higher than the overall

smartphone segment that is growing at about 17 per cent. Google has also

unveiled other hardware products including a new Chromecast, Google Wi-Fi (USD

129 owards) and Google Home.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query

with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact

Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Siasat.com

                              All Rights Reserved





