                              194 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)



                             April 6, 2013 Saturday



Google laptop is impressive, but not for all



BYLINE: By Anick Jesdanun,



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 1151 words





Sunday April 7, 2013



Associated Press



Google's first high-end laptop, the Chromebook Pixel, is an impressive machine.

It feels light and comfortable in my hands and on my lap. Its high-resolution

display makes photos look sharp and video come to life. From a hardware

standpoint, it's everything I'd want a laptop to be.



But the Pixel isn't very practical -- at least not yet -- for most people. It

works well when you have a steady Internet connection, but can't do much once

you lose that connection. And because it uses Google's own operating system, it

doesn't run enough software yet to replace your other machines.



I brought the Pixel along for a nearly three-week trip to Thailand and Cambodia,

where I knew I wouldn't have the type of round-the-clock access I'm used to in

the U.S. I was surprised by how much I could do, but quickly got frustrated when

I couldn't do more.



Such frustration doesn't come cheap. Prices for the Pixel start at $1,299, just

$200 less than a MacBook with a comparable screen and the ability to do much

more offline. A higher-end Pixel with cellular access costs $150 more than the

basic model and is scheduled to start shipping Monday.



For those unfamiliar with Google's entry into the laptop market -- I guess

that's many of you -- the Pixel and other Chromebooks run a Google operating

system called Chrome OS. Based on the Chrome Web browser available for Windows

and Mac computers, Chrome OS underscores Google's vision of letting the Internet

do all the heavy lifting instead of your computer.



As a result, you can power up and start working on the Chromebook right away.

Boot time is minimal because there's not a lot of software to load. Those

functions are pulled from the Internet as needed. That also means updates come

regularly and don't need any installation on your part.



There's not a lot of storage on the machine either. The idea is to keep as much

as you can online, through a storage service such as Google Drive or Dropbox.



Think of the Chromebook as a gateway to the Internet. You can download apps from

Google and others to run on the Chromebook, but many of those apps do little

more than access a website on your Chrome browser when you're online.



Previous Chromebooks haven't been too powerful. They have tended to be low-cost

machines ideal for casual users who mostly need computers for Internet tasks

such as email and Facebook.



Google is changing the dynamics with the Pixel. It's targeting power users who

are willing to pay more money for the best features.



For $1,299, you get a well-built machine sporting a touch-sensitive display that

measures nearly 13 inches diagonally. The screen's resolution is among the best

out there. At 239 pixels per inch, it tops the 227 pixels per inch on the

13-inch MacBook Pro, though your eyes might not be able to discern that small

difference.



The basic Pixel model comes with 32 gigabytes of storage and has a slot for

external storage, such as a camera's SD card. Each machine also comes with a

three-year subscription for 1 terabyte of online storage through Google Drive.

It's normally $50 a month.



Google also offers a $1,449 model that has double the internal storage, at 64

GB, and 100 megabytes a month of LTE cellular data access through Verizon

Wireless for two years. That's suitable for occasional use, but if you'll be

away from Wi-Fi a lot, you'll need a data plan. Prices start at $10 a day.



The LTE model isn't set to ship until Monday, but Google lent me one to try out.

I was impressed with the LTE offering, as the cellular access would help cover

some of the gaps I'd have outside my home and office. But it's of no use abroad.



Nor is LTE of use on airplanes. Both models offer 12 free sessions with Gogo's

Wi-Fi service on airplanes, but those are good only for flights that offer that

capability. Those tend to be domestic flights in the U.S.



So I found myself trying to use Chromebook without a steady Internet connection.



Before I left, I configured the Chromebook browser to enable offline access to

Google Docs, the company's set of online tools such as word processing and

spreadsheets. With offline access, you're able to access and edit documents.

Changes get synced with the online versions the next time you connect to the

Internet.



I was able to do a fair amount of writing offline, but every now and then, my

document would disappear, replaced by Google's "Aw, Snap" error message sporting

a sad face icon. That would be cute if hours of work weren't at stake.



Although I was usually able to recover the file and never lost more than a

paragraph of writing, I got nervous with every crash. Google Docs lets you save

copies on your computer as text files or in Microsoft's Word format. But that

function works only when you are online, even for changes you are making

offline.



Even without the crashes, I wasn't getting tools such as spell-checking while

offline. That's not an issue when using Word or Apple's Pages on other machines.



Beyond text documents, the Chromebook is able to view photos, PDFs and other

files, just like any other computer. It can also read files in Microsoft's Word

and Excel formats, though you must convert them to Google Docs to make changes.



And obviously, it can browse the Web. I successfully paid credit card bills,

bought magazines and watched Hulu video on the Pixel. I was able to read an

e-book on Amazon's Web-based Kindle app, too.



But there are limits, particular when sites require plug-ins that aren't

available for the Chromebook.



And while I was able to write this story on a Chromebook, our publishing system

isn't compatible with it.



Chromebooks are ideal for those who have steady Internet access and do most of

their computing on Web browsers. But those people may be fine with one of the

other, much cheaper Chromebooks. One is the $249 Samsung Chromebook, which I

have tried and like for simple tasks when Internet access isn't an issue.



If you need a machine as powerful as the Pixel, you might also need an operating

system that can do more, especially when offline.



Google executive Caesar Sengupta admits that Chromebook owners might still have

to turn to a Windows or Mac computer now and then. In many ways, it reminds me

of the early days of the Mac, when most software was written only for Windows.



That makes the Pixel expensive for a machine

that can't serve as your sole computer.



At $1,299, I'd rather spend another $200 for a MacBook with a high-resolution

display and four times the storage, at 128 gigabytes. You don't get a touch

screen with the MacBook, but frankly, I didn't use the Pixel's touch controls

even once during my Asia trip.



On the other hand, Sengupta told me that selling Pixels isn't Google's main goal

with the machine. Rather, the company made it to showcase Google's vision for

the future of computing. In that case, Google has succeeded in producing a

machine that is a pleasure to use -- as long as you're online.



LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





