                              195 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 22, 2016 Saturday

                                 Mumbai Edition



Mega Pixel: Google's Great India Phone Play



BYLINE: Gulveen Aulakh



SECTION: THE ECONOMIC TIMES



LENGTH: 650 words





Google is entering a space it has never been to before -the Indian mobile phone

retail store.



The company will directly sell its new Pixel smartphones to consumers through at

least seven prominent large-format retail stores in India, besides multi-brand

stores, and promote the flagship device just as much as top brands Apple and

Samsung.



And it's entering with a bang. Analysts expect Google to start with about 1lakh

devices -more than ever before -to make a dent in India's premium smartphone

segment, which is dominated by Samsung and Apple. Until now, manufacturers of

Google phones such as Nexus were responsible for marketing, which has been

extremely low key and limited.



Google is raising the stakes in the premium segment -' . 30,000-plus -right

after Samsung's huge setback with the Galaxy Note 7 debacle. Still, the search

giant faces a huge challenge as Apple has already shipped in about 2 lakh units

of its iPhone 7 ahead of Diwali. Samsung is redirec



ting its marketing budget to promote the S7 and S7 Edge.



Bookings for the two Pixel models opened on October 13 through Flipkart and

offline retailers. Google's marketing play is expected to escalate next week

-before Diwali -although the launch date isn't



known. Google is holding a media event on October 25. The 5-inch Pixel and

5.5-inch Pixel XL went on sale in the US a couple of days ago.



\x93It's a shift of strategy (for Google), as it follows the make-your-ownphone

plans, but it's also required,\x93 said Santosh Desai, managing director of

Future Brands. \x93Google is going up against formidable brands, so it can't go

half-way on end-consumer communication...the Samsung (incident) opens up the

opportunity for Google vs Apple, so all the more reason for them to go full

throttle.\x93



Google is aware of the task at hand and plans to respond accordingly.



\x93We will run a 360-degree above-theline campaign with TV , cinema,

out-of-home in top seven metro cities, print and digital, to build the

brand,\x93 a Google spokesperson said.



Heavy spending is expected for spreading the word on the Pixel smartphones.The

base model for Pixel . 57,000.costs ' Print advertisements will run for the next

3-4 months while television ad spots will target Hindi and English entertainment

channels. Google will also use YouTube and its other digital platforms to

promote the devices.The Alphabet-owned company will showcase the Pixel and Pixel

XL in key stores of large-format retail chains, including Croma, Reliance

Digital, Spice Mobility and Jumbo. Tie-ups with other chains, including The

Mobile Store, are in the works, industry insiders said.



\x93Displays for Pixel will be set up in top 50 stores of the total 300 that we

have.They will carry the Google branding, something that a consumer would have

not seen before,\x93 the chief executive officer of one retail chain said,

asking not to be identified.



A full-fledged strategy is necessary, especially in



the premium segment, to convince users that Google can compete, said Jaipal

Singh, a senior analyst at IDC India. It has failed in the past, a case in point

being the Nexus 5X and 6P launched last year, which sold a combined less than a

lakh units from October last year to date. Comparatively, an average of about

600,000 premium units are sold in the country each month.



Cupertino-based Apple is spending about Rs 100 crore on marketing and

advertising in India during the festive period, ET reported previously.



It shipped in almost 1.9 lakh units in the first half of October, as per data

from Cybex Exim Solutions. Apple imported about 450,000 units of the iPhone 6s

series in 45 days from October 1 last year, the start of its record quarter by

volumes (8 lakh) in India.



\x93As of now, Apple is clearly the one with the advantage, so Google will have

to take retail space share from existing vendors,\x93 said IDC's Singh.



Apple didn't respond to an emailed request for comment.



LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





