

Let me come straight to the point: Google makes pretty darn sweet hardware.

I reached that conclusion two years ago, when I reviewed Google's original
Chromebook Pixel. It's an opinion that has only solidified now that I have
tested the improved Pixel I used to write this column.

Pixel is Google's premium showcase for the company's cloud-based Chrome
operating system. At $999 or $1,299, it's an expensive power-user alternative to
the sub-$250 Chromebooks produced by several computer manufacturers, though
Google has dropped the price compared with the previous generation.

Beyond the consumer, Google has been pushing Chromebooks in education and in
business, where it says it has seen 300% year-over-year growth.

The physical design of Pixel hasn't changed much. The 3.3-pound laptop is
crafted of sturdy anodized aluminum, with the same-size, vibrant, 12.85-inch,
high-resolution, touch display, now with a bolstered color gamut.

As before, the keyboard is a pleasure -- among the best I've typed on. The
spacious glass trackpad is equally top-shelf.

Sweet connections

Arguably the most significant difference compared with the first-generation
Pixel is the addition of two compact USB Type-C ports, conveniently placed on
each side. USB Type-C can handle power, data and video, all in one.

It's the connector that Apple called attention to on the new MacBook, announced
Monday. But while the MacBook has only a single USB-C port, the Pixel has two,
along with a pair of standard USB 3.0 ports. That means you ought to be covered
for now with your older USB-powered devices, easing any transition to the
future. The USB-C connector is based on an open standard that will be embraced
by other computer -- and phone -- makers moving forward.

Meantime, Google, like Apple, will be selling a variety of USB-C adapters and
dongles.

The versatile port provides several advantages. It's reversible; any way you
plug it in, it will work. You'll also be able to use any USB-C power adapter to
charge the computer, including in theory the one Apple will supply with the new
MacBook.

The Pixel itself has a fast-charging feature that promises to give you up to two
hours of juice after plugging it in for just 15 minutes, a potential lifesaver
when you're about to board an airplane.

Google claims up to 12 hours of power overall for the new computer (based on a
test with brightness at a default 40% level). That's a major jump over the five
hours of battery life Google said you'd get with the first Pixel, which in my
experience is even shorter than that. I haven't conducted a formal battery test
on the latest model, but the improvement is duly evident.

So-so battery life had been an Achilles' heels on the first Pixel, a laptop I
otherwise like a lot.

Offline issues

The other potential drawback for any Chromebook buyer is the use of the machine
offline, though Google has made major strides for those occasions when you lack
a cyber connection. You can employ Gmail in offline mode, for example, or edit
locally saved photos. Still, you may encounter odd snags when you're not
connected, as I experienced attempting to write offline in Google Docs on a
recent flight.

The new machines have faster Intel processors and more memory, a Core i5 and 8
gigabytes on the $999 model, a Core i7 and 16GB on the $1,299 model. Because
you're encouraged to take advantage of Google Drive -- Google supplies 1
terabyte free for up to three years -- the on-board storage capacities are
modest, 32GB and 64GB respectively, same as on predecessors.

There are other niceties here. You can conduct a voice search by barking out
"OK, Google" -- the same command you might use on Android phones.

The built-in speakers sound good. The camera (for Google Hangouts) has a
wider-angle lens.

A colored light bar on the outside cover provides more than just an aesthetic
touch: by tapping twice you can gauge battery power. Versions of certain Android
apps now work on the Chrome OS, too, including Evernote, Duolingo and Vine.

Another benefit of Chromebooks: Google can periodically update the software to
keep the machine fresh and secure.

Google's reputation was built on search and software. But the company's computer
hardware deserves praise, too.

