                              19 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 3:39 PM GMT



Google Pixel XL vs iPhone 7 Plus - which smartphone will win when Google takes

on Apple?;

Buying a new phone in 2016 means choosing between Android and iOS - but which

tech company makes the better phone?



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 654 words





Investing in a new phone means choosing, inevitably, between one of Apple's

iOS-toting iPhones and a range of different Android phones.



Both operating systems offer advantages and disadvantages. While the

recently-released iPhone 7 Plus is pick of the bunch for iOS, Google's Android

has a few more options to choose from.



Google Pixel launch LIVE: Pixel smartphones, Google Home speaker and Daydream VR

expected at October 4 event



That being said, the Pixel XL comes straight from the Google stable and is the

only phone to arrive with the very latest version of Android - nicknamed

'Nougat' - preinstalled.



Google Pixel and Pixel XL phones: Specs, price, release date and rumours about

Google's new Android smartphones



Google Pixel review: Android's answer to the iPhone 7 and one of 2016's best

smartphones



The Pixel XL will be available on October 20th - meaning you'll be able to get

hold of one before the end of the month.



iPhone 7 Plus review: It feels like an iterative update



When it comes to brute power, then the momentum is clearly with Google for its

2016 flagship smartphone.



Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer the day before

official announcement



Both the iPhone 7 Plus and Google Pixel XL have 5.5-inch screens, but the

resolution on the latter is 1440p whilst the former only manages 1080p. The same

is true of random access memory - useful for multitasking - as the iPhone boasts

3GB whilst Pixel offers 4GB.



Both phones have fingerprint scanners - although while the iPhone puts it on the

front, Google's Pixel has it round the back.



Google doesn't pull ahead in every aspect though - as the iPhone 7 Plus boasts

Apple's first ever dual-lens camera. The company made a big deal about its

optical zoom and high dynamic range at the iPhone launch event.



We've yet to see Google's Pixel camera in action but if you use your phone to

take a lot of pictures, Apple could be the way to go.



Thanks to the speed of software development, many aspects of actually using the

phones are very similar.



iPhone 7 case brings back the missing headphone jack - and doesn't need an

adapter



For example, you can swipe up or down from the home screen to quickly access

shortcuts. Both have voice-enabled assistants - Google Now and Siri. And both

let you use fingerprint scanners to pay for items like coffee or groceries.



Even the apps are similar - Google Duo is very similar to FaceTime whilst big

hitters like Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram and Snapchat are available on both

platforms.



The iPhone 7 Plus' big feature is the aforementioned dual lens camera while the

Pixel XL trumpets Google's advancements in artificial intelligence with the

Google Allo messaging app.



Oh, and the Pixel XL has a 3.5mm headphone jack - unlike the iPhone 7 Plus.



iPhone 7 HissGate: Apple customers report hearing hissing sounds coming from

their new iPhones



Google's Pixel XL surprised a few people with its high price.



It costs £719 for the 32GB model and £819 for the 128GB version.



How much will the Google Pixel and Pixel XL phones cost? Best UK deals and where

to find them



Apple's iPhone 7 Plus also starts at £719 for the 32GB model.



What's more, we can't know for sure how long the 3,450mAh battery on the Pixel

XL lasts compared to the iPhone 7 Plus' 2,900mAh.



Apple has made it clear that iOS 10 is more efficient and that its phones now

last longer. But critics have still complained about both the battery life and

the slow charging time of the iPhones.



If you're looking for a simple-to-use phone that takes good pictures, then

Apple's iPhone 7 Plus is certainly the one to go for. You'll be paying more for

the privilege - but it will update faster and, generally, hold on to its value

if you want to upgrade again in a year's time.



However, if you need more power and want to tinker with settings and

appearances, Google's Pixel XL is probably more your cup of tea. It'll be

cheaper too, and the battery will probably last longer.



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





