                               1 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday



LIVE Google Pixel event: Sundar Pichai to launch 'Made by Google' smartphones;

Google Pixel, Pixel XL launch: Google is all set to pull up the curtains on its

products at today's event in San Francisco. The live stream of the special event

by Google will start soon The post LIVE Google Pixel event: Sundar Pichai to

launch 'Made b...



BYLINE: FE Online



LENGTH: 267  words





Google Pixel, Pixel XL launch: Google is all set to pull up the curtains on its

products at today's event in San Francisco. The live stream of the special event

by Google will start soon



Google Pixel, Pixel XL launch: Google is all set to pull up the curtains on its

products at today's event in San Francisco. The live stream of the special event

by Google will start soon. After the much hyped Apple event last month, it is

now Google's turn to launch its brand new smartphones Pixel and Pixel XL in what

looks to be an extravagant affair.



As Google is all set to make some major hardware announcements on October 4,

consumers can still see some signs of the changes and guess what to expect.

Google has an annual ritual of announcing its flagship smartphones, yet this

year appears to be distinct. Google in an enigmatic new advertisement had shown

a box, devoid of context which metamorphosised into a rectangular shape

symbolising a smartphone alongside the Google logo and 'Oct 4' written.



Here are LIVE updates on Google Pixel launch event:



9.08 pm: A day ahead of the Google Pixel launch event, the tech giant decided to

stay mum of 'Made by Google' smartphones



We're not saying anything until tomorrow.

#madebygooglepic.twitter.com/B6caqnhBrw



- Made by Google (@madebygoogle) October 4, 2016



9.05 pm: The Google live stream will begin shortly. In order to watch the Google

event live, viewers will have to follow the action by watching the live stream.



So far we do not know when Google will launch Pixel and Pixel XL in India, but

as seen with its Nexus phone, Google does not delay launches in India.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





