

The Note7 exploding battery saga is bad news for Samsung but the fallout also
dents the overall Android brand. It remains to be seen whether Note7 users who
don't stick with Samsung opt for Apple's embrace. However, for those loyal to
the Android experience, there are a few notable options. Sony, Google and
Motorola have come to the rescue with new premium Android handsets, ahead of the
Christmas rush. They each offer a different take on Android.

Sony Xperia XZ Sony is promoting the camera capability of this phone: a 23
megapixel main snapper, a 13MP low-light selfie front camera, 4K recording with
image stabilisation, and a dedicated camera button. You pick up the phone, press
and shoot, even with it locked.

The back camera has three sensors: an image sensor, a laser autofocus sensor for
measuring subject distance and an RGB sensor for colour accuracy.

Predictive hybrid autofocus tracks subjects as they move across the frame. Sony
says the camera works out the position of a moving object ahead of time so that
it can take a sharp photo when it gets there.

Sony also has introduced software that juices up a phone to 90 per cent
overnight, and then charges it to 100 per cent before you get up. There is also
Qnovo adaptive charging, which adjusts the charging rate. Sony says these
measures double battery lifespan.

The XZ is dust and water resistant. It has a 5.2-inch full HD display, a
Qualcomm Snapdragon 829 processor, 32GB of internal storage, a microSD card port
and USB-C connector.

Sony overlays "smart assist" technology over Google Android Marshmallow. Over
time, this machine learning technology will glean your habits and alerts you to
operating issues.

Xperia XZ, sells in Australia from Thursday for $999.

Google Pixel, Pixel XL Google designed its new Pixel-branded phones from scratch
and then got HTC to make them. The Pixel and Pixel XL have 5 and 5.5-inch
displays respectively.

Google, like Sony, promotes the quality of its 12.3MP and 8MP back/front facing
cameras. The back snapper has a big f/2.0 aperture and large 1.55 micron pixels
for capturing lots of light.

In the smartburst feature, you can continually press the shutter button and the
camera will take a series of photos and then select what it regards as the best
and sharpest image. The "Lens blur" feature makes it easy to take shallow depth
of field images so foreground subjects stand out.

The standout feature is the integration of Google's new assistant, found by
holding down the Home button. It is capable of more natural, contextually based
conversations, manages everyday tasks and you can tell it to display selected
photos, such as "show me my cat photos from last year".

Possibly the most compelling feature is Google's offer of free, unlimited online
storage of your photos and videos. Pixel and Pixel XL have a high resolution
AMOLED capacitive full HD display a USB Type-C connector and fast charging. As
with last year's Nexium models, the fingerprint reader is on the back.

With Google branded phones you quickly get the latest version of Android (here
Nougat). And it will work with Google's virtual reality platform, Daydream View.

Pixel, with a 5-inch screen with 32GB of storage, will cost $1079, or $1229 with
128GB storage. The larger Pixel XL, with a 5.5-inch screen, will cost $1269
(32GB) and $1419 (128GB). Available from Thursday.

Moto Z, Moto Z Play Motorola's Moto Z is incredibly thin at just 5.2mm. Of the
three phones here, it has the highest screen resolution, a 5.5-inch quad HD
AMOLED display. It has a Qualcomm quad core processor, 32/64GB of internal
storage and supports a whopping 2 Terabytes via a microSD card.

If you don't need the QuadHD screen, there's Moto Z Play. The screen size is the
same: 5.5 inches but it sports 1080p HD resolution.

That trade-off isn't so bad given you get a fast 8-core processor, and a 3510
milliampere hour battery that Motorola says will deliver up to 45 hours of mixed
use and eight hours of use with 15 minutes of fast charging.

Both phones make use of Motorola's new magnetically attachable "Moto Mods". You
can clip on a stereo sound speaker, a projector, a "style shell" to boost its
looks, a power pack for extra battery and a zoom lens, which delivers 10x
optical zoom.Moto Z and Moto Z Play are available now for $999 and $699
respectively.

