                              205 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                   Arab News



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google launches Pixel smartphone



LENGTH: 290 words





Pixel smartphone will be available with a five-inch display or a 5.5 inch

display.





SAN FRANCISCO: Google has unveiled its new Pixel smartphone with artificial

intelligence built in as it directly takes on the iPhone with its own branded,

premium-priced handset.





"We are building hardware with the Google Assistant at its core," said Rick

Osterloh, head of a new hardware division at the California-based Internet

giant.

"We believe that the next big innovation is going to take place at the

intersection of hardware and software, with AI at the center."

Pixel smartphone will be availabile with a five-inch display or a 5.5 inch

display, starting at $649 for US customers, at similar prices to the latest

iPhone models.

Pre-orders began on Tuesday in Australia, Canada, Germany, Britain, and the US.

"It's the first phone made by Google inside and out," said Sabrina Ellis of the

Pixel product management team.

By producing the hardware and Android software, Google is making a more direct

challenge to Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.



Along with being the first smartphone to ship with Google Assistant, it will

come with unlimited storage for photos and videos and be compatible with the

company's new Daydream virtual reality platform.

Pixel also has a special program to make it easy for users to switch operating

systems, say from an iPhone to and Android, by simply transfer contacts, content

and even iMessages, according to Ellis.

Google announced an exclusive deal with US telecom provider Verizon for Pixel

sales. Ellis said the company is working with service providers in other

countries.

The version for sale at Google's online shop is "unlocked" to work with various

carriers.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/7/9/53/147564729098.jpg







LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 9





           Copyright 2016 Arab News - Saudi Research & Publishing Co.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





