

Alphabet Inc's Google on Tuesday announced a new "Pixel" smartphone and a
virtual reality headset, the company's latest effort to sell consumers on Google
-branded devices and to challenge Apple Inc's iPhone at the high end of the more
than $400 billion global market.

The new phone starts at a price of $649, and Google is working with exclusively
with Verizon Communications in the United States, Google executives said at a
launch event in San Francisco.

The string of announcements, including a new Wifi router and its voice activated
digital assistant for the living room, "Home," is the clearest sign yet that
Google intends to compete directly with Apple, Amazon.com and even its own
Android mobile operating system customers to create a system of devices and
hardware that meet every digital need.

The Pixel also represents a more hands-on policy by Google. Google lets Android
device makers modify software almost without limit, which has helped make
Android the most-used mobile operating system in the world. But company
executives boasted that the Pixel was developed in-house from start to finish.

Google's decision to launch with a single carrier echoes Apple's agreement to
launch the original iPhone with AT&T, a deal that gave Apple unprecedented
control over the look of the phone and how it worked.

Google has for years toyed with various approaches to building its own hardware
without alienating manufacturers such as Samsung Electronics, the world's top
smartphone maker. Google has sold another line of phones, called Nexus, since
2010, but the devices have gained little traction.

Google also announced a "Daydream View" virtual reality headset, which will be
available in November for $79, in time for the end-of-year shopping season. Home
will be available for $129, including a six-month trial of ad-free YouTube.

Pixel phones will come in black, blue and silver and will have 5 and 5.5 inch
(12.7 cm and 14 cm) screens. It will have what Google called the best-rated
camera on the market and will be able to get a 7-hour charge in 15 minutes.
Pre-orders begin on Tuesday.

Because its mobile software is available so widely, Google has struggled to
distinguish its own devices, said analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research.

Google "wants to have this end-to-end experience, but it's not clear that people
really want that," Dawson said.

The Home device represents an important move in an intensifying battle between
Google and other major tech players to establish the dominant "digital
assistant."

Google Assistant, Amazon's Alexa and Apple's Siri are vying for supremacy as
more people search the web and make purchases online through voice commands,
which may eventually supplant keyboards and touchscreens as the primary means of
controlling some digital devices.

The post Google takes on Apple with new Pixel phone, Home assistant appeared
first on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/1/147560757323.jpg

The Google Pixel phone

