                              208 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                             October 3, 2016 Monday



'Made by Goodgle' Oct 5 Five big expectations



BYLINE: Karishma Modhy



LENGTH: 501  words





All things Google: A look at all we can expect from the company's big event on

5th October



Google is prepping for an event that is scheduled for 5th October. The company

is expected to unveil a range of new smartphones, laptops, a smart-home device,

and a new virtual reality platform. Though we cannot be sure of what exactly the

company will take the wraps off, here's a breakdown of the goodies likely to

come our way.



1. So long, Nexus: Enter 'Pixel'



Google has left the Nexus brand behind, and will announce a new lineup of

devices called Pixel. Two new smartphones are expected to be announced at the

event - Pixel and Pixel XL. The phones are allegedly going to be built by HTC

and Huawei. The former will sport a 5-inch display, replacing the LG Nexus 5X,

while the latter should have a 5.5-inch display, which will replace the Huawei

Nexus 6P released last year. Rumours suggest the Pixel smartphone lineup will

include top-notch specifications such as 4GB of RAM, Qualcomm Snapdragon 820

processor, 12MP cameras along with fast-charging batteries. And yes, both

devices will run their new Android 7.1 Nougat OS.



Along with smartphones, Google may also unveil a Huawei-built 7-inch Android

tablet. Serial tipster Evan Blass stated that a Google tablet built by Huawei

with 4GB RAM is "on track for release before the end of the year."



Lastly, Google may unveil a new ultra-portable 'Pixel' laptop. This device could

be based on an Intel m3 or i5 Core processor with 32GB or 128GB of solid state

storage and 8GB or 16GB of RAM. It is also slated to have a fingerprint sensor,

stereo speakers, quad microphones, a backlit keyboard, and a glass trackpad.



2. Replacing Cardboard:  Daydream VR



Google announced a VR platform in May



this year, called Daydream. However, only sparse details were shared back then.

As the platform has now stepped out of beta and is open to developers, we can

expect a lot more



information regarding Daydream VR, which is intended to offer a high-quality

virtual reality experience.



3. Smart home gear: Google Home



Google Home, which would rival Amazon's Echo and Apple's HomeKit was announced

at Google I/O this year. The device will integrate speakers, a microphone and a

WiFi router and would be the company's first venture into AI-powered smart-home

gear. Google is expected to unveil a 'companion' device for Google Home which is

a WiFi router. It will link together wireless devices within the domestic

context.



4. A new OS: Andromeda



According to the rumour mill, Google may now step into the desktop OS space with

Andromeda, an intriguing combination of Chrome and Android OS. The Huawei-made

tablet and Pixel 3 laptop may just be the first candidates to run Andromeda OS.



5. A new Google Chromecast



Rumoured to be called Chromecast Plus or the Chromecast Ultra, Google's upgraded

streaming media player should now have 4K support. The device is expected to be

priced higher than the original Chromecast, at $69 (approximately Rs 4,600)



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





