                              215 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

                              Worcester TG Edition



Search giant to phone in



BYLINE: The Associated Press



SECTION: NATIONWORLD; 13



LENGTH: 710 words







HIGHLIGHT: Google launched an aggressive challenge to consumer electronics

giants like Apple and Samsung on Tuesday, introducing a new line of smartphones

called Pixel and other gadgets designed to showcase a digital helper the company

calls "Google Assistant."





SAN FRANCISCO -- Google launched an aggressive challenge to consumer electronics

giants like Apple and Samsung on Tuesday, introducing a new line of smartphones

called Pixel and other gadgets designed to showcase a digital helper the company

calls "Google Assistant."



The new devices represent a big push by Google to make and sell its own

hardware, instead of largely just supplying software for other manufacturers. At

a starting price of roughly $650, the new Pixel phones are aimed at the same

markets as Apple's iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy flagship phones.



Gadgets on parade



During a press event Tuesday, Google executives showed off a series of gadgets

in rapid succession. Its new Home device is a sleek internet-connected speaker

that's designed to respond to voice commands, like Amazon's popular Echo. A new

virtual reality headset called Daydream View will work with the new Pixel phones

and other devices based on Google's Android software. The company also unveiled

a new Wi-Fi router and an update to the company's Chromecast streaming media

device.



In announcing the new Pixel phones, Google executives touted features like a

powerful camera, a long-lasting battery -- and a dedicated headphone jack, which

Apple recently eliminated from its latest iPhones. The Pixel phones will be sold

in two screen sizes -- 5 inches and 5.5 inches -- and three colors: black,

silver and blue.



But they're clearly hoping the new Pixel phones and other devices will be

distinguished by their use of Google's software. A central element of all the

new gadgets is the Google Assistant, which uses artificial intelligence to

deliver what CEO Sundar Pichai described as "a personal Google for each and

every user."



Hardware and software, back together again



The products announced Tuesday also underscore Google's hope that its products

and services will work better if the company designs its own hardware and

software together -- something Apple has long done.



That's also a model that Microsoft has begun following, with its own brand of

Surface tablets and laptop computers that use Microsoft's Windows software. But

analysts warned that Google runs the risk of alienating partners like Samsung,

LG and other companies that sell competing Android gadgets.



Android now powers the majority of smartphones sold around the world.



But Samsung, the biggest maker of Android phones, has increasingly been adding

more of its own software -- even its own Samsung Pay mobile wallet -- on the

phones it sells. Another big rival, Apple, has built its own services, such as

online maps and its own Siri personal assistant, to replace Google's apps on the

iPhone.



Google, which is best known for its widely used internet search engine, makes

most of its money from online software and digital ads. But it's putting more

emphasis on hardware as it competes for consumers' attention with other leading

tech firms.



In recent years, Google has sold smartphones and tablets under the Nexus brand,

which it launched in 2010 as a way to show off the best features of its Android

software. But it put relatively little effort into promoting those devices,

which have mostly ended up in the hands of Google purists.



The new Pixel phones will be sold online, through retail chains like Best Buy

and various wireless carriers around the world, although the company said it has

an exclusive deal with Verizon in the United States.



Home, but not alone



Like the Pixel phones, the Home device uses the digital Google Assistant

service, a voice-activated personal butler that can search the internet, play

music or perform other useful tasks. Google Assistant is the company's answer to

similar concierge services from rivals, including Siri, Amazon's Alexa and

Microsoft's Cortana.



Google said the Home device will sell for roughly $130 online and at electronics

retailers starting next month. Along with answering questions and playing music,

the device can be used to control streaming video through Google's Chromecast

device, at voice command.



Home-based systems like the Echo are taking on more importance as voice

technology has improved, said analyst Julie Ask of Forrester Research. "You

can't assume somebody is going to go sit down at a computer or pick up a phone

and type in a question anymore," she said.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





