

Google has sent out invites to an October 4 event in San Francisco.

Google is gearing up for an exciting event, which is scheduled for October at
San Francisco. The company is expected to unveil new smartphones, a smart-home
device along with a new virtual reality platform. Though we cannot be sure of
what the company will show off, here's a breakdown of what we can expect from
Google.

So long, Nexus: Enter 'Pixel'

Google has left the Nexus brand behind, and will announce a new line up of
devices called, Pixel. Two new smartphones are expected to be announced at the
event - Pixel and Pixel XL. The phones are supposed to be built by HTC and
Huawei. The former will sport a 5-inch display, replacing the LG Nexus 5X while
the latter, sports a 5.5-inch display, which will replace the Huawei Nexus 6P,
released last year. Rumours suggest the Pixel smartphone line up to include
top-notch specifications such as 4GB of RAM, Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processors,
12MP cameras along with fast-charging batteries. Both devices will run Android
7.1 Nougat respectively.

Along with smartphones, Google could unveil a Huawei-built 7-inch Android
tablet. Serial tipster Evan Blass, stated that a Google tablet built by Huawei
with 4GB RAM is "on track for release before the end of the year."

Lastly, Google may unveil a new ultra-portable 'Pixel' laptop. This device could
be based on an Intel m3 or i5 Core processor with 32GB or 128GB of storage and
8GB or 16GB of RAM. It is also slated to have a fingerprint sensor, stereo
speakers, quad microphones, a backlit keyboard, and a glass trackpad
respectively.

Replacing Google Cardboard: Daydream VR

Google announced a VR platform in May this year, called Daydream. However, no
in-depth details were shared. As the platform has now stepped out of beta, and
is open to developers, we can expect a lot more information regarding Daydream
VR, which is intended to offer high-quality virtual reality experience. It will
replace Google Cardboard.

Smart-home gear: Google Home

Google Home, which would rival Amazon's Echo, Microsoft's Cortana and Apple's
HomeKit was announced at Google I/O this year. The device will be available with
integrated speakers, a microphone and a WiFi router. This would be the company's
first venture into AI-powered smart-home decor. Reports suggest the device is
priced at $129 (approximately Rs 8,600). In addition, Google is expected to
unveil a 'companion' device for Google Home which is a WiFi router. It would
retail for at $129 (approximately Rs 8,500) and will link together larger
wireless networks.

New OS, Andromeda

According to the rumour mill, Google will now step into the desktop OS space
with Andromeda, a powerhouse combination of Chrome and Android OS. It is named
after a stilted combination of Android and Chrome, with a da. The Huawei-made
tablet and Pixel 3 laptop may run Andromeda OS.

Next version: Google Chromecast

Rumoured to be called Chromecast Plus or the Chromecast Ultra, Google's new
digital-media player will include 4K support. It will also allow you to stream
Ultra HD content. The device will be much more expensive than the original
Chromecast, priced at $69 (approximately Rs 4,600)

