

Google Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones will be sold online and through a number
of multi-brand retail stores from Tuesday, as the search giant takes the plunge
into the most competitive phone market in the world.

Attacking the premium end of the market, the Pixel smartphone range will begin
from '57,000, but to attract consumers, the company will offer cash-backs and
equal monthly installment (EMI) plans from multiple banks from Tuesday.

It will go head-to-head with Apple's iPhone 7, which went on sale earlier this
month, besides Samsung's S7 and S7 Edge, which the South Korean major is pushing
after the Galaxy Note 7 debacle.

The first 'Made By Google' smartphone will be available on Flipkart and across
organised and multi-brand retail stores including Bajaj Electronics, Croma,
Ezone, Jumbo, Poorvika, Reliance Digital, Sangeetha and Vijay Sales, the company
said in a statement on Monday.

Google entered the mobile space with its Nexus series of

smartphones where it partnered with other manufacturers such as Samsung, Asus,
HTC, LG and Huawei for design and input.

But the company did not market the devices and did not attach its own branding.

Google Pixel, however, is fully conceptualised and produced by Google, and the
company is going all out to promote the device, including a 360 degree marketing
and branding campaign, a strategy that it had not adopted before.

The EMI plans start at '3,167 per month on credit cards issued by Axis Bank,
Citibank, HDFC Bank, HSBC, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, RBL, SBI,
Standard Chartered, UBI and Yes Bank.Bajaj Finserv is offering zero processing
fee.

The Pixel comes with a builtin smart Google Assistant, with an 'aerospace-grade'
aluminium body and Corning Gorilla Glass 4 on the front display and back glass,
which also features a fingerprint sensor.

The phone includes a 12.3MP rear camera and an 8MP front camera, capable of
low-light photography.

Packed in with the latest Android operating system, Android 7.1 Nougat, Pixel
phones will also get software and security updates as they are made available
from Google.

Pre-installed with Google Allo and Duo, the phone is available in 5-inch and
5.5-inch and in two colours -Quite Black and Very Silver -with memory of 32 GB
and 128 GB sizes.

