                              223 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                             July 22, 2014 Tuesday



USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc titled as "Structure

Descriptors for Image Processing"



LENGTH: 231  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.

20140198987, published on July 17, 2014, by Google Inc, titled as "Structure

Descriptors for Image Processing" for the registration of patent.



Inventors:   Hasinoff; Samuel William; (Mountain View, CA) ; Zhou; Changyin;

(Mountain View, CA)

Assignee:   Google Inc.

Mountain View

CA





According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A

structure descriptor for an m.times.n pixel block of an image may be determined.

The m.times.n pixel block may contain a primary pixel having a primary pixel

value and a plurality of secondary pixels having respective secondary pixel

values. The structure descriptor may include a plurality of structure indicators

each associated with a respective secondary pixel. The respective structure

indicators may be based on the primary pixel value and the respective secondary

pixel value of the associated secondary pixel. Based on the structure

descriptor, a structure value for the m.times.n pixel block may be determined.

Based on the structure value, image processing may be applied to the m.times.n

pixel block."



The Patent was filed on January 17, 2013 under application No. 20140198987



For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query

regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





