                              228 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday



Magid on Tech: Google Pixel is amazing piece of vision, but not quite practical

yet



BYLINE: By Larry Magid Daily News columnist



SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local



LENGTH: 487 words





Disclosure: I'm co-director ofConnectSafely.org , a nonprofit Internet safety

organization that receives financial support from Google.



As Web browsing devices go, the Google Pixel is amazing. Its 239-pixel-per-inch,

12.85-inch touchscreen is awesome, and it's marvelous that you can use your

fingers to click on links, pinch to zoom or swipe just like any of the new

Windows 8 touchscreen laptops.



Once you get your hands on the Pixel, you'll probably agree that it's a class

act. Scrolling is smooth, the glass touchpad and backlit keyboard are terrific.

And when you're online, you can browse the Web and Web-based apps with ease. The

pinch-to-zoom feature doesn't work by default but is one of several

"experimental" features that you can enable by entering "chrome: flags" in the

address bar.



I also like that users get a terabyte of cloud storage on Google drive for three

years for free, plus 12 free Gogo Inflight passes. If you truly were in the

market for that much storage or in-flight coupons, you could argue that Pixel is

cheaper than free. Three years of that much storage alone is worth $1,800, and a

dozen Gogo passes are worth another $170.



But most people aren't in the market for that much cloud storage, so for mere

mortals the Pixel's price tag is more than a bit steep for what you get. The 32

GB Wi-Fi-only model costs $1,299, while the LTE version is $1,449.



It may be "worth" that much money if you consider that it's incredibly well

made, but for less, you can get a very nice full-fledged laptop with Mac OS or

Windows 8 that does everything the Pixel can do, as well as run Windows or Mac

applications. Apple's MacBook Air, for example, starts at $999. Plenty of very

nice touchscreen Windows 8 notebooks go for less than the Pixel -- including the

one I use, the Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13, which starts at $999.



All of these devices can run Google Chrome along with hundreds of thousands of

other programs. All have at least 64 gigabytes of storage and all are at least

as light than the Pixel.



At its current price, the Pixel represents a vision, not a practical product.

It's a way for well-heeled consumers to get a glimpse into what a high-end,

well-crafted Chrome notebook might feel like. At home -- where I have a

high-speed Wi-Fi network -- it's a great way to surf the Web, access my Gmail

and edit my Google docs. But once I leave the house, I'm not guaranteed Internet

access -- and even when I have it, there are times when I want to use Mac OS or

Windows programs.



Still, there are highly practical devices for anyone who wants a Chrome laptop.

At $249, Samsung's Chromebook is a bargain. At that price, you can forgive the

fact that it doesn't run Mac or Windows applications. Admittedly, the Pixel is

faster, but at 2.4 pounds, the Chromebook is lighter (the Pixel is 3.3 pounds)

and much cheaper.



Larry Magid's column appears Wednesdays in The Daily News. Email him

atlarry@larrymagid.com .



LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





