

Thursday, February 18, 2016: To cope up with the ever changing USB Connectors
technology, Cadyce has already launched USB-C (TM)  Accessories with the latest
USB standard. USB-C (TM)  is the cable of the future and will be used widely to
simplify your life. By using a single type of USB-C connector, wide range of
devices can be connected such as VGA, Ethernet, HDMI and older versions of USB.

USB Type-C will soon be the new standard connector for both charging and data
transfer. Last year, Type-C appeared as a port on a handful of systems,
including the Apple MacBook and Google's new Chromebook Pixel. But, in 2016, we
should see a lot of phones and laptops that use the port. With Type-C onboard,
you can copy files at USB 3.1 speeds, deliver enough power to charge a laptop,
smart phone or tablets.

Now, a global networking solution brand Cadyce announces the addition of new
products in USB-C (TM)  category i.e. Multiport Adapters. These adapters help
user to get friendlier with their C Type devices. The adapters like CA-C3HE
(USB-C (TM) to 3 Port USB 3.0 Hub with Gigabit Ethernet Adapter), CA-CHM (USB-C
(TM)  HDMI Multi-Port Adapter) & CA-CVM (USB-C (TM)  VGA Multi-Port Adapter)
hits the global market soon. With this addition we are expecting to get more
market share as well as consumers.

USB-C (TM) enables integration of every consumer electronic device with the Type
C connectors. USB-C (TM)  will end your frustration. The reversible design means
you'll be able to connect a Type-C cable without worrying about the plug's
orientation or the cable's direction.

Salient Features:-

Smaller Size - The new port is half the width and one-third the height of a
standard USB connector and only slightly larger than Apple's Lightning or the
micro-USB connectors.

Reversible - Unlike older USB cable, it doesn't matter which side is up, with a
Type-C plug, you can insert it either way.

Fast Data Transfer - Type-C ports can transfer data using the blazing speeds of
the latest version of the USB protocol - up to 10 gigabits per second.

Powerful - The new connector can provide up to 100 watts of power, enough to
power a laptop.

Incredible Flexibility - Via adapters, users will be able to connect older
devices to Type-C ports, even devices that use non-USB technologies, like
Display Port, VGA and Ethernet.

Launching Soon

1) CA-C3HE (USB-C (TM)  to 3 Port USB 3.0 Hub with Gigabit Ethernet Adapter) -
CA-C3HE offers extra potential to your USB-C (TM)  enabled device by adding USB
3.0 ports and one Gigabit Ethernet port.

Features:

Compatible with Mac Book and Google new Chrome book Pixel,

Total output of the USB 3.0 ports - 900mA

USB 3.0 super speed (5Gbps) transmission

Downward compatible USB2.0

Simultaneous charging and data transfer

Support 10/100 /1000Mbps bandwidth

Support twisted pair crossover detection and auto-correction

2) CA-CHM (USB-C (TM)  HDMI Multi-Port Adapter) - CA-CHM extends or mirrors your
MacBook or Google Chromebook Pixel's display and provides additional USB 3.0 and
USB-C (TM)  charging port.

Features:

Charge your MacBook / Google new Chromebook Pixel , Google Nexus and many more

Extend / Mirror the display of your MacBook or Google new Chromebook Pixel

Connect standard USB devices to MacBook / Google new Chromebook Pixel

Data transfer speed of 5Gbps

HDMI resolution up to 1080P@60Hz

3) CA-CVM (USB-C (TM) VGA Multi-Port Adapter) - CA-CVM extends or mirrors your
MacBook or Google Chromebook Pixel's display and provides additional USB 3.0 and
USB-C (TM)  charging port.

Features:

Charge your MacBook / Google new Chromebook Pixel, Google Nexus and many more

Extend / Mirror the display of your MacBook or Google new Chromebook Pixel

Connect standard USB devices to MacBook / Google new Chromebook Pixel

Data transfer speed of 5Gbps

VGA resolution up to 1080P@60Hz

Cadyce products are widely accepted in the global market due to their excellent
quality, pre and post sales support, warranty and most important being their
belief in maintaining and developing amiable relationships with their partners.
Today, the innovative range of Cadyce products is a result of rigorous research,
design, innovation, testing and state of the art manufacturing.

