                              238 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Liverpool Echo



                            October 31, 2016 Monday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Has Google's search for the perfect phone yielded results?;

Company's new Pixel takes aim squarely at the iPhone as it tries to become a

major player in mobile market



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY;NEWS; Pg. 4



LENGTH: 514 words





IT'S THAT time of year - another week, another hi-tech product launch. This week

it was Google's turn to astound us with some magic, and it pulled it off in a

big way.



The company revealed its own branded smartphone, and announced a host of other

projects.Google has, in the past, sold Nexus phones which have been designed,

built, and branded as being made by other manufacturers.



And while the new phones, called Pixel, are actually made by HTC, they have been

designed by Google engineers, and you won't see HTC's name on them.



It looks very much like the iPhone, and sports similar specs - it comes in two

sizes (a 5in screen or a 5.5in screen), has a 12.3 megapixel camera with an

f/2.0 aperture capable of capturing 4K video, and ties in very tightly with

Google's own services.



Running the very latest version of Android, the phone is also promised two years

of support for future versions of the world's most popular operating system.



The big selling point, though, is the inclusion of the Google Assistant, which

we've already seen a glimpse of in Google's Allo chat app.



The Assistant is kind of like Siri on the iPhone, but has access to a ton of

info Google has gathered over the years.



And the Assistant is also capable of conversation - it remembers what you have

asked it, and answers further questions in that context. It's very clever.



The Pixel comes in two colours (sliver and black), and two storage sizes (32GB

or 128GB), and will cost from £599 for the 5in version, and £719 for the 5.5in

version. Add £100 for the extra storage. Those are not Google-like prices - they

are broadly comparable with iPhone, which is a statement of intent. You can

order now for delivery in "two to three weeks".



Google Home on the HORIZON GOOGLE also firmed up details of its Home device -

essentially an internet-connected speaker that offers access to the Google

Assistant via voice commands.



Home looks very much like a competent alternative to the Amazon Echo, which was

released in the UK last week.



Given, though, that Google hasn't said when, or even if, Home will be available

here, we can hardly call it competition for the Echo just yet.



Daydream VR Headset ONE thing that will be available here is the Daydream VR

headset, which is like a more luxurious version of Google's Cardboard

initiative.



The Daydream headset houses the Pixel phone to allow you to repurpose its

hardware and screen as a VR device, and it comes with a hand-held controller.



Priced at £69, the Daydream VR headset will be available next month - you can

sign up to be notified exactly when at the Google Store website.



CHROMECAST ULTRA ARRIVES FINALLY, Google has also updated its Chromecast device

- that's the dongle that you can plug into your TV to turn it into an internet

connected smart TV, and allows you to stream video from your Android devices to

your big screen.



The biggest update is the addition of support for 4K video, which makes sense

given the Pixel phone's video capabilities.



The Chromecast Ultra will also cost £69, and be available next month. Sign up to

the waiting list at the Google Store.



LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Members of the media examine Google's Pixel phone during the launch

event in San FranciscoGoogle HomeDaydream VR HeadsetGoogle's new Pixel phone



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: LPE





               Copyright 2016 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





