

Google is set to reveal two new phones next week that will offer an alternative
to Apple's popular iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

The search giant has been producing its own Android-based phones for the last
few years under the "Nexus" brand - but that looks set to change.

According to the latest rumours, Google is planning to ditch the Nexus brand in
favour of the Pixel moniker. In the past, the company has used the Pixel name on
its tablet and laptop products.

Google Duo video-calling app for Android and iOS takes aim at FaceTime and Skype

Early rumours suggest the Pixel and Pixel XL phones could be revealed in early
October.

Google Pixel launch LIVE: Pixel smartphones, Google Home speaker and Daydream VR
expected at October 4 event

What time is Google's October 4 event 2016? Google Home release date, 4K
Chromecast and Pixel smartphones rumoured to be announced

Although they won't be manufactured directly by Google the company will oversee
the entire design process to help it integrate with Android's latest software as
closely as possible.

iPhone 6s smashes Samsung's new Galaxy Note 7 in latest app speed test

Now the iPhone 7 launch has been and gone, the internet rumour mill is churning
out plenty of information on Google's next gadget. Here's what we know about it
so far.

A day before Google is set to unveil its new phone, Carphone Warehouse appears
to have let the entire cat out of the bag.

The retailer accidentally posted finished pictures of the new smartphone along
with details of some of its key features.

The finished pictures show the phone from both sides as well as listing some of
its key features. The white gadget bears a striking resemblance to the iPhone 6
although it has the rear-mounted fingerprint scanner popular with other Android
handsets.

Both the smaller Pixel and the larger Pixel XL will make the jump to the USB-C
charging port and both will have 4GB of RAM and the same 12MP camera on the back
(8MP on the front). There will be a choice of either 32GB or 128GB of internal
storage.

According to the Carphone Warehouse listings, Google will be offering unlimited
amounts of photo storage through its Google Photos app. The latest version of
Android (Nougat) is preinstalled and with that comes Google's AI-powered
assistant Allo and the FaceTime-style app Duo.

It also revealed new Live Cases - basically covers for the phone that match with
live wallpapers you can install.

The unveiling for Google's new phones will happen on October 4th.

The video announcing the date (see above) is a simple one: A standard horizontal
search box slowly morphs inwards and upwards until it resembles the outline of a
typical smartphone. Finally the date October 4 appears alongside Google's logo.

The caption to the video, posted on YouTube, simply reads "Something new to love
on Oct 4."

iPhone 8: Release date, price, rumours and news about Apple's 2017 iPhone

As for the release date, things are a little murkier. Google will want to have
the phones in store as soon as possible to compete with Apple's iPhone 7.
Therefore it's reasonable to expect the new Pixel phones to land towards the end
of October. If not, expect to see them around the first week of November.

Like the unveiling date, the name of the two new phones seem certain to be the
Pixel and the Pixel XL. The Pixel will have 5-inch display, and the Pixel XL
will come in at 5.5 inches.

"Speaking to two independent sources, we now strongly believe that Google's
formerly-maybe-Nexus-phones, Marlin and Sailfish, will be marketed as the Pixel
and the Pixel XL," wrote David Ruddock from Android Police .

Google might be ditching 'Nexus' branding in favour of 'Pixel' name for new
smartphones

While it's not yet confirmed who will be making the handsets, Android Police
have suggested that HTC will behind both of the handsets, while other rumours
have suggested it will be split between HTC and LG.

The only things to distinguish the Pixel from the Pixel XL will be screen and
battery size, with both models boasting quad-core Qualcomm processors, 4GB of
RAM, and 12-megapixel cameras.

Moto G4 2016 review - the best budget smartphone ever made

By ditching the Nexus name, Google is no doubt trying to put more of its own
stamp onto its smartphones.

There have even been suggestions that Google follow Apple's lead and take
manufacturing completely in-house - so that it has complete control over the
over the design and engineering of its devices, as well as the software.

So far it seems unlikely that Google will follow Apple's lead and ditch the
headphone jack on the bottom of its new phones.

In fact, leaked images supposedly showing the upcoming Pixel phones give us an
idea of what to expect.

What makes phone batteries explode? And what to do if YOU bought Samsung's
Galaxy Note 7

Both have a similar design to last year's well-received Nexus 6P albeit with a
thinner bezel that means a near edge-to-edge display.

The images appeared on German site WinFuture and are believed to have come from
a Hong Kong-based parts dealer.

Interestingly, some tech commentators are saying the phones will have a
dual-lens camera similar to the iPhone 7 Plus.

There are two schools of thought when it comes to the pricing for Google's next
fleet of phones.

Firstly, it may follow Apple's model of simply swapping the new phones in to the
existing prices. That would mean the Pixel would launch at £299 for the 16GB
version and £339 for the 32GB model.

iPhone 7 vs Galaxy S7: Which smartphone is best when Apple and Samsung go
toe-to-toe?

The Pixel XL meanwhile would take the place of the Nexus 6P at £449 for 16GB,
£499 for 64GB and £579 for 128GB.

The second school of thought is that Google will up the premium-ness of its
phones (as it did with the Pixel brand of Chromebook) and therefore raise
prices. We're not sure what kind of prices that means, but it probably won't be
cheap.

One thing we do know about the new Pixel phones is they will ship with Google's
latest version of Android. That means improved efficiency and (hopefully) better
battery life.

Android 7.0 Nougat: All the features of Google's new mobile operating system and
how to download it onto your smartphone

Our friends at Alphr have an idea of what kind of power the new blowers will be
packing.

"The Pixel XL will have a 5.5in 2,560 x 1,440 AMOLED display with a quad-core
Qualcomm processor, 4GB of RAM, USB Type-C, rear-facing fingerprint reader,
12-megapixel rear camera and a 8-megapixel front-facing one. It will also have a
beefy 3,450mAh battery and standard 32GB of storage, with the option to upgrade
to a 128GB if needed," the site claims.

"The Pixel has similar specs, but it's clearly the lower-end of the two
flagships. It will sport a 5in Full HD AMOLED display, quad-core 2.0GHz 64-bit
processor, 4GB of RAM, the same cameras as the XL and a smaller 2,770mAh
battery. As expected, it will also come with a rear-mounted fingerprint reader
and a USB Type-C port."

If you don't like the idea of an iPhone 7 there's a lot to suggest Google's
phones will offer a decent alternative. These phones will be developed to
Google's spec so should have the best integration with Android on the market.

What's more, they're going to be entirely free of the third-party bloatware
commonly loaded onto Android phones by other manufacturers.

We'll have to wait until October 4 to really find out what Google has planned.

