

Alphabet Inc's Google on Tuesday announced a new "Pixel" smartphone and a suite
of new consumer electronics products for the home, planting itself firmly in the
hardware business and challenging Apple Inc's iPhone at the high end of the $400
billion global smartphone market.

The string of announcements - including the $649 Pixel, a smart speaker for the
living room dubbed "Home", a virtual reality headset, and a new Wi-Fi router -
is the clearest sign yet that Google intends to compete head-to-head with Apple,
Amazon.com Inc and even manufacturers of phones using its own Android mobile
operating system.

Company executives, echoing Apple's longstanding philosophy, said they were
striving for tighter integration of hardware and software.

"The thinking is that if we can work on hardware and software together, we can
innovate much better," Google hardware chief Rick Osterloh said in an interview
with Reuters, citing a recent reorganization that united once-disparate hardware
teams.

Under the new structure, the company has begun to take a much more integrated
approach to things like supply chain management and design, added Mario Queiroz,
a vice-president of product management.

"The learnings from one product are benefiting another product," he said.

Unlike earlier Google phone efforts under the Nexus brand, the Pixel devices are
designed and developed by Google from the start, although Taiwan's HTC Corp will
serve as the contract manufacturer.

Taking another page from the Apple playbook, Google said it would work
exclusively with a single carrier in the United States, Verizon Communications
Inc, on the Pixel, emulating Apple's agreement to launch the original iPhone
with AT&T Inc. That deal gave Apple unprecedented control over the look of the
phone and how it worked.

Shares of Alphabet closed up 0.3 percent on Tuesday, while Verizon fell 1.2
percent.

The phone comes in two sizes, and its high-end camera is one of few
distinguishing features, analysts said. The phones come in black, blue and
silver and will be able to get up to a seven-hour charge in 15 minutes.
Pre-orders begin on Tuesday.

"Aside from the camera, the new Google Pixels are pretty undifferentiated
compared to Samsung and iPhone seventh-generation phones," industry analyst
Patrick Moorhead said.

While the new phones are clearly aimed at competing with the iPhone - Google
executives took several swipes at Apple in their on-stage remarks - analysts
said Android rivals like Samsung Electronics could be the biggest victim if the
Pixel takes off.

Google's strategy of licensing Android for free and profiting from embedded
services such as search and maps made Android the dominant mobile operating
system with some 89 percent of the global market, according to IDC.

But Apple still rules the high end of the market, and Google has long been
frustrated by the emergence of many variations of Android and the inconsistent
experience that has produced. Pushing its own hardware will likely complicate
its relationship with Android licensees, analysts said.

Rick Osterloh, SVP Hardware at Google, introduces the Pixel Phone by Google
during the presentation of new Google hardware in San Francisco on Tuesday. Beck
Diefenbach / Reuters

(China Daily USA10/05/2016 page2)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1496/92/147564502556.jpg

eca86bda350e195ebf2304.jpg

