                              247 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                             August 3, 2015 Monday



Lava goes the Android One way with Pixel V1;

The Indian smartphone manufacturer joins hands with Google to release thier

first Android One device.Krishna Bahirwani reveals what makes it unique



BYLINE: Krishna Bahirwani



LENGTH: 813  words





The Indian smartphone manufacturer joins hands with Google to release thier

first Android One device.Krishna Bahirwani reveals what makes it unique



Indian mobile phone manufacturer, Lava, has introduced the Pixel V1, an Android

One device at a price of Rs.11, 350 in collaboration with Google. The Pixel V1

has been developed by close coordination between product R&D teams at Lava &

Google. Aimed at those users who have value for money in mind, Lava has provided

the right hardware specifications and the promise of the Android One platform

making Pixel V1 a solid offering.



Android One offers a relaiable experience, running the latest and fastest

version of Android (Lollipop, 5.1) with claims of up to 2x better performance.

For the users that value longetivity, the Pixel V1 is great because the device

will be kept up-to-date with future versions of Android, so that you can always

be patched with the latest security upgrades. The smartphone has been certified

by Google and has been specifically tested to ensure it is fast and responsive.



The phone's target audience is users that prefer a large screen and hence a 5.5

inch wide HD screen in a slim design is what you get. Keeping that in mind, the

phone has a 73.6% screen to body ratio with a 76.3mm wide body, one of the best

in its segment. The IPS display renders great viewing angles. Being on the

Android One platform, the colour accuracy and brightness of the smartphone is up

to 300% better than the industry average. In particular, this Android One device

comes with a touch screen that can detect up to 100 touches every second.



The device packs 32 GB Internal memory but is only expandable up to 32 GB

through SD card, and is powered by a 2GB DDR3 RAM. A higher internal memory is

better than an extended memory since the read & write speeds from internal

memory are 10X faster than a typical external SD card, thereby leading to a lag

free experience. This is supplemented by the fact that a lot of applications

store data only in the internal memory unless the phone has been rooted, this is

particularily better for people that aren't very tech savy.



In terms of the camera, Lava has tried to use software optimization to minimize

hardware costs. The Pixel V1 takes 13MP BSI Rear Camera Images which are

bascially 8MP images that are software enhanced and 8MP BSI front camera Images

which are also software enhanced versions taken from a 5MP sensor. The device

also manages to take pictures with the 1.4 micron pixel size and F2.0 aperture

of the rear camera. 1.4 micron pixel size allows more light intake per pixel

helping in capturing brighter, clearer images with better detail. The F2.0

aperture gives depth of field, better focus and better images in low light. The

camera comes with a 5P Largan lens and Blue Glass Filter that cuts off infrared

light to help the sensor reproduce life-like color.



The battery is a 2650 mAh high voltage Li-Po battery which is enough in many

cases with the battery extension feature that gives users up to 90 minutes of

extra usage, when the battery is low. The Pixel V1 is powered by 1.3 GHz Quad

Core processor and houses dual SIM 3G+3G connectivity, which is the only hit it

takes in terms of longetivity as 4G is around the corner. The device also allows

the user to experience Google voice search & voice commands from the home screen

using the "OK Google" feature made famous by Google's Nexus range of devices



Commenting on the launch Mr. Navin Chawla, Vice President & Head Product, LAVA

International said, "We are extremely pleased about our association with Google

to launch Lava's first Android One device, the Pixel V1. This device sets the

foundation for a new category of smartphones by Lava that offer a great value

and experience to the consumer. Design being our forte, this product has been

developed with leading hardware components & specifications that integrate well

with Android One. Needless to say, with Google's stamp of authority on the

software coupled with the benefits of the Android One program this device will

always stay the latest."



Speaking on the occasion, Caesar Sengupta, VP, Product Management at Google

said, "Google is pleased to collaborate with Lava on Android One - a program

designed to help bring high quality, affordable Android devices to everyone.

Together we will work to empower the next billion people."



The smartphone is available in two colors, White-Silver and Gold across all

national retail stores and multi-brand outlets. It is also available online

exclusively through Flipkart.com.



Features



5.5 inch HD IPS Full Lamination Display with a sleek, slim fit design



32 GB Internal memory with 2GB RAM



Take great 13MP Rear Camera Images and 8MP Front Camera Images with BSI Sensors

having large 1.4micron pixel size and F2.0 aperture



Always the latest updates under Android One



LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





