                              24 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                              birminghammail.co.uk



                     October 20, 2016 Thursday 2:04 PM GMT



Google Pixel and Pixel XL: Everything you need to know about new Android

smartphones;

Search engine giant has unleashed its brand-new devices - but are they any good?



BYLINE: By James Rodger



SECTION: WHAT'S ON



LENGTH: 526 words





Google has released its brand-new Android smartphones - with hopes it can

provide an alternative to the popular Apple devices, the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7

Plus.



Released on October 20 across the globe, the search engine giant's phone has

been years in the making.



Tech fans have been eagerly-awaiting the device, which has seen Google ditch the

'Nexus' name in favour of 'Pixel'.



The moniker replaces the former on Google's premium tablets and laptops.



The new Pixel is, in Google's words, "the first phone built by Google inside and

out".



Pre-orders for the phone began on October 4 in the US, UK, Australia, Germany

and Canada.



The phone will ship to customers and be available in shops on October 20.



Pre-orders for the Pixel and Pixel XL are both open either through Google's own

online store (click here) or high street store Carphone Warehouse (click here).



Alternatively, you can go to the network EE, which has an exclusive right to the

Pixel phone in the UK.



Buying directly from Google or Carphone Warehouse means you can pick up the

phones SIM-free and unlocked for the one-off price of £599 for the 5-inch Pixel

and £719 for the 5.5-inch Pixel XL.



With EE, the Pixel is free on a £50.99 a month, 24 month 4GEE plan, which comes

with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 10GB of mobile data a month for

existing customers.



The Pixel XL is also available free on a £55.99 a month, 24 month plan, and

comes with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 10GB of mobile data a month

for existing customers.



Watch: Inside the new Apple store in Birmingham



4GEE Plan customers receive unlimited minutes, texts and 500MB of data a month

for use abroad in the EU.



Alternatively, for just £5 per month more, you can get Pixel and Pixel XL on

4GEE Max plans giving you access to the UK's fastest 4G speeds, and inclusive

access to the BT Sport App for the duration of the plan.



The device comes in white, bearing more than a passing resemblance to the iPhone

6, but the smaller Pixel and larger Pixel XL also have 4GB of RAM and the same

12MP camera on the back (8MP on the front).



Google has kept the 3.5mm headphone jack in place, unlike Apple which ditched it

with the launch of the iPhone 7.



Google launches Home speaker to take on Amazon Echo



Users can opt for a choice of either 32GB or 128GB of internal storage, and

Google is also offering Pixel owners free unlimited storage for photos and

videos through its Google Photos app.



Both Pixel phones come pre-installed with the latest version of Android

(Nougat), as well as Google's AI-powered assistant Allo and the FaceTime-style

app Duo.



Mirror Online have been one of the first to review the smartphone.



They write: "For Android purists, the Google Pixel is the best phone you can buy

- even if it costs the same as Apple's high priced iPhone 7.



"When it comes to design, the Pixel doesn't match the quality of Samsung's

Galaxy S7 and S7 edge - but the wealth of Google software and the support for

things like Google Assistant and Daydream VR help make up for that.



"The high price is tough to swallow but on the other hand the Pixel is a

worthwhile investment and undoubtedly one of the best smartphones 2016 has

produced."



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM





                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





