                              253 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                            February 19, 2016 Friday

                                 First Edition



The laptop on leave;

DIGITAL LIFE - TABLET



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: LIFE & LEISURE; Pg. 13



LENGTH: 889 words





They say that when men make plans, god laughs. If that's so, then the gods must

have buttered some popcorn, took a front-row seat and settled in for some

side-splitting entertainment when we drew up our plan for this week's review.



The plan seemed modest enough. The entire review process, from research and

benchmarking to writing up and publishing, was meant to be done on Google's

Pixel C, a powerful Android tablet which Google says "can give your laptop the

day off whenever you want".



What better test of that claim than to actually try to give our laptop the day

off? And what better laptop to pit the Pixel C against than our own Microsoft

SurfaceBook, the exact opposite number of the Pixel C? Where the Pixel C is an

Android tablet that can double as a notebook, made by the author of Android as

an exemplar of how Android tablets should be made, the SurfaceBook is a Windows

notebook that can double as a tablet, made by the author of Windows as an

exemplar of how Windows notebooks should be made.



And the parallel goes further than that, all the way to the conclusion our

review process arrived at. Where the Microsoft SurfaceBook is a brilliant

notebook that does not double very well as a tablet, the Pixel C is a brilliant

tablet that does not double very well as a notebook.



Can it give your laptop the day off? Well that depends on what your laptop's day

job is. But we thought it would certainly be able to give our SurfaceBook the

day off, and we made all our plans around that idea.



But what am I writing this review on? The SurfaceBook. It turns out that we've

been forced to give the Pixel C if not the whole day off, then at least the

afternoon off.



The day started well enough.



The Pixel C is one of the most appealing tablets ever made, in our top three

alongside the Apple iPad Air 2 and the Samsung Galaxy Tab S2. It can't be a

coincidence that all three of those tablets have a fairly square aspect ratio

compared to most other tablets (in the Pixel C's case it's an unusual 1:2

ratio), making them excellent for reading and for productivity apps and less

excellent for widescreen video.



Even better, the Pixel C has one of the most ingenious keyboard/cover attachment

mechanisms ever devised, based around a whopping great magnet that locks the

optional keyboard cover firmly but effortlessly into place.



Everything about the Pixel is high end. It runs the latest version of Android,

and, being a Google-made device, is likely to keep up with the latest version

for some time. Its performance is top notch, bettered only by the iPad Air 2 and

Galaxy Tab S2 in our tests.



And, when it comes to the claim that it can replace a laptop, the Pixel C does

have history on its side.



Take the workplace here at the Digital Life Labs as an example. As recently as

two months ago there would have been no way we could contemplate giving our

Windows laptop the day off with an Android tablet. Too many crucial application

were Windows only.



But now, our Windows-only VPN has been replaced by a browser-based portal that

uses an Andoid-base two-factor authentication app for security. Our email and

chat systems are all Google products where once they were Microsoft products.

Our Windows-only publishing app is now a web app that runs in Chrome. Could

there be a better time to switch to Android? Well, yes. History might be on the

side of the Pixel C, but it hasn't quite arrived yet.



Using the Chrome browser on the Pixel C instead of Chrome on Windows, MacOS or

Linux, we have noticed a few little differences when it comes to productivity.

Google Image search won't let you filter by image size on an Android tablet the

way you can in Windows, Chrome extensions don't work on the Android version of

Chrome, yet the extensions we happen to use the most, chiefly Xmarks, LastPass

and the Evernote web clipper, all now have Android apps that interact well

enough with Chrome. It's not quite as good as built-in extensions, but almost.



Where we came completely unstuck, though, was right at the end of the review

process, trying to do exactly what I am doing now: typing up the review into the

publishing system. The system, written by Adobe, works in Chrome meaning it

ought to work perfectly on the Pixel C, but when I went to give my laptop the

afternoon off just now, I got this error on the Pixel C:



Error 404: Please do not use a mobile device.



So much for that.



And so my laptop is back in service, and I must say that I'm relieved. Even if I

had been able to finish the day on the Pixel C as Google promised, I would still

have been tempted to use the SurfaceBook. The keyboard on the SurfaceBook has a

vastly better typing action, and moreover it doesn't suffer from the bizarre

choice that Google made with the Pixel C's keyboard, which has the "enter" key

where the "delete" key normally is.



It's hard to think of many key substitutions that could have a more disastrous

effect than replacing what amounts to the "don't send" button with the "send"

button. Whoever made that decision probably thought better of it, went to hit

delete and ... oh bugger!L&L



Twitter: @DLLabs



Google Pixel C



Likes



Stylish, well-built Android tablet with nice screen dimensions



Novel keyboard attachment mechanism



Uses USB-C



Dislikes



Hard to tell keyboard battery level



Keyboard layout can lead to slip-ups



Price



$699 for 32GB version



$199 for the keyboard



LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





