                              254 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                               The Saudi Gazette



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Pixel phones and smart machines: Google announcements



LENGTH: 797  words





San Francisco - US internet giant Google on Tuesday challenged heavyweight

rivals including Apple and Amazon with an array of new gadgets aimed at digital

lifestyles. Coming products to watch for:



Pixel is the first smartphone designed by Google, with the Silicon Valley

powerhouse dictating the hardware, software and services the way Apple does with

its iPhones.



The Google-branded smartphone takes aim at flagship models by Apple, Samsung and

others in the fiercely competitive market.



Pixel, which comes in five and 5.5-inch (12.7 and 14-centimeter) screen sizes,

boasts a fingerprint reader, a camera billed as the best in any smartphone,

unlimited online storage for photos and videos, and quick charging combined with

long battery life.



Pixel is powered by the latest version of the Android mobile operating system,

Nougat, and Google promised to keep the software automatically updated.



Pixel also features Virtual Assistant artificial intelligence to enable users to

manage tasks and get information in natural conversation format.



Pixel's starting price of $649 in the United States is the same as that of

Apple's newest iPhone.



Preorders for Pixel began Tuesday in Australia, Britain, Canada, Germany and the

United States. Pixel will be available for order in India on October 13.



Google Home is a flower vase-sized speaker infused with machine smarts and voice

controls to act as a cyber concierge for getting information and managing tasks

about the house or flat.



Home listens for commands or queries even while playing music, and can control

other smart devices in range. Google Home will be available in shops in

November, but could be pre-ordered beginning Tuesday.



The device's price in the United States is $129. That's $50 less than Amazon

Echo, a rival that has been popular with consumers here since it was launched by

the online retail titan.



Google Assistant is an improved version of virtual helper software the internet

company previously called Google Now.



It competes with Apple's Siri, Amazon's Alexa, and Microsoft's Cortana, tapping

into the vast trove of knowledge amassed by the world's leading online search

engine.



Google outlined plans to infuse a growing array of devices and services with

Assistant smarts, letting people get answers or manage matters in conversational

styles, as though speaking with a human aide.



Google laid out a vision of becoming a leading player in artificial

intelligence, with Assistant being infused into many devices and services

allowing opportunities to have them work together.



Google already built Assistant smarts into a new Allo smartphone messaging app

released last month, and put the software at the heart of Pixel and Google Home.



Daydream View virtual reality headgear came as an answer to Facebook-owned

Oculus, and a direct challenge to Samsung Gear VR.



Smartphones compatible with Google's Daydream software platform can be slipped

into play in View headgear to act as screens for virtual reality experiences.



View is made of cloth, a step up from the actual cardboard from which its

predecessor at Google was playfully constructed.



Purportedly inspired by casual clothing, View material makes it lighter and

potentially more comfortable than devices already on the market.



View comes with a controller and was billed as making virtual reality

"accessible" at a price of $79 in the United States, where it will arrive in

November. View will also be available in Australia, Britain, Canada and Germany.



In comparison, Samsung Gear VR headgear is priced at $100. Oculus Rift virtual

reality head gear has a $599 price tag and must be connected to high-performance

computers.



Chromecast Ultra is an improved version of medallion-sized Chromecast devices

that plug into TV monitors for viewing online streaming videos.



Google said it has sold more than 30 million Chromecast devices since they

debuted three years ago.



The new generation Chromecast promised more reliable viewing and image quality

ramped all the way up to ultra-high definition 4K video.



Chromecast Ultra was priced at $69 and will be available in November in the

United States and 15 other countries.



Google Wifi promises to make sure people can connect to the internet from

anywhere in a home. Disk-sized Wifi modules can be placed in various spots in

homes, acting as an internet-linked mesh of sorts so getting online is uniformly

easy.



Wifi software lets people easily manage congestion on home networks, or even

selectively cut off children's gadgets from the internet when they should be at

a meal or in bed.



Google will begin taking pre-orders for Wifi in November, advertising the price

as $129 for a single unit or $299 for a pack of three modules.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/32/147566433354.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/32/147566433354.jpg



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1526





                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





