

Google has revealed its new own-built smartphone, Pixel, which the tech giant
says has been built with artificial intelligence in mind, at a live press event
in San Francisco.

The Pixel has Google Assistant built into its software, the firm's artificial
intelligence program that is designed to understand context and help with tasks.

The new phone was unveiled at an event in San Francisco, and comes in both a 5in
and 5.5in size.

It has been billed by Google as housing the "best smartphone camera ever made"
and the first device to be built to work with Google's new Daydream virtual
reality platform.

Users will be able to access the Assistant AI program from any screen on the
device, and it will be able to understand context.

When demonstrated on stage, Pixel was able to find details on a restaurant that
was mentioned in a text message conversation - offering contact details, photos
and directions.

Google chief Sundar Pichai said the Pixel marked the beginning of a new era in
computing and smartphones.

"We're at a seminal moment in computing," he said.

"We've always had big shifts in computing in every 10 years or so. It began in
the 1980s with personal computers. In the 90s the web arrived and it was the
biggest platform shift ever.

"10 years later in the mid 2000s, we had the smartphone revolution. Now the
shift continues. We are evolving from a mobile first to AI first world."

Google also revealed the first virtual reality headset for its new Daydream VR
platform, Daydream View.

Unlike rival headsets - including Samsung's Gear VR - View is finished in
fabric, a conscious design decision, the tech giant said, aimed at replicating
the type of materials used in other wearable products.

The new headset is powered by placing the new Pixel smartphone into it, though
Google did also confirm that future Android phones would also come with Daydream
support.

It will enable users to watch YouTube videos and access Google Maps in virtual
reality, as well as play games.

The headset is also supported by a companion controller that can be used as a
remote as well as a way to write and draw in virtual reality.

The tech giant revealed that the View headset will go on sale in November.

More to follow...

