                              262 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                         The Mercury News (California)



                            October 31, 2016 Monday



Google says sorry, gives $50 store credit over Pixel phone delays: report



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 250 words





Google saysca shipment problem with thecnew Pixel phones meanscsome customers

will have to wait, a new report said.



But the Mountain View tech titan is giving those buyers something to look

forward to: theycll get $50 vouchers for the Google Play store, to be sent via

email csoon afterc the phone is delivered, according to TechCrunch.



The notices to buyers told them that their phones had been shipped, but would

arrive later than expected. cWecre so sorry,c the notices said, according to the

website, which said Google had confirmed it had sent the notices.



AcGoogle spokesperson told TechCrunch that pre-order demand exceeded the firmcs

expectations, but that the delays resulted from a now-resolved shipping glitch.



The phones in question were shipped last week and should arrive this week if

they havenct already, said Google, which wouldnct disclose how many customers

would receive credits.



The $50 vouchers will be good for items in the Play store,cwhich sells apps,

movies, books, TV shows, music, news subscriptions and devices.



But a purported shipping glitch isnct the only thing keeping some would-be Pixel

owners from getting their hands on the devices. On Oct. 31, all colors of the

larger Pixel XL were listed as out of stock in the Play store, as werecthe black

and blue versions of the 32GB Pixel.



c



Photo:cRick Osterloh, Google senior vice president of hardware, introduces the

new Google Pixel phone during a product event, Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2016, in San

Francisco. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg)



LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





