

GOOGLE has taken the battle for supremacy in the mobile phone market to Apple by
releasing its first direct competitor to the iPhone.

The Google Pixel, unveiled yesterday evening, is the first smartphone designed
by the company and that bears its name. Its launch came as Google made the
biggest foray into consumer electronics in its history and sought to shake off
its reputation as purely an internet software company.

Google has not traditionally attacked Apple head on, instead developing the
Android software that powers phones made by Samsung, HTC and others and
endorsing a range of Nexus handsets made by third parties. But while sales of
Android phones eclipse those of the iPhone, Apple, which uniquely designs both
the software and the hardware of its devices, has dominated the profitable high
end of the market.

At £599, or from £719 for a larger "XL" model, the Pixel is placed firmly in
Apple's premium segment and comes with extras such as Google's voice-controlled
artificial intelligence assistant, unlimited photo storage and an advanced
camera.

Unlike the previous series of Nexus phones, which were sold in limited
quantities and largely online, Google will also focus on distributing the Pixel
through mobile networks and retailers, selecting EE and Carphone Warehouse in
the UK.

"They are going towards an overall strategy where they want to make Google
relevant and beyond a search [engine]," said Roberta Cozza, a research director
at Gartner. "Android is doing perfectly well but it might be a way for them to
gain a little bit more control and identity, and make the Google brand a little
bit stronger than the Android brand, which has been pulled in too many
directions."

Ms Cozza added that while the Pixel phone will not necessarily outsell rivals,
it will serve as an example to other Android phone makers. The company has been
frustrated by partners tweaking the software to relegate Google's own services,
and the company's efforts to force manufacturers to adopt its services on
Android phones have drawn scrutiny from the European Commission, which has
accused the company of breaching competition law.

The phone's release comes as iPhone sales are falling for the first time, and
Samsung is embroiled in the fallout from an embarrassing recall of millions of
defective handsets.

Google unveiled a series of other new devices at a highly anticipated event in
San Francisco. It announced that the Google Home, its voice-controlled wireless
speaker, would be released later this month ahead of a UK launch next year. The
device follows the surprise success of Amazon's Echo speaker, which went on sale
in Britain last week and has left rivals scrambling to catch up.

The company also unveiled the Daydream View, a virtual reality headset.

