


HIGHLIGHT: This new mobile phone is 100% Google


AFTER the headphone jack-less launch of the iPhone 7 and the explosive
tendencies of the Samsung Note 7, people may be out looking for an alternative
to the big two phone makers.

Fortunately, now, Google has taken what it's learned during its Nexus program
and begun building both the software and hardware for a new series of phones
in-house.

Welcome to the Google Pixel, a label some would already be familiar with if
you'd used Google's Chromebooks.

Where Google's previous Nexus phones were strictly Google-only affairs on the
software side, representing the cleanest Android boot you could find, they were
all built by external partners like LG.

The Pixel phone, launched last week, is Google's first attempt at controlling
the entire construction process.

The Pixel comes in two sizes. One comes with a 5-inch screen, making it slightly
larger than the iPhone 7, while the other comes with a 5.5-inch screen the same
size as the larger iPhone but smaller than Samsung's Note 7.

Both use the same 2.5D Corning Gorilla Glass 4 for the front screen and the
glass on the back, meaning it's going to look and feel great all around, even if
you don't put a case on it. On the back is also Google's fingerprint sensor
which can be swiped to unlock your phone or access notifications.

The Pixel's camera is, according to benchmarking service, DxOMark, the best one
currently strapped to a mobile, beating out the Galaxy S7 Edge, HTC 10, and the
Sony Xperia X Performance.

The camera's an impressive 12.3MP unit with an f/2.0 aperture and chunky 1.55
micron pixels.

Given the fantastic performance we saw when reviewing the iPhone 7's new camera,
we're keen to see how this on-paper dominance might translate into real-world
performance if it does at all.

Being a Google phone, software is key. It ships with the latest version of
Android 7.1 Nougat and like the Nexus phones before it, will receive updates
directly when they're available, not so much when your carrier decides to let
them through. Unless you buy it on contract.

Also freshly installed are Google's new communications apps, Duo and Allo,
competition to iOS's facetime and iMessage suite. While Allo doesn't focus quite
as heavily on allowing enormous stickers to become core parts of its
functionality like our recent app reviews might indicate, it's a full-blooded
messager all the same.

What's more important is that Google's Assistant, the competitor to Siri and
Cortana, is connected to everything on this phone, giving it an edge to really
shine. The Pixel is available for pre-order from both JB Hi-Fi and Telstra here
in Australia, with prices starting at $1079 for the 32gb 5" to $1419 for the
128GB 5.5". Telstra prices are part of a contract so may vary.

Comes in Very Silver and Quite Black, but no Really Blue for us Aussies.

Google Pixel

Screen sizes: 5" and 5.5"

Glass: 2.5D Corning Gorilla Glass 4

Camera:12.3MP f/2.0

OS: Android 7.1 Nougat

Storage:32GB or 128GB

