                              268 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Google Pixel camera: Great, not revolutionary;

It wins in a photo finish vs. iPhone Plus 7, Galaxy



BYLINE: Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 781 words





Google says its new Pixel smartphone camera is the highest-rated smartphone

camera ever.



Ever?



Naturally, we set out to discover whether that's true.



First, some housekeeping. Google bases its advertising claim on an early review

on the mobile smartphone site DxOMark, the lens- and camera-testing research arm

of the DxoLabs camera company.



DxO, which says on its Facebook page that no money exchanged hands for the early

review heavily touted in Google's advertising, gives Pixel an all-time-high

ranking of 89. That compares to 88 for the Samsung Galaxy S7 and 86 for the

iPhone 7.



But the rankings have to be taken with a grain of salt, because DxoMark hasn't

reviewed the iPhone 7 Plus. The larger, pricier version of the latest iPhone has

the stronger two-lens package that the iPhone 7 doesn't have, and that's been

considered best-of-show since its September release.



The Pixel has been available in pre-sales and will be in Verizon and Best Buy

stores Thursday, starting at $649 for the 5-inch model, or $769 for the already

sold-out 5.5-inch XL.



USA TODAY took out the XL for a shootout, along with the iPhone 7 Plus and

Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge, attached to a tripod so we could get similar,

back-to-back results. We shot in great light (midday), so-so (dusk) and terrible

(pre-dawn). We shot video while walking and bike-riding to test the image

stabilization for video, and shot panoramas, slow-mo video, quasi-360 "photo

spheres" and "lens blur" portraits that use software to produce a "bokeh" effect

that puts the background out of focus.



The victor? Well, the results from all three are so stellar, they're a testament

to just how good small lenses and software have become. All three make the $200

point-and-shoot camera with limited zoom now irrelevant. They're that good.



That said, I would indeed give the nod to the Pixel by a small hair: 9.8 out of

10, to the iPhone 7 Plus' 9.77 and the Galaxy's 9.76. It's that close.



It comes down to software and usability.



So let's dive in:



The Pixel has a 28mm-equivalent rear wide-angle lens with a f2.0 lens opening.

That compares to 28mm f1.9 for the iPhone 7 Plus and 26mm f1.7 for Galaxy. The

camera has a 4x digital zoom (software-speak for cropping the picture instead of

truly zooming in) compared with the 10x digital zoom of the iPhone 7 Plus and 8x

for S7. (Like with other digital zooms, the Pixel digital-zoom quality is

lackluster.)



The camera icon is front and center on the Pixel home screen, and there's no

need to search for the Camera Roll, or Gallery app to find your stored photos,

as they automatically go to Google Photos, the popular Android and iPhone app

for archiving photos.



The app offers free unlimited storage for non-Pixel users at a lowered

resolution, but on the Pixel, they're stored at full resolution.



(If you take photos when the phone is offline, they still go to Google Photos

and get uploaded to the cloud when you're back online.)



HDR+. Like the iPhone and Galaxy, Pixel also offers HDR, the ability to take

three shots in a row, one at normal exposure, and the other two under and over,

and then combined for one perfect shot. The + stands for "low light" supremacy,

Google says.



Software tricks: They're found by swiping right to go to video mode, where

slow-motion (for video) panorama, photo sphere (quasi-360) and lens-blur

settings are found. Lens blur again puts the center in focus, and you achieve by

shooting vertically, and tilting the camera upward while shooting. This is hard

to pull off in a horizontal shot. Burst mode (like the iPhone) lets you hold

your finger down on the shutter and get multiple (I picked up to 50) shots at

one time, which is great for action. An added bonus: Google automatically

produces an animated GIF from the files, which you can share easily. See the

example below.



Selfies: A switch next to the shutter button lets you flip to the front-facing

camera for selfie shots.



Manual overrides: White-balance adjustments are at the top of the screen, along

with a tab to turn the flash on and off. On-screen you can adjust focus and

exposure pretty effectively.



The goods:



Despite the hype, the Pixel isn't a revolutionary camera that will change the

way you look at photography and make pros want to ditch their DSLR cameras. It

is another slight step forward in what can be done with a tiny point-and-shoot

lens and software. But most of you won't be shooting in the middle of the night.

For average, daytime snapshots, group photos at restaurants and homes and the

like, you can't go wrong with Pixel, iPhone 7 Plus or Galaxy.



The results are so close, but the victory has to go to Pixel by a hair for the

low-light software tricks  Google has brought to the party.



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





