                              269 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                             October 3, 2016 Monday



Google's big launches tomorrow: Here's what to expect, how to watch



LENGTH: 303  words



DATELINE: New Delhi





New Delhi, Oct. 3 -- Zee Media Bureau

 Google has already sent invites out for it's big event on October 4 in San

Francisco, America.

 The event is expected to showcase the latest hardware from the company which

may include Nougat-based new smartphones, a tablet, Google Home, and much more.





 Here's your roundup of what to expect from Google on October 4:

 Pixel And Pixel XL Smartphones

 These Nougat-based smartphones are expected to make a debut replacing the Nexus

brand. As per reports, the phones are made by HTC within the design and

manufacturing process stipulated by Google.

 As per the leaks so far, the Pixel handset is likely have a 5-inch screen and

the Pixel XL a 5.5-inch screen. It is seen has having a 12MP rear camera and an

8MP front-facing camera, dual stereo speakers, a fingerprint reader on the back.



 Andromeda OS

 Google is likely to unify its Chrome and Android operating systems by the name

Andromeda

 Pixel 3 Laptop

 Google is reportedly planning a modular laptop which is expected to run on

Andromeda

 Google Wi-Fi Router

 Google could launch a next-gen Wi-Fi[#x200b] router like Eero or Luma.

 Daydream VR

 Google is expected to formally announced a mobile virtual reality (VR) platform

called Daydream V, which is expected to have a strong lineup of video and

gaming, including IMAX, CNN, Netflix, Lionsgate, and games.

 Tablet

 A 7-inch Huawei tablet is al;so expected to make a debut

 Google Chromecast Ultra

 It's looking more and more like Google will launch a 4K Chromecast device

called Chromecast Ultra.

 How to watch Google's October 4 event?

 The event will take place on Tuesday, October 4 starting at 9am Pacific. We

expect more details soon on how to livestream the event, which presumably will

be on Google's YouTube page (www.youtube.com/google) or its page for the launch

event (madeby.google.com).



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





