                              271 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  Voice & Data



                                 July 27, 2015



Lava Pixel V1 to hit shelves today



BYLINE: VoicenData Bureau



LENGTH: 634  words





NEW DELHI: Domestic handset maker Lava has added Pixel V1 to its pixel series of

smartphones, which is its first Android One device in partnership with Google

and is priced at Rs 11, 350.



The Pixel V1 has been developed by close coordination between product R&D teams

at Lava and Google. The product features a marvel featuring a 5.5 inch wide HD

screen in a slim design and has a 73.6% screen to body ratio with a 76.3mm wide

body.



"Being on the Android One platform, the colour accuracy and brightness of the

smartphone is up to 300% better than the industry average. In particular, this

Android One device comes with an impressive touch screen that can detect up to

100 touches every second," a release said.



The smartphone will be available in two colors, White-Silver and Gold across all

national retail stores and multi-brand outlets. It will also be available online

exclusively through Flipkart.com from today. Additionally, the product will also

be placed at over 2,000 stores in all national and regional modern trade chains

and over 65,000 multi-brand outlets across the country.



* Key features of Pixel V1



* Google certified device



* 5.5 inch HD IPS display with Asahi Dragon-Trail glass



* Sleek slim fit design with a great screen to body ratio



* 32 GB internal memory



* Android One device that ensures latest upgrades



* Lag free experience



* 13 MP rear camera software and 8 MP front camera software



* Rear camera with 1.4 micron pixel size featuring F2.0 aperture, 5P largan lens

& blue glass filter



* Front camera with 1.4 micron pixel size featuring F2.4 aperture and 4P lens



* 1.3 GHz Quad Core Processor



* Powerful 2560 mAh battery, optimised to last 90 minutes longer on Android One



The device packs 32 GB Internal memory further expandable up to 32 GB through SD

card, and a 2GB DDR3 RAM. A higher internal memory is better than an extended

memory since the read & write speeds from internal memory are 10X faster than a

typical external SD card, thereby leading to a lag free experience. It will also

allow a user to install all the upgrades and applications without running out of

space.



In terms of the camera, the Pixel V1 takes 13MP BSI Rear Camera Images (Software

enhanced 8MP sensor) and 8MP BSI front camera Images (software enhanced 5MP

sensor). The camera comes with 5P LarganTM lens and Blue Glass Filter that cuts

off infrared light to help the sensor reproduce true life-like colors. Full HD

video recording and playback is also supported.



The latest version of Android (Lollipop, 5.1) has a battery extension feature

that gives users up to 90 minutes of extra usage. The Pixel V1 is powered by 1.3

GHz Quad Core processor and houses dual SIM 3G+3G connectivity. The smartphone

features '5 point touch'. It also allows the user to experience Google voice

search and voice commands from the home screen using the "OK Google" feature

made famous by Google's Nexus range of devices



Navin Chawla, Vice President and Head Product, Lava International, said, "We are

extremely pleased about our association with Google to launch Lava's first

Android One device, the Pixel V1. This device sets the foundation for a new

category of smartphones by Lava that offer a great value and experience to the

consumer. Design being our forte, this product has been developed with leading

hardware components & specifications that integrate well with Android One.

Needless to say, with Google's stamp of authority on the software coupled with

the benefits of the Android One program this device will always stay the

latest."



Speaking on the occasion, Caesar Sengupta, VP, Product Management at Google,

said, "Google is pleased to collaborate with Lava on Android One - a program

designed to help bring high quality, affordable Android devices to everyone.

Together we will work to empower the next billion people."



LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





            Copyright 2015 Voice & Data, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





