

Here's the roundup of the Top 10 Stories of the week...

Newly launched Google Pixel smartphones and iPhone 7 along with the explosive
Samsung Galaxy Note 7 seems to be the top trending stories every week. And, this
week too, the legacy continues. While we compared a list of interesting stuffs
you can actually avail for amount lesser than that of an iPhone 7 price tag,
including Thailand holiday, we even showcased two lines of code that can
actually bring the Google Assistant into your smartphone, without actually
shelling out thousands for a new Pixel smartphone.

Having said that, we couldn't stop ourselves from sharing the excitement of
Pixel smartphones being available up on Flipkart for pre-orders. This week, we
even came across Cyanogen OS's new ray of hope, a modular OS and a new CEO!

Along with this, will Xiaomi's costliest phone by priced around INR 40,000? That
is one more interesting thing we have come across this week, along with
Samsung's announcement of halting the production of the explosive Galaxy Note 7.

As usual, this week was a roller coaster ride for tech lovers, and if you had
missed out a part of it, here's a list of 10 best stories we have had on
TechTree this week.

Is This The Costliest Xiaomi Smartphone So Far?

Xiaomi is known for its budget segment smartphones that come with slew of
interesting features, along with other smart products ranging from accessories
to smart home appliances. However, what would the price of the costliest Xiaomi
smartphone ever be? Well, there are reports stating that the Chinese smartphone
company is rumoured to soon launch a new smartphone dubbed as Mi Note 2. While
we have already come across many rumours about the Mi Note 2, the latest
speculation is an interesting one.

Read The Full Story Here

Things You Can Do Instead Of Buying The iPhone 7

The latest duo of iPhones sport a sleek design, waterproof body, and they don't
explode like their biggest competitor. Little wonder then, the iPhone 7 and 7
Plus are among the best high-end handsets in the market. However, for most of us
Indians, the biggest issue with the latest iPhone is its pricing. Take for
instance the iPhone 7, which is relatively cheaper than the iPhone 7 Plus. Now
the 32 GB base model of the iPhone 7 costs a whopping Rs 60,000. I agree that
the latest iPhone is a performance beast with classy looks.

Google Pixel And Pixel XL Open For Pre-Orders On Flipkart

Google Pixel has bought it's latest flagship, the Pixel and Pixel XL
smart-phones in the country, and the counter for pre-orders have been opened.
The orders shall be taken from mid-might on Flipkart, and the deliveries for the
same ought to begin by the 26th October. Starting at Rs 57,000 for the Pixel,
there are the 32GB and 128GB options available for storage, and for the colors,
only the 'Very Silver' and 'Quiet Black' are open for sales. In fact, the Pixel
is available in Quiet Black color only, and the special edition 'Really Blue'
color is expected to come to India at a later date, but according to some
sources, may not come to India at all.

These Two Lines Of Code Can Bring Google Assistant To Your Phone

Google Assistant has become quite popular ever since it was unveiled recently
along with a Pixel smartphone by the search engine giant. But, laying hands on
the Pixel smartphone is still a dream for many, all thanks to its price tag.
However, you can definitely get Google Assistant to almost any smartphone that
runs on Nougat. If not Nougat, then you may have to install it. And, the second
important point is that you will need root access.

Huawei Launches The Honor 8 For Rs 30,000

Announced back in July, the Honor 8 has made its way to India. Much like the
Honor 6 Plus, this handset comes with a 12-megapixel dual camera setup. While
iPhone 7 Plus is yet to take full advantage of its two lenses, Honor uses the
camera assembly to enable users to play with depth of field even after clicking
the photograph. The phone sports a 5.2-inch Full HD IPS screen. The display
glass is slightly curved for seamless swiping experience. The handset is powered
by company's own Kirin 950 chip. The Honor 8 comes with 4 GB RAM and 32 GB
internal storage.

Modular OS From Cyanogen Released; Gets A New CEO

Cyanogen is undergoing big changes; former COO Lior Tal becomes the new CEO and
a member of the board, Kirk McMaster, the Co-Founder of Cyanogen, is now
Executive Chairman, Steve Kondik, Co-Founder and CTO will now be Chief Science
Officer. And to top it all, the launch of the Modular OS has taken place, which
will have Cyanogen develop the OS only in part, and provide several modules and
mods, allowing Android manufacturers customize the OS according to their ROM
specifications. This development comes as a part of the company's new Mod
initiative, apart from the leadership changes.

Samsung Kills The Galaxy Note 7 Over Safety Issues

There's no nice way to put it: Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 has been a disaster.
After desperately trying to do the damage control, the Korean smartphone giant
has finally pulled the plug on its latest flagship handset that was supposed to
compete with the iPhone 7 during the Holiday season. After releasing to glowing
reviews, the Note 7 started making headlines for all the wrong reasons. A record
number of users reported that the handset sets itself on fire. After initial
investigation, Samsung blamed it on the faulty batteries and initiated a
replacement program with "safe" batteries.

Here's Why Google Pixel Does Not Need OIS Feature On Its Camera

With the competition in higher end of smartphone market heating up with the
introduction of the Google Pixel handsets earlier this month, it is time that
the nitty-gritties of the phone be scrutinized, even by the fanbase of Google
and Android. This time, the issue is the absence of OIS (Optical Image
Stabilization) a staple feature in most smartphones these days, including some
lower cost models, including some mid-range handsets. Everyone is already
wondering, what could be the reason behind it, and what trick Google has up its
sleeve, since it claims that it takes the best pictures in low-light conditions,
and 4K definition.

Meizu M4 Photos Surface On TENAA

Chinese smartphone company seems to be all set to soon launch a new smartphone
which is reportedly being called as the M4. While there is no official
announcement on the availability of the new device, it has been reported by
GizmoChina via a Weibo user on TENAA. The listing showcases two photos of the
Meizu M4, thereby giving us a clear picture of what we may expect from the
device, that is speculated to be launched in November, this year.

ZTE May Launch New Variant Of Nubia Z11 Mini On Oct 17

Chinese smartphone maker ZTE has recently announced an event to be held on Oct
17 in China, where, a new smartphone is expected to be launched, according to a
number of reports. The rumours in-fact hint towards the launch of a new variant
of the Z11 Mini. Speaking about the new device, reports also state that the
company is expected to bring in a couple of new features in the camera
department, where users may get a dual-rear camera setup. However, as we have
said earlier, there is no official announcement that can emphasize these
reports.

