                              27 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:10 PM GMT



How much does the Google Pixel and Pixel XL cost? How to get hold of the new

phones in UK;

Interested in picking up one of Google's anticipated new smartphones? This is

how much they are likely to cost you when they go on sale in the UK tomorrow



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 387 words





Google has two brand spanking new phones to choose from - the Pixel and the

Pixel XL. If you're sick of the idea of another iPhone, then these are a worthy

alternative.



There are three different places you can get the new Google Pixel phone: From

the company itself, high street chain Carphone Warehouse and through the EE

network.



Buying directly from Google or Carphone Warehouse means you can pick up the

phones SIM free and unlocked for the one-off price of £599 for the 5-inch

version and £719 for the 5.5-inch model.



Google Pixel and Pixel XL: UK release date, price, specs and features of

Google's new Android smartphones



That's if you decide to go with 32GB of storage. If you opt for 128GB you're

looking at £699 for the Pixel and £819 for the Pixel XL.



Google Pixel XL vs iPhone 7 Plus - which smartphone will win when Google takes

on Apple?



Those prices put them in exactly the same kind of territory as Apple's iPhone

models.



If you'd rather buy it through a contract then you're either going to have to be

an EE customer or be willing to switch to the carrier. The phones themselves

will be available from October 20th whilst the Daydream View VR headset that

Google also announced will be available from early November.



Google announces Daydream VR headset - and it will be available in early

November



With EE, the Pixel is free on a £50.99 a month, 24 month 4GEE plan, which comes

with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 10GB of mobile data a month for

existing customers.



The Pixel XL is also available free on a £55.99 a month, 24 month plan, and

comes with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 10GB of mobile data a month

for existing customers.



Google Pixel XL vs iPhone 7 Plus - which smartphone will win when Google takes

on Apple?



4GEE Plan customers receive unlimited minutes, texts and 500MB of data a month

for use abroad in the EU. Alternatively, for just £5 per month more, you can get

Pixel and Pixel XL on 4GEE Max plans giving you access to the UK's fastest 4G

speeds, and inclusive access to the BT Sport App for the duration of the plan.



Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer day before official

announcement



Just as an extra sweetener, those who pre-order before October 20th will receive

a £50 Google Play voucher they can use to purchase content from the Google Play

store.



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





