                              280 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday



US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on August 26 titled as "Imaging

device with a plurality of depths of field"



LENGTH: 233  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,817,167, on

August 26, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Imaging device with a

plurality of depths of field"



Inventors: Miao; Xiaoyu (Sunnyvale, CA)

Assignee: Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "An

imaging device includes an image sensor that includes a first group of pixels

and a second group of pixels disposed on a semiconductor die. The first group of

pixels are arranged to capture a first image and the second group of pixels are

arranged to capture a second image. The imaging device also includes a first

lens configured to focus image light from a first focus distance onto the first

group of pixels. The imaging device further includes a second lens configured to

focus the image light from a second focus distance onto the second group of

pixels and not the first group of pixels. The first lens is positioned to focus

the image light from the first focus distance onto the first group of pixels and

not the second group of pixels. The first focus distance is different than the

second focus distance."



The patent was filed on. July 13, 2012 Application no. 13/548,717



For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query

regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





