

Google has tied up with HTC to offer aftersales service of its Pixel smartphone
in 30 cities in the country and will sell the device through more than 1,000
retail outlets as it looks to take on Apple's iPhone 7 this festive season.

Google Pixel may prove the biggest challenge to the latest iPhone in the world's
fastest growing yet most competitive smartphone market this season as top
handset maker Samsung won't sell the Galaxy Note 7, having stopped production
and global sales due to reports of some replacement devices catching fire, and
the internet giant looks set for its most aggressive play in India yet.

\x93We have partnered with HTC India for after sales service in 56 walk-in
service centres in over 30 cities,\x93 a Google spoke

sperson said. \x93Redington India is our national distributor for all channels
in India.\x93

A toll free customer care number will handle customer queries, the spokesperson
said.

All Pixel phones will be made

by HTC and will be imported into India, although HTC gets its own smartphones
assembled in Noida facility of contract manufacturer Optiemus-Wistron.

While Google will sell the pho

nes on its own, it will piggyback on HTC's retail network as well. Pixel will be
sold through seven large format store chains including Vijay Sales, Croma,
Reliance Digital, Jumbo, Spice Mobility, Poorvika and Sangeetha Mobiles across
the country.

Online pre-bookings and sa

les will be done through Flipkart. Google introduced the 5inch Pixel and
5.5-inch Pixel XL smartphones earlier this month, with pre-orders in India
slated to begin on October 13 and deliveries planned for the month end.

The company, which has traditionally let hardware companies LG and Huawei take
the forefront for selling and marketing its previous Nexus range of phones
alongside branding on the device, has changed its strategy significantly.

\x93Pixel is surely a shift from its traditional strategy only with the role
reversals between Google and its partner,\x93 said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst
at Counterpoint Research.

One of the reasons Google ventured into hardware is that it wants to position
its AI (artificial intelligence) as the next big differentiator in smartphone
space, which might get lost if it lets other handset makers

market the same at least for the initial product, Pathak said.

Analysts point out that sales in the premium smartphone segment are dependent on
shelf space a product occupies across different points of sale as consumers want
to touch and feel the product before purchasing an expensive phone. That is
another reason why Google has taken the lead in promoting the phone over social
media rather than letting HTC market the device, they said.

\x93Despite the price, Pixel can sell in India for niche customers...and now it
has a better chance with Samsung going out,\x93 said a Delhi-based retailer who
requested not to be named.

Get a daily mail with the most important news on the telecom industry from all
media outlets.Send a blank mail to join@ettelecom.com to sign up.

