                              283 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

                                 Delhi Edition



HTC to do After-sales Service for Pixel



BYLINE: Gulveen Aulakh



SECTION: BRANDS: CREATING DESIRE



LENGTH: 446 words





Google has tied up with HTC to offer aftersales service of its Pixel smartphone

in 30 cities in the country and will sell the device through more than 1,000

retail outlets as it looks to take on Apple's iPhone 7 this festive season.



Google Pixel may prove the biggest challenge to the latest iPhone in the world's

fastest growing yet most competitive smartphone market this season as top

handset maker Samsung won't sell the Galaxy Note 7, having stopped production

and global sales due to reports of some replacement devices catching fire, and

the internet giant looks set for its most aggressive play in India yet.



\x93We have partnered with



HTC India for after sales service in 56 walk-in service centres in over 30

cities,\x93 a Google spokesperson said.\x93Redington India is our national

distributor for all channels in India.\x93



A toll free customer care number will handle customer queries, the spokesperson

said.



All Pixel phones will be made by HTC and will be imported into India, although

HTC



gets its own smartphones assembled in Noida facility of contract manufacturer

Optiemus-Wistron.



While Google will sell the phones on its own, it will piggyback on HTC's retail

network as well. Pixel will be sold through seven large



format store chains including Vijay Sales, Croma, Reliance Digital, Jumbo, Spice

Mobility, Poorvika and Sangeetha Mobiles across the country.



Online pre-bookings and sales will be done through Flipkart. Google introduced

the 5-inch Pixel and 5.5inch Pixel XL smartphones earlier this month, with

pre-orders in India slated to begin on October 13 and deliveries planned for the

month end.



The company, which has traditionally let hardware companies LG and Huawei take

the forefront for selling and marketing its previous Nexus range of phones

alongside branding on the device, has changed its strategy significantly.



\x93Pixel is surely a shift from its traditional strategy only with the role

reversals between Google and its part



ner,\x93 said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at Counterpoint Research. One of the

reasons Google ventured into hardware is that it wants to position its AI

(artificial intelligence) as the next big differentiator in smartphone space,

which might get lost if it lets other handset makers market the same at least

for the initial product, Pathak said.Analysts point out that sales in the

premium smartphone segment are dependent on shelf space a product occupies

across different points of sale as consumers want to touch and feel the product

before purchasing an expensive phone.



Get a daily mail with the most important news on the telecom industry from all

media outlets. Send a blank mail to join@ettelecom.com to sign up.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





