                              285 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                            Belfast Telegraph Online



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 12:31 AM GMT



Google expected to unveil new Pixel smartphones



SECTION: UK



LENGTH: 301 words





Google is set to unveil two new smartphones as the technology giant aims to

challenge Samsung and Apple in the premium phone market.



According to reports and a series of leaked photos, the company will on Tuesday

announce the Pixel and Pixel XL as replacements for Google's own-brand Nexus

smartphones.



It has been suggested the Pixel will have a 5in display and the Pixel XL a 5.5in

screen.



The devices will reportedly come with cutting-edge Snapdragon processors,

12-megapixel cameras, fingerprint scanners and larger batteries.



Both phones are also expected to arrive with the latest version of Google's

Android software, 7.1 Nougat.



The announcement will take place during a live event in San Francisco, where the

firm is also expected to give more information on its smart home device, Google

Home, which was announced in May.



It enables users to talk to Google's artificial intelligence system to find out

news, weather and travel information, as well as control smart appliances in

their home, including lights and thermostats, using their voice.



The smart speaker is seen as a competitor to Amazon's Echo system which has just

gone on sale in the UK.



An updated version of the Google Chromecast, which enables users to stream

content from their mobile devices to their TV, is also rumoured to be among

Google's plans for the event, with the ability to support 4K definition TV

expected to be revealed.



There have also been suggestions of a new version of Android, designed for

laptops and tablets, incorporating aspects of the Chrome OS software Google uses

for its desktop computers.



Android executive Hiroshi Lockheimer hinted at the change in a tweet last week:

"We announced the 1st version of Android 8 years ago today. I have a feeling 8

years from now we'll be talking about Oct 4, 2016."



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT





           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)

                              All Rights Reserved





