

San Francisco: Google unveiled a touchscreen notebook computer on Thursday
designed for high-end users, throwing down the gauntlet to Apple and its
MacBooks.

Google said its Chromebook Pixel computers blending tablet and laptop
technology, boasting heavyweight Intel chips and screens tailored for rich
graphics, were released in the United States and Britain, starting at $1,299.

"People will give up a MacBook Air for this," Google Chrome senior
vice-president Sundar Pichai said. A Pixel model featuring built-in connectivity
to the Verizon mobile Internet service will hit the US market in April at a
price of $1,449.

The newly unveiled version can connect online with wireless hot-spot technology
or cables.

"It's a great looking product," Om Malik of technology news website GigaOM said
at the Pixel debut in San Francisco.

"But Google is facing a selling problem, they have to compete on price
originally and build a developer base for a high-end product."

Google is hoping enthusiasts will forego price comparisons with competitors such
as MacBooks or laptops built on Windows 8 software and focus instead on the
Pixel's touchscreen feature and the massive terabyte of Google Drive online data
storage included.
"It seems like a pretty hard sell," said Forrester analyst James McQuivey. "I
hope they are not planning to make a lot of money off it."

While the Pixel seems aimed at the MacBook market, it also faces fierce
competition from touchscreen laptops based on Windows 8 software.

"It seems like more of a symbolic product release with Google trying to make a
point that it is no longer just a low-end provider of devices," McQuivey said.

Analyst Rob Enderle of Enderle Group branded the Pixel move "a train wreck,"
arguing that notebook computers above $600 have historically not sold well and
that Apple even sells a slick MacBook Air model for $999.

The booming popularity of tablet computers is also eroding the overall market
for laptops.
"It just boggles the mind," Enderle said. "I have no clue what the hell Google
was thinking."

The announcement adds a new dimension to the rivalry between the two tech
giants, locked in a fierce battle over smartphones and tablets.

