

Google chief executive Sundar Pichai proclaimed Tuesday that we're evolving from
a mobile-first world to an "AI-first world" -- and, of course, that Google is
going to be at the forefront of that evolution.

But to do that, Google is investing heavily in mobile -- specifically,
smartphones.

The tech giant introduced two new phones, the 5-inch Pixel and the 5.5-inch
Pixel XL, at a San Francisco keynote event. The phones boast a camera that
Google said earned a top rating for a smartphone camera, an unlimited amount of
online photo storage, and a battery that gives you seven hours of battery life
from just 15 minutes of charging.

The new Pixel phones carry branding that identify them as "Phone by Google,"
which is a departure from the old Nexus "partner" branding but a crucial turn in
what the company is trying to do: owning the phones as its own.

Despite the fact that both are made by HTC, Google takes credit for designing
the phones around Google Assistant, the tech giant's answer to Apple's Siri,
Amazon's Alexa and Microsoft's Cortana.

The idea behind Assistant is that Google wants to build a Google for each
person, not just a Google for everyone, Pichai said.

Users will be able to ask broad questions such as, "OK Google, what do I have to
do today?" and more conversational queries that (ideally) won't have your
so-called smart assistant flummoxed by your phrasing.

"Why should we build hardware?" said Rick Osterloh, Google's newly appointed
head of hardware. His answer was something we've heard from Apple for years:
that building hardware and software together allows companies to take full
advantage of both, by designing them for each other.

Yet, while Osterloh borrowed some familiar phrases from Apple, Google's pitch
came with a twist. The next revolution, Osterloh said, will take place at the
intersection of hardware and software together -- with AI in the middle.

"The technology needs to be smart and just work for you," Osterloh said.

The Pixel phones start at $649, and will have either 32 GB or 128 GB of storage.
It is also compatible with Google's new VR headset, the Daydream View.

The phones will come in three colors -- which Google has oddly named "Quite
Black," "Very Silver" and "Really Blue." In the United States, it will be a
Verizon exclusive. Pixel will also be available unlocked on the Google Store.

