

It's almost time for the big Google launch event in San Francisco. Thanks to
multiple leaks, we all know that they're launching a new phone (in two sizes)
and what it looks like. But Google will also probably show off new updates to
the Chromecast (with 4K support), Google Home (an always-on, always-listening
smart speaker for the home - similar to Amazon's Echo) and probably a surprise
or two that hasn't been leaked yet. A new tablet? A new computer operating
system that combines the capabilities of Chrome and Android? A new virtual
reality headset? Who knows?

Obviously, it's the Pixel phones that will hold centerstage. These devices will
likely make it to multiple markets globally before the year is out. Current
reports indicate that the devices will be made by HTC Corp and we're inclined to
believe them - HTC has been contracted to make Google phones in the past. This
time, however, it seems that there won't be any HTC branding on the devices
themselves.

What we know so far - there will be two sizes: Pixel (with a 5.2-inch full HD
screen) and Pixel XL (with a 5.5-inch quad HD screen). The design on both phones
seems to be mostly identical. The fingerprint reader is around the back and it
seems to have a glass + metal unibody construction. Hardware should be the
latest available, which means a Snapdragon 821 processor, paired with 4GB DDR4
RAM and storage options that range between 32GB to 128GB.

Apart from the hardware, there will be a few advantages of using a Google phone.
For starters, you'll get unlimited storage in Google Photos for photos clicked
by the phone - in full size! A Smart Storage feature will automatically offload
older photos to the cloud when connected to a WiFi network. They will also have
USB type C and fast charging support. There's not a lot of info on the cameras,
but given the premium specs, we expect premium snappers with optical image
stabilisation on both phones.

In terms of software, the phones will likely come with the very latest version
of Android Nougat (7.1) with all the latest apps like Duo (video chat), Allo
(messaging) and Assistant pre-loaded. This will tie in nicely with Google Home -
a speaker that gives the Google Assistant a permanent place on your desk or
table. You'll be able to talk to the assistant, ask questions and have it manage
your schedule. While we'll have to wait for official pricing, we expect that the
phones will have premium pricing: starting at US$649 and 699 for the Pixel and
Pixel XL respectively. Google Home will be available in limited markets at an
expected price of US$100 to 130. Watch this space for the official
announcements.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

