

Google's new Pixel smartphones cost almost as much as the latest iPhone 7 --
which is a sharp departure from the budget Nexus phones.

Google has officially launched its Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones at a special
event in San Francisco. With the new smartphones, Google is directly aiming at
Apple - an approach that will shape the future of Android smartphones and set
directions for for the entire industry.

So first things first, Google's new Pixel smartphones cost almost as much as the
latest iPhone 7 - which is a sharp departure from the budget pricing at which
Nexus phones used to be introduced and company's Rick Osterloh introduced Pixel
smartphones as new phones 'Made By Google'. This is the first time Google is
emphasising on this term, indicating that the phone is designed, developed and
manufactured by Google. Is it manufactured by Google? Wait, technically the
phone is supposed to be made by HTC, but Google has had more say than ever
before.

The arrival of Pixel phones can be seen as HTC's transition from Google's choice
OEM to ODM. If reports are anything to go by, Google approached Huawei first for
its Pixel phones but the Chinese smartphone maker declined citing lack of Huawei
branding on the latest phones.

While the first batches of Pixel phones will be made by HTC, there is a
possibility that future devices could come from another vendor altogether.
Google is following on Microsoft's footsteps by introducing its own hardware
rather than relying on a partner to fight with now dependable Apple iPhone
range.

For the world, Pixel will be a Google smartphone with HTC's schematics. This is
going to be the biggest difference between Nexus and Pixel. A quick look at
Pixel and Pixel XL makes it clear that the smartphones bear close resemblance to
HTC's One A9 and the recent flagship HTC 10, but HTC could have had a
significant turnaround if the phones had 'Built by HTC' branding somewhere. In
fact, over the years LG did benefit from being the creator of Nexus phones.

With Pixel, Google certainly stands to win, but there won't be much takeaway for
HTC, which is struggling in its smartphone endeavours. With Pixel and Pixel XL,
Google is going after a premium smartphone segment and it's a gamble that could
shape the premium smartphone industry currently dominated by Apple and Samsung.
In simple terms, Pixel and Pixel XL will serve as launchpad for Google's grander
vision in the highly competitive smartphone industry.

