                              300 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                              April 1, 2016 Friday



Top tablets with keyboards added;

Google Pixel C, Microsoft Surface Pro 4 lead pack.;

PRODUCT REVIEWS



BYLINE: CNET.com



SECTION: ; Pg. SA3



LENGTH: 677 words





Microsoft's Surface Pro 4 fits a larger screen with a higher resolution into a

slightly slimmer body than last year's model. TNS



The Google Pixel C is the best Android tablet money can buy. The tablet runs the

latest version of Android and is lightning fast. TNS



The Vaio Z Flip has exceptional performance for a thin and light laptop, a crisp

high-resolution screen and an attractive, functional design.



The HP Spectre x2 has a slim but sturdy design and stiff keyboard, plus the

keyboard cover is included in the base price.



The rising popularity of tablets has some people ditching their laptops and

desktops for a more portable experience, but the benefits of a full keyboard can

still come in handy. The models on this list blur the line between tablet and

laptop, usually coining them as "hybrids." Here are our top recommendations for

tablets with complementary keyboard options.



Google Pixel C



Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/google-pixel-c/#ftag=-CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)



The good: The Google Pixel C has a slim, compact aluminum build that feels

sturdy. Its optional Blue-tooth keyboard is equally solid and doubles as the

tablet's cover and it has a powerful, long-running battery. The tablet runs the

latest version of Android and its performance is lightning fast. The screen is

sharp, bright and colorful, and gaming graphics look stellar.



The bad: It's a bit heavy when attached to the keyboard (which is sold

separately). Big-name apps and games still tend to hit iOS before Android.



The cost: $739.99



The bottom line: The Google Pixel C is the best Android tablet money can buy.



Microsoft



Surface Pro 4



P ro du c t R e v i ew : http://www.cnet.com/



products/microsoft-surface-pro-4/#ftag=CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The Surface Pro 4 fits a larger screen with a higher resolution into a

slightly slimmer body than last year's model. The pen and keyboard cover are

also improved, and this is one of the first mobile systems shipping with Intel's

latest processors.



The bad: Microsoft still refuses to include the Type Cover keyboard by default,

forcing a separate purchase. Battery life still isn't enough for a full day.



The cost: $789.00 to $899.00



The bottom line: A host of small refinements cements the Surface Pro 4's

position as the best-in-class Windows tablet - so long as you're prepared to pay

extra for the required keyboard cover accessory.



HP Spectre x2



Product Review:

http://www.cnet.com/products/hp-spectre-x2-2015/#ftag=-CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The HP Spectre x2 has a slim but sturdy design and a stiffer keyboard

than Microsoft's similar Surface Pro, plus the keyboard cover is included in the

base price. A mobile broadband antenna allows for easy on-the-go data.



The bad: The kickstand is hard to operate, the processors are slower than many

other premium hybrids, and battery life is merely OK.



The cost: $799.99



The bottom line: HP's slim, attractive Spectre x2 follows the road not taken by

Microsoft's Surface Pro, using lower-power processors to keep the price down, as

well as packing in the must-have keyboard cover.



Vaio Z Flip



Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/vaio-z-flip/#ftag=CAD187281f



CNET rating: 3.5 stars out of 5 (Very good)



The good: The Vaio Z Flip has exceptional performance for a thin and light

laptop, a crisp high-resolution screen and an attractive, functional design.



The bad: Battery life in this expensive system is just adequate, not great. Loud

fans and an overly glossy screendetractfromtheexperience too.



The cost: $1,799.99 (MSRP)



The bottom line: For those willing to pay top dollar for a stylish, functional,

highly portable PC, the Vaio Z Flip is impressive - but you might do better with

a Lenovo Yoga 900, Mac-Book Pro or Microsoft Surface Book.



The following CNET staff



contributed to this story:



Section Editor Dan Ackerman, Associate Editor Xiomara



Blanco, Senior Editor



Sean Hollister and Senior



Editor Laura K. Cucullu. For



more reviews of personal



technology products, please visit www.cnet.com.



LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





