                              301 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Open Source FOR You



                                October 6, 2016



Android 7.1 to bring iOS-like Night Light mode



BYLINE: Jagmeet Singh



LENGTH: 385  words





Google premiered Android 7.1 Nougat alongside unveiling its very first Pixel

phone on Tuesday. This new Android version is now reported to come preloaded

with Night Light mode to take on Apple's iOS.



Apple developed iOS 9.3 with a Night Shift mode to "warm up" the display panels

of iPhones and iPads to ease the reading experience. Likewise, Google has this

time designed its Night Light to reduce blue light emitted by Android devices at

night.



Alongside the Night Light mode, as reported by Android Police, Google is

offering Android 7.1 with Daydream VR mode to support Google's Daydream View and

various other advanced VR headsets. The operating system also includes a

fingerprint swipe feature to let you check your notifications simply by swiping

down on the built-in fingerprint sensor of your device.



Developer-centric features



The Android update additionally comes with some developer-centric features such

as APIs for app shortcuts and shortcut manager, circular app icon support,

keyboard image insertion, fingerprint gesture support, improved VR thread

scheduling, enhancements to wallpaper metadata, multi-endpoint calling and a

storage manager to identify installed apps as well as stored files. Google has

also provided inputs for some MNO (mobile network operator) requirements,

including PCDMA voice privacy, source type support for visual voicemail and

carrier configuration options to manage video telephony.



Exclusive experience for Pixel



In addition to the latest features for all users, Google has reportedly designed

some options specifically for the Pixel users. These include a Pixel launcher,

unlimited access to Google Photos, Smart Storage and Support. The platform also

has a quick switch adapter to enable wired setup for alien users, new camera app

and various aesthetic changes.



Notably, Android 7.1 comes preloaded with Google Assistant that wakes up with a

long-press of the home button This AI-backed feature is appeared to be limited

to the Pixel devices and would not come to your device no matters if it is a

Nexus device and runs on the newest Android variant.



Having said that, all this shows that Google's freshest Android Nougat flavour

will have enough power to rival iOS. However, the search giant might restrict

some open sourced areas to largely promote its Pixel smartphones.



LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





