                              305 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                   City A.M.



                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Pixel perfect;

GADGET PIXEL www.MADEBY.GOOGLE.COM/PHONE ????? | BY STEVE HOGARTY



BYLINE: STEVE HOGARTY



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35



LENGTH: 950 words





Every Android phone has come with some compromise built in. Whereas the iPhone

owes much of its popularity to Apple's ability to control every last design

detail - building software and hardware that works in perfect harmony - Google

has always had to rely on third-party manufacturers to make its phones.

Imperfection's gnarled fingers worked their way in through the cracks.



The resulting phones often felt fragmented and wonky, as if Android's software

and the hardware in which it found itself were striving towards two different

goals. Unwanted apps would litter the screens of most devices. Updates would

take months to filter down to handsets running customised versions of the

operating system. Even the Nexus range, which was as stock as Android phones

come, felt one-click removed from the will of its creator.



Pixel is the first phone built by Google, inside and out. And it's the first

Android phone that feels somehow complete, in a way that's difficult to

quantify. The screen is as responsive to touch as the iPhone's: things pop and

slide and swipe and scroll with just the right sense of give and inertia. It's

remarkably light, feels sturdy and looks stunning, its chamfered aluminium body

unspoiled by the camera bump that blighted the ghastly looking Nexus 6P.



Both the 5" Pixel and the 5.5" Pixel XL are of identical specs, differing only

in screen resolution and battery life. With the XL, you can expect the battery

to last a full day of charge with heavy use: mine rarely hits 60 per cent by the

time I leave the office, and I typically watch a dozen or so funny dog

compilation videos in the afternoon. If you do run dry, just 15 minutes of

charging gives you seven hours of battery life.



The camera received the highest ever rating on the industry-accepted DxO

benchmark, though you'd struggle to spot much difference between shots taken on

this, the S7 and iPhone 7. Post-processing of HDR images has been vastly

improved over the Nexus phones, spitting out stunning images in low-light, and

can now be shot without the split-second delays that would often cause blurring

and artifacts. Pixel owners get infinite online storage of full-resolution

photos and 4K videos on Google Drive.



The voice-activated Google Assistant lives behind the home button, popping up to

give you news briefings, directions, search results, appointments, music and

more. More conversational and intelligent than Siri, and more useful than Alexa,

Google Assistant is touted as the beating heart of the phone. In practice, the

assistant is still an imperfect helper, not quite the leap forward in digital

servitude being promised, but one that's developing at breakneck pace. Google

are banking hard on being at the forefront of the virtual assistant revolution,

promising features such as OpenTable bookings and Uber orders.



This is an incredibly good phone in every respect - camera, battery, speed,

software, hardware, the non-explodeyness of it - and almost by definition the

greatest Android phone ever made. With Pixel, Google's mobile operating system

finally feels comfortable in its own skin. And it also has a 3.5mm headphone

jack.



KODAK EKTRA £449, www.KODAKPHONES.COM Kodak's latest product, the Ektra

smartphone, combines cutting edge tech deliciously retro stylings. While most

handsets are phones with a camera attached, the Ektra approaches the situation

from the opposite direction. Everything about it, from the styling to the

hardware to the marketing, are focused around taking pictures.



The black leather rear of the device is dominated by an oversized round lens,

one end of the handset bulging out the grip on an SLR. Inside it packs a main

camera, 13MP front facing camera, optical image stabilisation and 4K capture. It

borrows SLR-style scene selection settings and features a dual press shutter

button, and also runs the latest version of Android. It's manufactured by

smartphone-maker Bullitt, which is bestknown for making rugged devices for

companies including Caterpillar and JCB.



This isn't the first phone from Kodak; that dubious honour goes to the largely

unloved IM5, which was released last year made by Bullitt). That phone was less

distinctive and rather ugly. The Ektra, on other hand is a real stunner. It

launches December.



GAME RHYTHM PARADISE MEGAMIX PLATFORM: NINTENDO 3DS ????? | BY SEAN BELL

Videogames excel at wish fulfilment. For example: we've all dreamed of being a

little rabbit travelling across an ocean by rhythmically jumping off the backs

of a line of giant turtles, or being a floating bow and arrow shooting at

ghosts, or a set of tweezers plucking hairs out of onions with faces drawn on

them.



Despite clearly catering to mainstream desires, and the fact they enlisted

Beyoncé to do the advert, the Rhythm Paradise series is still considered niche

even though it's been out for decade.



Sensing this, Nintendo has put together Rhythm Paradise Megamix, a collection of

the best bits of the entire series, including some reworked bits from the very

first game that never saw a release in the UK.



You work your way through a series of ludicrous, short but smartly designed

rhythm-based challenges, tapping on the screen and frequently laughing as you do

so thanks to the relentless inventiveness and absurd sense of humour. It'll even

charm you in the way it trips you up. Once you reach the higher difficulty

levels, it gently obfuscates things, removing important visual and audio cues,

forcing you to rely on your own internal sense of rhythm instead of simply

watching or listening to what's happening on screen.



Rhythm Paradise Megamix is an entirely welcome trip down memory lane for series

veterans, and utterly essential for pretty much everyone else.



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: CAM





                            Copyright 2016 City A.M.

                              All Rights Reserved





