

Me: OK Google Pixel, are you the best Android phone of all time?

Google Pixel: Hmm ... I'm not sure.

Me: I'm not sure either.

Google Pixel: You and me both.

Certainty has never been one of Google's strong suits. Its apps can stay in
"beta", "don't-blame-us-if-this-doesn't-work" status for years after they've
been released to the public.

It's constantly tuning and tweaking its search results, so much so that the top
search results you see are often not Google's best guess, but its second-best
guess, which it's testing out just in case its best guess was wrong.

There's something about Google's first phone, the Pixel, that's a little
tentative, too. Its core feature, the Google Assistant artificial intelligence
bot I was talking to above (that's a real conversation), feels much like a beta.

Its bezel is too big and has too much wasted space, its fingerprint sensor is in
the wrong place ...

Me: OK Google Pixel, why is your fingerprint sensor on the back?

Pixel: Here's the result from search: The fingerprint sensor belongs on the
front of the smartphone ... and its battery life is unspectacular.

The Pixel's camera, on the other hand, is sensational, better than an iPhone
camera and often better than a Galaxy S7 camera (meaning it's somewhere in the
top two smartphone cameras on the market), the screen is top-notch, and it has
the smoothest, most pleasing implementation of Android we've ever seen.

It's actually a great Android phone, but you can't help wondering why Google
bothered getting into the smartphone business if it wasn't going to take the
smartphone some place new.

The Pixel might have represented a brash new direction in mobile phones, a
forward seven-somersault dive in the pike position, but instead it feels more
like Google has just waded into the shallow end with floaties on. It's a little
more chicken than it should be.

(Though that might be just as well. Samsung likes to attempt
5.0-degree-of-difficulty dives into the deep end of the pool and, wow, that
bellyflop is going to sting for years. But at least they tried. At least the
Note7 was arguably the greatest phone of all time while it was still airborne,
before it came crashing down to earth.)

There actually is an exciting new place that Google wants to go with the Pixel,
and that's to turn it into a meaningful personal assistant that can do more than
just answer useless questions about the meaning of life but can actually do
useful stuff for you like organise a car booking at the airport, and notify the
booking agency when your flight gets delayed. But the Pixel can't do anything
like that yet.

Me: OK Google Pixel, book me a car in Melbourne this afternoon.

Whenever you get a result like that, whenever the Pixel says "Here's the result
from search" or "Here's a Wikipedia result", it means the new-style artificial
intelligence bot in Google Assistant has basically got itself lost, and handed
control back to the old-style Google Now bot that you'll find in other Android
phones.

Me: Who is the Prime Minister of Australia?

Pixel: Malcolm Turnbull is the Prime Minister of Australia

Me: How old is he?

Pixel: He's 62 years old

Me: What party is he in?

Pixel: Liberal Party of Australia

Me: When was it founded?

Pixel: Liberal Party was founded August 31, 1945, in Australia

Me: How many members does it have?

Pixel: Here's the result from search ...

That's a slight improvement on what Google Now can do. Google Now's replies to
those questions contain the same answers, but the bot is not nearly as good at
honing in on the intent of the question, so its replies contain a lot of
extraneous information you didn't ask for, too. But it's a vast improvement on
Apple's Siri, which can get the first question right, but can't carry context
over between questions and so can't conduct a conversation the way Google
Assistant does.

Me: Hey Siri, who is the Prime Minister of Australia?

Siri: The answer is Malcolm Turnbull from the 15th of September 2015 to present.

Me: How old is he?

Siri: He from which team? He from Shanghai SIPG or Changchun Yatai?

Google Assistant is all about context. You can tell it the name of your
favourite restaurant, and then days later ask it to navigate you to your
favourite restaurant, and it will open up Google Maps with the correct
directions.

But its problem is, it doesn't have enough context yet. To really act like a
personal assistant, Google Assistant needs to get information from other apps on
your phone - it needs access to Airbnb for your accommodation, to TripIt for
your flights and to Uber for your ground transport - but it doesn't have it yet.

Me: Book me an Uber to my favourite cafe

Pixel: Here's a result from search: Uber: Sign Up to Drive ...

This gets to the nub of the Pixel's problem. Its bravest new feature needs
third-party app developers to climb on board and supply the context and the
means to take meaningful actions, and it seems Google has decided that the best
way to get them to do that is to create a phone to seed the market.

In a sense, the Pixel is more for them than it is for you and me. Does that mean
you shouldn't bother buying one until Google Assistant has started to realise
its potential? It depends on whether you like chickens or eggs.

Me: Which came first, the chicken or the egg?

Pixel: Two birds that weren't really chickens created an egg, and so we have an
answer: the egg came first, and then it hatched a chicken.

