                              310 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                           September 20, 2016 Tuesday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



What to expect from Google's October 4 event



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 355 words





The invites have been sent and in just two weeks' time Google CEO Sundar Pichai

will be taking to the stage to unveil two new smartphones that drop the Nexus

moniker in favor of a new Pixel brand. But will consumers go dotty for the new

handsets?



According to the reports, leaks and rumors surrounding the event, the internal

specifications that the handsets will boast will be as good as -- if not better

than -- anything currently found inside an Android smartphone, so 4GB of RAM and

Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processors sitting behind either a 5-inch or 5.5-inch

display depending on whether it's the Pixel or the Pixel XL.



Since Google launched the Android operating system, it has also been

collaborating with smartphone companies to create what it calls reference

designs -- the best set of components to get the best out of Android's features

-- and they've been called Nexus phones. And the best thing about these handset

is that despite their top-of-the-line specifications they have been affordable

options when compared to the likes of the Samsung Galaxy S range.



However, the Pixel handsets will change all of that. Google has been involved in

the manufacturing -- it's partnering with HTC -- as well as engineering process,

and the resulting phones will be premium in terms of materials and price tag,

too.



According to Android Police's David Ruddock, the 5-inch Pixel handset with 32GB

of onboard storage will retail for $649 in the US, which makes it exactly the

same price as the iPhone 7.



But as well as a price increase, the Pixel phones are expected to come out of

the box with something other than 'stock' Android and will instead boast extra

features on top of what other handsets running Nougat can deliver.



However, though there have been plenty of leaks since February regarding

Google's plans, we won't know for sure exactly what's coming until the event

kicks off at 9am PT on October 4 in San Francisco. And, Google being Google it

will use the show to showcase devices other than just phones so we could get to

see the first demonstrations of its VR platform, a new Chromebook and some smart

home and IoT kit.



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





