

GOOGLE CHROMEBOOK PIXEL

Price: £1,049

Operating system: Google Chrome

Processor: Intel Core 1.8GHZ

Memory: 4GB DDR3 RAM

Storage: 32GB solid-state; 1TB on Google Drive for three years

Screen: 12.85in; 2,560x1,700 at 239PPI

Battery: Up to 5 hours' active use

What is it? The future of laptops, I believe, but until I get to that bit, it's
Google's first proper computer. For two years, the search giant has partnered
with Samsung and others to produce cheap little Chromebooks. Essentially web
browsers with keyboards, they do away with software, hard drives and sluggish
start-up times. You do everything online and store your stuff in the cloud,
where it's safe and accessible anywhere.

The Pixel does this, too, but for the first time Google has created the
hardware. The result is a device of startling beauty. Machined aluminium with
sharp corners make it boxy yet also elegant enough to make my Mac-Book look
brutish. The black, backlit keyboard is Macinspired but the search key in place
of caps lock (hit both shift keys if you really want to SHOUT) is one of few
marks of the maker. The design brief appears to have been: make it beautiful but
let the screen do the talking. And what a screen. It boasts a record-breaking
pixel density, and it shows, rendering everything as crisp as any Retina
Display. You can touch it, too, to click, scroll or pinch to zoom, a feature
still absent from MacBooks.

Does it work? Like a dream. The Pixel fires up in an instant and asks for your
Google Account details, which you won't need to enter again. The Chrome browser
appears. Hook it up to the web and you're off. It's lightning fast and scrolling
is beautifully smooth via the screen or the etched-glass touchpad.

The Pixel is also effectively impervious to viruses and includes 32GB of
physical storage, plus a massive terabyte (about 1,000GB) of space on the Google
Drive cloud (included for three years; you'd pay £30 a month to rent that space
from Google otherwise).

I need one now, right? Wrong. Because, for now, there are issues. You can't
install software. No iTunes, Spotify, Microsoft Office. If you can't do it via a
web browser, you can't do it on a Chromebook. The battery life is low at five
hours; the machine is of limited use offline and has no 4G connectivity (the US
model does); the screen doesn't fold flat to a tablet mode.

But the biggest deal-breaker? A Pixel will cost you £1,049, enough for five Acer
or four Samsung Chromebooks, and £200 more than an 11in MacBook Air, which
supports software, is lighter, has double the storage, and a slightly better
battery life.

The Pixel is a bold statement of intent. When Google can produce a cheaper
model, when services such as Spotify and iTunes switch to the cloud, and when it
has 4G, this is what laptops will look like. It won't be long, and I can't wait.

