                              312 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                            The Independent (London)



                            March 14, 2013 Thursday

                                 First Edition



This is the future of laptops??? once you can get iTunes;

A WEEK WITH???GOOGLE CHROMEBOOK PIXEL



BYLINE: SIMON USBORNE



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 38



LENGTH: 503 words





What is it?



The future of laptops, I believe, but until I get to that bit, it's Google's

first proper computer. For two years, the tech behemoth has partnered with

Samsung and others to produce cheap little Chromebooks. Essentially web browsers

with keyboards, they do away with software, hard drives and sluggish start-up

times. You do everything online and store your stuff in the cloud, where it's

safe and accessible anywhere.



The Pixel does exactly this, too, but for the first time Google has created the

hardware. The result is a device of startling beauty. Machined aluminium with

sharp corners make it boxy yet also elegant enough to make my MacBook look

brutish. The black, backlit keyboard is Mac-inspired but the search key in place

of caps lock (hit both shift keys if you really want to SHOUT) is one of few

marks of the maker. The design brief appears to have been: make it beautiful but

let the screen do the talking. And, oh, what a screen. It boasts a

record-breaking pixel density, and it shows, rendering everything as crisp as

any Retina Display. You can touch it, too, to click, scroll or pinch to zoom, a

feature curiously still absent from MacBooks.



Does it work?



Like a dream. There can be no device since the blackboard for which an

instruction manual is so redundant. The Pixel fires up in an instant and asks

for your Google Account details, which you won't need to enter again. The Chrome

browser appears. Hook it up to the web and you're off. It's lightning fast and

scrolling is beautifully smooth via the screen or the etched-glass touchpad.



The Pixel is also effectively impervious to viruses and includes 32GB of

physical storage, plus a massive terabyte (about 1,000GB) of space on the Google

Drive cloud (included for three years; you'd pay £30 a month to rent that space

from Google otherwise).



I need one now, right?



Wrong. Because, for now, there are issues. You can't install software. No

iTunes, Spotify, Microsoft Office. If you can't do it via a web browser, you

can't do it on a Chromebook. The battery life is low at five hours; the machine

is of limited use offline and has no 4G connectivity (the US model does); the

screen doesn't fold flat to a tablet mode.



But the biggest deal-breaker?



A Pixel will cost you £1,049, enough for five Acer or four Samsung Chromebooks,

and £200 more than an 11in MacBook Air, which supports software, is lighter, has

double the storage, and a slightly better battery life.



Google surely knows that a £1,000 web browser, however beautiful and lovely to

use, will have a limited appeal. But the Pixel is a bold statement of intent.

When Google can produce a cheaper model, when services such as Spotify and

iTunes switch to the cloud, and when it has 4G, this is what laptops will look

like. It won't be long, and I can't wait.



Price: £1,049



Operating system: Google Chrome



Processor: Intel Core 1.8GHz



Memory: 4GB DDR3 RAM



Storage: 32GB solid-state; 1TB on Google Drive for three years



Screen: 12.85in; 2,560x1,700 at 239PPI



Battery: Up to 5 hours' active use



LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IA





                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





