

Google has two brand spanking new phones set to be revealed at a special event
in San Francisco on October 4.

But thanks to some pretty comprehensive leaks, we already know exactly what to
expect for both the models.

That is, a pretty nice looking rounded design with a fingerprint scanner on the
back. Google Pixel and Pixel XL: Specs, price, screen size, news and rumours
about Google's new Android smartphones

Differences between the two phones come down to things like size, screen
resolution and battery power. The Pixel has a 5-inch, 1080p screen with a
2,770mAh battery whilst the Pixel XL offers a 5.5-inch, 1440p screen with a
3,450mAh battery.

Google Pixel launch LIVE: Pixel smartphones, Google Home speaker and Daydream VR
expected at October 4 event

What time is Google October 4 event? Google home release date, 4K chromecast and
more rumoured to be announced

The one thing we haven't been told about is the price - so it requires a bit of
guesswork to figure out what the tech giant will charge you for its latest slice
of gadgety goodness.

The best-case scenario would be that the Pixel starts at £299 for the 32GB of
storage while the Pixel XL starts at £449 for the same 32GB model.

Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer the day before
official announcement

That's the initial pricing for Google's current line-up, the Nexus 5X and 6P.
Some smartphone makers, notably Apple, bring new phones in at existing prices
and simply drop the cost of the older models.

iPhone 7 case brings back the missing headphone jack - and doesn't need an
adapter

But Google's online store has both the Nexus phones listed as out of stock -
meaning it could just bring in the new phones at the existing price points.

Sadly, that's best-case. More likely is a marginal increase in price based on a
few different factors.

Firstly, Google has previously positioned its Pixel devices (Pixel C tablet and
Chromebook Pixel) as top-end models and increased the price.

Secondly, the company has reportedly stretched to top-spec designs that usually
include more expensive materials and finishes that again push the price up.

Google Pixel smartphone REVEALED as leaked image of new smartphone hits the web

And lastly, the trend for larger storage space (both the Pixel and XL are slated
to have a 128GB version) pushes the price up even further.

There's no hard-and-fast information on what the final pricing will be, but at a
guess, we'd say it's likely to be around £350/400 starting price for the Pixel
and £450/500 starting price for the XL.

Given that Carphone Warehouse accidentally released its promotional material a
day early, it's a pretty safe bet the high street chain is stocking the new
phones.

If you're looking to get the Pixel or XL SIM-free then Carphone Warehouse is a
good place to start looking.

Unlike Google's own online store , Carphone may be willing to tempt you in with
extra deals and incentives.

Android 7.0 Nougat: All the features of Google's new mobile operating system and
how to download it onto your smartphone

If you plan to get the new Google phones on a contract, then it's a safe bet
that the top UK networks like EE, Three, Vodafone, O2 and Virgin Media will be
offering it.

In fact, a quick glance at EE's Twitter feed gives us a small clue.

The UK network has made a sly dig at Carphone Warehouse over leaking the details
of the Pixel.

We can take this as a given that the network probably has some pretty good deals
on the Pixel and Pixel XL lined up for tomorrow.

As soon as we know for sure, we'll update this article with more information.

