                              327 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 6:16 PM GMT



Google Home is the voice-controlled speaker that wants to take over your house;



Along with the Pixel and Pixel XL, the tech company launched a new

voice-controlled internet home speaker



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 221 words





Google doesn't want to just be on your phone or your laptop - it wants to invade

your home as well.



At an exclusive event in San Francisco this evening , the tech company revealed

its Google Home speaker.



The internet-connected speaker will answer any query you have - from football

scores to the news headlines and the weather.



It uses Google's smart "Assistant" to control things like light controls and

thermostats or music streaming services to carry out scores of tasks.



The speaker, which will come in a range of colours to match home decor, uses

artificial intelligence to learn about the user and get to know their needs,

likes and dislikes.



Google Pixel and Pixel XL: Specs, features, price and release date of Google's

new Android smartphones



Amazon has recently launched its own Echo speaker in the UK , which offers many

of the same features. using Microsoft's Bing search engine



However, Google was quick to point out that its entire back catalogue of

technology - like YouTube, Google Assistant and Google Play - are added in to

make it easier to use.



It's going to launch at $129 in the US along with a free six-month trial of

YouTube Red. And will be available on November 4.



Unfortunately, Google has no plans to launch Google Home in the UK at this time,

but the company said it hopes to make it available in the future.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





