

The tech giant we know for its email services and search engine now wants to
sell us premium smartphones, a virtual reality headset, a smart speaker, a 4K
streaming device and a modular router, all centered around the AI-powered Google
Assistant

Google opened fire on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push into
hardware on Tuesday night, launching premium-priced Pixel smartphones and aslew
of other devices showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.

The unveiling of Google's in-house designed phone came as part of an expanded
hardware move by the US company, which also revealed details about its new "home
assistant" virtual reality headset and Wi-Fi router system.

The San Francisco event marked a shift in strategy for Google, which is
undertaking a major drive to make Google Assistant artificial intelligence
afuturistic force spanning all kinds of internet-linked devices.

"We are evolving from a mobile-first world to an AI-first world," Google chief
executive Sundar Pichai said.

"Our goal is to build a personal Google for each and every user."

Rick Osterloh, head of a new hardware division at the California-based internet
giant, added, "We believe that the next big innovation is going to take place at
the intersection of hardware and software, with AI at the centre."

Pixel will be available with a five- or 5.5-inch display, starting at Rs 57,000,
almost similar to the latest iPhone models. Pre-orders are set to begin on
October 13 for India, with the phones set to ship by the end of the month.

By using its own name on handsets, Google is aiming for a bigger slice of the
competitive smartphone market, dominated by Samsung and Apple.

Until now, Google's flagship devices had used the Nexus brand with hardware
partners that have included China's Huawei and South Korea's LG. The California
group also sought to expand in the smartphone market by purchasing Motorola in
2011, but sold the unit less than three years later.

Unlike past smartphone alliances, Google stressed that it had complete control
of Pixel from start to finish, contracting with Taiwan-based HTC to manufacture
handsets.

"Google today demonstrated that it's finally serious about hardware," said Jan
Dawson at Jackdaw Research. "The Pixel phones are clearly being positioned as
peers to the iPhone."

The new Pixel phone is "the first phone made by Google inside and out," said
Sabrina Ellis of the Pixel product management team.

By producing both the hardware and Android software, Google is making a more
direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.

Besides being the first smartphone to ship with Google Assistant, it will come
with unlimited storage for photos and videos and be compatible with the
company's Daydream virtual reality platform.

Pixel has a "smart" camera for sublime photos, and a program to make it easy for
users to switch operating systems, a move aimed at encouraging iPhone users to
convert to Android.

However, Google may find it challenging to gain market share, analyst Patrick
Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy said.

"Aside from the camera, the new Google Pixels are pretty undifferentiated
compared to Samsung and iPhone 7," he said. "They don't exactly swing anyone
around the room."

Gartner analyst Brian Blau said "the most exciting part" of Tuesday's
announcement was the assistant, which showcases Google's strength in artificial
intelligence.

"It's a different tactic from Google, taking the stance that they want to have
that direct relationship with their customers," he said.

"It is clearly a step into Apple's world" of controlling hardware and software
and services, he added.

Google also showed off a new Daydream View headset into which compatible
smartphones can be slipped to serve as screens for virtual reality experiences.

View headsets are made of soft cloth, purportedly inspired by casual clothes.
Daydream View bundled with a controller device will be available in November,
priced at $79 in the US.

Google added to the coming hardware line-up with a modular Wi-Fi system that
lets a set of interconnected mini-modems be spread around homes to make signals
strong in all spots.

"Unlike a single, central router, multiple Google Wi-Fi points do a better job
of delivering connectivity to all parts of the home," Google executive Mario
Queiroz said.

The internet giant also introduced its Google Home virtual assistant, which will
be a direct challenge to popular Amazon Echo devices.

Google described Home as a voice-activated assistant that enables users to tap
into the company's online capabilities to answer questions, manage tasks,
control devices in homes, stream videos and more.

"Much like Amazon Echo, Google Home is less a story about a wireless speaker and
more about a point of access to a virtual assistant," IHS Markit senior analyst
Paul Erickson said.

"Ultimately, it will be the virtual assistants that are the trump card, and
Google Assistant is expected to only grow in superiority to Alexa when it comes
to personalisation and everyday usefulness for mainstream users," he added of
Amazon Echo's voice-activated program.

Google Home was also synced to work with the freshly unveiled Chromecast Ultra
device for streaming high-resolution 4K online video to television screens.

The $129 Google Home device will be available in retail shops on November 4 in
the US.

Google hasn't announced India launch plans for either Google Home, Chromecast
Ultra, Google Wi-Fi or Daydream View.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

