                              332 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             Waterloo Region Record



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

                                 First Edition



Focus on hardware in latest launch of products from Google;

Pixel phones were the highlight but expect other items to be highly sought



BYLINE: Raju Mudhar, Toronto Star



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3



LENGTH: 703 words





With a goal of building a personal Google for every user, the search engine

giant announced new hardware at an event in San Francisco Tuesday, including new

smartphones, a virtual reality headset and a new Wi-Fi device.



The new products helped the company play catch-up in some of the buzziest

sectors in technology, including artificial intelligence (AI), virtual reality

(VR), 4K TV and "smart" homes.



"We are at a seminal moment in computing," said Sundar Pichai, Google's CEO.

"When I look ahead, we are evolving from a mobile first to an AI-first computing

... It will be everywhere."



During the presentation, Pichai talked about Google's recent advances in AI and

machine learning, in part to talk about advances with Google Assistant (its Siri

rival), which the company wants to be the connective tissue between all of its

devices.



"Our vision is for to it be universal," he said. "It's equally important to get

the Assistant into the hands of users, which is what today is all about."



Signalling that this as a strong move into hardware, executives said these were

devices that are "designed by and made by Google." The company's previous

strategy was to license its tech and have it made by hardware partners, like it

did with its previous Nexus lines of phones.



Despite Tuesday's rhetoric, a spokesperson confirmed that while the products are

designed by the company, they will still be actually manufactured by partners.

As an example, the Pixel phones are being built by HTC.



Beyond the desire to put its Assistant in front of people, the company also

looks to be putting its spin on other recent popular tech products - and at

lower prices. Amazon's Echo line of "smart" speakers, have received rave reviews

in the U.S. and are a clear inspiration for Google Home.



Since the company reorganized itself as Alphabet, there have been reports about

the company looking to turn more profit, as opposed to spending time and money

on "moon shots," the colloquial term for some of its more out there ideas.



As well, it is clear the Google is looking to build its own ecosystem of

products, with Assistant at the centre, and other accessories to keep consumers

close to the company. It is a similar approach to competitors including Apple

and Samsung.



Here are the products Google launched:



Google Pixel Phones



With the launch of these devices, Google's Nexus brand will officially be on

hiatus. There will be two sizes, the Pixel has a 5-inch screen and the Pixel XL

has a 5.5-inch screen. The components of the phone are expected to be premium

flagship class, with an aluminum unibody design, Qualcomm's new Snapdragon 821

processor, 4GB of RAM, 12-megapixel cameras and fingerprint scanners. The Pixel

will cost $899 and the XL will be $1,049 in Canada, and launch in November.



The phones will run Nougat, the latest Android OS, unlimited photo and video

storage on Google Photos and Assistant built in. They will also be the first

phones that support Daydream View, the company's new VR headset.



Daydream View



The company's VR headset that will work in conjunction with the new Pixel

phones. Similar to the Samsung Galaxy VR, the phones will slide in to power the

experience. It has a cloth material shell and will also ship with a hand-held

remote. It will cost $79 (U.S.), with plans to launch in Canada before the end

of 2016.



Google Wi-Fi



Like the U.S.-only Eero and Luma, Wi-Fi is part of a new thinking in router

design. Rather than a single wireless unit, these routers use a number of

modular remote devices that can be placed around the home to create a much

stronger signal. One costs $129 (U.S.), and a three-pack costs $299. Coming soon

to Canada, likely in 2017.



Chromecast Ultra: Google is updating its TV dongle, which will now support 4K

and HDR content. It will cost $90 and launch sometime in November.



Google Home



Google Home is meant to compete with Amazon's Echo, a "smart" home speaker.

Using Google's Assistant, Home will allow you to use voice commands to play

music, get answers from Google, manage everyday tasks and control other smart

home devices. Expected to be priced at $129 (U.S.), which is cheaper than the

Echo at $179 (U.S.). Neither are available in Canada, though Google Home may

arrive in 2017.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





