                              338 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)



                            November 7, 2016 Monday



DAWN OF THE VIRTUAL ASSISTANT



SECTION: Pg. 5



LENGTH: 654 words





GOOGLE has hired comedy writers from Pixar and The Onion in a bid to make its

smart assistant more likeable.



It hopes to use their talent to "infuse personality" into its artificial

intelligent (AI) helper, which will be used in the firm's new Pixel phones, Duo

app and Home speaker.



The ultimate goal is to make users feel more emotionally connected to their

personal software agent and the firm believes a livelier disposition could make

this happen.



Last month, Google unveiled its Pixel smartphones and eagerly awaited Home

speaker that will both be designed with the smart assistant.



Although this may change the AI game, actually implementing it into a device is

much harder.



Inventors need to pay more attention to details such as latency, as humans do

not have the time to deal with that while conversing.



Gummi Hafsteinsson, product-management director of Google Home say that Google

wants its users to feel emotionally connected to assistant but the technology

"is still a ways off".



All the virtual assistants on the Market, such as Apple's Siri and Amazon's

Alexa, have some sort of personality to engage with their users.



They can tell jokes and even do entertaining tricks - just recently, Siri showed

iOS users how she can beatbox.



But aside from the minor chuckles, none of these assistants really have a grasp

on how to have a natural conversation.



They communicate with users through scripted responses and when they can't find

an answer to a question, the response is usually "I don't know" or "I'm not

sure".



Goggle's virtual assistant harness the power of Google's search engine along

with the AI technology the firm developed to beat a grandmaster at the ancient

board game Go to create assistants people can talk and text with as if they were

a human being.



Now, the firm hopes that by adding humour to the mix, its personal assistant

will be a game changer for its new technologies.



At a special event in San Francisco earlier this month, the firm unveiled a raft

of new products, including the Pixel phones and Home.



The home speaker, first shown off earlier this year, will be available soon and

will cost USD129 (RM541).



It will compete with Amazon's Echo, and double as a music speaker and personal

assistant, as well as being able to control a TV and hifi.



They include two new phones, a Pixel and the 5.5-inch Pixel XL.



Both phones will be available in 32GB (USD649 for the Pixel, USD769 for the XL)

and 128GB (USD749 for the Pixel, USD869 for the XL).



The devices will be available in Canada, the UK, Germany, Australia, and India.



Although very different, Google said the new products had one thing in common

-AI.



"We're at a seminal moment in computing," said Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google.



"We are evolving from a mobile first to an AI first world. Computing will be

everywhere, people will be able to interact seamlessly and above all, it will be

intelligent."



Pichai said a smart assistant was key to Google's plans.



"Our goal is to build a personal Google for each and every user."



Pichai said its image recognition system was now 93.9 per cent accurate. NYT of

smartphones based digital assistants.



Creative Strategies revealed that 21 per cent of its panel never used Siri, 43

per cent never touched OK Google and 72 per cent have never asked Cortana

anything.



They also found that two per cent of iPhone owners have never used Siri and only

four per cent of Android owners have never used OK Google, which suggests those

who own the phone do indeed call on the powers of the digital personas.



Approximately 395 of consumers use their voice assistant in their home, 51 per

cent in the car but only 1.3 per cent at work and six per cent in public.



Creative Strategies explains that the reason most usage is in the car is due to

the hands-free law that regulates driving and texting.



Those who have never used a voice assistant reported feeling uncomfortable

talking to their technology - particularly in public.



( END )



LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Bots



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2016 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              All Rights Reserved





