

Hours before Google's big event, UK retailer Carphone Warehouse has leaked
pictures and specifications ofthe company's new Pixel and Pixel XL
smartphones.Apart from pricing and availability, Carphone warehouse revealed
pretty much everything.

The Pixel and Pixel XL appearto have large bezels at the top and bottom of the
screen, along with prominent antenna bands along the back and sides.
Amirror-finish panel takesup the top half of the smartphones' rear where the
camera and fingerprint sensor are housed.

Carphone Warehousehighlighted Pixel features such as its AI-powered Assistant
for conversational search, Allo for messaging, Duo for FaceTime-style video
calls and unlimited photo storage. Both modelswere also shown to support Live
Cases  back covers that came with companion live wallpapers, previously made
available for the Nexus 5X, 6 and 6P in April.

In terms of specifications, rumors circulated around the 5-inch Pixel featuringa
quad-core 20GHz processor with 4GB RAM and 32GB storage. According to Carphone
Warehouse, those estimates came quite close.

The retailerlisted Pixel as having a Snapdragon 821 215GHz processor, with your
choice of 32GB or 128GB of space, as well as a microSD card slot for an extra
256GB. The screen is a Full HD AMOLED display protected by Gorilla Glass 4, and
there's an 8-megapixel camera above it.

The rear camera is a 12-megapixel shooter with an f/2.0 aperture and the handset
is said to be powered by a 2,770mAh battery.

The Pixel XL's page mentions a 55-inch Quad HD display with a 3,450mAh battery
other specifications, including Android Nougat 71 and the camera setup, remain
the same as the smaller device. Both phones appear to be available in black and
white.

Google's phones can go on to compete with this year's popular
devicespopulardeviceslike the Samsung Galaxy Note 7, the LG V20 and the Xiaomi's
Mi 5s  but willhave to score high on performance at a competitive price if the
tech giantwants to gainmarket share.All the aforementioned details look set tobe
confirmed at tomorrow's Google event.

The big daywill also be live streamed on the company's YouTube
channel.Courtesy:span style="color: #333399The Next Web

