                              349 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            March 28, 2013 Thursday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Chromebook Pixel LTE to launch on April 8



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 417 words





Google has confirmed that its premium notebook will officially go on sale in the

US next month and that owners will be tied to Verizon's network.



The notebook, which runs Google's own Chrome OS and, instead of installed

applications, offers access to software via its internet browser, caused quite a

stir when it was first unveiled in February. Boasting the highest resolution

screen of any 12-inch portable computer currently available, the Chromebook

Pixel is Google's attempt to show that it can do premium, desirable products

just as well as Apple.



However, at $1449 plus sales tax from the Google Play site, the Pixel may well

be premium but as to whether or not it is desirable, the jury is still out. As

well as LTE mobile internet, the Chromebook Pixel offers wifi connection, a full

touch screen, 4GB of RAM and a 64GB solid state hard disk. In terms of

applications, users have access to whatever web-based software Google offers

within Google Drive plus 100GB of free cloud-based storage. It's also worth

remembering that although the notebook connects to the LTE superfast mobile

broadband network, it doesn't support the older, more common 3G standard,

meaning that if LTE is unavailable, the computer is unable to step down to 3G

and maintain a connection. In other words, no LTE signal, no internet.



In comparison, Apple's range of super-lightweight Mac book Air notebooks --

which have a full operating system more powerful chipsets, a larger hard drive

and a range of leading edge software available -- start at $999 for the 11-inch

model while its professional range of MacBook Pro laptops start at $1199 for a

13-inch model complete with a 500GB hard disk and an optical drive capable of

reading and writing DVDs. Its battery also lasts 7 hours, compared with the

Chromebook Pixel's 5 hours. Such comparisons make the Chromebook Pixel look like

essentially a glorified internet browser --and a pricy one, at that -- however

the concept itself is a very valid one.



The original Chromebooks were offered as cheaper, safer and faster alternatives

to traditional notebooks with installed operating systems (such as Windows or

Mac OSX), and after two years on the market, according to Chitika Insights, the

Chrome OS now accounts for 0.7 percent of North American web traffic. That's

still a tiny amount but considering it accounted for less than 0.2 percent as

recently as October 2012 it is clearly starting to take hold.



Google is yet to confirm when the Pixel will be available outside the US.



LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2013 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





