                              350 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        The International Herald Tribune



                            February 25, 2013 Monday



New Chromebook adds player at the high end;

Touch-screen Pixel shows that Google wants to take on Apple and Microsoft



BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 806 words



DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO



ABSTRACT



The company has introduced the Pixel, a new version of its Chromebook range of

laptops that store everything online without desktop software.



FULL TEXT



Google, already dominant in the mobile arena, is stepping further into the

laptop business and moving way up the price scale.



The company has just introduced the Pixel, a new version of its Chromebook

laptops, which store everything online without desktop software. The latest

version has a few major distinguishing factors. Google designed and manufactured

the laptop itself, and it has a touch screen.



It is also much more expensive than previous Google Chromebooks. A Wi-Fi model

selling for $1,300 will begin shipping next week in Britain and the United

States, and a model equipped with a Long Term Evolution cellular network selling

for $1,450 will ship in the United States in April. By contrast, the Chromebook

that Google introduced last autumn cost $250, and was marketed as an

inexpensive, extra device for the home.



The Pixel is for power users, Sundar Pichai, Google's senior vice president for

Chrome, said at a news media event in a San Francisco design studio.



Translation: Google is going directly after Apple and Microsoft to try to sell

its own high-end devices.



The question is whether customers will buy a laptop at this price from an

untested manufacturer, especially when it requires people to do all their

computing in the cloud. There are a host of competitively priced computers on

the market with similar and additional features. Analysts say that in the near

future, most laptops will have touch screens.



''For people who have committed to the cloud and really want a good laptop, this

is the best laptop from a hardware standpoint,'' Mr. Pichai said. ''Some of them

buy Macs, some of them buy Windows 8 machines and we wanted to make sure you

could see Chromebooks in that segment.''



Mr. Pichai said that Google's engineers had paid obsessive attention to the

laptop's design. Its touch screen is brighter and taller and has higher

resolution than those of most laptops, though it also drains the battery more

quickly.



The keyboard responds differently to hard and soft typing. Then there are little

things - the screws are hidden, there is a microphone under the keyboard so the

computer can mute your typing when you are on a video chat and the base of the

computer stays put when you lift open the top.



The new Chromebook is a big step in Google's transition to being a hardware

company. It acquired Motorola Mobility and has teamed up with other

manufacturers to build previous Chromebooks and Android Nexus devices. It has

already built the ill-fated Nexus Q home entertainment device and Google

glasses.



''It's been a long time in computing since we've had this rate of change,''

Larry Page, Google's chief executive, told analysts in January. ''It probably

hasn't happened since the birth of personal computing. That's why we've put so

much focus on devices.''



When people use Google devices, the thinking goes, they are more likely to use

Google's other products - like search, docs and photo-sharing - and to see more

ads.



Chromebooks can store a small amount of data, like a file someone sends you to

download. But the idea is that users will do their computing in the cloud.

Instead of using Microsoft Word or Outlook, for instance, people use Google Docs

or Gmail.



That offers immediate backup and access to digital files from any Internet

connection.



''Even people like my mom and dad live in the cloud, they just don't know what

the cloud is,'' Mr. Pichai said.



The problem is that few people are ready to live entirely in the cloud, and even

many of those who are ready cannot do so because applications like Word are such

a big part of their computing lives.



Google added a few features to make that easier with the Pixel. If a user plugs

in a camera's memory card, the photos upload to Google Plus and the user can

share them with a click. With the help of Quickoffice, a start-up Google

acquired last year, a way to open, edit and send Word or Excel files seamlessly

was created on the Chromebook.



These features are an acknowledgement that Google Docs is nowhere close to

taking on Microsoft Office.



''All of us deal with Word files, Excel files,'' Mr. Pichai said. ''It's here to

stay.''



To help people make the cloud transition, Google is offering one terabyte of

Google Drive storage for three years with the Pixel. That amount of storage is

worth $1,800.



Mr. Pichai admitted that the lines are blurring between Google's two operating

systems - Chrome, used on the company's laptops, and Android, typically used for

touch-screen phones and tablets. He said that did not matter because users of

either operating system used the same Google services.



The Pixel, which is made in Taiwan, will be sold at bestbuy.com and online at

the Google Play store.



LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2013 International Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





