                              352 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                     September 25, 2016 Sunday 10:02 PM GMT



What time is Google October 4 event? Google home release date, 4K chromecast and

more rumoured to be announced;

Google is heavily rumoured to have two new Android phones in the pipeline - as

well as several other new pieces of hardware



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 538 words





Google has posted out invitations and a teaser video for a special event it is

hosting on October 4.



It's widely believed to be a launch event for a pair of new smartphones that the

search giant hopes will square off against the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.



Plenty of rumours are already flying about what to expect - the most notable of

which is that Google will be dropping the Nexus branding in favour of Pixel.



Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones: Release date, price, news and rumours about

Google's upcoming iPhone 7 rivals



And with just a day to go, the cat looks to be well and truly out of the bag

thanks to Carphone Warehouse. The UK retailer has inadvertently listed pictures

and details of the upcoming phones.



The finished pictures show the phone from both sides as well as listing some of

its key features. The white gadget bears a striking resemblance to the iPhone 6

although it has the rear-mounted fingerprint scanner popular with other Android

handsets.



Google Allo: New 'smart' messaging app uses artificial intelligence to predict

what you want to say next



Both the smaller Pixel and the larger Pixel XL will make the jump to the USB-C

charging port and both will have 4GB of RAM and the same 12MP camera on the back

(8MP on the front). There will be a choice of either 32GB or 128GB of internal

storage.



According to the Carphone Warehouse listings, Google will be offering unlimited

amounts of photo storage through its Google Photos app. The latest version of

Android (Nougat) is preinstalled and with that comes Google's AI-powered

assistant Allo and the FaceTime-style app Duo.



It also revealed new Live Cases - basically covers for the phone that match with

live wallpapers you can install.



iPhone 7 HissGate: Apple customers report hearing hissing sounds coming from

their new iPhones



The event itself is being held in San Francisco and kicks off at 9am Pacific

Standard Time.



Over here in the UK, that equals 5pm in British Summer Time.



The event will be live-streamed on YouTube for any of those who can't make it

over to San Francisco in person.



Along with the two new smartphones, Google is going to try and push further into

your home with its other new kit.



Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer the day before

official announcement



First up is expected to be a 4K version of its popular Chromecast streaming

device. Netflix and YouTube already offer some content in 4K so providing your

TV is up to the task, then the Chromecast can handle it.



What made the original Chromecast so popular is that it was available at £30. If

Google keeps the price the same for the new one then it could have another hit

on its hands.



Just like Amazon, Google has a speaker that's designed to sit in your home and

answer any query you have - from football scores to the news headlines and the

weather.



Amazon Echo smart speaker goes on sale in the UK - and Apple's already planning

a rival



It's called Google Home and isn't a secret - but we're expecting the company to

announce pricing and availability in the UK at its October 4 event.



Amazon has recently launched its own Echo speaker in the UK, which means Google

will have to bring it out quickly and at an attractive price in order to compete

with the retailer.



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





