                              353 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Best of the blog | Digital life



SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 32



LENGTH: 859 words





Hurricane Sandy isn't the only thing raining on Google's parade this week. The

rumour mill has apparently spoilt Google's festivities, too, for its plans to

release details of its new tablet that leave no stone unturned.



Google was supposed to launch new Nexus phones and tablets in New York on

Monday, but it had to postpone the event after its venue was declared to be

inside the hurricane's evacuation zone.



So perhaps it's just as well that BriefMobile.com has come to the party with

what purport to be full details, along with 16 hastily-taken photographs, of

what was to be the star attraction at the event: Google's Nexus 10 by Samsung,

which BriefMobile describes as the "best-specced Android tablet in the world".



The tablet has a 1.7 GHz dual-core processor, 2 gigabytes of RAM, a 2560 x 1600

pixel display with a pixel density of 298.9 pixels per inch, and near field

communication.



Probably the most important spec is the pixel density, because if it's true it

means Apple's Retina display is no longer at the top of the tablet heap. The

Nexus 10 will be 13 per cent sharper.



Not that releasing a display that's sharper than the Retina will be much better

than releasing a display that's just as sharp as the Retina: you can't really

see the pixels on the iPad, and the extra pixel density on the Nexus 10 will be

wasted on all but the most eagle-eyed. Still, it doesn't hurt to have bragging

rights.



The leak doesn't just have the specs and images for the Nexus 10, by the way.

Unusually, it also has benchmarks and, unusually for a Samsung device, they

aren't all that good: some results appear to be below those of older, nominally

slower machines. That's either because the super-high-resolution screen is

eating all the processor power or because the device that was tested was still

pre-production and was not yet optimised for speed. Let's hope it's the latter.



After 1.24 billion hours of user testing and just as much talking, Windows 8

finally hit the streets on Friday.



In a string of events around the world, including one in Sydney, Microsoft

launched the new operating system that it hopes will make Windows relevant in a

world where desktop PCs are increasingly becoming irrelevant.



Windows 8 represents the most radical overhaul of Windows that Microsoft has

ever made. Gone is the start button (though you can get it back with third-party

add-ons). Gone are the long lists of applications users would have to scroll

through to find the one they wanted. (You could probably get those back, too,

but why would you?)



Instead, applications appear as app tiles on the user's home screen, quite like

they do on a smartphone, and very much like they do on Microsoft's smartphones,

from which Windows 8 has taken many of its design cues.



Gone, too, for many apps is the Windows desktop and indeed the very concept of a

window, from which Windows took its name. Windows 8, and its little sister

Windows RT, has a new user interface known as Metro, which doesn't put apps into

windows sitting in front of a desktop, but rather makes them permanently

full-screen, just like they are on smartphones - although there is a feature

that allows you to view a second app on one-third of the screen.



(Older applications, ones that haven't been rewritten to take advantage of

Metro, will still work using the old desktop and windows metaphors, at least for

Windows 8. Windows RT, which is designed to run on lower-powered tablets more

akin to iPads, won't run old-fashioned Windows apps, and as such its list of

apps is very limited for now.)



The overhaul of Windows is so extensive, it has many pundits wondering whether

ordinary users will bother with the upgrade. Why learn a whole new way of doing

things, when the old way worked well enough? Why move to Windows 8, when Windows

7 is itself an excellent operating system?



The answer to all those questions is the tablet.



Aaugh!



That's the sound Charlie Brown makes when Lucy Van Pelt snatches the football

away just as he's about to kick it, causing him to go flying into the air.



It's also the sound Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer must have made when Apple



announced a surprise, dramatic upgrade to the iPad last week, just days before

he was to launch the Surface, Microsoft's first tablet. Aaugh!



Or maybe it's more accurate to say that Lucy (or, rather, Apple) has suddenly

moved the goalposts. The surprise changes Apple made to the iPad are dramatic

and impressive, but they still leave Microsoft with a shot.



Apple announced that it had doubled the speed and increased the battery life of

its iPad. It was the only major surprise in its event in San Jose, California,

which mostly centred on the new iPad mini, the details of which had been well

and truly leaked over the past several months.



(The only real question with the mini was the semantic one: would Apple spell it

with a capital "M"?)



What the Surface has, that even the new, faster iPad lacks, is a brand new

operating system, Windows RT, with a very new and very modern user interface,

Metro. That point of differentiation is unchanged by Apple's surprise move.



Of course, it remains to be seen whether Metro will be enough to win over

customers.



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





