

SAN FRANCISCO: Google yesterday announced a new "Pixel" smartphone and a suite
of consumer electronics products for the home, planting itself firmly in the
hardware business and challenging Apple's iPhone at the high end of the $400
billion (R5.5 trillion) global smartphone market.

The string of announcements - including the $649 Pixel, a smart speaker for the
living room dubbed "Home", a virtual reality headset, and a new Wi-Fi router -
is the clearest sign yet that Google intends to compete head-to-head with Apple,
Amazon and even manufacturers of cellphones, using its own Android operating
system.

Echoing Apple's long-standing philosophy, Google said it was striving for the
tighter integration of hardware and software.

"The thinking is that if we can work on hardware and software together, we can
innovate much better," said hardware chief Rick Osterloh, citing a recent
reorganisation drive uniting once-disparate hardware teams.

Under the new structure, the company has begun to take a much more integrated
approach to things like supply chain management and design, added Mario Queiroz,
a vice-president of product management.

"The learnings from one product are benefiting another product," he said. Unlike
earlier Google phone efforts under the Nexus brand, the Pixel devices are
designed and developed by Google from the start, although Taiwan'sâ[#x20ac]¨HTC
Corp will serve as the contract manufacturer.

Taking another page from the Apple playbook, Google said it would work
exclusively with a single carrier in the US, Verizon Communications, on the
Pixel, emulating Apple's agreement to launch the original iPhone with AT&T.

That deal gave Apple unprecedented control over the look of the phone and how it
worked. Shares of Google's parent company, Alphabet, closed up 0.3 percent,
while Verizon fell 1.2 percent after the announcement.

With a higher Quad HD resolution, compared to 1080p on the smaller version, the
Pixel's high-end camera is a distinguishing feature of the phone, which will be
able to receive a seven-hour charge in 15 minutes.- Reuters

