                              357 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                             July 10, 2014 Thursday



US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on July 8 titled as "Processing a

satellite image of a region to determine a terrain boundary included therein"



LENGTH: 271  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,774,470 on

July 8, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Processing a satellite

image of a region to determine a terrain boundary included therein"



Inventors:  Schmidt; Karl Johann (Zurich, CH), Heiler; Matthias (Zurich, CH),

Kehl; Roland (Dubendorf, CH)

Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A

system and method for processing a satellite image to determine a terrain

boundary. Pixel data corresponding to a satellite image is obtained. For each

pixel within a subset of the pixel data, multiple image features are determined

corresponding to texture and color statistics for the pixel and neighboring

pixels, based on a feature selection process for selecting discriminative

features. An initial set of rules is generated for determining a terrain

boundary. Plural image models for applying to the pixel data are created based

on the initial set of rules. The plural image models are applied to the pixel

data to generate at least one probability map, which represents output of the

plural image models and corresponds to different terrains within the satellite

image. A binary label mask is generated for the satellite image based on the

probability map, and mask indicates segmentations corresponding to the different

terrains."



The patent was filed on April 3, 2012 Application no. 13/438,788



For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query

regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





