

Over these last few weeks we''ve been teased by the possibility of a highend
touchscreen Chromebook, thanks to a suspiciously leaked promo video showing the
mythical device. Well, the rumours were true. Meet the Chromebook Pixel.

Google unveiled the Chromebook Pixel just over a week ago. The 12.85 inch laptop
runs Chrome OS, sports the highest resolution screen ever seen in a laptop, and
has a build quality to rival the MacBook Pro. Not only that, the laptop features
a multi-touch screen, a backlit keyboard that auto-adjusts based on ambient
light, and optional 4G LTE connectivity.

The LTE model is not yet available to purchase in the UK, so it''s WiFi only
until further notice.

Considering the success of the UK''s recent 4G spectrum auctions, it seems odd
Google is not providing an LTE equipped Chromebook Pixel in preparation for this
year''s 4G roll-out, especially considering EE''s current 4G availability. The
Chromebook Pixel is a powerful, premium device targeted at power users,
especially given its price. At £1049.99 plus shipping, it is considerably more
expensive than the average Chromebook, and that''s where things get confusing.

Chrome OS was designed exclusively with web-based applications in mind. An
operating system that delivers Google''s full range of services in a
lightweight, affordable and power efficient package. This is a system designed
to run lean, with modest processing and graphical requirements. Not the kind of
software that warrants the Pixel''s high performance specs.

Google already sells Samsung Chromebooks for £229 and £330, a Samsung Chromebox
for £279 and an Asus Chromebook for £199. All four are fully capable of running
Chrome OS smoothly on much more affordable hardware, which makes the Pixel seem
overkill. In fact, both Samsung Chromebooks have longer lasting batteries.

The £229 Samsung lasts an average of 6.5 hours, whereas the Samsung 550 model
lasts around 6 hours and comes with 3G connectivity as standard. For £999
including shipping you can purchase a MacBook Air with similar specifications,
that''s £50 cheaper than the Pixel. On one hand, you don''t get an equivalent
ultra-high resolution touch-capable screen, but on the other, you get around two
hours extra battery life and can run far more applications, as well as every
Google service available on Chrome OS.

On the plus side, Google has managed to create hardware to rival that of
Apple''s.

If Chrome OS continues to mature into a fully fledged operating system, then one
day we might all be using Google''s cloud OS. But in Chrome OS''s current form,
the Pixel feels like too much, too soon, for too high a price.

Key features: ? Gorilla Glass multi-touch super high-res screen ? 2560 x 1700 at
239 PPI ? Intel Core[TM] i5 processor (Dual Core 1.8GHz) ? Intel HD Graphics
4000 (Integrated) ? 4GB RAM ? 32GB solid state drive (64GB on LTE model) ? Up to
five hours' active use ? Integrated 720p HD camera ? 12.85" display, 3:2 aspect
ratio ? 3.35 lbs/1.52 kg ? One terabyte Google Drive cloud storage for three
years Your bridge results are on page 42

