                              359 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                           October 18, 2014 Saturday



US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on October 14 titled as "Methods

and systems for removal of rolling shutter effects"



LENGTH: 258  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,860,825, on

October 14, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Methods and systems

for removal of rolling shutter effects"



Inventors: Grundmann; Matthias (Atlanta, GA), Kwatra; Vivek (Santa Clara, CA),

Essa; Irfan (Atlanta, GA)

Assignee: Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:

"Methods and systems for rolling shutter removal are described. A computing

device may be configured to determine, in a frame of a video, distinguishable

features. The frame may include sets of pixels captured asynchronously. The

computing device may be configured to determine for a pixel representing a

feature in the frame, a corresponding pixel representing the feature in a

consecutive frame; and determine, for a set of pixels including the pixel in the

frame, a projective transform that may represent motion of the camera. The

computing device may be configured to determine, for the set of pixels in the

frame, a mixture transform based on a combination of the projective transform

and respective projective transforms determined for other sets of pixels.

Accordingly, the computing device may be configured to estimate a motion path of

the camera to account for distortion associated with the asynchronous capturing

of the sets of pixels."



The patent was filed on September 12, 2012 Application no. 13/611,023



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





