                              360 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                    The Record (Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario



                            February 22, 2013 Friday

                                 First Edition



Google introduces touch-screen version of Pixel Chromebook



BYLINE: Brian Womack, Bloomberg News



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F2



LENGTH: 416 words





Google Inc., owner of the world's most popular search engine, debuted a

touch-screen version of the Chromebook laptop, stepping up its challenge to

Microsoft and Apple in computer hardware.



A Wi-Fi only version of the Pixel Chromebook went on sale in the U.S. on

Thursday for $1,299, Google said at an event in San Francisco. In April, the

company plans to introduce a $1,449 version with access to so-called long-term

evolution wireless networks, the fastest available.



Google, already leading in the market for smartphones with its Android software,

is expanding in hardware to lure more users to its web-based services with

Chromebooks that rely on internet applications instead of built-in software.



The company is taking a risk by pushing into the high end of a personal-computer

market that's been slammed by diminishing demand. Laptop purchases have tapered

off as consumers and businesses increasingly favour smartphones and tablets.



"There's a limited number of things you can do well with these types of

machines," said Al Hilwa, an analyst at IDC. "The price is fairly high."



In June, Google unveiled a $199 touch-screen tablet, Nexus 7, to compete with

Apple's iPad as well as the Surface, a tablet introduced that month by

Microsoft. An older Chromebook made by Acer Inc. costs $199, while some versions

from Samsung Electronics Co. and Hewlett-Packard Co. cost more than $300.



Google has stumbled with some previous forays into hardware. The company's

Chrome laptops have been slow to gain traction with consumers, as have the

Google TV set-top boxes and high-definition televisions.



The Pixel machine will be built by a manufacturer in Taiwan, Google said,

without naming the company. It has 4.3 million pixels, more than twice as many

as a typical high-definition television, and features a 12.85-inch screen,

Google said. The device has a glass touchpad, and it runs Google's Chrome

operating system.



"Touch is here to stay and is the future," Sundar Pichai, senior vice-president

for Chrome, said at the event. "We wanted to design something which was very

high end and premium for power users - people who are very, very demanding of

their laptops."



Best Buy Co. will sell the Pixel Chromebook on its website, as will Google.



The new Chromebook features an Intel Corp. chip to enhance speed and

performance. The computers, which come with a free terabyte of storage for one

year, are encased in an anodized aluminum alloy and come with three microphones

that assist in noise cancellation.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2013 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





