                              361 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                               Los Angeles Times



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

                                  Home Edition



Google shows off new phone, VR headset and Chromecast



BYLINE: Tracey Lien



SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 5



LENGTH: 338 words



DATELINE:  SAN FRANCISCO





Gadgets have never been Google's specialty, but they could play a big role in

the tech giant's future.



The Mountain View, Calif., firm on Tuesday announced a suite of devices that

could help draw consumers to Google's software and search products.



Pixel. This is Google's latest entry into smartphones. Available in 5-inch and

5.5-inch models, the Pixel comes with a 12.3-megapixel rear-facing camera that

has video stabilization and zero shutter lag.



It comes pre-installed with Google Assistant and Google's messaging and

video-calling software, as well as 24/7 live customer care, free and unlimited

Google Photos storage and a quick-charge feature that yields seven hours of

battery life on a 15-minute charge. And unlike the iPhone 7, it has a

3.5-millimeter audio jack.



The phone starts at $649 via an exclusive deal with Verizon and is also

available for $27 a month on the Google Store. It is available for pre-order.



Daydream View. Google was the first company to try to make virtual reality

accessible through Google Cardboard, its low-end virtual reality headset made

from cardboard and plastic. Its newest headset, the Daydream View, is comparable

to the more high-tech Samsung Gear VR, but it still undercuts the competition at

$79.



The Daydream View is 30% lighter than similar devices, fits over glasses and is

wrapped in fabric -- making it resemble an oversized sleep mask. It also comes

with a controller that enables users to point and even draw in the virtual

world.



The Daydream View is compatible with Pixel and other Daydream-ready Android

smartphones.



Google Wi-Fi. Google will launch its own range of modular routers starting at

$129 for a single router, and $299 for a pack of three (these are for larger

homes that need a Wi-Fi signal boost).



Chromecast Ultra. A successor to the thumb-sized device that streams digital

media, the Chromecast Ultra is 1.8 times faster than the original Chromecast and

supports 4K resolution. It will be available in November for $69.



--



tracey.lien@latimes.com



Twitter: @traceylien



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GOOGLE'S NEW smartphone, Pixel, starts at $649 through Verizon

and includes Google Assistant.  PHOTOGRAPHER:John G Mabanglo European Pressphoto

Agency



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times

                              All Rights Reserved





