                              367 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                               The New York Times



                            February 25, 2013 Monday

                              Late Edition - Final



Google Unveils Chromebook With Touch Screen



BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER



SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6



LENGTH: 855 words





Google is stepping further into the laptop business, and moving way up the price

scale.



The company introduced the Pixel on Thursday, a new version of its Chromebook

laptops that store everything online without desktop software. The latest

version has a few major distinguishing factors. Google designed and manufactured

the laptop itself, and it has a touch screen.



It is also much more expensive than previous Google Chromebooks. A Wi-Fi model

selling for $1,300 will begin shipping next week, and a model equipped with an

LTE cellular network selling for $1,450 will ship in April. By contrast, the

Chromebook that Google introduced last fall cost cost $250, and was marketed as

an inexpensive, extra device for the home.



The Pixel, meanwhile, is for power users, said Sundar Pichai, Google's senior

vice president for Chrome, at a news media event in a San Francisco design

studio.



Translation: Google is going directly after Apple and Microsoft to try to sell

its own high-end devices.



The question is whether customers will buy a laptop at this price from an

untested manufacturer, especially when it requires people to do all their

computing in the cloud. There are a host of competitively priced computers on

the market with similar and additional features. Analysts say that in the near

future, most laptops will have touch screens.



''For people who have committed to the cloud and really want a good laptop, this

is the best laptop from a hardware standpoint,'' Mr. Pichai said. ''Some of them

buy Macs, some of them buy Windows 8 machines and we wanted to make sure you

could see Chromebooks in that segment.''



Mr. Pichai said that Google's engineers paid obsessive attention to the laptop's

design. Its touch screen is brighter, taller and higher resolution than most

laptops, though it also drains the battery more quickly. The keyboard responds

differently based on how hard or soft you type.



Then there are little things -- the screws are hidden, there is a microphone

under the keyboard so the computer can mute your typing when you are on a video

chat and the base of the computer stays put when you lift open the top.



The new Chromebook is a big step in Google's transition to hardware company. It

acquired Motorola Mobility and has teamed up with other manufacturers to build

previous Chromebooks and Android Nexus devices. It has already built the

ill-fated Nexus Q home entertainment device and Google glasses.



''It's been a long time in computing since we've had this rate of change, it

probably hasn't happened since the birth of personal computing,'' Larry Page,

Google's chief executive, told analysts in January. ''That's why we've put so

much focus on devices.''



When people use Google devices, the thinking goes, they are more likely to use

Google's other products -- like search, docs and photo-sharing -- and see more

ads.



Chromebooks can store a small amount of data, like a file someone sends you to

download. But the idea is that users will do their computing in the cloud.

Instead of using Microsoft Word or Outlook, for instance, people use Google Docs

or Gmail. That offers immediate backup and the ability to access digital files

from any Internet-connected computer.



''Even people like my mom and dad live in the cloud, they just don't know what

the cloud is,'' Mr. Pichai said.



The problem is that few people are ready to live entirely in the cloud, and even

many of those who are ready cannot do so because applications like Word are such

a big part of their computing lives.



Google added a few features to make that easier with the Pixel. If a user plugs

in a camera's memory card, the photos upload to Google Plus and the user can

share them with a click. With the help of Quickoffice, a start-up Google

acquired last year, a way to seamlessly open, edit and send Word or Excel files

was created on the Chromebook.



These features are an acknowledgement that Google Docs is nowhere close to

taking on Microsoft Office.



''All of us deal with Word files, Excel files,'' Mr. Pichai said. ''It's here to

stay.''



To help people make the cloud transition, Google is offering one terabyte of

Google Drive storage for three years with the Pixel. That amount of storage is

worth $1,800. The more expensive model of the Pixel can also tap into Verizon's

cellular network when there is no WiFi available. The cellular model will not

require a subscription to a monthly data plan. Instead, users will have various

options for connecting to the cellular network, like buying access for a day or

adding their device to their monthly Verizon plans. The LTE-enabled Chromebooks

also come with 100 megabytes of free data traffic each month for two years.



Mr. Pichai admitted that the lines are blurring between Google's two operating

systems -- Chrome, used on the company's laptops, and Android, typically used

for touch-screen phones and tablets. He said that did not matter because users

of either operating system used the same Google services.



The Pixel, which is made in Taiwan, will be sold at bestbuy.com and online at

the Google Play store.



This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in

print.



URL: http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/02/21/google

-introduces-a-touchscreen-laptop/



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sundar Pichai of Google with the Chromebook Pixel laptop.

(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company





