                              370 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Indian Express



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google Pixel launch: Are you ready for some Google Magic, or should we say

Google Assistant?



BYLINE: Nandagopal Rajan



LENGTH: 589  words





Google Pixel is the first smartphone that will come with the Google Assistant

inbuilt.



So what is this Google Magic that we are going to see with the new Pixel phones?

The real clues on what this means came a week before in New Delhi, not in San

Francisco. At the Google for India event, the search giant showcased how it has

progressed on Machine Learning and Machine Intelligence, more on the former

which improves the latter in the long run.



Today, CEO Sundar Pichai said the machine learning has now reached accuracy

level of 93.9 per cent. While suggesting that the path ahead would be tougher he

said that, however, each percentage change translated into a huge experiential

improvement for the user. For instance, with pictures Google can now understand

more detail and context and not just the subject like before. Also, this was

making translate and text to speech much more impressive and India has been one

of the test labs for most of these technologies.



But what does this mean for Pixel? Well, Pixel is the first smartphone that will

come with the Google Assistant inbuilt. Nothing new you might say, especially

when we have had Siri for many years and Google Now for at least a couple. But

yes, it is a big thing because your assistant is also an intelligent, always

learning, assistant now. So over a period of time it learns how you do things

and how you like things to be done. As someone who has been using Google Allo

for a couple of weeks now, I am very impressed by the progress of 'my'

assistant.



Yes, the MY assistant bit is important too. Pichai says the idea is to make a

different Google, or at least Google Assistant, for each user. So my Google will

be different from your Google, for over time it should be able to throw me

different results from what you get. Google already does this in products like

Google News, but when this comes to search things will be very different. In

India, if you are in a Hindi speaking state, Google already shows you a Hindi

results tab. But the Google Assistant should be able to learn that you are not a

Hindi speaker and filter out those results soon enough, maybe even throwing you

results in your own language.



Then there is the Google Home, the Wi-Fi speaker with Assistant built in. So

Google will be learning about you and answering your queries when you are home

too and these will be contextually aware and different what it shows on the

phone.



Also, the Assistant is getting partners and will be an open ecosystem. So Indian

Express, for instance, will be able to send daily updates and alerts to everyone

who likes our content. Or a grocery chain will be able to interact with you to

check if you are out of any stuff at regular intervals and take orders.

Assistant will be able to respond to direct action requests as well as

conversation actions.



But let's not forget that at the end of the day Google is an advertising company

too. So it would be really tough to keep the ads away. So every morning there

could be an ad pop-up asking you to consider a publisher other than the Indian

Express, or to try out a different grocer. With Google knowing so much about

you, there is a question of how comfortable you would be with this. For

instance, we already see what this can do to you online with ads following you

even on the mail based on the content and context. We can just hope Google will

not go for an overkill when it comes to selling ads and making money. We might,

just might, put up with some of it for the sake of the convenience that is the

Google Assistant.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





