                              373 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                           October 22, 2016 Saturday



Google shows off in its first real-world shop



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 356 words





NEW YORK · It's not exactly a store, but the Google "showroom" that has just

opened in New York is the Internet giant's first real-world shop and a step onto

terrain where rival Apple has excelled.



The success of the temporary storefront that Google opened in the trendy Soho

neighbourhood could help the company decide whether to follow Apple's lead and

operate its own bricks-and-mortar retail operations.



The New York pop-up shop will be open until the end of the year, and will let

people get their hands on new Google devices such as the Pixel smartphone, which

began shipping on Thursday in a direct challenge to Apple's latest iPhones.



"This is not even a testing ground, just an extension of the launch," Google

spokesman Chrissy Persico said at the showroom opening.



"We want people to come in and experience the products."



Google early this month took on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push

into hardware, launching the in-house designed Pixel and a slew of other devices

showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.



By producing both the Pixel's hardware and its Android software, Google is

making a more direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.



The pop-up shop also displays Google's freshly unveiled Daydream View virtual

reality headset, a modular Wi-Fi system and a Home virtual assistant that will

challenge the Amazon Echo device.



Nothing is sold at the Google shop, but the staff directs potential customers to

the company's online store or to telephone operators who can take orders for

products.



A wall in the shop is decorated with an artful arrangement of blue, red, yellow

and green blocks, set up to display the Internet company's trademark colours.



Only about 30 visitors ventured into the pop-up store for its opening morning, a

lean showing in comparison to the mobs typically drawn to new Apple stores.



Apple also has a shop in Soho, and many more across the United States and the

world.



As differences on the hardware side of premium smartphones have faded,

competitors have increasingly stressed "experiences" such as smooth access to

content or services.



AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Visitors to the Google pop-up shop in New York trying out the company's

new Daydream View virtual reality headset. Nothing is sold at the shop, but it

allows people to get their hands on new Google devices such as the Pixel

smartphone, the Home virtual assistant and the Daydream View.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





