                              37 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:10 PM GMT



Google Pixel launch LIVE: Pixel smartphones, Google Home speaker and Daydream VR

expected at October 4 event;

Watch the live stream of Google's event this evening, where it is widely

expected to announce its new Pixel handsets, as well as its Amazon Echo rival

and new VR headset



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 715 words





Google is holding an event in San Francisco today , where it is widely expected

to unveil its new Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones .



There are already numerous leaks and rumours about the two smartphones, which

are expected to go head-to-head with Apple iPhone 7 and 7 Plus .



Google is also expected to use the event to unveil the Google Home speaker - its

answer to Amazon Echo , a 4K version of its popular Chromecast streaming device,

and possibly even its Daydream virtual reality headset.



What time is Google's October 4 event 2016? Google Home release date, 4K

Chromecast and Pixel smartphones rumoured to be announced



Google Pixel and Pixel XL phones: Specs, price, release date and rumours about

Google's new Android smartphones



The event kicks off at 9am Pacific Standard Time - that's 5pm here in the UK.

You can watch a live stream of the event in the window above.



Here's everything we're expecting to see:



The Pixel will reportedly have a 5-inch display, and the Pixel XL will come in

at 5.5 inches. While some rumours suggest HTC will make both of the handsets,

others claim the smaller device will be made by LG.



Google Pixel XL vs iPhone 7 Plus - which smartphone will win when Google takes

on Apple?



Both models are said to boast a quad-core Qualcomm processor, 4GB of RAM,

12-megapixel rear camera, 8-megapixel selfie camera, a rear-mounted fingerprint

reader and a USB Type-C port. There will be a choice of either 32GB or 128GB of

internal storage.



Apart from size, the only thing to distinguish the Pixel from the Pixel XL will

be the battery. The Pixel XL will come with a very respectable 2,770mAh battery,

while the XL will boast a whopping 3,450mAh cell.



Both smartphones will come pre-installed with the latest version of Android,

nicknamed "Nougat" , which comes with Google's AI-powered assistant Allo and the

FaceTime-style app Duo .



Although they won't be manufactured directly by Google, the company will oversee

the entire design process to help it integrate with Android Nougat as closely as

possible.



How much will the Google Pixel and Pixel XL phones cost? Best UK deals and where

to find them



Just like Amazon, Google has a speaker that's designed to sit in your home and

answer any query you have - from football scores to the news headlines and the

weather.



It's called Google Home and isn't a secret - but we're expecting the company to

announce pricing and availability in the UK at its October 4 event.



Google Home connects to the internet and a range of smart devices from light

controls and thermostats to music streaming services to carry out scores of

tasks.



The speaker, which will come in a range of colours to match home decor, uses

artificial intelligence to learn about the user and get to know their needs,

likes and dislikes.



Amazon has recently launched its own Echo speaker in the UK , which means Google

will have to bring it out quickly and at an attractive price in order to compete

with the retailer.



Google is is expected to unveil a 4K version of its popular Chromecast streaming

device. Netflix and YouTube already offer some content in 4K so providing your

TV is up to the task, then the Chromecast can handle it.



What made the original Chromecast so popular is that it was available at £30. If

Google keeps the price the same for the new one then it could have another hit

on its hands.



Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer day before official

announcement



Back in May, at its I/O developer conference in California, Google announced it

was working on a new Android-based virtual reality platform called Daydream .



The platform will be optimised to run on a number of Android smartphones -

including those from manufacturers like Samsung, Huawei and HTC - as well as

dedicated VR headsets.



At the time, Google also promised to release its own phone-powered headset "in

the autumn", and many are expecting it to make an appearance at Google's event

this evening.



According to rumours, the headset is likely to be similar to the cost of a

Samsung Gear VR headset (around £80) and come with a Bluetooth controller for an

additional £20-£30.



Google will release a VR-optimised version of its Play Store for Daydream, and

the company has struck some partnerships with media companies and others to

develop apps running this new VR platform.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





