                              382 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday

                               Australian Edition



Google to make the call on Pixel branding



BYLINE: Chris Griffith, Upgrades



SECTION: AUSTRALIANIT; Pg. 29



LENGTH: 575  words





New Pixel-branded phones, the long-awaited Daydream virtual reality platform and

Google Home could be among items announced at a major Alphabet/Google event in

San Francisco next week.



Like Apple, Google makes us guess about what it will launch on October 4. But

again like Apple, there are more probable contenders among the rumours.



Missing from the speculation is an upgrade to Android Wear, Google's operating

system for smartwatches that is badly out of date.



Apple's Watch-OS and Samsung's Tizen offer superior smartwatch experiences. With

Motor-ola, LG and Huawei not expected to release Android Wear watches this year,

the future of Google-inspired smartwatches is nebulous.



On the other hand, Google's overwhelmingly successful Chrome-cast dongle, which

lets you stream content from your phone or tablet to a TV, is tipped to get an

upgrade to 4K. If it does, users can choose 4K content on their phone, and have

their 4K TV fetch it and play it in ultra-high definition resolution.



It is almost guaranteed we will see new branded Google phones. Since 2010,

Google had tasked manufacturers such as Samsung, LG, Motorola, HTC and more

recently Huawei to make "Nexus" phones, handsets that ran an unmodified or

vanilla version of its Android operating system.



Rumours have swirled about a new "Pixel" range, a 5-inch Pixel and larger

5.5-inch Pixel XL handset. Websites have run photos of both with aluminium

finishes, and home screen redesigns with circular icons and launcher shortcuts

in Android Nougat 7.1. Google has also released intriguing new videos hinting at

the devices.



After so many reports, it would be hard to accept that none of this is true.

Google's Home speaker, a voice recognition competitor to Amazon Echo's Alexa, is

another contender. Given that Apple has HomeKit working as an app, Google has to

ramp up its home automation and Internet of Things offerings to attract

developers. This month it released an IoT kit to help developers build IoT apps

and there's been reported moves about this working in concert with its Nest

thermostat ecosystem.



In May, Google announced its Daydream virtual reality platform and there is some

belief it will launch next week. Daydream VR experiences designed by developers

will play on Daydream-compatible VR headsets, although it's unclear whether

Google will release its own headset or leave that to manufacturers.



Manufacturers will have to build fast smartphones with low latency that drive

the Daydream VR experience.



A blog by Google's developers includes reference to experiments in social

interactions in VR, such as trying on hats and sunglasses in virtual shops,

interactions between real and virtual worlds and experiments that make use of

existing VR controllers such as HTC Vive.



Already, Australian VR production companies are gearing to build VR experiences

in Daydream.



Red Cartel managing director Landon Curry said the audience he could reach

through Google and its Android devices was larger when compared with developing

for Oculus Rift and using a Samsung Gear VR headset.



Red Cartel already has developed a VR experience for MAX, part of the Tatts

Group, as an internal branding exercise. It includes a virtual lift experience,

which could be adapted to, say, promoting an airline lounge, where customers

enter the lounge virtually after travelling by lift.Mr Curry said developers who

built games using engines such as Unity were well placed to build VR

applications in Daydream.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





