                              383 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google Pixel phones and Home speaker take on Siri and Echo



LENGTH: 1061 words



DATELINE: Bangladesh





Bangladesh, Oct. 5 -- Google has placed a virtual assistant at the heart of its

latest smartphones and first voice-activated speaker.



The two Pixel handsets are the first mobiles to trigger Google Assistant by

pressing their home buttons, somewhat like Apple's Siri.



The Home speaker lets the same artificial intelligence tool be controlled

without use of a touchscreen. It rivals Amazon's Echo.



Google also unveiled new virtual reality kit and a 4K media streamer.



The Assistant has two key advantages over rival systems:



#it can hold a conversation, in which one question or command builds on the

last, rather than dealing with each request in isolation



#it draws on Google's Knowledge Graph database, which links together information

about more 70 billion facts, and has been in use for four years



However, the US company will have to overcome privacy concerns and convince

users that chatting to a virtual assistant has advantages over using individual

apps.



Google already offers the Assistant as part of its chat app Allo - but the

software has been installed on only a small minority of phones that support it

as yet.



SMARTER PHONES



The decision to brand the phones with the Pixel name, rather than Nexus, marks a

break with the past, and is intended to signify that they were designed in house

rather than by another manufacturer.



The devices come in two sizes - with either a 5in (12.7cm) or 5.5in (14cm) OLED

(organic light-emitting diode) screen - but otherwise have similar specs.



Google said the 12.3 megapixel rear camera they share was the best on the market

- basing its claim on an independent test by DxO Labs. And as further

enticement, it is offering unlimited storage for the photos.



Google also drew attention to the devices' glass-and-aluminium bodies, and

specifically noted they featured a headphone jack - unlike Apple and Motorola's

latest models.



Unlike most Android phones, the Pixel and Pixel XL will automatically install

operating-system and security updates as soon as they are released.



But it is their ability to access Assistant as a standalone facility that makes

them unique, at least for now.



"It goes one step further than tapping on the microphone in the Google Search

app and getting a bunch of responses - it gives a conversational feel to what

you are doing," Google executive Mario Queiroz told the BBC.



Users can, for example, ask for what films are playing at nearby cinemas, and

then follow up the reply by saying: "We want to bring the kids," to narrow down

the selection.



"Having a conversation - one where you ask a question and then follow-on

questions - is a much more natural way to interact, and you would think that

would offer a better user experience," said Brian Blau, from the consultancy

Gartner.



"But we haven't had that type of system offered at the mass market level before,

so it's hard to say how well it actually do."



The Pixel will start at &#163;599 and the Pixel XL at &#163;719 when they go on

sale on 20 October.



A month later, Google will launch the Daydream View.



The virtual reality headset and motion-sensing controller make use of Pixel -

and other forthcoming compatible phones - as a display.



A near-field communication (NFC) chip automatically puts the handset into VR

mode when it is fitted inside.



But the main advantages the &#163;69 package offers a user over the existing

Google Cardboard headset is a strap to hold it to their head and its

wave-and-click controller.



Google says it believes smart speakers are about to become a "huge" category.



But Home enters the market nearly two years behind Echo.



The wi-fi speaker is activated by the trigger words "OK Google", following

which, owners can use it to:



#get answers to questions



#control internet-connected lights and other smart home products



#play music via Spotify, YouTube Music, Google Play Music and other services



#set timers and alarms, create shopping lists and get travel updates



Most of this can already be done on the Echo, which benefits from being able to

tap into additional third-party products as well as Amazon's shopping services.



But Google highlighted that Home could link up to its Chromecast media-streaming

dongles, including a new higher-resolution 4K model, in addition to TVs and

speakers with built-in Cast support.



"It gives you an easy way to distribute music throughout your home," said Mr

Queiroz.



"You can also say, 'Play videos of John Oliver on my TV.'



"And your TV will power up and launch YouTube and play the clips. You won't have

to reach for a remote and press the microphone button."



He added that the Assistant would soon be able to control Netflix as well.



The $129 (&#163;101) device is launching in the US only next month, but is due

to come to the UK next year.



Unlike most Google services, it will not play ads of its own, at least for now.



PRIVACY CONCERNS



Some households might be concerned by the idea of Google gaining a further way

to track their habits.



But Mr Blau was not convinced Echo offered a better prospect.



"While Amazon does not do advertising like Google, it does have a large base of

affiliated businesses that get access to the information about what you do and

buy," he said.



"Anyway, consumers say that they are concerned about privacy but in general they

usually don't act on those concerns."



It might seem from today's announcements that Google is showing it can become a

hardware company with the kind of control over the entire user experience that

Apple enjoys.



In fact, the key message coming from Mountain View is about software - and in

particular artificial intelligence.



Google believes that 17 years of collecting data about its users and the world,

coupled with its growing expertise in machine learning, have given it a lead

over rivals like Amazon, Apple and Microsoft.



That AI capability is now being showcased in Assistant, the conversational

helper which will be at the heart of its own devices - and those made by its

partners.



But its Achilles' heel could be customer concerns about privacy. Google may be

smarter about anticipating its users every desire - but many may be cautious

about handing over even more data to a business which already knows so much

about them, according to BBC.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 The Financial Express

                              All Rights Reserved





