

If Google's product bonanza Tuesday seemed familiar -- a new line of pricey
smartphones, a snazzy voice-activated service and a virtual-reality headset --
it wasn't by accident.

The hardware-software double play was decidedly Apple-like. It's no coincidence
because, frankly, Google is beginning to look, and feel, a lot more like Apple.
And that could mean a major shake-up in a tech industry roiled by questions over
Apple's innovation and declining iPhone sales,  Samsung's troubled Galaxy Note 7
smartphones, an expected sale of Twitter and a mad scramble by nearly everyone
else to bolster their cloud-computing services.

"The market has co-opted the Apple playbook in some ways," says Matthew Quint,
director of the Center on Global Brand Leadership at Columbia Business School.
From a design perspective, he said, Google's new Pixel phone "is as close as
possible in look to an iPhone than anyone, including Samsung." (Google has
aligned with Samsung in the latter's patent design dispute with Apple that goes
before the U.S. Supreme Court next week.)

There is a sea change at the Googleplex in Mountain View, Calif., with a product
strategy and approach straight out of the playbook at Infinite Loop in
Cupertino, Calif. In short, Google is constructing a digital empire of devices
and services, run from one platform, to compete with Apple's cohesive, polished
ecosystem. It is developing a system to control sleek consumer-electronic
products, software and services. The days of its fragmented Android approach are
over.

The Pixel line is "a recognition that the best hardware products come from the
companies that make the operating systems, which has been Apple's strategy all
along -- and Microsoft's more recently with the Surface and phones," says Jan
Dawson, chief analyst at Jackdaw Research.

The strategic gambit is exemplified in Pixel and Pixel XL, Google's new
smartphone product line. Priced at an iPhone-like $649 ($769 for the XL), the
sleek phones represent an improvement over their predecessor, Nexus. HTC is
assembling the new Google phones.

The phones featured high-end specs. But the real bragging rights came from the
Google Assistant, Google's version of Siri that, as Google would point out,
leverages the artificial intelligence and machine learning it has been
developing for years -- through its PC-based search, then through its extensive
mapping, and finally in efforts such as AlphaGo, the program that beat a human
champion at a notoriously difficult board game.

It was hard not to see the litany of examples of what Assistant could do in the
light of Apple's improved, but still-limited, Siri digital assistant.

The new phones also touted nifty features: cameras that snap photos faster,
longer battery life and free, unlimited storage, the kind of shopping list Apple
likes to trot out at its product launches. A video promoting the Pixel also
embraced something now missing on the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus: "3.5-mm headphone
jack satisfyingly not new." In the background, someone coughs "ahem."

Google had more fun at the expense of Apple, poking fun at its South Bay
neighbor by announcing Pixel comes in three colors -- quite black, very silver
and really blue. Several weeks earlier, Apple unfurled the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus in black and jet black.

Google rounded out its bag of goodies with Google Assistant, a super-smart
digital helper; a new Home Internet-connected speaker device; a WiFi system; and
Daydream View, a VR headset.

It's the sort of hardware-software treasure trove Steve Jobs once imagined, and
spoke of.

Google's gambit isn't unique, nor is it flawless. Its retail strategy has
struggled in getting gadgets to consumers, and it does not have stores, as Apple
does, to display its wares. But it does have  momentum at a time when its
smartphone rivals face obstacles.

As Creative Strategies analyst Ben Bajarin points out, Google and Microsoft --
with its Surface table strategy combining hardware and software -- are emulating
Apple. "It is a recognition that tightly integrating hardware and software will
always yield the best customer experience," he says.

Contributing: Jessica Guynn

