                              388 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                         The Daily News of Los Angeles



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google gets aggressive with new phones, gadgets



BYLINE: Michael Liedtke and Brandon Bailey; The Associated Press



SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7



LENGTH: 613 words



ABSTRACT



Google launched an aggressive challenge to consumer electronics giants like

Apple and Samsung on Tuesday, introducing a new line of smartphones called Pixel

and other gadgets designed to showcase a digital helper the company calls "

Google Assistant."



FULL TEXT



SAN FRANCISCO >> Google ratcheted up its rivalry with Apple and Amazon by

unveiling new smartphones, an internet-connected speaker that channels a digital

assistant, and other gadgets the company hopes to make indispensable.



The devices announced Tuesday are part of Google's bold move to design and sell

its own hardware, instead of just supplying Android and other software for other

companies to make products. Google's previous attempts at hardware have had

limited distribution and included such high-profile flops as its

internet-connected Glass headgear.



This time around, Google is betting that it can design software and hardware to

work seamlessly with each other. That's an art Apple mastered over the past 15

years as it turned out finely crafted iPods, iPhones, iPads and Macs.



Borrowing another page from Apple's book, Google is backing its expanded product

lineup with the biggest marketing campaign in its 18-year history. The company

isn't disclosing how much it will spend, but made it clear the ads touting

products "Made by Google" will be ubiquitous during the next few months.



"They have done some advertising in the past, but it's never been with this kind

of 'let us take care of everything for you' way," Gartner analyst Brian Blau

said. "This is more like Apple's way of doing things."



Google executives showed off a series of gadgets in rapid succession in San

Francisco on Tuesday.



The new Pixel phones, starting at $650, are aimed squarely at Apple's iPhone and

could also siphon sales from the biggest manufacturer of Android-powered phones,

Samsung.



Android now powers more than 80 percent of the smartphones sold around the

world. But Samsung has increasingly been adding more of its own software,

including its own mobile wallet, on its phones.



Analysts warned that Google's increased emphasis on its own branded devices runs

the risk of alienating Samsung, as well as LG and other longtime partners that

make Android gadgets. Google, though, emphasized it still plans to work with

other manufacturers, even as it tries to become a bigger player in hardware.



Meanwhile, Google's new Home speaker represents a counterpunch to Amazon's Echo,

a similar device that has become a big hit since its release about 15 months

ago. Google Home will cost $129, undercutting Echo by $50.



Google also announced a virtual-reality headset called Daydream View, a new

Wi-Fi router and an update to the company's Chromecast device for streaming

video.



Available in two sizes, the Pixel phones replace Google's previous foray into

smartphones with a Nexus brand introduced six years ago. Google never hailed

Nexus as its own phone, but instead positioned it as an example of how it

believed the Android system worked best.



In promoting the Pixels, Google highlighted a camera it says trumps the latest

iPhone, a long-lasting battery and a dedicated headphone jack - a staple that

Apple eliminated from the iPhones released last month. And while past Google

phones primarily relied on sales through Google's online Play store, the Pixel

will also be sold by Verizon in the U.S.



Analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy said in an email that

Google was smart to emphasize the performance of the new smartphone cameras, as

"consumers care about this a lot." But he said other features in the new phones

didn't seem that much different from what Samsung and Apple have offered in

their latest devices.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media

                              All Rights Reserved





