

Google is expected to unveil two new smartphones at a live press event in San
Francisco, where the firm is also expected to give more information on its smart
home device, Google Home, which was announced in May.

According to reports and a series of leaked photos, the company will on Tuesday
announce the Pixel and Pixel XL as replacements for Google's own-brand Nexus
smartphones.

It has been suggested the Pixel will have a 5in display and the Pixel XL a 5.5in
screen.

The devices will reportedly come with cutting-edge Snapdragon processors,
12-megapixel cameras, fingerprint scanners and larger batteries.

Both phones are also expected to arrive with the latest version of Google's
Android software, 7.1 Nougat.

It enables users to talk to Google's artificial intelligence system to find out
news, weather and travel information, as well as control smart appliances in
their home, including lights and thermostats, using their voice.

The smart speaker is seen as a competitor to Amazon's Echo system which has just
gone on sale in the UK.

An updated version of the Google Chromecast, which enables users to stream
content from their mobile devices to their TV, is also rumoured to be among
Google's plans for the event, with the ability to support 4K definition TV
expected to be revealed.

There have also been suggestions of a new version of Android, designed for
laptops and tablets, incorporating aspects of the Chrome OS software Google uses
for its desktop computers.

Google may also announce details of its Daydream Virtual Reality headset.

Android executive Hiroshi Lockheimer hinted at the change in a tweet last week:
"We announced the 1st version of Android 8 years ago today. I have a feeling 8
years from now we'll be talking about Oct 4, 2016."

Pixel and Pixel XL

Even if this wasn't just a plain old phone, it's already been revealed - making
the time spent showing it off at the event a little pointless. Carphone
Warehouse accidentally published information about the phone this week, showing
all of its features and what it will look like.

Daydream VR headset

Google's made a lot of VR in recent years - introducing new features like
360-degree videos on YouTube, and hardware like its super-cheap Cardboard
headset that can have a phone slid into it.

But it appears to be preparing to go even harder into VR, at a time when almost
every company has either made its own headset or suggested that it's about to do
so.

Google is expected to at least unveil some of how that might work at its event -
and potentially unveil the whole headset. That's been rumoured to be called
Daydream, which is a name that Google has used for virtual reality products
before.

What Google will really have to make clear is how its headset stands out from
the huge number of others - what it'll have that's different from Samsung, the
HTC Vive, Oculus Rift or PlayStation VR.

Google Home

This was just one of a number of products introduced at the I/O conference
earlier this year. But it's set to get its proper introduction at Google's
latest event.

Google Home is a little white, rounded obelisk meant to sit in people's homes
and listen out for when they talk to it. When they do, it can fire out
information or play media, according to what people ask for.

It might look to make more of a case for why people will want to bring it into
their house. Amazon has had its echo on sale for a long time, and Apple is
rumoured to be bringing out its own Siri companion - and so it will be expected
to show just what it can do that those can't.

Given that Google has already revealed this, they'll presumably have to announce
a release date at the new event. But it's not clear that they'll say when it
will come to the UK - Amazon's Echo took the best part of two years to go on
sale anywhere outside of the US, presumably because of the extra work needed to
make the content local.

Google Assistant

This is the central part of Google Home. But it's the central part of an awful
lot of other Google things, too - including the new phone.

Leaks have already suggested that the new phones will be advertised as having "
Google Magic". That could easily relate to the way that the Google Assistant
will be baked into the new hardware, presumably allowing it to help people out
by calling on Google's vast web of knowledge.

Google Wi-Fi

This is expected to be a cheap, smart Wi-Fi hub that intends to fix typical
routers by doing things like fix their often rubbish range. It might be one of
the more boring things to be unveiled at the event - there are few people who
get excited about Wi-Fi routers - but it could include some nice innovations
like the ability to have routers link across a house and extend their reach.

What's more, Wi-Fi will be central to the home if Google wants to continue its
mission of connecting everything up to the internet. So this could be the
foundation of some of the more spectacular releases.

Chromecast Ultra

Google has been gradually making new versions of Chromecast - a second version
and one just for audio - which has won plaudits for being a cheap and easy way
to get stuff onto your TV.

This year, the new version will be the Chromecast Ultra, rumours suggest.
That'll be able to send out 4K video - and could get a much increased price to
go along with it.

Andromeda

This is perhaps the longest of the long shots - but it will definitely be coming
at some point, according to rumours. It is the long speculated about unification
of Android and Google's Chrome OS, making an operating system that could be used
across various different systems.

It isn't clear what that might look like, or what new kinds of computers it
might be made for.

And it's unlikely that it'll be arriving this time around. But we might get a
sneak peek at it, or some suggestion that it's planned.

Any surprises?

Google doesn't tend to do surprises - it's a lot more leaky than Apple, for
instance. But there's always space for a shock.

