                              39 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google-made Pixel smartphones announced: All you need to know



LENGTH: 351  words



DATELINE: New Delhi





New Delhi, Oct. 5 -- Zee Media Bureau

 Soon, it would be time to say goodbye to the Nexus brand of phones and welcome

Pixel phones. Google, on Tuesday, announced Pixel phones in an event in San

Franscisco.





 Google claims that the Pixel phone combines hardware and software made by

Google, including all your favorite Google apps, to bring you a fast, seamless,

and easy-to-use experience.

 Main features of Pixel phones that you need to know:

 The Pixel phones will come in two sizes-Pixel in 5" and Pixel XL in 5.5" size.

 Both have AMOLED screens, with 1080p resolution for the small one (441ppi) and

QHD for the big one (534ppi). Battery capacity is also different, 2,770mAh and

3,450mAh. A battery that lasts all day, and charges fast. Get up to 7 hours of

battery life in just 15 minutes.

 The phones sport Qualcomm supplied a revamped chipset, the Snapdragon 821,

Android 7.1 Nougat. Gogle boasts of highly superior camera performance on Pixel

with 12MP sensor, 1.55µm pixels, f/2.0 aperture. The phone also have Electronic

Image Stabilization.

 Google Pixel and Pixel XL also boast of large storag- 32GB (for those that use

Google Photos and Play Music) and 128GB (for those that prefer their data

offline).

 Both come with 4GB of RAM. The phones are loaded with Google services that

cover everything from messaging, through cloud services to AI assistants. The

phones will come with an in-built Google services like Google Home and Duo.

 Google phone can connect to a Google router and cast to a Google media player.

It has seamless glass-aluminum body, with smooth surfaces and easy-to-grip

curved edges. It unlocks fast as you would swipe down on the fingerprint sensor

for quick access to all your notifications.

 The phone will come in three colours: Quite Black, Really Blue, Very Silver.

 The phone is expected to be released for sale on October 30, starting at $649.

It will be available through a bunch of carriers and retailers.

 It is unclear when would it be available in India for sale. The price in India

is expected to be around Rs 57,000, and may give a tough fight to Apple's recent

launch iPhone 7



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





