                              402 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                           The Sunday Times (London)



                             October 9, 2016 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



Gadget fix;

Take your GoPro to new heights, bond with a cute baby robot, relax in a virtual

world, snap up an iPhone 7 rival and size up a belting wearable, writes Graeme

Lennox



BYLINE: Graeme Lennox



SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 35



LENGTH: 653 words





HI, ROBOT



Toyota's Kirobo Mini The 10cm tall automaton, whose name is derived from the

Japanese for "hope", talks and moves like an infant, and is equipped with

artificial intelligence that learns its owner's moods over time. A camera

interprets emotions on the face of the person speaking to it before responding

in a high-pitched voice. It sits in a cradle designed to fit in a car's

cup-holder. Kirobo was developed as part of the Toyota Heart Project, which

studies interactions between humans and artificial intelligence. (EURO)343,

www.toyota.com



SOFT CELL



Daydream View virtual reality headset Google wants to make the virtual world a

bit more, well, comfortable. The firm says its Daydream View is 30% lighter than

other VR headsets and is made from a soft, breathable fabric, which contrasts

with the hard plastics of rival sets. The device will work with

Daydream-compatible smartphones and its sub-(EURO)70 price point means it sits

between the (EURO)20 Google Cardboard and the (EURO)99 Samsung Gear VR.

Available in three colours, it is capable of responding to the wearer's head

movements and comes with a Nintendo Wii-style motion controller. (EURO)69,

www.madeby.google.com



AER FLINGUS



Aer foam dart Dutch Kickstarter project Aer allows you to create stylish aerial

shots using your GoPro action camera. Users activate recording on their GoPro,

place it into a holder inside the device and slide on the foam wings. Chuck it

in the air for some selfies with a difference or throw it into inaccessible

areas for cool video footage. The project is well on its way to reaching its

(EURO)70,000 funding target, with more than three weeks left to run, and first

deliveries will start in January. The water- and crash-proof Aer is compatible

with GoPro Hero 3+, 4 and 5. (EURO)49, www.aervideo.com



PIXEL PERFECT?



Google Pixel smartphones Google has unveiled two new phones designed to take on

Apple's iPhone 7. The Pixel has a 5in, 1080p display while the Pixel XL's 5.5in

screen is quad HD. Both use the latest Snapdragon 821 processor and run a

tweaked version of the Android operating system. Google claims the

12.3-megapixel camera is the fastest on the market and is capable of recording

4K video. There's a choice of 32GB or 128GB of storage, but the XL's larger

battery makes it more suited to heavy use. (EURO)759 to (EURO)1,009, www.pixel.

google.com



MODEL TECH



Intel wearables Kim Kardashian was not the only one making headlines at Paris

fashion week. Tech giant Intel unleashed a raft of wearables on the

spring-summer runway in a bid to wow assembled fashionistas. Teaming up with

British designer Hussein Chalayan, it unveiled a pair of smart glasses and a

3D-printed belt with a built-in projector. Both devices are designed to measure

the stress levels of the wearer. For example, the glasses have electrodes that

sit on the wearer's temples and read brainwaves, and there's a heart-rate

monitor in the bridge of the nose. The Bluetooth-enabled belts monitored models'

breathing rates on the catwalk and projected animations that varied according to

how stressed or relaxed they were while strutting their stuff. Both devices are

powered by Intel Curie, a button-sized processor that will power future wearable

products. www.intel.com



ON ME HEAD, SON



Piggyback Driver helmet It's a well-known fact that children just love driving

their parents round the bend, but the Piggyback Driver helmet is strictly for

mums and dads with a sense of humour. The brightly coloured helmet comes with a

set of handlebars and flashing lights that respond to the child's steering

motions. Speed up and the lights blink faster - and, just in case you weren't

already feeling self-conscious in the park, there's also a temptingly large red

button that operates a horn and a turbo switch to add some "vroom" to your

parenting. Creator Party New York is looking for partners to help make its

prototype a reality.



piggybackdriver.nyc



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STS





                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





