                              403 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday



US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on May 20 titled as "Anti-aliasing

of straight lines within a map image"



LENGTH: 313  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,730,258, on

May 20, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Anti-aliasing of straight

lines within a map image"



Inventors: Cornell; Brian (Kenmore, WA)

Assignee: Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A

graphics or image rendering system, such as a map image rendering system,

receives image data from an image database in the form of vector data that

defines various image objects, such as roads, boundaries, etc., which are to be

rendered as straight lines within an image. The imaging rendering system renders

the image objects by applying an anti-aliasing technique that determines varying

pixel color values at or near the edges of each straight line to be rendered on

the image, so as to obtain a pleasing visual effect when rendering a road or

other boundary in any orientation on the image screen. The anti-aliasing

technique determines a scaling vector having values dependent on the location of

a particular pixel in the image along the normal to the straight line forming a

road and determines a pixel color value at each pixel location associated with

the road based on this scaling vector, such that the pixel color value at each

pixel in or near the line is proportional to a component of the scaling vector.

This technique produces a more gradual transition in pixel color values from a

non-road location to a road location in the image, and thus provides a

non-aliased rendering of the road regardless of the orientation or direction in

which the road is being rendered in the image."



The patent was filed on. June 30, 2011 Application no. 13/174,320



For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query

regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





