                              405 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Mirror Publications



                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

                                 Mumbai Mirror



Google unveils new phones, streaming devices, tablet



SECTION: SCI TECH



LENGTH: 664 words





By Sameer Desai



CEO Sundar Pichai took to the stage to give Google's hardware division its time

in the spotlight, revealing the Nexus 5X and 6P smartphones, two Chromecast

streaming devices, and the Pixel C convertible tablet.



Google fired back at Apple with a pair of new smartphones, a "convertible"

tablet, a new version of Android, and other gadgetry ahead of the year-end

holiday shopping season.



The tech giant unveiled two new Nexus smartphones with enhanced features,

including fingerprint sensors and improved cameras aimed at the high end of the

market dominated by Apple and Samsung.



Nexus 5X and 6P



Google said it was partnering with LG for its 5.2-inch screen Nexus 5X, and

Huawei for its "phablet" sized 5.7-inch Nexus 6P.



Both handsets will be sold unlocked, with Google hoping to capitalise on a trend

in the US and other markets away from smartphone subsidies as part of long-term

contracts.



"We care about making sure there are affordable, high quality smartphones for

users around the world," said Sundar Pichai, the Google product chief who is

slated to head the company's largest unit under a reorganisation announced

earlier this year.



The phones, which aim to showcase the Google Android operating system, were

available for ordering in the United States, Britain, Japan and Ireland, with

more countries to be added next week, Google said as it unveiled the phones at a

San Francisco media event.



No launch dates have been announced for India, but Google has revealed prices on

the Google Play Store and interested buyers can now join a waitlist for both

devices. The Nexus 5X will start at Rs 31,900, while the Nexus 6P will start at

Rs 39,999, both presumably for their respective 16 GB variants.



Android Marshmallow



The devices will feature the new Android 6.0 operating system, known as

Marshmallow, which allows for fingerprint sensors and other features including

Android Pay.



With the Nexus-branded devices, Google is able to control much of the hardware

and software in a manner similar to Apple, which has its own operating system.



"We try to push the next generation of computing forward; to do that we build

hardware," Pichai said of Google making its own branded devices.



The new software allows for a voicecommanded Now On Tap virtual assistant to be

summoned by holding down the home screen button.



Google makes Android mobile software available free to device makers, but makes

its Nexus line to showcase capabilities of the operating system.



While Android is used on some 80 per cent of smartphones worldwide, many devices

use older versions of the software with carriers often slow to release upgrades.



Pixel C



The Pixel C is the first tablet built ground-up by Google and is seen as an

alternative to the iPad Pro unveiled this month and Microsoft's Surface.



The "C" in the name stands for "convertible" because it features an optional

keyboard that doubles as a cover and connects magnetically for laptop-computer

style use.



"We think the Pixel C tablet and keyboard experience really unlocks ways to play

and be productive across one device," Google's Andrew Bowers said while showing

off the new hardware.



Pixel C tablet will be available in time for the year-end holidays in some parts

of the world at a starting price of $499 (approx. Rs 33,000), with the keyboard

priced at $149 (approx. Rs 10,000), according to Google.



New Chromecast



Google unveiled an upgraded version of its popular Chromecast device that plugs

into television screens to stream content wirelessly from the internet, with

smartphones or tablets serving as controls.



The company also introduced Chromecast Audio, a pendant sized device designed to

plug into stereo speakers with standard 3.5 mm jacks for streaming music,

podcasts, YouTube or other audio through home sound systems.



Both new Chromecast devices keep the $35 price of the earlier version. In India,

the Chromecast is priced Rs 2,999, so the new devices could follow suit. (With

Agency Inputs)



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





