                              406 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                            Business World (Digest)



                           October 05, 2016 Wednesday



Google phones target Apple but could leave Samsung vulnerable



BYLINE: Business World



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 493 words





Google's product launch on Tuesday was as much a jab at Apple Inc's iPhone as a

sales pitch for its new Pixel phones, with executives from the Mountain View

internet search company taking shots at their competitor at every turn.



But any gains Google makes with the $649 Pixel, billed as completely designed

in-house, may come not at the expense of Apple, but phone manufacturers running

its Android software, a list topped by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd.



"A premium Android strategy is really a strategy to take market share from

Samsung," said analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research. The South Korean company

already is reeling from a highly publicized recall of its Galaxy Note 7 phones

due to battery fires.



"Obviously Google doesn't want to explicitly compete with its own partners, but

this product is much more likely to compete with Samsung than Apple," Dawson

said.



Google, a unit of Alphabet Inc, clearly has its sights set on the iPhone and the

luxury consumer base that it commands.



"There's no unsightly camera bump," hardware chief Rick Osterloh said to

laughter from the audience at the phone's debut, alluding to the iPhone's raised

camera, a feature lamented by some design aficionados.



Newly released ads for the Pixel phones land some blows on the iPhone. A rundown

of the phones' new features concludes with "3.5mm headphone jack satisfyingly

not new," a reference to Apple's decision to eliminate the port in the iPhone 7,

which riled many customers.



Nevertheless, the Pixel line bears a strong resemblance to the iPhone, coming in

two sizes and a variety of sleek finishes. The Google Assistant, powered by

artificial intelligence software, is a response to Apple's Siri. And as Google

prioritizes making its own hardware under Osterloh, its emerging design

philosophy echoes Apple's.



Hardware executive Mario Queiroz touted the company's attention to packaging, a

feature that the late Apple CEO Steve Jobs famously obsessed over.



"You want the consumer first of all to have this great experience out of the box

in terms of the design of the packaging," Queiroz, a vice president of product

management at Google, said in an interview.



He brushed aside concerns that Google's hardware push will pit it against its

Android partners. The technology embedded in the Pixel phone is meant to propel

Android devices forward, he said.



"It's not a zero sum game," Queiroz said. "We believe that Google can and will

be doing both things. Both delivering platforms and building our own products."



Google could find itself squaring off against two extremely deep-pocketed

rivals. Apple and Samsung are the largest smartphone handset makers and both

have major marketing programs.



Samsung spent at least $50 million just on advertising during the Olympics in

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, according to estimates from Kantar Media.



Spokespeople for Apple and Samsung did not respond to requests for comment on

Google's launch. (Reuters)



Source: www.businessworld.ie



About us



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: BUSWLD





                        Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





