                              418 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                            November 1, 2016 Tuesday

                               Australian Edition



Answering to the latest advances



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH, FAB FOUR



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 16



LENGTH: 364  words





From phones to door bells, the newest batch of gadgets continues the

transformation of our lives



Samsung's HW-K950 soundbar system Samsung's HW-K950 soundbar makes me wonder why

I bother with conventional surround sound. Its Dolby Atmos directs sound

everywhere including overhead. I heard thunder above, rain all around and

helicopters moving overhead. It pairs with Samsung's SUHDTV and Blu-ray player

and there's a paired subwoofer and two rear speaker. The system contains 15

speakers overall.



$1999, retailers



Google Pixel smartphone Google has taken to designing smartphones from scratch.

Pixel has a 5-inch display and Pixel XL 5.5 inches. They have a lightweight,

polished aluminium case and the new Google Assistant is a button away on the

home screen. Pixels have 12.3 and 8.0 megapixel back and front facing cameras.

Hold down the camera button and the phone invokes "smartburst". It takes several

photos and selects the sharpest and clearest to keep. HDR+ takes multiple short

exposures and combines them for optimal lighting. From $1079 to $1419 or

contract



Evapolar It's not often we get personal tech posted from St Petersburg, Russia,

but Evapolar is an exception. It's a cube desktop evaporator unit about 16cm

wide that blows cold air and looks straight out of Star Trek. Evapolar says it

uses a basalt material to cools things down and is low in energy use - it uses a

microUSB connector. There's a water tank and you can dial the colour of a very

cute light. Given St Petersburg's summer average is only 18C, I'd be looking

further afield for markets too. The Russian start-up snared $US1.07m ($1.4m) in

funding from Indiegogo.



$235 from evapolar.com



Ring Video Doorbell The humble doorbell has been transformed in the digital age.

It's now an internet connected security device with a 720p resolution camera.

When it detects motion, it starts recording. When you're not home, you can talk

to visitors at your front door through a smartphone app. You can install

multiple bells through your home so you can hear when someone presses the

button. Ring's Video Doorbell comes with tools, screws, plugs and even a spirit

level for easy installation.$299, ring.com and retailers



LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





