

Where to start this week? Samsung's woes just keep on going. The latest versions
caused fires within a day in a couple of cases, including a fire on a plane when
the unit was off. The Korean giant has now recommended that all Note 7 users
turn their phones off and not use them. This will mean a whole new replacement
program of some kind. Not sure where this leaves Samsung though their S7 and S7
Edge units all seem to be fine and going well with customers. It will now be
interesting to see what happens to the Note range and what the next version will
look like. It has cost Samsung around US$2.3 billion, so far.

While all this has been going on Google has snuck out their Pixel and Pixel XL
smartphones, with some suggesting that this is the new face of the no longer
called Nexus line. First off the pundits were wrong, there is no microSD card
support which continues Google's nonsensical Apple-like approach. The phones are
due to be released the day after you read this depending on where you live in
the world.

The units will be splash and dust resistant with the XL screen at 5.5-inches
with a 1440 x 2560 pixel AMOLED gorilla glass 4 screen. The operating system
will be Android 7.1 (Nougat). With a quad core CPU and the Adreno 530 GPU, you
should be able to do most things seamlessly. UHD video at 30fps and 720p can run
to 240fps for nice slow motion. The camera's MP rating doesn't mean all that
much these days but it is 12 back and 8 front. Unlike Apple it retains the 3.5mm
headphone jack also supporting all the latest Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS and NFC
technologies. The connector is the newer USB 3.0 Type C being the reversible,
faster charging one. The battery is non-removable but a nice 3450 mAh giving a
claimed talk time of 32 hours and music play of up to 130 hours. Colours are
Very Black, Quite Silver, Really Blue. Google's partner for the design and
production of the Pixel phones was HTC. The units come with 4GB of RAM and two
models each at 32GB and 128GB. With no additional memory, this means those
wanting to record high-def video will need to regularly off load them to make
space, probably to the Google Cloud.

The Pixel signifies a significant departure for Google and this is the first
phone with the new Google Assistant, being a personal AI for your home and will
also interact with the upcoming Google Home Hub. The units also support Google
DayDream the new Virtual Reality platform, through a VR headset. You can check
the prices at your local location on release but like most flagship phones,
these days they will not be cheap.

With all the new technologies, I'm sure that some people are confused by
designations like 3G, 4G, 5G, LTE, Edge and others. In the 2000's it was 3G or
third generation communications. To meet standards, this needed to provide
200Kbps peak downloads. That sounds slow now but back then it was fast. Then
came 4G which requires peak downloads of 100 Mbps, upped to 1Gbps in mobile
hotspots. Since then we have the HSPA (High Speed Packet Access) which under 3G
can provide up to 7.2G Bps in theory, sometimes called 3.5G or Turbo 3G. The 4G
version was called HSPA+ with the word "Evolved" added to the front. Long-Term
Evolution or LTE was also in the mix but both of these did not meet the 100Mbps
download rates so were off standard. LTE is better thought of as a collection of
technologies that will eventually reach 4G. The relevant authority has allowed
both of these to be marketed as "4G" even if they aren't quite there yet.
Finally, if you're wondering, average speeds are for the technology in the US or
LTE is 9.9Mbps and globally 13.5Mbps. It all comes down to coverage, your
provider and the network load.

So what's coming? There is LTE Advanced which promised true 4G speeds or what it
was supposed to be originally. 5G is still a theoretical designation with no set
standards but with something around 10Gbps promised which would be fantastic if
we see it by 2020. In the meantime, LTE will work for most people. In
conclusion, the designations are all about how fast your phone can get data from
the internet and for some how fast your provider can rack up those dollars for
data usage.

Western Digital has finally entered the Solid State Drive (SSD) market with
green and blue models. The WD Green brand is typically aimed at secondary
storage with the Blue products being built for PC primary storage use. The new
blue SSD range is faster than the green with the 1TB blue expected to debut for
around $320. As a note on SSD drives, there are typically commercial and
non-commercial versions with the commercial being more reliable with a better
lifetime for consistent speed.

