                              429 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              QWeekend (Brisbane)



                           October 22, 2016 Saturday

                                QWeekend Edition



'DROIDS JOSTLE FOR POSITION



BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42



LENGTH: 556 words





Samsung's withdrawal of its fire-prone Galaxy Note7 opens up the smartphone

market to Android competitors such as Google, Sony and Motorola



More than 50,000 Australians are suddenly in the market for a new smartphone,

and companies are falling over themselves to woo them.



Samsung halted sales, then production, of its previously popular Galaxy Note7

smartphone last week, issuing a final recall for the device with a nasty

reputation for catching fire. But its exit leaves buyers weighing up whether to

accept a seven-month-old Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge in exchange for their Note7, to

invest in a different Android phone, or to switch to Apple. Android phone makers

are doing all they can to -prevent the latter eventuality, with three

top-of-the-line Google-based phones out this week in Australia and one with

innovative accessories launching last week.



Kantar Worldpanel revealed -Android phones made up six in 10 of smartphones sold

in Australia in the three months to August, jumping in popularity by more than

nine per cent. Most of those Android phones were made by Samsung, making this an

unprecedented opportunity for rival makers to make their mark.



Google is one of those companies, and launched its two self-made phones on

Thursday. Kantar Worldpanel ComTech consumer insight director Lauren Guenveur

says -Google is likely to see more new -customers than Apple. "The Pixel

announcement could not have come at a better time for -Google, with Samsung

suspending production of the Note7," she says. "(Google's phones are) likely to

steal share away from other Android brands, namely Samsung and Motorola." The

Pixel ($1079) and Pixel XL ($1269) are touted as the "first phones made by

Google" and feature new software, artificial intelligence engine Google

Assistant, fingerprint scanners, 12.3-megapixel cameras with high DxOMark

scores, and a 5-inch and 5.5-inch screen, respectively. The Pixel handsets will

also be the first Google phones sold through an Australian carrier, with Telstra

offering the devices on 24-month plans.



Sony launched its new flagship smartphone, the Xperia XZ ($999), on the same

day, touting a water--resistant body, fingerprint scanner, smart -battery

charging and, notably, a 23-megapixel camera with two extra sensors to speed up

autofocus and deliver accurate colours.



Sony Mobile business development communications head John Featherstone says the

Note7 recall could shake up what has become "a very polarised" market. "Given

some of the challenges other companies have had, the Xperia XZ is a viable

altern-ative," he says. "It's got all the specs, it's still going to be best in

class when it comes to cameras, it will be best in class around battery design,

and it's got other elements like high-res audio and remote gaming." Motorola is

weighing in too with its first high-end flagship in some time. The $999 Moto Z

boasts a 5.5-inch display, 64GB storage, 13-megapixel camera, super-slim design,

and a fingerprint scanner. But its most -innovative additions are its Mods, or

magnetised accessories, that add a speaker, projector, extra battery, or even a

Hasselblad camera onto its rear panel.Motorola Mobility Australia general

manager Danny Adamopolous says the new flagship is designed to take on the big

guys once more. "We want to take advantage of the -situation and surf the wave,"

he says.



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





