                              442 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                              West Sussex Gazette



                            October 17, 2016 Monday



Google has entered the mobile arena



LENGTH: 484  words





On October the 4th, Google held a big hardware event. There were quite a few

important announcements, including Google Home (a speaker that responds to voice

commands), Google WiFi (a WiFi system for your home), Google Chromecast Ultra,

Daydream and VR headsets and last, but by no means least, the new Google Pixel

(5" screen) and Pixel XL (5.5" screen) smartphones.



Phew! Such a lot of stuff that I could talk about. Let's start with those

phones.



Google have of course been heavily invested in the mobile phone market for quite

some time. They own Android, which accounts for roughly 86 per cent of the

global market, but traditionally they haven't made any hardware themselves. Even

their Nexus range of devices were built in partnership with different

manufacturers.



That is all changing with the new Pixel range of phones. Apple have long claimed

they can get more from the iPhone, because the hardware and software are

designed to work together. Now Google can claim the same thing too and at first

glance, it shows. The new phones are top spec devices aimed to compete with

Apple's and Samsung's flagship phones.



Here is a brief overview of the new phones. They have the best camera of any

smartphone ever, according to independent analysis by DXOMark that scored the

new camera at 89% https://www.dxomark.com/Mobiles/Pixel

-smartphone-camera-review-At-the-topThe phones are able to charge very fast,

gaining 7 hours of usage out of just 15 minutes of charging. They come with 4

GBs of RAM, a whizzy fast processor and up to 128 GBs of storage, which will

help if you want to shoot 4K video. Oh and Google Photos gives you unlimited

storage for all of your photos and videos.



Oh and they have a 3.5mm audio jack. Ahem.



A running theme throughout the event on the 4th was AI (Artificial

Intelligence). Google Assistant, which previewed in the new app Allo, is baked

into the new phones and Google Home. It is possible to have entire conversations

with Google Assistant and after watching the demonstrations (for both the phones

and Google Home) it is hard not to be impressed.



Imagine having a text chat with someone, who suggests you go to the cinema. Not

only will Google Assistant be able to find you the times and dates of the film,

but it will also be able to book tickets for the film and the restaurant nearby

that you mentioned.



In the case of Google Home, there was a really good demonstration where the

speaker asked it to find a song by an artist that appeared in a film. Google

Assistant found the correct song and played it. The speaker had the choice of

listening to it normally, or casting the video on YouTube via Chromecast. No

button pressing involved.



While Google may have advertised the event as a hardware event, a very large

part of it was dedicated to AI. The technology battleground of the future will

not determined by hardware, but by AI.



Alan Stainerhttps://www.alansitsolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: JPWG





                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





