                              445 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                         The Evening Standard (London)



                           October 27, 2016 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



The fixation with integration;

Apps Streamline your social life with new tech that groups all your messages in

one place, says Phoebe Luckhurst



BYLINE: Phoebe Luckhurst



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 43



LENGTH: 567 words





OUR minds are compartmentalised. The brain whirrs, automatically prioritising

one thing and relegating another; we process tasks, people and emotions at our

choosing. It is our closest kinship with the machines.



And accordingly, the way we use our phones to communicate reflects this impulse

to compartmentalise. For example, there are some people who you only ever

WhatsApp. Open your last iMessage from them and it's a brief missive offering

the name of a pub they're in, sent in 2014. This person is one of your best

friends. For others, though, you exclusively use iMessage; others still,

Facebook Messenger. There's one person - a mate from an old job - whom you have

only ever emailed.



This is compartmentalised communication, and largely, it just makes things

easier. Spreading comms across platforms means you lose the rhythm, order and

track of your conversations: it's ultimately better to have all your contact

with one person concentrated in a single place.



The choice of medium might seem random but there's probably method to it: you

WhatsApp your best mate because you share a lot of snide screenshots and it's

better for sending pictures; you Facebook message looser acquaintances because

you probably don't see them enough to need their number. You email that mate

from an old job because you mainly communicate with them during downtime at your

current job, when you're staring down your inbox.



However, the division counters the spirit of the technologies that we are using.

Cloud software is designed specifically to centralise our lives; apps synch our

desktop and smartphone lives fluidly. And crucially, this month, Google launched

its first phone: Pixel. Among other software quirks, Pixel's version of the

Facebook app integrates your communications, pulling your texts and FB comms

into a single screen. People appear in the order they last contacted you,

whether it was on Facebook or via text.



Currently it doesn't include WhatsApp, but as an insider points out, Facebook

owns WhatsApp, so this will likely be incorporated soon.



And there's a search bar at the top of the screen, so that you can search for

"groups or individuals", which is a feature borrowed from WhatsApp.



It is consistent with Google's cosmic mission for the Pixel. Until now Google

had given its software to other manufacturers; now it's using it in its own

phone, integrating hardware and software into a single object. It wants you to

do everything with Google - which is obviously what Apple has been doing for

years with iOS, MacBooks and iPhones. Indeed, its hardware took the spirit of

individualism to frustrating ends: creating a phone charger with a port specific

to its products.



We're living in an Integration Nation. Granted, it all feels a bit Black Mirror,

though doesn't everything now? And arguably Google's set-up causes a mental

adjustment that borders on the romantic. Grouping messages in this way forces

you to think about the act of contacting someone, rather than the specific

software you're using. It dethrones the medium and puts the emphasis back on the

message.



One Pixel owner says that collecting the strands together in one interface is

strangely calming - which is typically the opposite of how our technology makes

us feel. Now it's suddenly far easier to get the message.



@phoebeluckhurst



Google's phone dethrones the medium and puts the emphasis back on the message -

it's romantic



LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: New discussion: the launch of Google Pixel; below, the handset



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EST





                   Copyright 2016 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





