                              448 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                            October 6, 2016 Thursday



Google takes on Apple, Amazon with new range of hardware company announces new

smartphone and electronic products



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 577 words





Reuters



SAN FRANCISCO



Alphabet's Google on Tuesday announced a new "Pixel" smartphone and a suite of

new consumer electronic products for the home, planting itself firmly in the

hardware business and challenging Apple's iPhone at the high end of the

$400-billion (Bt13.9 trillion) global smartphone market.



The string of announcements, including the $649 Pixel, a smart speaker for the

living room dubbed "Home", a virtual reality headset, and a new WiFi router, is

the clearest sign yet that Google intends to compete head-to-head with Apple,

Amazon.com and even manufacturers of phones using its own Android mobile

operating system.



Taking another page from the Apple playbook, Google said it would work

exclusively with a single carrier in the United States, Verizon Communications,

on the Pixel, emulating Apple's agreement to launch the original iPhone with

AT&T.



That deal gave Apple unprecedented control over the look of the phone and how it

worked.



The phone comes in two sizes, and its high-end camera is one of few

distinguishing features, analysts said. The phones come in black, blue and

silver and will be able to get up to a seven-hour charge in 15 minutes.

Pre-orders began on Tuesday.



While the new phones are clearly aimed at competing with the iPhone, Google

executives took several swipes at Apple in the iron-stage remarks, analysts said

Android rivals like Samsung Electronics could be the biggest victim if the Pixel

takes off.



Google's strategy of licensing Android for free and profiting from embedded

services such as search and maps made Android the dominant mobile operating

system with some 89 per cent of the global market, according to IDC.



But Apple still rules the high end of the market, and Google has long been

frustrated by the emergence of many variations of Android and the inconsistent

experience that has produced. Pushing its own hardware will likely complicate

its relationship with Android licensees, analysts said.



Google kicked off the event on Tuesday by touting the Google Assistant, the

company's voice-activated artificial intelligence system and its answer to

Apple's Siri and Amazon's Alexa. The presenter showed how a customer could make

a restaurant reservation with a few phrases spoken into the phone.



The assistant will be embedded into the Pixel and Home products and is being

positioned as the central feature in a family of integrated hardware and

software products.



It is one of a handful of similar assistants that are vying for supremacy as

more people search the web and make purchases online using voice commands, which

may eventually supplant keyboards and touchscreens as the primary means of

controlling digital devices.



While Google is often cited as the leader in artificial intelligence, Amazon

stole a march on the company with its Alexa-powered Echo home speaker system, a

surprise hit. The Home device and the Echo have many of the same features.



Google's "Daydream View" virtual reality headset, meanwhile, puts the company in

competition with Facebook owner of Oculus. The device, which works with an

Android phone, is far cheaper and simpler. It will be available in November for

$79, in time for the end-of-year shopping season.



Home will also be available in November for $129, including a six-month trial of

ad-free YouTube.



Google also unveiled a new version of its Chromecast digital media player and a

router dubbed Google WiFi, both boasting the same sleek, minimalist design as

the Home product.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





