                              44 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                     September 25, 2016 Sunday 10:02 PM GMT



Google Pixel and Pixel XL 2016 release date expected at October 4 event;

Google is heavily rumoured to have two new Android phones in the pipeline - but

can they compete with the iPhone 7



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 616 words





Google has posted out invitations and a teaser video for a special event it is

hosting on October 4.



It's widely believed to be a launch event for a pair of new smartphones that the

search giant hopes will square off against the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.



Plenty of rumours are already flying about what to expect - the most notable of

which is that Google will be dropping the Nexus branding in favour of Pixel.



Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones: Release date, price, news and rumours about

Google's upcoming iPhone 7 rivals



According to reports, there will be two Pixel handsets unveiled on October 4.

The Pixel will have 5-inch display, and the Pixel XL will come in at 5.5 inches.



The Pixel brand isn't new to Google. It is already attached to the company's

10.2-inch "supertablet", the Pixel C .



Google's teaser trailer was a simple one: A standard horizontal search box

slowly morphs inwards and upwards until it resembles the outline of a typical

smartphone. Finally the date October 4 appears alongside Google's logo.



iPhone 7 HissGate: Apple customers report hearing hissing sounds coming from

their new iPhones



The caption to the video, posted on YouTube, simply reads "Something new to love

on Oct 4."



Although Google will have designed the new phones, many tech pundits are divided

over whether it will be made by another manufacturer or not.



Early rumours suggest that the Taiwanese manufacturer HTC was in line to create

both the Pixel and the Pixel XL. Last year, Google split development duties: the

Nexus 5X was built by LG whilst the larger Nexus 6P was crafted by Huawei.



Google Allo: New 'smart' messaging app uses artificial intelligence to predict

what you want to say next



However, there's also the remote possibility that Google will look to

manufacturer its own phones for the first time.



As tech site The Verge points out, Apple's success has always been that it

controls every aspect of the iPhone's production. From design to development of

both hardware and software. As such, all the features work together smoothly.



Google Trips wants to help you plan your holiday and be your personal tour guide

abroad



Because of the popularity of the Android operating system, Google is in a unique

position to be able to do the same.



The aforementioned Pixel C was Google's first in-house tablet built specifically

for Android. The shift to a Pixel name for its new smartphones could mean the

tech giant is about to do things on its own.



Like the iPhone 7 before it was released, there have been plenty of leaks about

what the Pixel and Pixel XL will be like.



In fact, most of the specifications for the two new phones have already been

circulating around the internet.



Pirate Bay BLOCKED by Google Chrome as search giant makes it harder to access

illegal downloads



Our friends at Alphr have an idea of what kind of power Google's latest

creations will be boasting.



"The Pixel XL will have a 5.5in 2,560 x 1,440 AMOLED display with a quad-core

Qualcomm processor, 4GB of RAM, USB Type-C, rear-facing fingerprint reader,

12-megapixel rear camera and a 8-megapixel front-facing one.



"It will also have a beefy 3,450mAh battery and standard 32GB of storage, with

the option to upgrade to a 128GB if needed," the site claims.



"The Pixel has similar specs, but it's clearly the lower-end of the two

flagships. It will sport a 5in Full HD AMOLED display, quad-core 2.0GHz 64-bit

processor, 4GB of RAM, the same cameras as the XL and a smaller 2,770mAh

battery.



"As expected, it will also come with a rear-mounted fingerprint reader and a USB

Type-C port."



With these specs on board and a tight integration with the latest version of

Android, Google's new phones are set to mount a serious challenge to Apple's

crown.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





