                              460 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                      April 14, 2015 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT



Dell XPS 13 review: a screen to beat Apple;

Company's new powerful 13in aluminium ultrabook has a better-than-retina quad

HD+ screen with virtually no bezels squeezed into an 11in laptop frame



BYLINE: Jack Schofield



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 1055 words





Star Rating: 5 stars



Dell's latest ultrabook is squarely aimed at Apple's MacBook Pro with a

better-than-retina high resolution screen and aluminium body - a Windows MacBook

killer.



Since Dell turned private in 2013 it has rekindled its innovative spirit, first

with a super-thin tablet with an edge-to-edge display, now with a laptop that is

thin, light and practically bezel-less.



The new XPS 13 is a "hero product" that shows what the company can do. I can't

remember the last time I really wanted to test a Dell laptop.



Better than retina



The Dell XPS 13 (2015) may look like a traditional aluminium ultrabook, but it

really makes an impact when you open it up.



The screen looks huge, because the bezels are tiny - a 13.3in "infinity" screen

fitted into something the size of an 11in laptop. It is also is very bright and

very sharp, with a resolution of 3200 x 1800 pixels and a pixel density of 276

pixels per inch.



For comparison a MacBook Pro with a 13.3in retina screen has a resolution of

2560 x 1600 and 227ppi, and Google's Chromebook Pixel a 12.9in screen with a

2560 x 1700 resolution and 239 ppi, meaning the Dell has both the Apple and

Google laptops beat on sharpness.



The higher the pixel density the sharper the text, the clearer the details in

images and the better the screen looks - it's the same principle used by

smartphones and tablets.



Specifications as tested



     ·    Screen: 13.3in Quad HD+ infinity screen, 3200 x 1800 (276 pixels per

          inch)

     ·    Processor: 2.4GHz Intel Core i7 i7-5500U processor

     ·    RAM: 8GB

     ·    Storage: 256GB SSD

     ·    Connectivity: Wi-Fi 802.11ac, BT 4.0, USB3.0, mini DisplayPort, SD

          card reader

     ·    Camera: 720p

     ·    Dimensions: 304 x 200 x 15mm

     ·    Weight: 1.26kg







Real power



The XPS 13 is one of the first new laptops using Intel's fifth-generation 14nm

Core chips, code-named Broadwell. They provide a small increase in performance

over current Haswell designs, but should deliver significantly better battery

life.



The fan-cooled Core i7-5500U is fast for an ultrabook - especially one that

measures only 15mm thick - and the extra performance of its HD5500 graphics

processor makes it usable for 1080p gaming. It's quite a step up from the slow

performance of the fanless Core-M chip used in the Lenovo Yoga 3 and Apple's

latest MacBook.



But small sizes require compromises, and the XPS 13 is no exception. The memory

chips are soldered to the motherboard so not upgradable and the battery is

sealed in, as it is with quite a few of its competitors.



The XPS 13 has two USB 3.0 ports, a mini-DisplayPort for video, an SD card slot,

and a 3.5mm headset jack. More connections can be provided via an optional USB

dongle. The webcam is positioned in an odd place - underneath the screen on the

left-hand side - because there's no room for it in the thin bezel around the

screen. The view from the webcam is therefore, less flattering.



Battery lasts about a day



Dell estimates the XPS 13 with the infinity screen will last approximately 11

hours of browsing or eight hours of video playback. With high performance

settings and the screen brightness turned up, I got slightly less than that in

normal use.



With more balanced settings, the XPS13 should get through a normal day's work.

But if you play World of Warcraft on your lunch break, you might not make it.



The power adapter is tiny, however, and the machine charges in about two hours.

Dell also offers a Power Companion battery that will recharge it, but if battery

life is a priority, the lower resolution full HD-screen versions last longer.



'Adaptive brightness' potentially a plague



The infinity screen is excellent - arguably one of the best available on a

laptop - but there's a potential problem.



The screen has an "adaptive brightness" feature that varies the screen

brightness according to content, not just the ambient light. It's a technology

used in high-end smartphones and tablets by Samsung and others, which makes the

display look as good as possible.



However, the colour and brightness changing technology cannot be turned off and

makes it impossible to calibrate the display, which is the first thing a pro

photographer or video editor would want to do with this type of machine.



Some people think it is very important, and many have complained about it

online, but I confess I didn't really notice it in daily use. Dell ought to

provide a way to turn it off, and until it does, it could be a real problem for

people in the creative industries.



Keyboard and trackpad



The chiclet-style keyboard is good, but not great. I found the backlit keys

slightly small, which reflects the fact that the XPS 13's chassis is closer to

an 11.6in than a 13.3in laptop. I would also have preferred a little more

travel, but then, I grew up with mechanical typewriters and clicky keyboards.



The large Microsoft Precision touchpad is much better than those in most Windows

laptops, though still not up to Apple standards. It's also very sensitive, which

takes some getting used to.



Price



The Dell XPS 13 comes in several different models starting at £799 and rising to

£1,249, with faster processors, the quad HD+ screen and more storage.



The version tested costs £1,099 with 256GB of storage, 8GB of RAM and a quad HD+

screen.



Verdict



The Dell XPS 13's Quad HD+ screen, thin bezels, good touchpad, solid keyboard,

aluminium construction and aggressive pricing make it a strong competitor in the

high-end PC market. Not even Apple offers a better-than-retina screen and a Core

i7 in something close to the size of an 11in MacBook Air.



There are other high-end laptops such as the Lenovo ThinkPad Carbon X1, HP

EliteBooks, Asus Zenbooks and similar machines, but if you want a laptop for

Windows or Linux, the XPS 13 is probably the best you can get at the moment.



The elephant in the room? Dude, you're getting a Dell. That won't put off

business buyers, who make up the vast majority of Dell's customers, but it's

probably not going to appeal to the hipsters in Starbucks, who are brand

followers not brand leaders.



Pros: excellent quad HD+ screen, solid build, powerful, good touchpad,

touchscreen  Cons: battery life could be better, adaptive brightness can't be

turned off, memory not upgradable



Other reviews



                     · Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet



· Five best laptops to suit any budget



LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





