
DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


SAN FRANCISCO - Software giant Google is beginning an aggressive foray into
hardware production with the launch Tuesday of a smartphone and other devices
that will bring the company into direct competition with other leading tech
firms, including its longtime partner Samsung.

The launch signals a major shift for one of the world's most profitable
companies as it seeks to adapt to a technology landscape increasingly dominated
by mobile and other connected hardware. Google must find a way, analysts say, to
keep acquiring user data for targeting ads as Web search - traditionally done
from laptop or desktop computers - is supplanted by newer technologies.

Google's new smartphone, the Pixel, will employ artificial-intelligence
technology that users can converse with, allowing them to sidestep keyboards as
they access online information and make purchases such as movie tickets, say
people familiar with the company's plans who spoke on the condition of anonymity
to reveal information ahead of its official release. The company also plans to
release other new hardware, including a voice-based assistant for the home to
rival Amazon's Echo and a virtual-reality headset to rival Facebook's Oculus.

These moves push Google beyond its traditional comfort zone - industry-leading
online portals for Web search, and popular apps for email and maps - and into
the harshly competitive world of hardware design, production, sales and customer
service in which the company has only dabbled. The company has relied on
partners such as Samsung and Huawei to sell devices loaded with free Google
software, including the Android mobile operating system.

"Android is ubiquitous now, but as people shift into these new patterns for
interacting with the Web, Google has less and less reach," said Benedict Evans,
partner at the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. "They
have you for Web search, but not for the other things that you increasingly do.
This is both an existential and a strategic problem for Google."

The launch of the Pixel - which was to be heralded this week by prime-time
television ads during "Monday Night Football" and "The Voice," as well as
billboards and installations in London, Sydney, Berlin and New York - will test
Google's mettle in a new kind of business. The shift toward hardware also puts
the company on a collision course with Apple, Amazon and Facebook, and with
partners such as Samsung that have used Google's free Android software to build
their own global smartphone empires. Samsung's Galaxy phones are the most
popular high-end smartphones in the United States after Apple's iPhone.

Samsung and Google have engaged in a tug of war in recent years, each trying to
shake free of its dependence on the other, said people familiar with the
situation. Google in recent years has tested the hardware market, with a spotty
record, including limited efforts to sell its own line of smartphones, its
purchase (and later sale) of Motorola and release of other troubled products
such as Google Glass. Samsung, meanwhile, has gone so far as building its own
mobile operating system and app marketplace, Tizen, as a hedge against the
company's dependence on Android.

Samsung declined to comment.

"Google's challenge is that Android's success has also been its greatest
weakness," said Jeffrey Hammond, principal analyst at Forrester.

The Android operating system is used by Samsung, Huawei, HTC and dozens of other
manufacturers. But Google's licensing deals with manufacturers - offering the
smartphone operating system and the popular Google Play Store app marketplace to
manufacturers only if they agree to bundle it with other Google apps - has
generated antitrust scrutiny in Europe.

It also has left Google with little control over the devices, opening them to
security flaws while hampering the company's ability to leverage the popularity
of Android as a path to other Google-provided services, such as the growing
market for artificial intelligence.

Many tech companies have tried and failed to produce smartphones. Smartphones
released by both Facebook and Amazon over the past two years have flopped.
Microsoft - another software giant that moved into the hardware business - sold
Nokia two years after buying it. In 2011, Google bought smartphone maker
Motorola for $12.5 billion and sold it for less than a quarter of that amount
three years later, reportedly because the ownership of Motorola caused problems
with its other manufacturer partners.

The Pixel will be manufactured by HTC and cost about $650, according to people
familiar with the company's plans, though different payment options will be
available. The Pixel is also expected to be branded exclusively as a Google
phone. This stands in contrast to the packaging for Nexus phones, the largely
obscure line of Android phones that Google has produced with manufacturer
partners since 2010, which had the names of both manufacturers and Google on its
packaging.

Google plans to build out an extensive customer service and marketing operation
to accompany the Pixel devices, said individuals familiar with the company's
plans.

Google thinks that if it waits longer to make a major push into hardware, it
risks losing control of the Android device market. Moreover, the search giant
sees an opportunity as consumers become more comfortable buying smartphones
directly from manufacturers and carriers and dropping two-year contracts that
lock customers in, said the people familiar with the company's thinking.

Samsung's recent recall of its flagship Galaxy phone, because of battery
explosions, is a vulnerability Google could exploit, said Charles Golvin,
research director at Gartner.

Today, Google's core search advertising business is still a cash cow, but Wall
Street thinks that search advertising is a maturing industry. The queries that
people type into Google on a smartphone today could, in the near future, be
asked aloud to a device in the home or in a car, Evans said.

"If you have a device in your home, they would like you to be asking Google -
and not Amazon's Alexa - what the weather is or telling Google to play you this
music," Evans said. "Google sees there is a new endpoint emerging beyond
smartphones."

The new smartphones will come equipped with Google's latest
artificial-intelligence software, a souped-up voice-based helper called Google
Assistant, that can do things such as buy movie tickets when asked. The phone
will come with software that works smoothly with Daydream, the company's
virtual-reality platform and headset, and with the home appliance, Google Home.
Like Apple and Microsoft, which have built clusters of devices that sync in the
hopes of keeping consumers wedded to their products, Google expects that
consumers will be motivated to buy more of the products if any one of them takes
off.

Google has made organizational changes across the company as part of its dive
into hardware. In April, Google rehired Rick Osterloh, who was president of
Motorola when the handset maker was owned by Google, to run a new hardware
division. Osterloh, who managed the relationship with Google's Android team
during his tenure at Motorola, has consolidated the company's various hardware
initiatives, including Chromecast, Nexus, Google Glass, the Nest thermostat, and
now Pixel, into a single unit. He is building out a customer service operation
and has appointed a design chief to oversee all the company's hardware. A
separate unit manages the relationships with manufacturer partners.

"He's one of the elite few who understands that the new wave of innovation will
go beyond smartphones and combine software and hardware," said Jason Rosenthal,
chief executive of virtual-reality start-up Lytro, where Osterloh sits on the
board of directors. "There are just few very executives who have worked on
both."

elizabeth.dwoskin@washpost.com

craig.timberg@washpost.com

