                              465 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          The News Today (Bangladesh.)



                           October 10, 2013 Thursday



Google unveils new HP laptop for $279



LENGTH: 365  words





Google is introducing a new $279 laptop based on its Internet-centric Chrome

operating system, borrowing many of the high-end features found in a model that

costs about $1,000 more.



Hewlett-Packard Co. is making the new HP Chromebook 11. Although the price is in

line with most other Chromebooks using Chrome OS, the new model sports many

design features that are usually found on pricier devices, including the $1,299

Chromebook Pixel.



Unlike Windows and Mac laptops, Chromebooks rely heavily on having a continuous

Internet connection to run Gmail, Google Docs and other online services. Many

apps don't run directly on the device but over the Internet. The devices also

have relatively little storage, as documents, photos and other files are

supposed to be stored online instead.



The new laptop has a plastic frame with no sharp edges or corners, or even screw

holes. Speakers are tucked under the keyboard so that sound comes out toward the

user, even when the laptop is used on the lap. Devices with speakers on the back

or the bottom don't do that.



The Chromebook 11 has a display that measures 11.6 inches diagonally, and it

weighs about 2 pounds.



Caesar Sengupta, vice president of product management for Chromebooks, said HP

approached Google after seeing the Pixel, which Google designed and made on its

own using an unnamed contract manufacturer.



He said Google and HP had to make a few trade-offs to keep the price low. The

Chromebook 11 doesn't have a touch screen, and the display's resolution isn't as

sharp as the Pixel's. The Pixel also uses a plastic frame rather than metal, but

there's magnesium underneath to keep the laptop sturdy.



And in recognition of the growing use of phones and tablet computers, the

Chromebook 11 uses the same microUSB charger common in those mobile devices.

Other laptops typically come with their own charger, which Sengupta described as

yet another item that needs to be packed for weekend trips.



The Chromebook 11 is available starting Tuesday at Google's only Play store and

selected retailers. The laptop comes in white or black. The white model has a

choice of four accents around the keyboard and under the device: blue, red,

yellow and green.



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2013 The News Today

                              All Rights Reserved





