                              468 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 Business Line



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Google launches new Pixel phone at San Francisco event



LENGTH: 264  words



DATELINE: SINGAPORE





SINGAPORE, Oct. 5 -- Oct 4 Alphabet Inc's Google on Tuesday announced a new "

Pixel" smartphone at an event on Tuesday, the company's latest effort to sell

consumers on a Google-branded device and to challenge Apple Inc's iPhone at the

high end of the $400 billion global market.





 The new phone starts at a price of $ 649, and Google is working with

exclusively with Verizon Communications in the United States, Google executives

said.

 Analysts predict the San Francisco product launch will also showcase other

Google hardware initiatives, including a voice-controlled speaker system called

Home to challenge Amazon.com Inc's Echo device, and a virtual reality headset.

 Google Home availabe for $129, includes free Six-month trial of ad-free

YouTube.

 Google hardware chief Rick Osterloh announced the Pixel phone shortly after the

event began, adding that the camera was the best available on a smartphone. The

new phone can get a 7-hour charge in 15 minutes, the company said.

 Pixel phones will come in black, blue and silver and will have 5 and 5.5 inch

(12.7 cm and 14 cm) screens.

 While most vendors other than Apple use Google's Android operating system, the

company has for years toyed with various approaches to building its own hardware

without alienating manufacturers.

 Google has sold Nexus phones since 2010, but the devices have gained little

traction in a market dominated by Samsung Electronics. Shares of Alphabet were

up about half a percent in midday New York trade. (Reporting by Julia Love,

additional writing by Peter Henderson; Editing by Bill Rigby and Alan Crosby)



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





