                              469 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                      October 3, 2016 Monday 02:49 PM EST



What to expect from Tuesday's big Google hardware event



BYLINE: Jon Gold



SECTION: NEWSANALYSIS



LENGTH: 500  words





Click for image



We know that Google is set to release a slew of hardware Tuesday at an event in

San Francisco, including smartphones, smart home devices and even a new Wi-Fi

router. Here's what the leaks and rumors say about the specifics of the

company's big release day tomorrow.



Bye, bye, Nexus



Google is set to release the already-widely-leaked Pixel and Pixel XL

smartphones, which will boast flagship specs and run totally stock Android. It's

the same idea as the Nexus line of phones - top-end smartphones designed to

showcase the possibilities of the operating system free from the modifications

that OEMs impose on their own devices.



ALSO ON NETWORK WORLD: Tim Cook: Augmented reality will be an essential part of

your daily life, like the iPhone | U.S. cellular carriers charge too much, and

here's proof



It'll have a fingerprint scanner on the back, pack 4GB of RAM, and boast a 1440p

screen. That's a lot of, well, pixels. While Nexus devices used to be sold for

comparatively low prices, rumor has it that the Pixels will set you back just as

much as other flagships. That's not yet known for sure, however.



Google Home



Amazon's Alexa and Echo making as big a dent in the smart home/voice assistant

market as they have must have Google a little puzzled, but they're coming back

at this space in a big way, having already announced Google Home this spring at

I/O 2016. The company's expected to release the device, or at least give up a

definitive date for it to go on sale, at the event tomorrow.



Why-Fie



Google's already in the home Wi-Fi space with OnHub, a premium router designed

to be as simple as possible to set up and use. Android Police reported last

month, however, that the company's going to expand its presence and add a new

product, called simply "Google Wifi." It'll retail for about $130 and have

mesh-networking capabilities, which means that Google has designed it with an

eye towards the Internet of Things.



Daydream VR



Another thing Google teased at I/O 2016, Daydream is the company's entry into

the burgeoning consumer VR space. It works on the same principal as Google

Cardboard - basically, you stick your phone into a specialized headset, and a

clever app changes the view on your screen based on movements. Daydream adds a

simple hand control for navigation and interface.



It's not the same thing as sophisticated all-in-one systems like the HTC Vive or

Oculus Rift, but it does have one big advantage over those devices - the cost

could be as low as $80, compared to $600 for the Rift and $800 for the Vive.



MORE: Augmented & virtual reality bring the masses to Harvard



Chromecast Ultra



Chromecast, Google's handy little HDMI dongle that lets you stream stuff from

your computer or your phone to your TV, is changing its form a little bit. Where

it started off as a cheap ($35) gizmo with relatively limited functionality, the

forthcoming Chromecast Ultra will jack up the price to $70 and add some new

features, the biggest of which is probably rumored support for 4K video.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





