

Google's smartphone launch signals a major shift into the competitive world of
hardware design, production, sales and customer service.

SAN FRANCISCO - Software giant Google is beginning an aggressive foray into
hardware production with the launch Tuesday of a smart-phone and other devices
that will bring the company into direct competition with other leading tech
firms, including its longtime partner Samsung.

The launch signals a major shift for one of the world's most profitable
companies as it seeks to adapt to a technology landscape increasingly dominated
by mobile and other connected hardware. Google must find a way, analysts say, to
keep acquiring user data for targeting ads as Web search - traditionally done
from laptop or desktop computers - is supplanted by newer technologies.

Google's new smartphone, the Pixel, will employ artificial-intelligence
technology that users can converse with, allowing them to sidestep keyboards as
they access online information and make purchases such as movie tickets, say
people familiar with the company's plans who spoke on the condition of anonymity
to reveal information ahead of its official release. The company also plans to
release other new hardware, including a voice-based assistant for the home to
rival Amazon's Echo and a virtual-reality headset to rival Facebook's Oculus.

These moves push Google beyond its traditional comfort zone - industry-leading
online portals for Web search, and popular apps for email and maps - and into
the harshly competitive world of hardware design, production, sales and customer
service in which the company has only dabbled. The company has relied on
partners such as Samsung and Huawei to sell devices loaded with free Google
software, including the Android mobile operating system.

"Android is ubiquitous now, but as people shift into these new patterns for
interacting with the Web, Google has less and less reach," said Benedict Evans,
partner at the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. "They
have you for Web search, but not for the other things that you increasingly do.
This is both an existential and a strategic problem for Google."

The launch of the Pixel - which was to be heralded this week by prime-time
television ads during "Monday Night Football" and "The Voice," as well as
billboards and installations in London, Sydney, Berlin and New York - will test
Google's mettle in a new kind of business. The shift toward hardware also puts
the company on a collision course with Apple, Amazon and Facebook, and with
partners such as Samsung that have used Google's free Android software to build
their own global smartphone empires.

Samsung's Galaxy phones are the most popular high-end smartphones in the United
States after Apple's iPhone.

Free of dependence

Samsung and Google have engaged in a tug of war in recent years, each trying to
shake free of its dependence on the other, said people familiar with the
situation. Google in recent years has tested the hardware market, with a spotty
record, including limited efforts to sell its own line of smartphones, its
purchase (and later sale) of Motorola and release of other troubled products
such as Google Glass.

Samsung, meanwhile, has gone so far as building its own mobile operating system
and app marketplace, Tizen, as a hedge against the company's dependence on
Android.

Samsung declined to comment.

"Google's challenge is that Android's success has also been its greatest
weakness," said Jeffrey Hammond, principal analyst at Forrester.

The Android operating system is used by Samsung, Huawei, HTC and dozens of other
manufacturers. But Google's licensing deals with manufacturers - offering the
smartphone operating system and the popular Google Play Store app marketplace to
manufacturers only if they agree to bundle it with other Google apps - has
generated antitrust scrutiny in Europe.

It also has left Google with little control over the devices, opening them to
security flaws while hampering the company's ability to leverage the popularity
of Android as a path to other Google-provided services, such as the growing
market for artificial intelligence.

Many tech companies have tried and failed to produce smartphones. Smartphones
released by both Facebook and Amazon over the past two years have flopped.
Microsoft - another software giant that moved into the hardware business - sold
Nokia two years after buying it.

In 2011, Google bought smartphone maker Motorola for $12.5 billion and sold it
for less than a quarter of that amount three years later, reportedly because the
ownership of Motorola caused problems with its other manufacturer partners.

The Pixel will be manufactured by HTC and cost about $650, according to people
familiar with the company's plans, though different payment options will be
available.

The Pixel is also expected to be branded exclusively as a Google phone. This
stands in contrast to the packaging for Nexus phones, the largely obscure line
of Android phones that Google has produced with manufacturer partners since
2010, which had the names of both manufacturers and Google on its packaging.

Google's cash cow

Google plans to build out an extensive customer service and marketing operation
to accompany the Pixel devices, said individuals familiar with the company's
plans.

