                              473 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Chicago Daily Herald



                            October 16, 2016 Sunday



Analysis: Samsung's crisis a holiday gift to Google



BYLINE: Hayley Tsukayama The Washington Post



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 0



LENGTH: 742 words





As the world watches Samsung deal with the fallout from what could be the worst

smartphone launch in recent memory, there should be a smile on faces at Google

headquarters.



Samsung is a crucial Google partner for its Android mobile operating system.

Indeed, Android and Samsung have become almost synonymous for many consumers

these days -- something that Google may not particularly want for its open

mobile operating system. So perhaps to shift that perception, Google is trying

to stake its own claim to being the premier Android brand with its recent

introduction of its Pixel and Pixel XL.



Google is moving on the high-end smartphone world at a good time. Samsung, the

world's top-selling smartphone maker, is dealing with a potentially

brand-crushing crisis. First its new, top-of-the-line Galaxy Note 7 phones

caught on fire; now the replacement ones are reportedly exploding, too. The

Yonhap News Agency in South Korea reported eight cases of fires in replacement

phones, five in the United States, one in South Korea and another in Taiwan.



The fallout has been clear: Slightly more than a third of Samsung smartphone

owners said they would not buy another phone from the company after the Galaxy

Note 7 recall, according to a survey from brand consultant firm Branding Brand,

which conducted the poll before the replacements started catching on fire.



Meanwhile, Google's other rival in the mobile world -- Apple -- has been dogged

by complaints that it is lagging in innovation. Many analysts who expressed that

concern were not soothed by the latest iPhone, which took some small steps

forward but also controversially ditched the headphone jack.



Google went out of its way to mock the iPhone when it introduced the $769 Pixel,

noting that its brand-new smartphone is cutting edge but retains its headphone

jack. Google even bragged about its new shade of blue for its smartphone, which

could be read as a parody of Apple's genuine excitement over its new shade of

black.



But Samsung's slide, and the damage from its horrendous Galaxy Note 7 launch is

perhaps an even greater gift to Google. Many people have turned to Samsung

phones as the anti-iPhone preference of choice. With customers admitting they're

getting wary about other models of Samsung phones -- despite the fact that none

have had problems anywhere near the scale as the Note 7 -- Google's Pixel fits

neatly into whatever gap Samsung leaves behind. Compounding those woes even more

is the Galaxy battery fires are happening right before the holidays when

smartphone companies do their best business.



"I think Samsung in their rush to get out the next product obviously didn't

study it well enough and now they are suffering the consequences of that lack of

care," said Jeff Kagan, an Atlanta-area telecommunications analyst, in an email.

"This is devastating to Samsung and will continue to be devastating to Samsung."



While Samsung initially reported that the vast majority of Note 7 customers who

traded in their phones were choosing another Samsung phone, anecdotal reports

online indicate that is no longer the case. In fact, AT&T and T-Mobile said they

were going to stop exchanging the Note 7 phones even before Samsung confirmed

that it was halting all production of the phone.



Even Samsung said it can't fault them for that decision, in light of the

scattered reports that the replacement phones are suffering from the same heat

problems as the faulty phones they replaced. "We recognize that carrier partners

have stopped sales and exchanges of the Galaxy Note 7 in response to reports of

heat damage issues, and we respect their decision," Samsung said in a statement.



There's no guarantee Google will be able to swoop in and fill the gap

completely. The Pixel phones are only available through Verizon, unless shoppers

want to pay the full price for an unlocked version on Google's own store.

Verizon is the nation's largest carrier, but the exclusive arrangement may limit

sales.



Still, even if Google's own phone doesn't manage to be the iPhone alternative of

the holiday season, the company will still likely see other Android

manufacturers get a boost through the end of the year.



"While this is terrible news for Samsung, it may be great news for their

competitors," Kagan said. "LG, Moto, Huawei and many other Android smartphones

will quickly fill the gap left by this Samsung problem."



---



The Washington Post's Fred Barbash, and Anna Fifield from Tokyo contributed to

this report.



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Associated Press The corporate logo of Samsung Electronics Co. in a

window at its shop in Seoul, South Korea. The fiasco of Samsung's fire-prone

Galaxy Note 7 smartphones -- and Samsung's stumbling response to the problem --

has left consumers from Shanghai to New York reconsidering how they feel about

the South Korean tech giant and its products. Google is moving on the high-end

smartphone world at a good time. Samsung, the world's top-selling smartphone

maker, is dealing with a potentially brand-crushing crisis. First its new,

top-of-the-line Galaxy Note 7 phones caught on fire; now the replacement ones

are reportedly exploding, too. (AP Photo/Ahn Young-joon)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.





