

We bring to you Google's greatest hits and misses in the year gone by.

Tuesday, January 07, 2014: Last year was an eventful year for Google in more
than one way. The giant announced several gadgets and saw some major setbacks
too. For every Chromebook Pixel or Amazing Google+ GIF, there was a vaguely
dystopian off-note involving government intrusions or killer robots.

As stated on networkworld.com, here's taking a look at Google's greatest wins
and fails last year.

HITS

1. Chromecast - Google's Chromecast costing $35 is quite a simple and cheap
device that converts any TV into a web-streaming device through a simple click
of a button. Its deep integration with Android apps like Hulu Plus, Netflix, and
YouTube make it a good contender against competitors like Apple TV and Roku
boxes.

2. Waze -Google took over the crowd-sourced, commuter-focused navigation service
at $1 billion in July. It plans to keep Waze a separate entity for the time
being. However, Waze traffic information is already boosting Google products,
which include Maps and Google Now.

3. EFF report card and the fight for privacy -Google recently got high marks
from the Electronic Frontier Foundation for the extent to which the company
protects user data from prying eyes. Google and many other companies (including
Dropbox, Facebook, and SpiderOak), received five out of five stars for
implementing or making a promise to implement different encryption methods.

4. Chromebook Pixel - The Pixel has an aluminum body and high resolution display
that proves that Chromebooks can be more than cheap, plasticky machines.
However, PC makers raced to adopt the Chrome OS platform in the Pixel's wake, to
create affordable laptops, which made Google's browser-in-a-box more attractive
to budget PC buyers.

5. Street View Donkey - When a donkey was hit by Google's Street View Fleet and
there were rumours regarding the donkey getting injured, Google calmly explained
in a tongue-in-cheek blog post titled "Never ass-ume" that the Internet had got
it totally wrong and the donkey was not at all injured after its close encounter
with Google's Street View fleet.

MISSES

1. The Barge - Google's Barge was a bit more than a floating showroom but is now
on a hiatus till late 2014, while Google deals with design requests from the
U.S. Coast Guard.

2. Google Reader - Google terminated its RSS web app in July stating that it
didn't have ample users to justify its existence. It was a great utility tool
for anybody who wished to keep a tab on multiple blogs and websites in one spot.

3. Moto Maker - This app is a great tool aimed towards personalizing your Moto X
smartphone with just the right shade of blue. However, this was blown up as
Google's Moto Maker was exclusive to AT&T for nearly three months pushing Moto X
fans on competing carriers to make do with plain white or black handsets.

4. Google+ YouTube comments - A petition on Change.org has attracted over
225,000 supporters as of this writing, with most people complaining about the
loss of anonymity and the need to sign up for Google+.

5. Ads in mail's clothing - A short time after Google cleaned up its clients
Gmail accounts with tabs, it commenced inserting advertisements into their
inboxes which seemed suspiciously like regular mail messages. The ads appear
only under Promotions tab, paired with an ad label.

