                              47 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                           The Philadelphia Inquirer



                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

                                 CITY-D Edition



Gizmo Guy: Google's Pixel: Great battery life, connectivity, and it doesn't

explode



BYLINE: By Jonathan Takiff; Inquirer Technology Writer



SECTION: BUSINESS; P-com Biz Technology; Pg. A13



LENGTH: 870 words





The timing of the new Google Pixel phones debut is so apt it seems like an

orchestrated plot.



Hitting Verizon Wireless stores Thursday, the Pixels are popping out of the

bushes barely a week after Samsung pulled its flagship, overheating Galaxy Note

7 from the market, leaving lovers of Samsung phones and their (Google-crafted)

Android operating system feeling vulnerable and open to the option of changing

horses mid-stream.



So what are the first review assessments of the Pixel? All over the map. At the

extremes, the New York Times' Brian X. Chen has slammed the Pixel as "mediocre"

while the Telegraph of London has hailed it "a worthy Android rival to the

iPhone."



There isn't even a clear consensus on Google's history in the phone business.



"We've waited a long time for a Google phone," declared that hyped-up Telegraph

writer, James Titcomb, ignoring that Google has been marketing phones under the

Nexus brand name since January 2010.



Venture Beat's Emil Protalinski called the Pixel "the first phone that Google

has designed inside and out." However, other writers have cited HTC as a partner

on this project, just as it was on the original Nexus One.



But plow through enough reviews for the Nexus 7, er, 5-inch Google Pixel and 5.5

inch-Pixel XL, and some cream rises to the top. Or curdles.



Get your charge on. If there's one thing everybody likes about the Pixel, it's

the 22-26 hour talk/music playing/texting time available between battery

charges. That's almost double the 14-hour run time of the iPhone 7 (to Apple's

abiding shame) and a few hours more than you get with a Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge.

Reviewers also froth about the superfast recharger option for the Pixel's

battery, adding 7 hours of run time after just 15 minutes on the cradle. But no

one has asked if that revved-up recharging process might cause the lithium ion

battery to fail prematurely. Ask again, in six months.



Screen quality. Those who've merely inspected the Pixel's OLED screens indoors

call them color and contrast knockouts, with the Pixel XL's "Quad HD" screen

(2560x1440 pixel resolution) making it an especially good partner for the new

Daydream View VR goggles and software Google will be pushing shortly. Outdoors

under a bright sun, organic light emitting diode screens don't perform as well.



Google assistant. Depending on who and what you ask, Google's newly upgraded,

voice-activated Artificial Intelligent tool is either far better than Apple's

Siri or a shocking disappointment. Google claims its ability to search for

answers and build a profile on users is unmatchable. Wired's Victoria Woollaston

writes Google Assistant helps make the Pixel XL a "must buy for Android fans . .

. the way [it] uses context to answer questions is quite astonishing." On the

other hand, Chen scoffed that Assistant couldn't even find the TV show Westworld

. Camera skills. At its U.S. introduction, Google pulled out a study that

characterized the Pixel's 12.3 MP rear camera and 8 MP front camera the best in

the biz. And CNET has affirmed it "takes awesome pictures." But other reviewers

who've bothered to compare shots have found cameras with similar specs in the

iPhone 7 and Galaxy S7 Edge to be of equal or better merit - with the iPhone 7

notably superior on close-ups and color accuracy. Pixel's flash shots scored

best.



Ease of setup. Pixel smartphones carry internal software and a "quick switch

adapter" cable for easily moving stuff (contacts, messages, calendars, music,

photos) from your old phone (iOS or Android) to the newbie. Several reviewers

have been impressed by this - and by Google's offer of "unlimited" cloud storage

space for your photos and videos on Google Photos. But for safety's sake, a

Pixel adopter should always back up everything on your old phone to a computer,

first. And be aware that the "smart storage" feature in Google Photos may then

remove older backed-up photos and videos "when you run out of space." Sure

sounds like a contradiction of the "unlimited" storage promise.



Cheap connections. Google Pixel buyers can jump to the head of the line to sign

up for Project Fi, Google's new and dirt-cheap high-speed phone service,

previously available only to Nexus phone owners. The alternative keeps the

monthly bill at $30 by shifting your calls on-the-fly between Wi-Fi networks

(where available) and one of three partner service providers: Sprint, T-Mobile

and US Cellular. Chen is high on the option, says the tech works great in his

neck of the woods (San Francisco). But our recent attempt to conduct an

interview with a Project Fi-connected mobile caller in Manhattan proved a

stuttering, frustrating, "can you hear me now?" (no!) disaster.



takiffj@phillynews.com



215-854-5960 @JTakiff



Samsung's ditching of flagship phone portends Android turf war



http://www.philly.com/philly/wires/reuters/business/technology/20161012_Reuters_

Report_tagreuterscom2016newsmlKCN12C06Y_Samsung_s_ditching_of_flagship_phone_por

tends_Android_turf_war.html



Note 7 fiasco could burn a $17 billion hole in Samsung accounts



http://www.philly.com/philly/wires/reuters/business/technology/20161011_Reuters_

Report_tagreuterscom2016newsmlKCN12B0FX_Note_7_fiasco_could_burn_a__17_billion_h

ole_in_Samsung_accounts.html



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Photograph by: RAMIN TALAIE / Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC

                              All Rights Reserved





