                              485 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday



Google aims at Apple with new Nexus phone, tablets



BYLINE: Javed Anwer



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 763 words





NEW DELHI: Google announced two new tablets and a new smartphone on Monday,

aiming to take on Apple's iPhone and iPad in the smartphone and tablet market.

Incidentally, the announcement came around half an hour before Microsoft was

supposed to kick off its Windows Phone event in San Francisco.



The devices launched under the brand name Nexus, which is Google's way of

differentiating its products from other devices powered by Android. Nexus 4,

which would replace Galaxy Nexus as 'pure' Android phone, was the highlight of

the lot that Nexus 10, a 10-inch tablet, and an updated model of Nexus 7.



Nexus 4 has been built by Google in partnership with LG. It is powered by a

quad-core processor running at 1.5 Ghz and Adreno 320 graphics chip. The phone

has a 4.7-inch IPS screen with a resolution of 1280 x 768 pixels. It has two

cameras - 8 mega pixels primary camera and 1.3 mega pixels front camera. The

phone has 2GB RAM. In terms of internal storage, the device will come with

either 8GB storage or 16GB. It doesn't support microSD cards.



The highlight feature of Nexus 4, apart from its stellar hardware, is the back

cover made of glass. Though it is likely that the use of glass may make the

device more susceptible to damage. It also lacks LTE or 4G compatibility, which

is a standard feature in high-end phones nowadays.



"This is the first time we collaborated with LG to build a Nexus device," Andy

Rubin, senior vice president of mobile and digital content at Google, said in a

press release. "They brought an extraordinary amount of talent to the project,

and the result is a feature-packed device that feels great in your hand, and

blazingly fast under the hood."



"LG is proud and excited to play this role in helping build the latest Nexus

smart-phone," said Jong-seok Park, president and CEO of LG's mobile division.



According to Google, the device will be available in 8GB version and a 16GB

version on Google Play store starting November 13 in the US, UK, Canada,

Germany, France, Spain and Australia. Offline availability in Europe,

Central/South Americas, Asia, CIS and the Middle East will begin from the end of

November.



For a flagship Android phone, Nexus 4 has been priced very aggressively. The 8GB

model will cost $299 while the 16GB model will have a price of $349.



However, at the moment it is not clear when the phone will launch in India. So

far Nexus S is the only Nexus device to launch in India. That too had arrived

here several months after the global launch and was available only in limited

quantities.



This has disappointed many Android fans in India.



"It is disappointing that Google's Nexus devices don't come here in India. Nexus

devices are the only Android devices on which we can enjoy pure Android

experience. These devices also get timely software updates from Google," Kamal

Tekwani told TOI. "Compared to Google, nowadays even Apple is releasing products

faster in India."



Focus on tablets



Apart from launching a new flagship phone, Google also unveiled a 10-inch tablet

to take on Apple's iPad. While the price of the tablet -- Nexus 10 -- starts at

just $399, it packs in the state-of-the-art hardware. The tablet has a screen

with resolution of 2,560 x 1,600 pixels, which comfortably puts it ahead of iPad

4, which has a resolution of 2048 x 1536 pixels, in terms of pixel density.

Though iPad still has the advantage of better apps.



It is powered by Exynos 5250 dual-core CPU running it 1.7Ghz and Mali T604

graphics chip. This CPU is based on ARM's A15 architecture and hence is likely

to be faster than most of the quad-core mobile processors available in the

market at the moment. The tablet has 2GB RAM, a 5MP primary camera and 1.9MP

front camera.



Nexus 10 only supports Wi-Fi. For now there is no model that works with 3G or 4G

connectivity.



Along with the new tablet, Google also updated Nexus 7 tablet. It announced a

new model with 32GB storage and support for mobile connectivity. This will cost

$299, $49 more than the 32GB (Wi-Fi) model.



All new Nexus device will be powered by Android 4.2. While the operating system

has been updated, Google is still calling it Jelly Bean. Android 4.2 has new

features like support for multiple users on tablets, gesture typing (similar to

SWYPE keyboard) and a host of other minor improvements.



Update: Apart from introducing a new Nexus 7, Google also killed Nexus 7 (8GB)

model. It reduced the price of Nexus 7 (16GB) model to $199 from $249 and

introduced a new Nexus 7 (32GB) with a price of $299. None of these tablets are

available in India at the moment.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





