

With the decline of Apple's iOS, global tech giant Google with its Android OS is
said to have a record market share in Quarter 3 this year. According to a
research, the operating system has grabbed 87.5 % of the smartphone market all
over the world, in the three months till September 2016. The analytical research
was posted by Strategy Analytics. According to the research total number of
Android smartphone shipments globally were more than 328 million devices out of
a total smartphone shipment of 375 million units, in the third quarter of 2016.
Meanwhile, Apple iOS managed only a little over 45 million units. Android grew
by 10.3 percent since last year Q3, while iOS went down by 5.2 percent. This
result for Apple was also evident in Apple's latest earnings results, where it
said that there was a continuous decline in iPhone sales for the third quarter.
According to their results, Apple iOS market share was 12.1 percent in Q3, down
from 13.6 percent in 2015.

Meanwhile, other operating systems like Windows, Blackberry and Samsung's Tizen
have had negligible sales, as together they amounted to only 0.3 percent of the
market, which is 1.3 million units shipments. This result is down by a huge 84
percent year-to-year. The reason for Android sales being higher every year is
also because of low-cost smartphones being made in China. At the moment the lead
is very big and Google can enjoy it for a moment, but according to the research,
it will have tough challenges ahead. Woody Oh, director at Strategy Analytics
said, "Android's leadership of the global smartphone market looks unassailable
at the moment. Its low-cost services and user-friendly software remain
attractive to hardware makers, operators and consumers worldwide. Woody added,
"However, several challenges remain for Google. The Android platform is getting
overcrowded with hundreds of manufacturers, few Android device vendors make
profits, and Google's new Pixel range is attacking its own hardware partners
that made Android popular in the first place."

Google, in October, released its latest offerings, Google Pixel and Pixel XL,
which made a lot of smartphone makers which run Android, angry. Since the report
is until September, when Apple just released its new iPhone 7 and 7Plus, their
records are to get better as well.

