                              488 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                       April 4, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Google Working On Android-Based Laptop: Report



BYLINE: Aadeetya S, EFY News Network



LENGTH: 335  words





The Android running notebooks are expected to be launched by end of this year.



Thursday, April 04, 2013: After recently entering the hardware segment with its

Chrome OS running Chromebook Pixel touchscreen laptop, Google is reportedly

working on an Android-based notebook, dubbed as Androidbook.



According to Digitimes (http://www.digitimes.com/news/a20130328PD205.html), the

search-engine giant is eyeing the highly successful mobile and tablet platform

and planning to incorporate the same on notebooks/laptops as well. The report

does not talk about hardware specs of the device in particular, but it is

assumed that Google will be looking to adopt Chromebook-like features on the

Androidbook as well.



The chances of Androidbook becoming a reality gained further strength, when the

search-engine giant put Sundar Pichai, head of Chrome to head the Android

division as well. Pichai's know-how will enable Google to accelerate its

penetration in the PC/laptop segment with its Chromebooks and rumoured

Androidbooks.



Chromebooks may have been around for more than three years but in terms of

penetration, the Chrome-OS running device is only available in selected

countries. "The notebooks will run a version of Android that is more suited for

more intense activities and brings productivity suites that befit a PC. Google's

Android-based notebooks (or Androidbooks, as the report calls it) may show up in

stores at the end of the third quarter or early in the fourth quarter."



Earlier this year, Google had launched its Chromebook Pixel laptop, which has

been designed by Google, making it the first high-end Chrome laptop in the

world.



Chromebook Pixel sports a 30.4-cm (12.9-inch) touch display with a resolution of

2560x1700p. The device runs on Chrome OS and is powered by an Intel Core i5

processor, coupled with 4 GB RAM and five hours of battery. Options like USB 2.0

ports, Mini DisplayPort, 3.5mm headset jack, SD card slot, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 3.0,

and HD webcam are all fitted. The Pixel is selling for $1,299.



LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





