
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, June 28 -- Google might be working on its own Android phone
 Most of the big smartphone launches of the year are over, and the ones left to
watch out for are the next iPhone and Google's Nexus devices. While rumour-land
is has seen a lot of speculation about the Nexus phones this year being made by
HTC, a recent report in The Telegraph suggests Google may also be building its
own device without an external hardware partner, in a bid to address the
fragmentation of Android that has developed as a result of manufacturers toying
with the software and not providing reasonable updates to their devices. This
news follows other rumours that mentioned Google may take direct control over
smartphones with a high-end 'Pixel' phone (such as the Chromebook Pixel and
Pixel C tablet) to rival the iPhone. However, Google has extended no
confirmation on this front, so this might well be more wishful thinking.


 Facebook debuts Slideshow feature
 iPhone users who upload a lot of photos to Facebook might soon find themselves
presented with an option to convert them into a slideshow. The new feature from
Facebook will include transitions and background music to the pictures, and can
be auto-generated and edited later. The company has been struggling to get users
to upload more personal data, and the slideshow feature is seen as a step in
this direction. When the feature will be made available for Android devices is
uncertain.
 Apple may launch three phones this year
 After staying away from hardware announcements and focusing on macOS Sierra and
upgrades to Siri for WWDC, Apple is now said to be working on launching three
phones this coming September, with a Pro version joining the iPhone 7 and Plus
variants. This year's update might also be an incremental one, with reports of
Apple going for a major overhaul for next year's iPhone (which would mark the
10th anniversary of the device) also doing the rounds. The 2017 iPhone may
tinker with an edge-to-edge display and a fingerprint sensor built onto it.
 BitTorrent launches music streaming app, and it's legal
 The torrent downloading client made by BitTorrent has been a tool used for many
downloads of questionable legality, and the company has been making efforts to
launch other services over the years. The latest is BitTorrent Now, a music
streaming service available on web and Android (iOS support is said to be in the
pipeline). The service lets users stream music and videos, and seeks to set
itself apart from services like Spotify and SoundCloud with a focus on
independent and underground music over mainstream titles.

