                              494 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                           February 7, 2013, Thursday



Leaked Chromebook video raises questions beginning with: Is it real?;

A concept video of a high-end, touchscreen-equipped Chromebook prototype raises

questions about Google's long-term plans -- and its own provenance



BYLINE: Jon Gold



LENGTH: 455 words





The leak of what looks like an impressive, high-concept version of a Chromebook

to the Internet at large has generateda lot of buzz, but there's plenty of

debate over almost every aspect of it, including whether it's real or not.



The video, which was leaked Wednesday in a Google Plus post -- by hackers,

according to its producer -- showcases the Chromebook Pixel and claims it is a

product of Google's own in-house design. The Pixel, ostensibly, features a

touch-sensitive screen with a resolution of 2560x1700.



The possibilities are interesting, to be sure -- but Computerworld blogger JR

Raphael points out that there's a great deal about the leak that casts doubt on

its veracity.



For one thing, Raphael says, it seems unlikely that marketing firm Slinky.me --

the ostensible source of the video -- would be hired by Google, given that its

website is full of broken English.



Additionally, he notes, CEO Victor Koch appears to have behaved rather strangely

in the wake of the incident -- seemingly going out of his way to publicize it.



If the video is real, though, this would be a technical coup for Google, and one

that would be certain to make a big splash in the laptop market. However, there

are a number of reasons the concept could easily stay on the drawing board.



[ MORE GOOGLE: Another new release date for Galaxy S 4, but is Samsung battening

down the hatches? ] IDC analyst Bob O'Donnell tells Network World that very few

consumers have bought a Chromebook at all, and that making a high-end variant

could prove counterproductive.



"The people who bought it, bought it as a cheap notebook. High-resolution touch

is not going to be cheap," says O'Donnell.



"While [the Pixel] is interesting technologically, from a real market-acceptance

perspective ... I think it would be a very tough sell."



Forrester analyst Frank Gillett says that Google attempting to take the

Chromebook concept up-market isn't the most far-fetched idea out there.

Essentially, what a hypothetical Pixel would do -- and what Microsoft's Surface

tablet has already done -- is test the waters on a more Apple-like business

model, where the company is more closely involved in the hardware end of the

product.



"These rumors -- if they're true, we don't know -- they're a sign that Google is

... thinking about the role they want to play in PCs and not just mobile devices

-- whether Chrome OS stays as sort of an interesting little aberration, or

whether it turns into something pretty interesting," he says.



Despite its questionable provenance, the video has nonetheless provoked

widespread speculation about Google's future hardware plans, and what role the

Chromebook is to play in them.



Email Jon Gold at jgold@nww.com and follow him on Twitter at @NWWJonGold.









LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





