                               4 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 EKantipur.com



                            October 25, 2016 Tuesday



Google Pixel: Designed by Google



LENGTH: 1133 words



DATELINE: Kathmandu





Kathmandu, Oct. 25 -- Google has always been on the helm of the Android

user-experience since they're the architects behind the popular mobile OS. But

Google's vision of an Android experience has always been marred by third-party

original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). While Google does propagate the use of

vanilla Android, most other OEMs load their phones with non-proprietary skins,

features and bloatware that drastically change the user-experience from vanilla

Android. To some extent, Google had a say on what software goes into the Nexus

phones but the hardware of the third-party developed phones seemed really

similar to the OEMs that were producing the phones. The LG made Nexus 5 looks

similar to LG's own LG G2 while the Huawei build Nexus 6P felt more like the

Huawei P8. Thus, the Nexus line of phones have always felt like Google forcing

their software into phone designed and developed by other manufactures



All of this changes, however, with the release of the 'Made by Google' Pixel and

Pixel XL phones. With the release of the Pixel line of phones Google seems to be

hinting at a future where Google is in control of the hardware as well. With the

rebranding of the Nexus phones to the Pixel line (Google stating that they have

'no plans' for the Nexus line of phones) Google seems to be aiming at a more

Apple-like control over the hardware of their flagship phones. Competing

head-to-head with Apple's iPhone in terms of hardware, Google's Pixel phones are

also priced at similar to Apple's iPhones. While older Nexus phones boasted good

performance at an affordable price, the Pixel phones seem to be taking a

different approach by equipping the phone with high-end hardware, good

build-quality and a price-tag to match.



While Google's first dive into the OEM market has produced good-looking phones,

they suffer from a lot of shortcomings when compared to flagships by other

manufacturers. For one, the Pixel phones come with an IP rating of 53 whereas

the iPhone 7 and the Galaxy S7 both come with better water-resistance at IP67

and IP68 respectively. And even though the Pixel phones constructions are

aluminium uni-body, the iPhone 7 still feels more dense and solid than the Pixel

phones. The design of the Pixel phones, which Google states happened completely

inside Google, also seem disproportionate since it comes with really thin side

bezels but the chins on the top and bottom seems to be exaggerated more than

needed. Since the Pixel uses software navigation buttons, the need for a fat top

and bottom chin seems redundant especially since it does not even come with

front-facing stereo speakers.



All of these design choices make it seem like Google had to work with the

hardware availability at their 'contract manufacturer' HTC. HTC seems to be

playing a similar role as Foxconn to Apple and is currently handling all of the

manufacturing side of the Pixel phones even though the phones have been designed

in-house by Google. Thus, our question lies with how much of Google's designs

were influenced by the availability of parts at the HTC production facility. Are

the larger chins on the Pixel phones a direct result of how HTC ships their

phones with hardware navigation buttons or finger-print sensors under the

screen? And is the lack of better water-proofing solution absent from the Pixel

phones because HTC does not have the waterproofing solutions available at hand?

All of this makes us question just what 'designed' by Google really means if

their design choices are being limited by HTC's manufacturing process.



But apart from the negatives, the Pixel is actually a good phone. It comes with

top-tiered hardware and is also the first phone to ship with the latest version

of Android, Android 7.1. The Pixel phone is equipped with a 1080p 5-inch AMOLED

display while the Pixel XL phones come with a 1440p 5.5-inch AMOLED display. The

Pixel's screen as a pixel density of 441ppi while the XL models come with a

density of 534ppi. The XL also has a bigger battery at 3450 mAh while the Pixel

is powered by a 2770 mAh battery. Apart from these changes, the hardware inside

both of these phones are the same. They come with Qualcomm's latest and fastest

processor yet, the Snapdragon 821 SOC paired with 4GB of RAM and 32 GB or 128GB

of internal storage. Screens on both of these devices are protected by Gorilla

Glass 4. Google also flaunted the camera on the Pixel phones, while they don't

seem as impressive on paper with a 12.3 MP rear-camera, the cameras on the

phones are the highest-rated cameras on DxO - an industry standard on cameras

and lens glass quality. The Pixel's DxO Mark score of 89 evens the iPhone 7's

camera rating of 84. This should ensure better photography capabilities of the

Pixel phones, but how well the camera performs in real-life situations has yet

to be seen.



Talking about design, the Pixel phones are a pleasure to look at and navigate

around. The smaller Pixel phone can be easily handled by one hand whereas the

bigger Pixel XL also offers better manoeuvrability around the phone even though

one-handed use might be difficult because of the larger chin. While the front

seems similar to all other smartphones, the back is where things get

interesting. One third of the phone's back, where the camera and the

rear-mounted fingerprint reader reside is where Google has installed a Gorilla

Glass 4 glass panel; while the other half showcases the phone's premium

aluminium build. The top and bottom halves of the phone are also slightly raised

so that the cameras don't protrude and because of this slight design choice, the

Pixel phones sit flush on-top of a desk. Picking up the Pixel phones are also

easier since the middle area of the phone is slightly curved inward making it

easier to grab while on a table top.



While Google's initial attempt at making a phone is laudable, the first phones

in the Pixel line-up aren't without their shortcomings. While Google does win in

terms of performance and a good build quality, Google needs to streamline their

production processes better and design phones that don't seem to be dictated by

their manufacture's inventory. Most of the Pixel's shortcoming could have been

overlooked if the phone had been priced at a price-point similar to the Nexus

line but since Google is charging premium price for their Pixel phones, most of

the phone's drawbacks aren't excusable. Since Google is trying to adopt a

similar model to Apple in regards to smartphone hardware and design, it seems

they still have a long way to go before they garner the same clout as the

experienced Apple in the field.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query

with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact

Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





