                              506 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        Contra Costa Times (California)



                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday



Google introduces Pixel C tablet, new Nexus phones



BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mobrien@mercurynews.com



SECTION: NEWS; Business



LENGTH: 521 words





SAN FRANCISCO -- Google introduced a tablet-laptop hybrid Tuesday, along with

two new Nexus phones and updates to Chromecast that together marked the

company's first big product launch since reorganizing under parent company

Alphabet.



Emphasizing a push by the company to build its own in-house hardware, Google CEO

Sundar Pichai announced the new tablet, called Pixel C, that is powered with

Google's Android operating system and is likely to compete with Microsoft's

Surface and Apple's iPad Pro, all of which transform into laptop-like devices

with the addition of a keyboard.



"There's no kickstand," said Andrew Bowers, a Google product director, as he

demonstrated how the lightweight keyboard magnetically attaches. "I can hold it

by the tablet, I can hold it by the keyboard, I can hold it upside-down."



He said the 10.2-inch-screen device goes on sale in time for the holidays --

$499 for the tablet and an additional $149 for the keyboard.



The company also introduced two new phones in its Nexus line, which is now 5

years old but has been used as more of a showcase of Google's edgiest technology

than a big market mover.



But that could change, said the Google executives who revealed the 5.2-inch

Nexus 5X (starting at $379), the premium 5.7-inch Nexus 6P (starting at $499 and

made of "aeronautical-grade anodized aluminum") and a back-to-back series of new

and updated features in the hotly anticipated but relatively low-key launch

event inside a photography studio near San Francisco's Mission District.



Both phones take advantage of one of Google's strengths -- the artificial

intelligence and machine-learning capabilities of its latest version of Android,

named Marshmallow, which launches next week. Both phones are also able to use

Project Fi, Google's new wireless service (starting at $30 a month), and

fingerprint sensing to unlock the phone and use the Android Pay system for

buying items at store payment terminals.



Contact Matt O'Brien at 408-920-5011. Follow him at Twitter.com/Mattoyeah .

Google's new products

Android Marshmallow: The latest version of Google's mobile operating system will

be available on new model Nexus phones and eventually other Android-powered

phones. It includes an advanced version of the Google Now personal assistant.

Nexus 5X: Made by South Korea's LG Electronics, the 5.2-inch smartphone starts

at $379. It has a 12 megapixel camera, fingerprint sensor for locking and mobile

payments, a USB Type-C charging port.

Nexus 6P: Made by China's Huawei Technologies, the sleek, premium 5.7-inch

smartphone starts at $499. It has a 12.3 megapixel camera, fingerprint sensor

for locking and mobile payments, a USB Type-C charging port.

Pixel C: Google's first Android tablet ($499) also transforms into a laptop with

$149 magnetic keyboard attached. The search giant's answer to Microsoft Surface

and Apple's new iPad Pro.

Chromecast Audio: Along with updating its digital media playing Chromecast

plug-in stick, Google's media universe expands with the new Chromecast Audio

circular device -- meant to resemble a vinyl record -- that allows streaming

music to play from a home audio system.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Google product manager Andrew Bowers announces the new Android-based

Pixel C tablet during a Google media event on September 29, 2015 in San

Francisco, California.

Google VP of engineering Dave Burke announces a new Nexus 6P phone during a

Google media event on September 29, 2015 in San Francisco, California.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





