

Samsung Electronics Co.'s mounting crisis with its flagship Galaxy Note 7 has
left millions of premium smartphone buyers looking for an alternative.

The obvious candidate is Apple's iPhone 7, but Google's slick new Pixel device
could get a lift, too.

Samsung recalled and pledged to replace millions of Note 7 phones in early
September after reports emerged that their batteries were bursting into flames.

But over the past week, new reports have indicated that some of Samsung's
replacement phones are catching on fire, too. Samsung has now stopped production
of all Note 7 phones.

Many people upgrade their phones during the Christmas shopping season, giving
Apple and Google an opportunity to fill the Samsung vacuum - and making it even
harder for the South Korean company to bounce back.

The Pixel may be especially appealing to Samsung users looking for another
device that runs the Android operating system.

"There's been a shift toward bigger-screen devices, and there's less competition
there given the Note 7 issue, so there's definitely more opportunities for the
iPhone 7 Plus," said James Cordwell, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP.

As for Google, "the Pixel suddenly has got very limited competition at the high
end of the market."

Samsung on Tuesday asked wireless carriers to stop selling its most expensive
phone and instructed consumers to stop using them.

The move came as carriers including ATT Inc., T-Mobile US Inc., Sprint Corp.,
Verizon Communications Inc. and Australia's Telstra Corp. halted Note 7 sales
following reports of problems with devices thought to be safe.

Before the exploding batteries, Samsung had defied a slowing smartphone market
with better-than-expected Galaxy sales and successfully capitalized on a lull in
demand for new iPhones.

In recent months, Samsung had expanded its already-considerable market share.

The company shipped 77 million smartphones in the second quarter for a market
share of 22 per cent.

That's up from 73 million, or 21-per-cent share, a year ago, according to IDC.
Apple's shipments dropped 15 per cent to leave it with market share of 12 per
cent.

Now, the South Korean company enters the crucial holiday shopping season with no
large-screen smartphone.

Because Samsung and Apple have basically split the market for $700-plus
smartphones between them, the latter is a natural beneficiary of Samsung's woes.

Investors seem to expect that to happen and pushed Apple shares up 1.7 per cent
to $116.05 Monday in New York, the highest level since December 2015.

In the long-term, Apple could attract Android users to its "sticky iOS
ecosystem, which boasts a 95 per cent loyalty rate," Credit Suisse Group AG
analyst Kulbinder Garcha wrote in a note.

Still, Google's Pixel, which debuts in the U.S., U.K., Australia, Canada and
Germany on Oct. 20, could appeal to those who are immune to Apple's charms.

The Pixel is the first phone the search giant has conceptualized, designed,
engineered and tested in-house.

It has a number of features that will be broadly appealing, including a
Siri-like virtual assistant, a flashy camera and speedy apps.

Of course, the Pixel is untested, Google's previous forays into hardware have
floundered and the company lacks its own retail stores.

