                              509 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Early Christmas for gadget lovers



SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 34



LENGTH: 871 words





As if this week's celebrations from Apple (the probable launch of an iPad Mini)

and Microsoft (the launch of Windows 8) weren't enough, Google has joined the

party with what's said to be the launch of a new phone, a new tablet and a new

operating system at the end of the week.



Christmas is coming early in gadget land, it seems.



Google sent out invitations last week for an "Android event" that will take

place on October 29. That's what's known for certain.



What's not certain is what the Android event will be about, specifically.



Shaping up as the leading rumour is a report from The Next Web , which says

Google will reveal new models of its prized Nexus 7 tablet, a new phone known as

the LG Nexus 4, and a new 10-inch tablet.



Those last two will be running a new version of the Android operating system,

known as Android 4.2.



The new Nexus 7 will have 32 gigabytes of internal storage (current models have

only 8 or 16 gigabytes). And it will have mobile broadband, in the form of

HSPA+.



The new tablet, likely to be known as the Nexus 10, will be made by Samsung and

will have a 10-inch display that more than matches Apple's Retina display for

sharpness: it will be 2560x1600 pixels, with a pixel density of 300 pixels per

inch. The Retina display on the iPad is a mere 264 pixels per inch, and is so

sharp that it's hard to imagine the extra 36 pixels per inch making much

difference.



Meanwhile, the LG Nexus 4 will obviously be made by LG, and will sport a

quad-core processor and will otherwise be unremarkable except for the fact that

it runs Android 4.2, which includes the exciting new feature known as "Tablet

Sharing", which will allow multiple people to use the one tablet, each with

their own set of apps and data.



It's like user switching in Windows, and it's something a lot of Android users

(including me) have been waiting for.



Google is touting it as the laptop "for everyone": its new Samsung-built

Chromebook that went on pre-sale on Google's website for $US249 on Friday.



But when you click on the "Buy Now" button, you're given a list of four

retailers in the US, and one in the UK. So what exactly do they mean by

"everyone"? Everyone in the non-metric, English speaking part of the northern

hemisphere, perhaps?



Mind you, it is only pre-sale. By the time the new Samsung Chromebook actually

goes on sale later this week, there will be more places to buy it from,

including from the Google Play store itself, and hopefully one or two of those

will ship it to the rest of the world where almost everyone lives.



Google says the new, cheap computer weighs just 2.5 pounds (that's 1.13 kilos,

everyone) and is "a mere 0.8 inches thick" (that's 2 cm in most of the world),

which doesn't make it the lightest or slimmest notebook going around, but does

make it very slim and very light given the price and the fact it has an

11.6-inch screen.



For the uninitiated (which, let's face it, almost everyone is, despite the

devices having been around for a few years), Chromebooks are notebook PCs that

run Google's own lightweight operating system, Chrome. Google being Google,

Chrome is deigned to be very internet based. Apps run inside the Chrome browser,

for instance. Data is stored online (buyers of the Samsung Chromebook get 100

gigs of cloud storage, free of extra charge, for two years), that sort of thing.



The new notebook is also completely quiet, just like the internet: it's powered

by a fanless Samsung Exynos 5 dual-core processor, more akin to something you'd

find in a mobile phone or a tablet than in a notebook. That low-powered

processor gives the notebook a 6.5-hour battery life, according to Google.



Naturally, we'll do our own tests and get back to you, should the Samsung

Chromebook actually be available here. Of course it will be, it being for

everyone and all.



Microsoft's Surface-to-Apple missile plans



Microsoft has announced local pricing and availability for its Surface tablet,

which will go on sale in Australia on Friday, the same time that it goes on sale

in the US and elsewhere.



The 32 gigabyte version of the Surface with Windows RT will cost $559, and the

32 gigabyte version bundled with a black Touch Cover will cost $679. The 64

gigabyte version with that same cover will cost $789. The keyboard cover

(pictured below) can be bought separately for $139.99, while a slightly thicker

cover which has real keyboard keys will cost $149.99. These are all Australian

prices.



Whether you'll actually get your grubby little mitts on a Surface with Windows

RT come October 26 will depend on Microsoft's courier company, however. It's

only going to be available online on that date in Australia, China, France,

Germany, Hong Kong, and the UK. Shoppers in the US and Canada will be able to

buy it online and in stores.



Australian pre-orders are available here.



Windows RT, in case you haven't been paying attention, is the version of Windows

8 that is designed to run on low-powered ARM chips, similar to the chips that go

into iPads. The Surface tablets running that operating system will generally be

smaller and lighter than tablets running the full-blown Windows 8, but will lack

the ability to run "legacy" applications, "legacy" being just about all the

Windows apps you know and love today.



LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





