                              513 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             Herald Sun (Australia)



                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday

                                 FIRST Edition



World vision



BYLINE: Dave Bullard and Danny Gorog



SECTION: CONNECT; Pg. C04



LENGTH: 848  words





The Earth can groove for you too. All you need is a computer and Google, as Dave

Bullard and Danny Gorog discover



TO SEE the Earth from the air is a wonderful thing -- a privilege we've only had

in the past three or four generations.



But these days anyone with a computer and internet access can see every

kilometre of the world through Google Earth.



And see it in breathtaking detail.



For instance, if you zoom in on Melbourne, you can see the rides at Luna Park.

Or -- and this is probably the first thing any user does -- check out your home.

Chances are, you'll be able to see the pile of dirt in the driveway your wife's

been nagging you to get rid of.



Google Earth (GE) is an application that you download to your PC or Mac.



When you launch it, it connects to Google's data servers and gives you access to

a view of the globe made up of composite images from several aerial and

satellite photography sources, plus Geographic Information Systems (GIS).



On January 8, Google launched version 4.0 of the program, taking it even

further.



It's all a long way from the first aerial photograph, taken in 1858 by Felix

Tournachon from a balloon flying over France's Bievre Valley.



Or the first picture of Earth from space, which was taken in 1960 by the TIROS-1

weather satellite.



Both media have been developed over the years to a point that beggars belief.



For example, DigitalGlobe's QuickBird satellite allows commercial users to see

objects on the ground as small as 60cm.



And we don't know how much more advanced military satellites are.



Google Earth isn't as precise, but still has a base resolution of 15m per pixel,

and thousands of cities have high-resolution imagery greater than 1m per pixel

which provides an aerial view of about 460m.



In fact, it's still so sensitive and so handy to anyone's enemies that Google is

now under pressure to blur some areas of strategic importance.



A recent Times of India report said the Indian government was asking for

sensitive areas to have an image resolution no greater than 25 to 50 metres per

pixel.



Apparently Australia, Russia, South Korea and Thailand are also demanding that

Google blur sensitive images.



There are several ways of finding what you're looking for in Google Earth.



You can search for map co-ordinates, place names (such as St Kilda, Australia)

or just browse by spinning the globe and zooming in and out. We did the latter

to find the images on these pages -- and it's amazing what you can find.



In Australia Google has partnered with TrueLocal to make finding local

businesses easy.



You can click on the ''Find Businesses'' tab in the search box and type

''pizza'' and ''St Kilda, Australia'' to get a listing of pizza restaurants in

St Kilda.



When GE finds the location you'll also get all the contact info.



Your browsing can be made easier by activating information layers such as

country borders, populated areas, topographical information, and social and

population data.



The Geographic Web overlay, for example, will show certain icons that, when

clicked, can take you to a description of a place or even a series of

photographs.



Placemarks let you ''bookmark'' locations that you want to return to. These

marks, which you can give your own names to, also contain co-ordinates and will

show up in your ''Places'' window.



When you've found what you're looking for, you'll need to rotate the view to get

it upright. If you keep the images rotated to the default North, some will look

upside down and, in extreme cases, hills will look like depressions and vice

versa.



You can export and print the images you find at 1000-pixel resolution, which

gives roughly a 20x14cm (8x6 inch) image at 150dpi, or a 2.8MB file size.



One of the great new features in GE 4 is support of 3D models.



To see how this works type in ''New York'' and make sure you have the ''3D''

layer turned on.



New York should appear in 3D with realistic-looking buildings.



You can then use the tilt features in GE to change your viewing angle. To adjust

your tilt use the new navigation console that will appear when you move your

mouse over the top right-hand corner of the image.



The slider at the top of the navigation lets you adjust your tilt.



Lots of people are discovering secret archaeological treasures from around the

world.



Recently somebody found what looks to be the remains of a Roman city underwater

(www.20minutos.es/noticia/199121/1/pueblo/romano/Google).



It's an amazing program with endless possibilities -- so what are you waiting

for?





AND IT WON'T COST YOU THE EARTH



THE basic version of Google Earth is free, but you can get enhanced and

professional versions for an annual fee.



For $26, Google Earth Plus gives you higher performance, 1400-pixel printing,

real-time GPS tracking and data import from Magellan and Garmin devices,

100-point spreadsheet data import and email support. The Pro version, which will

set you back $512 a year, adds even faster performance, 4800-pixel saving and

printing, 2500-point data import, chat support, a movie-maker and the ability to

import Geographic Information System (GIS) data.



Download Google Earth from www.google.com/earth



LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DHS





                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





