                              515 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          The Sunday Times (Australia)



                            October 30, 2016 Sunday

                              ReadersMart Edition



SMART OPERATORS



BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2



LENGTH: 473  words





GEAR UP The latest technology to help you tackle the great outdoors



Here are some sharp and sassy phones that will catch your attention, writes

Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



PIXEL XL GOOGLE This is the Android Samsung refugees have been looking for.

Google calls Pixel its "first phone", but it is more advanced than typical debut

hardware. The 5.5-inch Pixel XL is a sophisticated metal and glass handset with

a reliable rear fingerprint sensor and an advanced camera. Its 12-megapixel

shooter will let you lock focus, change white balance and exposure quickly, and

features unusual settings like HDR+ Auto, and Lens Blur. This phone's software

is the real star, though, with a built-in voice assistant smarter than Siri,

hidden app shortcuts, gestures, and a smart app drawer. It lacks waterresistance

and expandable storage, but this is a genuine Note7 alternative.



$1269 / STORE.GOOGLE.COM



MOTO Z LENOVO While other firms gave up, Lenovo has harnessed magnets to create

something customisable. The 5.5-inch smartphone is super slender, at 5.1mm, and

boasts a fingerprint reader, 13-megapixel camera, Quad HD screen, 64GB and

expandable storage, and water resistance. But some of these features can be

bolstered with magnetic accessories, or Moto Mods, that clip securely to its

back. They include a Hasselblad camera with 10x optical zoom, a JBL speaker, and

a projector. This phone's lack of a headphone jack may throw off some, and its

battery is not big for its size, but its price, quality, and those Mods make a

compelling package.



$999 / HARVEYNORMAN.COM.AU



XPERIA XZ SONY Of all the new phones vying for your attention, this is the

speediest shooter. Sony's newest flagship is an update to the X Performance, and

its hero feature is a 23-megapixel camera that comes with laser autofocus and an

infra-red sensor. It's a powerful mix made better by the addition of 4K video

capture, five-axis stabilisation, and a start time of just 0.6 of a second. This

handset is waterresistant, and its sidemounted fingerprint scanner makes sense,

though quite similar to previous models, photos can be over-sharpened, and wi-fi

connection is not as robust as some.



$999 / SONYMOBILE.COM/AU



X POWER LG For a mid-range phone, this handset has serious staying power. The

sub-$350 LG X Power offers a 5.3-inch screen with high-definition resolution, a

13-megapixel main camera, and a plastic body that, while it won't win any style

awards, is quietly formal. Its surprising, standout feature is its battery that

weighs in at 4100mAh, making it more powerful (in terms of electricity) than

most flagship smartphones. There are trade-offs. Its screen is slightly muddy,

it only has 16GB built-in storage, and its quad-core chip is on the slower side.

Those looking for a reliable caller or a mobile games machine should appreciate

its inclusions.$349 / LG.COM.AU



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Sunday Times





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





