                              516 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday



US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on April 1 titled as "Depthmap

compression using a primitive"



LENGTH: 250  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,687,903 on

April 1, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Depthmap compression using

a primitive"



Inventors:  Hernandez Esteban; Carlos (Kirkland, WA)

Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:

"Systems and methods for compressing a depthmap are provided. In some aspects, a

system includes an encoding module configured to group a plurality of pixels of

a depthmap. Each grouped pixel of the depthmap includes a depth value and is

associated with an optic ray aligned with a camera capturing the depthmap. Each

of the plurality of depth values is within a predetermined offset from one

another. The encoding module is further configured to generate a primitive based

on the grouped plurality of pixels. The primitive includes an identification

value. Each of the plurality of optic rays intersects a corresponding portion of

the primitive. The encoding module is further configured to transform the

depthmap based on the primitive. Each grouped pixel of the transformed depthmap

includes the identification value. The system also includes a compression module

configured to compress the transformed depthmap."



The patent was filed on September 9, 2013 Application no. 14/022,127



For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query

regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





