

The iPad Air 2 is the perfect mix of size and performance for almost anyone.

The Google Pixel C offers a slim, compact aluminum build, fast performance and a
powerful, long-running battery.

A host of small refinements cements the Microsoft Surface Pro 4's position as
the best-in-class Windows tablet - as long as you pay extra for the required
keyboard cover accessory.

The Google Nexus 9's premium build, speedy performance and consistent updates
render it one of the best high-end Android tablets.

iPad Air 2

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/appleipad-air-2/#ftag=CAD187281f
CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding) ? The good: The iPad Air 2 has a
great balance of size and weight. Crisp, bright display. iOS 9 runs perfectly,
including split-screen apps. ? The bad: Priced relatively high for a tablet;
single speaker isn't that loud compared to iPad Pro. ? The cost: $439.99 to
$629.99 ? The bottom line: Apple's midrange tablet is a year old, but it's still
the perfect mix of size and performance for nearly anyone.

Google Pixel C

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/google-pixel-c/#ftag=CAD187281f ?
CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding) ? The good: The Google Pixel C has
a slim, compact aluminum build that feels sturdy. Its optional Bluetooth
keyboard is equally solid and doubles as the tablet's cover and it has a
powerful, long-running battery. The tablet runs the latest version of Android,
and its performance is lightning fast. The screen is sharp, bright and colorful,
and gaming graphics look stellar. ? The bad: It's a bit heavy when attached to
the keyboard (which is sold separately). Big-name apps and games still tend to
hit iOS before Android. The cost: $751.99 The bottom line: The Google Pixel C is
the best Android tablet money can buy.

Microsoft Surface Pro 4

? Product Review:
http://www.cnet.com/products/microsoft-surface-pro-4/#ftag=CAD187281f ? CNET
rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent) ? The good: The Surface Pro 4 fits a larger
screen with a higher resolution into a slightly slimmer body than last year's
model. The pen and keyboard cover are also improved, and this is one of the
first mobile systems shipping with Intel's latest processors. ? The bad:
Microsoft still refuses to include the Type Cover keyboard by default, forcing a
separate purchase. Battery life still isn't enough for a full day. ? The cost:
$879.99 to $899.00 ? The bottom line: A host of small refinements cements the
Surface Pro 4's position as the best-in-class Windows tablet

- as long as you're prepared to pay extra for the required keyboard cover
accessory.

Google Nexus 9

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/googlenexus-9/#ftag=CAD187281f ?
CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent) ? The good: The Google Nexus 9 is the
first tablet to run Android Lollipop 5.0, which should receive timely updates.
It performs steadily with many apps open, and switching between them is fluid.
Its streamlined construction has a deluxe, comfortable feel. ? The bad: Not all
apps work smoothly with Android 5.0 yet. Firm contact is necessary for efficient
touchscreen response and it's slow to charge. The largest capacity model offered
is 32GB and there's no microSD card slot. ? The cost: $293.88 to $293.92 ? The
bottom line: The Google Nexus 9's premium build, speedy performance and
consistent updates render it one of the best high-end Android tablets.

The following CNET staff contributed to this story: Section Editor Dan
Ackerman,Associate Editor Xiomara Blanco, Senior Editor Scott Stein and Senior
Editor Laura K. Cucullu. For more reviews of personal technology products,
please visit www.cnet.com.

