                              521 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Apple wanted you to think bigg...



BYLINE: john davidson



SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 868 words





Apple wanted you to think bigger. HP wants you to "think smaller". It's just

announced the Slate 7, an Android tablet with a small, 7-inch (18 cm) screen and

an even smaller price tag of just $US169.



The tablet, announced on the weekend at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona,

features the usual menu of software and features - Android 4.1.2, a 1.6GHz

dual-core processor, Wi-Fi but not 4G - plus some exotic dishes, too, such as a

Beats Audio sound system and simplified printing over a network. It just

wouldn't be an HP device if there wasn't something about printing and Beats

Audio.



HP is itself accustomed to thinking small when it comes to tablets. You may

recall the last time it came out with a consumer-oriented tablet, the TouchPad,

it yanked the thing off the market in a few short weeks. It was the blink of an

eye, however long it was. A small amount of time.



This tablet looks a little more promising. For starters, it's as cheap as chips,

and Amazon and Google have both proven there's a market for cheap-as-chips,

7-inch Android tablets with their respective Kindle Fire ($US159) and Nexus 7

($US199) tablets.



Also, it's Android, which means that HP execs won't be burdened with the task of

trying to establish an ecosystem for the Slate 7, which so overwhelmed them with

the TouchPad. That tablet, you may recall, ran the webOS operating system which

HP acquired from poor old Palm. HP so couldn't be bothered building up webOS, it

kicked it to open source and told the world, have a go at it.



The Slate 7 is due to be released in the US in April, with the rest of the world

to follow shortly thereafter. There's not yet any word on Australian pricing,

but there doesn't appear to be anything about the Slate 7 that would stop you

buying it in the US for a trifling $US169 anyway, thereby avoiding the usual

Tyranny Of Distance Tax nonsense.



Lovingly crafted. Futuristic camera technology. Simply lovely. Those are some of

the early reviews coming out about HTC's One, the Taiwanese company's major push

to get back into the smartphone business in a big way.



At launch events in New York and London, HTC launched the much-hyped phone, that

has an all-aluminium body and an array of latest hardware and software that has

some critics already saying "this could be something of a winner".



The phone sports all the latest specs, and then some: a 1.7 GHz quad-core

processor; Near Field Communication; LTE mobile broadband; stereo speakers; a

big, 4.7 inch screen with a 468 (!) pixel-per-inch resolution; and a 4 megapixel

camera. Though HTC calls them "UltraPixels", a distinction we hope to dive into

when we do a full review of the phone just as soon as we can get our hands on

one. Apparently UltraPixels gather three times the light of ordinary pixels, or

something.



If you think the aluminium unibody on the HTC One makes it look a little like an

iPhone 5, you're not the only one. But it's said to be a little heavier than an

iPhone 5, which in my book is a good thing. The iPhone 5 is a trifle too light.

When you fork over your hard-earned for a device, you want it to be substantial.

And, apparently, the HTC One is just that.



On the software front, the HTC One runs a very recent version of Android

(4.1.2), on top of which HTC has added its usual Sense user interface, this time

with quite a twist. The home screen now features "BlinkFeed", a live feed of

news and social feeds from around the web, a bit like Flipboard.



There's also a feature called Zoe, which takes photos that are actually

three-second-long snippets of life. So I guess that makes them short videos,

which could be handy for various social-media services such as Twitter's Vine.



The HTC One is due to be released in March in 80 countries around the world,

including in Australia. Vodafone, Telstra and Optus are all listed as carrying

the device. This is going to be one of the major phones of the year.



Google has rolled out a touch-screen, high-resolution-display Chromebook

notebook PC that paves the way for Google's first ever Chromeblet. Or Chrometab,

or whatever Google's inevitable Chrome OS-based tablet will be called.



The new Chromebook Pixel, announced on Google's Chrome Blog, packs what Google

describes as "the highest pixel density (239 pixels per inch) of any laptop

screen on the market today".



If that doesn't make you think "tablet", I don't know what will. By introducing

a notebook with a tablet-style pixel density and a tablet-style touch screen,

Google has set itself up nicely to come out with a tablet. All it needs to do is

rip the keyboard off.



In the meantime, the $US1299 Chromebook Pixel might be just the thing for power

users of notebooks who like their stuff to live in the cloud. Aside from that

fancy screen, it's got a fairly powerful Intel Core i5 processor, a solid-state

drive and in the US it will have an optional 4G connection.



For those of you unfamiliar with Chromebooks, they're notebook PCs that run

Google's Chrome operating system, rather than Windows or Android or Linux or

some other operating system. Chrome OS is essentially just the Chrome web

browser, in which you run other apps such as YouTube, TweetDeck, Evernote or

Angry Birds. The browser even has its own app store.



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





