

Google is expected to unveil a new virtual reality headset October 4, 2016, due
on sale shortly afterwards, reports the specialist website Cnet.

The headset, which could be called the "Daydream View," will accompany the
launch of Google's Android-powered VR platform, announced in the springtime at
the Google I/O conference. It's expected to work in conjunction with a
smartphone, probably Google's own handsets first of all. Cnet also reports that
the headset is being built by HTC and that it's due on sale soon after its
unveiling, probably October 20 in the USA.

The device could allow wearers to explore augmented reality environments, in a
similar fashion to Microsoft's Hololens glasses, currently available to
developers. For that, Google can count on Magic Leap, a startup in which the
Mountain View, California tech giant has already invested heavily. The firm is
known to be developing spectacular augmented reality solutions that bring
virtual content to real-world environments, any time, any place.

Tough competition

Google's new headset will be a direct rival for the HTC Vive, currently on sale
for $799, as well as the Oculus Rift, out now priced $599. The Sony PlayStation
VR is also set to land October 13, for just $399.

Google already offers a rudimentary virtual reality viewer that goes by the name
of Cardboard. Users simply load a smartphone running YouTube and compatible
applications into a build-it-yourself cardboard viewer. It sells for $15 and is
compatible with most Android and iOS handsets with 4" to 6" screens.

Ahead of news on the headset and compatible smartphones, Google has already
opened its virtual reality platform up to developers with a first "VR SDK" kit,
still in beta.

A new smartphone and a hybrid PC in the pipeline

The October 4 conference is likely to see Google unveil a new smartphone line
under its own brand name, replacing the Nexus range built in collaboration with
third-party manufacturers. The handsets could be named "Pixel," following
Google's Pixel C tablet and the Chromebook Pixel. The event could also see
Google hit hard in the PC market with a high-end hybrid laptop.

