


Shrinking Photos For E-Mail

Q. When I drag digital pictures into an e-mail message, they come in huge and
fill up the screen, making it impossible to see the entire image at once. Can I
adjust the size of photos so they fit in the message window?

A. Giant photo syndrome can occur when the resolution of the digital picture
exceeds that of the computer monitor. Although the computer's graphics software
can sometimes correct the situation and reduce the image's display to fit
properly on the screen, this is not always the case.

Digital photographs are made up of pixels -- the word is short for ''picture
elements'' -- and a pixel is a single point in an image. The total image
resolution of a photo taken with a three-megapixel camera, for example, is about
2,048 by 1,536 pixels -- which, when multiplied together, is more than three
million pixels working together to make up the picture.

Monitor resolution is also measured in pixels, and most monitors these days use
screen resolutions of 800 by 600 pixels; 1,024 by 768 pixels; or 1,152 by 864
pixels. All of these resolutions are smaller than a three-megapixel photo, so
when the photo is displayed at its full size, it exceeds the monitor's screen
size. But both Windows XP and Mac OS X give you the opportunity to shrink photos
to resolutions that fit better on a computer screen, like 640 by 480 pixels.

In Windows XP, click to select the photos you want to send from My Pictures or
another location on your computer. After you have selected the pictures, click
in the ''E-mail selected items'' option in the task pane. You can also
right-click with the mouse and select ''Send to Mail Recipient'' from the pop-up
menu.

In the resulting box, click the button next to ''Make all my pictures smaller''
and then on the link for ''Show more options'' to see a selection of resolutions
to use for the picture attachments. Choose one and click O.K. Google's Picasa
photo-management program for Windows and Linux (free to download at
http://picasa.google.com) can also shrink photo attachments.

Mac OS X users have an option in the iPhoto program to reduce image sizes for
e-mail. After you select pictures from your iPhoto library that you want to
share, click the e-mail icon at the bottom of the window; a box will pop up
asking if you'd like to shrink the image for e-mailing.

Keeping Bookmarks In a Safe Place

Q. I use various browsers in my work. Is there a way to have a central bookmarks
repository instead of trying to keep a master on one browser and exporting, then
importing, into the other browsers?

A. An online bookmark manager program that lets you store your favorite Web
addresses on the Web itself may help you keep your links current among all your
browsers -- and keep your bookmarks safe if your hard drive dies. Because the
bookmarks are online, you can also get to them from any Internet-connected
computer, in the office, at home or at a Parisian cybercafe.

Most Web-based bookmark manager programs work like this: You sign up for an
account (often free) and import your existing bookmarks. You usually get a
browser toolbar button or menu command from your chosen service to use for
adding new bookmarks to your collection. Once you have populated your bookmarks
within the online service, you can get to your collection from any computer when
you log back into the site.

LinkaGoGo (www.linkagogo.com) and BlinkList (www.blinklist.com) are among the
many bookmark manager programs available online, and there's a long list of
other options at
http://dmoz.org/Computers/Internet/On--the--Web/Web--Applications/Bookmark--Mana
gers/.

Organizing On Windows

Q. I have so many programs installed on my PC, I can never find anything in the
All Programs list in my Windows Start menu. Is there a way to organize it to my
own liking?

A. You can rearrange the way all your computer's applications are listed by
clicking and dragging the icons around to different places on the All Programs
menu when you have it open. You can also reshuffle all the items in the All
Programs menu into alphabetical order. Select any program icon in the menu and
right-click it. Choose ''Sort By Name'' to reorder the list.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

