                              532 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Google may offer early peak at Andromeda;

Single operating system combines Android, Chrome



BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, and Brett Molina, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 326 words





Google is said to be preparing some big news, not just about new devices but the

software that powers them.



Tuesday at its launch event in San Francisco, Google may offer a sneak peek at

what tech blog Android Police is calling "Android's biggest evolution yet:"

Andromeda, a long-rumored operating system that works on desktop computers and

mobile devices, combining Android and Chrome.



Last week, Hiroshi Lockheimer fanned speculation when he tweeted: "I have a

feeling 8 years from now we'll be talking about Oct 4, 2016."



That would suggest a significant announcement about Android, the world's most

popular smartphone operating system that runs on a number of devices from

tablets to smartwatches. Chrome powers personal computers, mostly laptops called

Chromebooks. Andromeda,  rumored to be coming next year, is expected to bring

desktop capabilities of Chrome into Android.



Google CEO Sundar Pichai has said in the past that mobile would eventually

"blend" with desktop.



"The lines have blurred between all of those devices," Gartner research analyst

Mark Hung said. "There is no longer a need for a separate operating system."



At Google's event, it is expected to show off new phones from manufacturer HTC,

taking on the Pixel brand the company used with its Chromebook and tablet

efforts. The Pixel and Pixel XL will boast AMOLED displays using Gorilla Glass

4, minimum storage of 32 GB and 12 megapixel rear cameras, according to Android

Police, which cited details leaked by U.K.-based retailer Carphone Warehouse.



It's also expected to show off its new virtual reality platform, Daydream, which

it foreshadowed at its May developer conferences as a big move up from the

Google Cardboard-based VR experience. And it's also likely to provide more

details on Google Home, the Amazon Echo-rival smart speaker that will respond to

its owner's queries using its AI-driven Google Assistant.



USA TODAY will host a live blog of the event at tech.usatoday.com.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Jeff Pachoud, AFP/Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





