                              534 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                               The Times (London)



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Scotland



Google takes on Apple with a phone that charges in 15mins



BYLINE: Mark Bridge



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24



LENGTH: 377 words





Google launched a direct attack on Apple yesterday by unveiling its first

own-brand smartphone, which is similar to the iPhone but offers seven hours of

battery power from a 15-minute charge.



The company said that the cameras on its Pixel phone would be the highestrated

of any on the market and highlighted the headphone jack, a feature

controversially left off Apple's latest model. It also announced Google Home -a

new voice-activated smart home system that will let people play music, turn up

the heating or order an Uber car without leaving the sofa - which is not yet

available in the UK.



At the launch in San Francisco, Sundar Pichai, chief executive of Google, said

the company's move into hardware was all about bringing its voice-activated

Google Assistant artificial intelligence (AI) services to customers so that

Google will be available "everywhere".



He said: "It's clear to me that we're moving from a mobile-first world to an

AI-first world. A computer will be available everywhere - people will be able to

interact with it wherever they are."



The launch demonstrates how big tech companies are competing to use hardware and

software to act as omnipresent interfaces between people and brands, whether

that involves using a phone to play a game, or asking a smart-speaker in the

living room to preheat the oven. In the process, they are harvesting terrific

volumes of data.



The new Pixel phone comes preloaded with Google Assistant, so that people can

ask their phones questions or order services by voice. It is branded as a Google

product, unlike previous Nexus phones, which were built in partnerships with

manufacturers. The phone resembles the latest iPhones and comes in 5in and 5.5in

versions, with the latest Android operating system, a 12.3 megapixel camera and

storage of up to 128GB. It is now available to order at prices from £599, the

same as the iPhone.



Carolina Milanesi, a technology analyst at Creative Strategies in California,

tweeted: "Pixel looks more & more the phone that will turn Android lovers into

Google lovers - Samsung will hurt the most".



Experts' initial reaction to the phones was positive but Ian Fogg, of IHS

Technology, said: "It will take years to scale a phone hardware business to have

a shot of being number one."



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: TIM





                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





