                              546 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)



                            October 3, 2015 Saturday



Google releases new phones, tablet



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 18



LENGTH: 508 words





Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new

streaming device and tablet.



The release comes only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of

products.



NEW PHONES



The 6P is Google's new flagship and has a 5.7-inch screen, featuring ultra- high

definition resolution.



It charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It charges

quickly and the connector is reversible.



Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any

previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each

one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.



The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just

7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.



In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early

November.



A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership

with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution, and

a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.



Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the

6P. You still get the rear- mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and

the same new camera.



With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB model, you could look at

the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality to save the customer a

little over $100.



No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for

New Zealand.



TABLET



Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking

on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.



The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32

gigabytes of storage.



The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that

struggled to find widespread market adoption.



The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links

to the device with a Bluetooth connection.



STREAMING DEVICE



Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not

a moment too soon.



The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their

televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku

and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set-top boxes to

download content in their living rooms. The new Chromecast, which resembles a

small hockey puck, is easier to set up and plug into the back of a TV. It has an

improved wireless antenna, which should speed up the delivery of video from

Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets, Google said in a statement



The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55).



Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio

to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new

mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.



--------------------



CAPTION:



The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





