
DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, June 12 -- CG Impex, a subsidiary of the Chaudhary Group and the sole
authorised distributor of LG mobiles in Nepal, is all set to unveil the Google
Nexus 4 mobile phone by the second week of July. CG Impex is marketing the
device in Nepal as its hardware components has been manufactured by South Korean
tech giant LG.

The new handset from Google is likely to give competition to brands like
Samsung, Sony, Apple and HTC which are the main contenders in the country's
premium smartphone segment.

The new device from Google features a 4.7 mega-pixel true HD IPS plus capacitive
touchscreen. The screen has multi-touch functionality and is protected with
scratch resistant corning gorilla glass 2. Likewise, Google has equipped the
mobile phone with Android v4.2.2 (Jelly Bean) Operating System (OS) which has
been supported by 1.5 GHz krait quad-core CPU and Adreno 320 GPU.

The mobile phone is equipped with an 8 mega pixel primary camera with features
like autofocus and LED flash. The device, according to the company, takes Photo
Sphere images, letting users capture every detail of the world around them. The
Nexus 4 also allows users to quickly view and edit pictures with powerful new
tools and share them.

Likewise, the Nexus 4 comes with a 1.3 mega pixel secondary camera option for
making video calls. The camera comprises features like geo-tagging, touch focus,
face detection and photo sphere. As for memory, the device is available with an
internal storage capacity of 8 GB and 16 GB and features 2 GB RAM. However,
Google hasn't given it a card slot to expand its memory.

The handset's non-removable Li-Po 2100 mAh battery offers power backup of 390
hours while in stand-by mode. As for talk time, it provides battery backup of up
to 15 hours.

CG Impex has stated that the device is likely to cost around Rs 52,000 in the
Nepali market. It will be available at the LG mobiles concept store situated at
Civil Mall and a number of other exclusive LG outlets in big cities across the
country.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

