                              552 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                           The Sunday Times (London)



                            January 17, 2016 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



We clicked: you're my type of tablet;

Tablets with detachable keyboards have come of age. Matt Bingham connects to

three



SECTION: SUNDAY;NEWS; Pg. 35



LENGTH: 596 words





BEST FOR PRICE ? GOOGLE PIXEL C From (EURO)509 Google's Android software is the

most popular for smartphones but has made less of an impact on tablets. The

Pixel C is Google's attempt to show how it can now compete with the king of

tablets, the Apple iPad, and as a hardware project it succeeds brilliantly. At

10.2in, the display is similarly squarish but slightly larger than that of the

iPad Air 2, and, at 308ppi, has 15% more pixels per inch.



As such, it's as sharp, colourful and bright as any on the market. The case is

metal, the build feels premium and it runs Marshmallow, the latest version of

the Android operating system. Charging is fast over the new USB C standard

(sadly, none of your old cables will fit) and battery life is about 10 hours.

The keyboard (an additional (EURO)169) is a beautiful piece of engineering that

doubles as a cover to protect the screen (and recharge the wireless connector at

the same time). It is attached by magnets so strong they almost grab the tablet

from your hands; detach, flip and snap it back together to create a laptop. The

tablet's weak spots are a stingy 32GB capacity (a 64GB version costs (EURO)609)

with no memory card slot and the relatively few third-party apps optimised for

this size of screen and aspect ratio. Verdict The best Android tablet yet. App

makers, take notice.



???? www.pixel.google.com BEST FOR APP STORE ? APPLE iPAD PRO From (EURO)939 It

looks like a blown-up iPad, and that's basically what it is. The Pro runs

Apple's regular tablet software, and while the screen is now 12.9in, it retains

the same aspect ratio and pixel density - 264ppi - as its smaller cousin, the

Air 2, so apps do not need to be rewritten to fill the display. The good news is

that means all items in the world's best tablet software store, the hundreds of

thousands of apps already optimised for the iPad, run without fuss. They look

fantastic too: the extra screen space makes this feel more like using a laptop

than a tablet, and tweaks under the bonnet leave you in no doubt of the

computing power available when you need it. Accessories are not cheap: the Smart

Keyboard ((EURO)179) is a wireless, MacBook-like keyboardcum-case, and the

Pencil ((EURO)109) is an excellent pressure-sensitive stylus. Memory is an

underwhelming 32GB (a 128GB version costs (EURO)1,119) and it's heavy, weighing

in at more than 2lb (with case).



Verdict Warn the bank manager: you might mock at first sight, but use the Pro

for a while and all other iPads start to feel undersized and underpowered.

{{{{(apple.com/ie BEST FOR POWER ? MICROSOFT SURFACE PRO 4 From (EURO)1,029 The

Pro 4 is the fastest Surface yet, with a 12.3in screen at better-than-iPad pixel

density of 267ppi. It's a thick device but light, despite a metal casing that

finds room for a useful USB slot. Ticking beneath is a genuine computer

operating system, Windows 10, running two types of software: apps (from a

not-great store) and, more usefully, thousands of regular programs. The base

model has 128GB of storage and the Intel Core m3 processor used by many cheaper

laptops. For silly money ((EURO)2,499) you can go up to a Core i7 and 512GB,

outpowering any tablet rival. The (EURO)154.95 Type Cover is an improvement on

previous Surface keyboards, offering well-spaced, clicky keys. A

pressuresensitive stylus is supplied. As a stylish laptop, the Pro 4 is a

success; where it falls down is in touchscreen tablet mode, where Windows 10

feels clunky compared with iOS and Android.



Verdict Powerful but pricy, as you'll want the keyboard cover too.



{{{{(microsoft.com/ie



LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STS





                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





