                              554 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                    Scotsman



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Scotland set to tap into virtual reality revolution



BYLINE: Gareth Mackie



LENGTH: 674  words





With Google unveiling its latest virtual reality (VR) headset, a leading figure

in the digital technologies sector believes Scotland is ideally placed to

benefit in this brave new world.



Polly Purvis, chief executive of trade body

{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/tech/digital-sector-urged-to-think-b

ig-and-move-fast-1-4249619| ScotlandIS | Digital sector urged to think big and

move fast' - The Scotsman}, said Google's Daydream View headset - designed to

work with the technology giant's new Pixel smartphones - shows the combination

of pricing and processing power means VR is now becoming "very attractive."



Daydream View, designed for comfort in a fabric finish, will be priced at £69,

well below the £349 price tag for Sony's PlayStation VR headset, which is due to

go on sale next month. Google's offering will need to be powered by a compatible

smartphone, such as the Pixel - which starts at £599 - although future Android

phones will also come with Daydream support.



Gaming is a key market for VR, as the technology will be able to give players as

immersive an experience as possible, but Purvis said there are a wide range of

other uses. When it launches, Daydream View will enable users to watch YouTube

videos and access Google Maps, as well as play games.



READ MORE:

{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/tech/will-2016-become-the-year-of-vi

rtual-reality-1-4162211 | Will 2016 become the year of virtual reality? | Will

2016 become the year of virtual reality? - The Scotsman}



"We see a number of opportunities in tourism and more generally in marketing,

allowing people to tell a more memorable story," Purvis told The Scotsman.



"There are also some very practical opportunities - healthcare is enormous; you

could deliver support or consultations remotely and there are also some really

good examples of it being used in maintenance, with oil rigs being a great

example. VR gives people access to information where they are."



While current headsets, such as the Oculus Rift and HTC's Vive, are rather

clunky," Purvis said manufacturers were putting lot of effort into their design

"and ten years from now they'll look very different".



Scotland has long had an enviable reputation for technological innovation, with

a thriving start-up scene and strong games sector, and Purvis said "there are

things people haven't even thought about yet" when it comes to tapping into the

power of VR.



Goldman Sachs predicts that the annual market for VR hardware sales alone could

be worth up to $110 billion (£86.4bn) by 2025. Add in the potential for a

further $72bn of software revenues, and the market could become almost twice as

big as that for television.



"We're certainly not short of good ideas and innovation in Scotland, and I don't

see any reason why we couldn't capitalise on it as much as any other country,"

Purvis said.



"Where we have a leading edge is clearly in the quality of our games

development, where the expertise in that sector is substantial. Increasingly

we're seeing gaming methodology being used in learning and education, and I

think we'll start to see it spilling over into those sorts of areas.



"We also have an exceptional research pool in our universities in Scotland.



"There's no lack of interest and expertise in Scotland - it's now just a case of

finding those killer uses'. As more of these products are available, the more

people will tinker and experiment with them, so we'll see them coming out with

breakthroughs."



Google also announced last night that its Pixel handset has its Assistant

artificial intelligence program built in, designed to understand context in

conversations and help with tasks.



The new phone was unveiled at an event in San Francisco, and comes in both a 5in

and 5.5in size, the latter known as the Pixel XL. It was billed by Google as

housing the "best smartphone camera ever made". Pixel will start at £599 in the

UK, with the larger Pixel XL at £719.



{https://www.facebook.com/scotsmanbusiness/ | Click here to Like' The Scotsman

Business on Facebook | Link to Facebook page}



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS





                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





