                              561 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)



                            October 1, 2015 Thursday



Google releases new devices



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 9



LENGTH: 725 words





Google is taking on Apple and Microsoft with a new range of gadgets.



--------------------



Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new

streaming device and tablet.



The releases come only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of

products.



NEW PHONES



The 6P is Google's new flagship, and it's the successor to last year's Nexus 6.



It is the first Nexus phone made by Chinese company Huawei, and it tries to fix

what was wrong with the 6, while bringing a few new things to the party as well.



The 6P is a little smaller than its predecessor, with a 5.7-inch instead of

6-inch screen, featuring ultra-high definition resolution.



The 6P charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It

charges quickly and the connector is reversible.



Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any

previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each

one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.



The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just

7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.



In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early

November.



A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership

with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution and

a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.



Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the

6P. You still get the rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and

the same new camera. With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB

model, you could look at the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality

to save the customer a little over $100.



Although there will be plenty of people who want the 5X for its smaller size

alone as well. Also, it's the better looking of the pair, and the plastic back

makes it insanely lightweight.



No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for

New Zealand.



TABLET



Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking

on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.



The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32

gigabytes of storage.



The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that

struggled to find widespread market adoption.



Although the Pixel C is a tablet, with a touchscreen, it's also designed to

replace a traditional laptop. Microsoft was one of the first major technology

companies to embrace that configuration when it introduced the Surface tablet

computer in 2012. And earlier this month, Apple took the wraps off the iPad Pro,

a bigger version of its tablet (also with a detachable keyboard) aimed at

corporate users.



The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links

to the device with a Bluetooth connection.



STREAMING DEVICE



Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not

a moment too soon.



The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their

televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku

and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set- top boxes to

download content in their living rooms.



The new Chromecast, which resembles a small hockey puck, is easier to set up and

plug into the back of a TV. It has an improved wireless antenna, which should

speed up the delivery of video from Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets,

Google said in a statement



The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55). Chromecast,

which debuted in 2013, had about 23 per cent of the market for streaming digital

devices in the first quarter of this year, just behind approximately 30 per cent

for Amazon's Fire TV devices and 25 per cent for Roku, according to estimates by

Strategy Analytics. Apple, which is also updating its lineup, was ranked fourth

at 18 per cent.



Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio

to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new

mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.



--------------------



CAPTION:



The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





