                              570 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                          The Daily Telegraph (London)



                           February 23, 2013 Saturday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Google targets the mobile future with laptop aimed at shaking Apple's core



BYLINE: Matt Warman



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35



LENGTH: 556 words





The eyes of all those interested in technology turn to Barcelona next week - the

annual Mobile World Congress usually sees each major manufacturer unveil its top

products for the coming year. And in an age where the mobile phone and tablet is

of growing importance, the show ought to be bigger than ever.



In fact, however, it's likely to be smaller. In the weeks running up to MWC,

PayPal announced that it would use mobile phones so small shops and businesses

could take credit card payments  Google announced its first laptop, the £1,049

Chromebook Pixel  HTC announced its flagship phone, the One  and Sony, although

big news is expected in Spain, announced its flagship phone in Las Vegas in

January. Major brands now realise they get far more attention if they eschew the

big shows in favour of their own events.



And yet MWC, dominated by Google, will set the tone for an industry that is

maturing: in previous years, the search giant had a stand so huge it even

featured a helter-skelter to get from top to bottom, and offered a permanent

stream of smoothies and ice creams. This year, the company is so dominant in

mobile phones it's not even bothering with a stand at all. It's key to everybody

else's displays, at no expense to itself.



Samsung, the market-leading juggernaut, is also so big it's not even holding a

press conference. Just as Apple used to sit like a mute elephant in the room, so

Samsung sits now. The key problem facing all the brands, however, is

differentiation: when so many products run Google software, why bother with one

brand over another? Hence Sony's new phone presages a strategy that will see it

try to focus on premium - and incidentally gorgeous - products, while Google is

emphasising that its machine is for a generation that, via various devices, does

everything online.



The Chromebook Pixel is, Google claims, the computer "for what's next". The

American version will come with either Wi-Fi, like the UK version, or

alternatively also with 4G. This means it is always online and it's always

connected at a speed that feels like home broadband.



What's troubling for users, however, is that this is a computer that is totally

reliant on the internet - even though it costs more than the best computers, it

cannot run Microsoft Office or iTunes or Photoshop, or any of the software most

people rely on. It does run any website and there is a growing number of apps

for Chrome, which means users can even edit video. But without a web connection,

the Chromebook is a beautifully designed laptop with an amazing screen and

limited use.



It's that, however, which makes it "the laptop for what's next". Google is

betting that computers will increasingly rely on the internet, because the web

is ultimately more powerful than any individual machine. If you really want to

edit video, it's easier and cheaper to do it online, if you've got the

connectivity and the tools are all "in the cloud".



Email used to live on your hard drive after you'd downloaded it, now it all

lives online - Google reckons everything will go the same way and be accessed by

a slew of mobile screens.



It is probably correct: Barcelona's range of gadgets with a connection to the

cloud is clearly the future, and it's approaching faster than many think. But

whether it will arrive in time for the Pixel remains to be seen.



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: The future now? Google's Chromebook Pixel relies on the internet



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DTL





                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





