                              571 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                      December 21, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST



CES 2016: 3D Image Sensor Chips REAL3 Of Infineon Bring Virtual Reality To The

Smartphone



LENGTH: 949  words





Monday, December 21, 2015: In the future, mobile devices will be able to quickly

and realistically detect their surroundings in three dimensions (3D). When they

do, it will be thanks to the 3D image sensor chips from Infineon Technologies AG

(FSE: IFX / OTCQX: IFNNY) and pmdtechnologies gmbh. REAL3 will enable extremely

realistic virtual and augmented reality game experiences that involve the

interaction of the gamer's own hands and his living environment within the game

via head-mounted devices. Other image sensor chip applications include the

spatial measurement of rooms and objects, indoor navigation and the

implementation of special photo effects.



Infineon and pmd will be showcasing the latest 3D image sensor chip of the REAL3

family at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 2016 in Las Vegas. Compared to the

previous version, the optical sensitivity as well as the power consumption of

the new 3D image sensors has been improved. Moreover, the built-in electronics

take up little space. The chips make it possible for cell phones to operate

mini-camera systems that can measure 3D depth data.



Using microlenses for high sensitivity



The camera's range and measurement accuracy depend on two factors: on the

intensity of the emitted and reflected infrared light, and to a significant

extent on the pixel sensitivity of the 3D image sensor chip. The optical pixel

sensitivity of the new 3D image sensor chips are now double that of the previous

version. This means that their measurement quality is just as good, while at the

same time working with only half of the emitted light output. Thus,

manufacturers of camera systems for mobile devices can not only provide the

infrared lighting more cost-effectively, but the camera's system power

consumption is almost halved.



The improved optical pixel sensitivity is the result of applying one microlens

to each of the pixels of the 3D image sensor chip. Consequently most of the

incident light is directed to a pixel's sensitive surface, so virtually no light

energy is lost to the inactive areas anymore.



Optimized form factor: half the sensor size



The 3D image sensor chips to be showcased at the CES were specifically designed

for mobile devices, where most applications only need a resolution of 38,000

pixels. The previous 100,000-pixel matrix was accordingly scaled down, and other

functional blocks, such as the analog/digital converter for the chip area and

performance range were optimized. Thus, the system costs are lower: the sensor

chip area is almost halved, and, because of the lower resolution, smaller and

less expensive optical lenses can be used.



New 3D image sensor chips with 19,000; 38,000 and 100,000 pixels



The three new REAL3 3D image sensor chips are all equipped with microlenses and

have almost the same level of optical performance and functionality. They differ

only in their resolutions: the IRS1125C works with 352 x 288 pixels, the

IRS1645C with 224 x 172 pixels and the IRS1615C with 160 x 120 pixels. In this

respect, the IRS1645C and IRS1615C are produced on half the chip area of the

IRS1125C.



Google's "Project Tango" using Infineon's IRS1645C 3D image sensor chip



The IRS1645C is particularly suitable for use in mobile devices. Infineon and

pmdtechnologies are joint partners in Google's "Project Tango". With "Tango",

cell phones and tablets are equipped with a special optical sensor system for 3D

perception, which includes a 3D camera with Infineon's IRS1645C 3D image sensor

chip. Applications are augmented reality, indoor navigation and

three-dimensional measurement. The complete 3D camera for Google "Tango" -

consisting of IRS1645C and an active infrared laser illumination - is housed in

an area of approximately 10 mm x 20 mm. With a range up to 4 meters (13 feet), a

measuring accuracy of 1 percent of the distance and a frame rate of 5 fps

(frames per second), the 3D camera subsystem consumes less than 300 mW in active

mode.



Time-of-Flight Principle (ToF)



The 3D image sensor chips operate with infrared light and use the time-of-flight

(ToF) measuring principle: For each of its pixels, the 3D image sensor chip

measures the time the infrared light takes to travel from the camera to the

object and back again. At the same time, each of the pixels also detects the

brightness value of the objects.



The IRS1125C will be available in volume as of first quarter of 2016. The start

of production for the smaller IRS1645C and IRS1615C is planned for the second

quarter of 2016. All three types are exclusively delivered as a bare die to

allow maximum design flexibility while minimizing system costs.



About the cooperation between Infineon and pmdtechnologies



Infineon co-developed the REAL3 3D image sensor chip with pmdtechnologies gmbh

from Siegen, Germany. Both companies are providing the technical support for

customers jointly. pmdtechnologies' contribution to the new chip family is the

ToF pixel matrix. Infineon contributes all functional blocks for the

system-on-chip (SoC) integration and developed the manufacturing process. The 3D

image sensor chips are produced in Infineon's Dresden plant with a CMOS process

optimized for ToF using microlens technology.



Infineon and pmdtechnologies at the CES 2016



At the Consumer Electronics Show 2016 in Las Vegas (January 6-9, 2016), Infineon

and pmd will be presenting the performance of the 3D image sensors in

demonstrations and concept designs for cell phone and head-mounted device

applications. Queries on meeting alignment at events@pmdtec.com



Further technical information on the Infineon 3D image sensor chips is available

at www.infineon.com/3d-imaging. Information about prototype cameras and the pmd

technology is available at www.pmdtec.com



LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





