

TOP APP

UBEREATS Free, Google Android/Apple iOS Be warned: installing this app may prove
to be a dangerous game. UberEATS recently launched ina host of Australian
cities, including Brisbane, and there are many temptations within its app.
Available cuisine ranges from sushi to burgers, cakes to pizzas, and some of its
top names include Ginga, Jocelyn's Provisions, and Ze Pickle. All feature
extensive menus of food that can be delivered to your door, and each order is
tracked on a map within the app, much in the manner of a regular Uber booking,
so you can tell when the driver is in your street and outside your door.

TOP GADGET GOOGLE PIXEL XL $1269-$1419, store.google.com Google's first phone is
undeniably beautiful, and that beauty extends beneath the surface. Manufactured
by HTC, the Pixel XL's aluminium and glass exterior is seriously refined, with a
distinguishing fingerprint sensor and glass panel on the top third of its back,
curved corners, and flat edges. Its 12.3-megapixel camera also impresses, with a
smart High Dynamic Range feature and reliably even exposure. But software is
still the star of this device. Its artificially intelligent PA Google Assistant
is built into its home button, ready to deliver quizzes or factoids from the
internet; Google Now is available with one swipe; and additions such as extra
app shortcuts, and quick swipes to reveal notifications, make for a thoroughly
enjoyable user experience.

TOP ACCESSORY NIKKOR AF-S 105MM F1.4 LENS $3285, nikon.com.auCapturing a
striking portrait is never easy but this lens can seriously improve your
chances. Nikon's 105mm creation is the only lens in its class to deliver a
large, f1.4 aperture, making it a handy addition in night photography and suited
to creative lighting. It's also capable of sharp focus on an incredibly small
area (an eye, for example), and speedily, given that f1.4 aperture. The lens
itself is made from three extra low dispersion elements to minimise fringing, it
features a Nano Crystal coating to reduce ghosting, and it also produces
pleasingly minimal distortion. Enthusiasts might find its $3000 price tagand
760g weight burdensome, butit's well worth the investment.

