

Google revealed the India price of Motorola-made Nexus 6 Smartphone which will
be selling for INR 44,000 for 32GB storage variant and INR 49,000 for 64GB
variant on Google Play store in India.

The Nexus 6 has been placed in the premium category Smartphone, which might have
disappointed many of those awaiting the phone to launch in India. Now the
question is whether the phone brings specifications good enough to justify its
price? Here we take a look at what other trusted reviewer have to say about the
main six features of the phone, that might give it an edge over others in this
price range:

Design:

The Nexus 6 is a giant smartphone which takes design cues from Motorola's Moto
X2 (second generation) version. The similarity in the design might not be up to
the expectations for many but it does not necessarily mean that the phone looks
bad or has a substandard design and form factor. It features metal RIM around
the sides and gets a circular flash ring along with a dimpled Motorola logo on
the rear panel. The Verge writes that "the Moto X is a very nicely made phone,
so the more cues the Nexus 6 takes from it, the better."

Motorola's design "gives it a sturdy BendGate-free aluminum metal frame and
gently curved back," Techradar comments about the phone while also taking on
Apple Iphone 6's bending issue.

Display:

This phone sports an almost 6-inch QHD display which accommodates 1440x2560
pixels at a pixel density of 493 pixels per inch. It comes with Corning Gorilla
Glass 3 protection and offers 16:9 aspect ratio. The display resolution matches
the 1440x2560 pixels display resolution of Samsung Galaxy Note 4 which debuted
in India a few weeks back for a whopping INR 58,300, and the LG G3 which was
launched in India in the middle of this year for price starting at INR 47,990.

"The 5.9-inch display beats out even the gargantuan Note 4, but its body holds
it well. The bezels are thin, specifically the bottom one, which is barely a
strip of black along the bottom and makes capacitive touch buttons look
positively stone-age. It even makes the Nexus 5 look like it could stand to lose
some weight around the edges," Gizomo has mentioned in its hands-on of Nexus 6.

In fact, the bigger display also puts the phone against the Iphone 6 Plus, which
flaunts a 5.5-inch display. Despite being bigger and marginally thicker than
iPhone 6 Plus, the Nexus 6 manages to impress with its display design.  "One
thing Google did better than Apple is to avoid wasted space by avoiding an extra
tall bezel, especially at the top of the phone," Forbes has commented about the
phone. With such high resolution and pixel density, the display should be a
delight for viewer.

Processor:

The heart of the phone is pumped by 2.7GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 quad-core
processor which incorporates Adreno 420 GPU. This Snapdragon processor is
expected to deliver smooth performance. Forbes has mentioned that the processor
"helps contribute to the snappy response time." To which, Gizmodo adds that its
performance is top notch. The phone is also believed to offer impressive low
level graphics performance.

The processor is paired with 3GB of RAM to enhance the device's performance and
has  been launched in 32Gb and 64GB storage options, which is a lot for a
smartphone, however could have be even better with microSD card support.

Camera:

The newest Nexus smartphone adorns a 13-megapixel primary snapper with optical
image stablisation, f/2.0 lens and is capable of shooting videos at 4K
resolution. As far its performance is concerned, Forbes found its picture
quality "quite good as smartphone cameras go."  For those who feel that the
Nexus 6's camera is similar to that of the Moto X second generation, Techradar
has cleared that "It (Nexus 6) has a better Sony IMX214 sensor with a wider
f/2.0 aperture and optical image stabilization," which (we think) should work
better than Moto X second generation!

Engadget mentioned in its hands-on that "The Nexus 6 doesn't suck at taking
photos. Considering the luck the Nexus family has had with cameras, you should
be very, very excited."

Gizmodo tested the camera and said, "It (Nexus 6's camera) seems like a shoo-in
for "best Nexus camera yet", which is great news for a line of fantastic phones
that have always suffered pretty atrocious cameras. It's fast, and the low-light
performance seems decent." However, that is not the final review of camera's
performance and Gizmodo added that "It's hard to say whether it will be a
standout, but even just "good enough" is a step up from the Nexus cameras of
yore."

The phone also gets a 2-megapixel front-facing camera with 720p video recording
capabilities.

Android 5.0 Lollipop:

The Nexus 6 is powered by Android 5.0 Lollipop, which brings a new design and
improved UI that promises a playful and colorful look, as well as better user
experience. "It's just incredibly smooth - firing up apps as quickly as my
fingers could manage wasn't enough to throw Lollipop for a loop, and every
transition we happened upon was downright buttery," Engadget mentioned.

"Basic appearances aside, a series of slick new transitions and animations all
throughout the system help make it feel more polished and cohesive than ever,"
ComputerWorld added.

Front-mounted Speakers:

The Motorola Nexus 6 comes with front-mounted speakers placed on top and bottom
of the phone. Those who love music, "the sound quality from the Nexus 6
front-mounted stereo speakers is excellent," Forbes mentioned. "The speakers are
at the top and bottom of the phone, which means they're left and right with as
much separation as possible when the phone is held in landscape position. With
the volume cranked all the way up, I could hear it well from anywhere in an
average-sized living room without significant distortion. It's one of the few
phones I would consider listening to without headphones," it added.

Conclusion

The Nexus 6 does make for a powerful option in terms of specifications and
features. "Its tremendous display, premium specs and debut of Android 5.0
Lollipop make one of the best phablets to date," Techradar concluded. Engadget
seconds that, "Long story short, the Nexus 6 makes a hell of a first
impression."

