                              587 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                       October 9, 2016 Sunday 6:30 AM EST



Top 10 Consumer Tech Stories Of The Week - Oct 2 to Oct 9



BYLINE: Team TechTree



LENGTH: 996  words





Here's the roundup of the Top 10 Stories of the week...



This week, we witnessed the launch of iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, along with Google

Pixel smartphones and other smartphones. We even came across the expected launch

date of the much awaited Lenovo Phab 2 Pro that comes with Google Tango and uses

AR and VR to sense and map surroundings.



Along with this, we also witnessed Motorola announcing a list of 15 smartphones

that get Android Nougat update, and also, interestingly, a so-called safe Galaxy

Note 7 unit caught on fire.



A lot happens in a week, and this week is no different. Like every week, this

week too, we covered a lot that happened in the tech industry. However, we

cannot compile everything in a single listicle, but we bring you 10 best stories

that we have covered this week.



Airtel Offers The iPhone 7 And iPhone 7 Plus On A 12 Month Contract



The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are launching in India today. As you may already

know, the phone's starting price is Rs 60,000, whereas the top model will set

you back for Rs 92,000. Now, that's a lot of money. For those who can't pay such

a big sum upfront, Airtel has come up with a postpaid contract. Under this

scheme, will have to pay Rs 19,990 as down payment and choose one of its

Infinity billing plans for the iPhone 7 (32 GB). The minimum billing period is

12 months.



Read The Full Story Here



Lenovo Phab 2 Pro May Come Out In November



Lenovo finally seems to be all set to launch its new and much awaited

smartphone, Phab 2 Pro in November, after the company silently postponed the

release that was due in September. To refresh your brains, the Lenovo Phab 2 Pro

was announced during the Lenovo Tech World event that was held in June this

year, and the smartphone is the world's first smartphone that supports Google's

'Project Tango' and uses AR and VR to sense and map surroundings.



Read The Full Story Here



15 Motorola Smartphones Soon Get Android Nougat Update



Ever since Google launched Android 7.0 Nougat, many smartphone companies have

been listing out their smartphones compatible with the update. And, its about

time for Motorola to follow the same routine. The company, acquired by Lenovo,

has announced a list of 15 smartphone that are expected to receive the Android

7.0 Nougat update pretty soon.



Read The Full Story Here



The "Safe" Galaxy Note 7 Unit Catches Fire On A Plane



The Galaxy Note 7's battery explosion issue is turning out to be a never-ending

nightmare for Samsung. Just as the Korean company has been busy replacing the

potentially affected devices with the "safe" ones, a Note 7 from the fresh batch

has burst into flames in the US. The incident took place in the Southwest

Airlines flight 994, where a Note 7 began emitting smoke in passenger Brian

Green's trouser pocket. According to him, he dropped the handset on the plane's

floor immediately.



Read The Full Story Here



WhatsApp Allows You To Draw, Write, And Edit On Pictures While Sharing



WhatsApp has recently introduced new camera features on its instant messaging

app on Android platform. However, for iOS devices, the company has announced

that the roll out may start soon. Under the new update, Android users can write

and draw on photos and videos captured on the WhatsApp camera. Also, users can

add in different emojis and make the captured pictures and videos more

interesting than every before.



Read The Full Story Here



Android 7.1 Nougat Developer Preview To Be Out Soon



We have already witnessed that Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones by Google run on

the all new Android 7.1 Nougat operating system, at the recently held

'MadeByGoogle' event. However, Google did not give any details regarding the

roll out of Android 7.1 Nougat to other smartphones. But, it seems, now the

Search Engine giant has confirmed that a developer preview of Android 7.1 Nougat

would be available for Nexus devices and Pixel C.



Read The Full Story Here



Google Pixel Event: Complete Coverage



At its event in San Francisco, Google unveiled interesting hardware. For the

first time, the search-giant introduced phones and other products completely

designed by the in-house teams. Till now, most of its gadgets were made in

collaboration with its hardware partners including Samsung, LG, Huawei, and Asus

to name a few.



Read The Full Story Here



Google Maps Integrates With Calendar To Show Your Events On Map



Google has recently announced a new update for Google Maps for Android app and

the update brings interconnection between Maps and Calendar. Basically, the

update adds a new Upcoming Tab in the Maps app that gives all information

regarding where the user has to go in order to attend the upcoming events.

Adding further on the update features, you can find the new tab inside the Menu,

in 'Your Places' section and the app will show all events that have been fed

inside the Google Calendar app, either manually or via the email.



Read The Full Story Here



Nokia D1C Android Based Handset Renditions Leaked



For those waiting for Nokia's return to the smartphone making business, need not

wait too much longer. Among the recent renditions leaked on Geekbuzz, the

mid-range handset, current called D1C, has been leaked with specifications and

pictures. Amongst some of the common features in the handset, would be Qualcomm

octa-core processor powering the handset clocked at 1.4GHz with Adreno 505 GPU

and 3GB of RAM.



Read The Full Story Here



Moto Z And Moto Z Play Now Available In India



After all the recent reports surfacing online, Lenovo has finally launched two

models in its Moto Z range (Moto Z and Moto Z Play) in India, with price

starting from INR 24,999. Speaking about the technical specifications, the Moto

Z comes with a 5.5 inch Quad HD AMOLED display while being powered by a Qualcomm

Snapdragon 820 processor coupled with 4 GB of RAM and 64 GB of internal storage.

On the camera front, the smartphone comes with a 13 MP f1.8 rear camera and a 5

MP front facing camera. Along with this, the smartphone gets a fingerprint

sensor and a 2,600 mAh battery.



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





