                              589 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)



                            October 10, 2006 Tuesday

                                  Late Edition



SHORT CIRCUITS;

TECHKNOW



BYLINE: GR



SECTION: ORBIT; Pg. 28



LENGTH: 328 words





Q When I drag digital pictures into an email message, they come in huge and fill

up the screen, making it impossible to see the entire image at once. Can I

adjust the size of photos so they fit in the message window?



A Giant photo syndrome can occur when the resolution of the digital picture

exceeds that of the computer monitor. Although the computer's graphics software

can sometimes correct the situation, this is not always the case.



Digital photographs are made up of pixels - the word is short for "picture

elements" - and a pixel is a single point in an image. Monitor resolution is

also measured in pixels, and most monitors these days use screen resolutions of

800 by 600 pixels; 1024 by 768 pixels; or 1152 by 864 pixels. All of these

resolutions are smaller than a 3-megapixel photo, so when the photo is displayed

at its full size, it exceeds the monitor's screen size.



But both Windows XP and Mac OS X give you the opportunity to shrink photos to

resolutions that fit better on a computer screen, such as 640 pixels by 480

pixels.



In Windows XP, click to select the photos you want to send from My Pictures or

another location on your computer. After you have selected the pictures, click

in the "email selected items" option in the task pane. You can also right-click

with the mouse and select "Send to Mail Recipient" from the pop-up menu.



In the resulting box, click the button next to "Make all my pictures smaller"

and then on the link for "Show more options" to see a selection of resolutions

to use for the picture attachments. Choose one and click OK.



Google's Picasa photo-management program for Windows and Linux (free to download

at http://picasa.google.com) can also shrink photo attachments.



Mac OS X users have an option in the iPhoto program to reduce image sizes for

email. After you select pictures from your iPhoto library, click the email icon

at the bottom of the window; a box will pop up asking if you'd like to shrink

the image for emailing.



LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2006 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





