
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Oct. 25 -- Zee Media Bureau
 In what could be the last smartphone from the Canadian company, BlackBerry Ltd
has launched its third android-based phone, the DTEK60.


 With the BlackBerry DTEK60, the company also plans to take on the likes of
Apple Inc's iPhone 7 and Google's Pixel through its pricing. Hence, it has
priced its device competitively at just USD 499 against iPhone 7's USD 769 and
Google Pixel's USD 649.
 Having lost most its market share to iPhone, Samsung and others, BlackBerry
announced in September that it planned to outsource the development of its
smartphones to focus on its more profitable business of software and managing
mobile devices.
 Hence, it is widely suspected that the Android-based DTEK60 could be the last
phone for which BlackBerry buys components itself, which carries a heavier risk
if it does not sell well.
 "This one is our phone," BlackBerry Chief Operating Officer Marty Beard said in
an interview. "This is fully our responsibility."
 The device, which has a 5.5 inch touchscreen, will be priced at $499. Apple's
iPhone 7 with the same screen size starts at $769, while the equivalent version
of Google's Pixel starts at $649.
 "If you look at feature by feature by feature, and you're looking at dimensions
and weight and the display and the memory and the camera, the battery, it is a
very strong comp to both those devices," Beard said.
 Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry does not have any distribution deals with
telecom companies that typically offer devices along with connections to their
communications networks.
 Instead, it is pitching the phone directly to companies, governments and other
large organizations, as well as selling it on its own websites in the United
States, Canada, and several major European countries.
 "It's not necessarily an anti-carrier strategy," Beard said. "It's more that we
see this as the most efficient and most cost-effective way to get to that
customer base."
 The DTEK60 is based on a reference design from manufacturer TCL Corp, a Chinese
electronics company that makes phones as well as televisions, air conditioners
and other household appliances.
 BlackBerry launched its first Android device, the high-end Priv, in November
last year and followed it with the much cheaper DTEK50 in July.
 The company last month wrote down $137 million of inventory and supply
commitments in the six months to the end of August due to limited demand for
phones launched prior to the DTEK50.
 With Agency Inputs

