

Apple iPad mini with Retina Display

The design of Apple's smaller tablet remains unchanged from the original. But
the 7.9-inch screen gets a much-needed upgrade to a higher resolution Retina
display. The mini and the larger iPad Air are powered by the same A7 chip.

Other changes include improved Wi-Fi (and 4G connectivity on the LTE model) and
a larger 128GB storage option for those who want the capacity. The mini now runs
on iOS 7 with free iLife and iWork apps.

Google Nexus 7

The latest edition of this Android tablet has a 1,920 x 1,200-pixel screen that
looks bigger than it is for a 7-inch device because the bezel has been slimmed
down. The new model runs on a faster processor than its predecessor and has
twice the RAM plus a rear-facing camera. Internal storage has been doubled to
16GB for the base model. Being from the Nexus family, this tablet gets Android
updates direct from Google, so it is among the few that run the latest Android
4.4 KitKat.

Lenovo Yoga Tablet 8

The smaller of Lenovo's two Yoga tablets, the 8-inch version is more handy than
the 10-inch model. It has the same 1,280 x 800-pixel screen resolution but a
smaller screen, so whatever is displayed looks better.

A kickstand allows it to be positioned in various ways, including upright for
watching videos. Its cylindrical edge provides better grip and is a convenient
housing for a battery rated at more than 18 hours.

LG G Tablet 8.3

With its sharp, full high-definition screen, this tablet has more pixels than
those of competitors such as the Galaxy Note 8, which has 1,280 x 800 pixels.
While the G Tablet ultimately loses out in pixel density to the iPad mini with
Retina display, the difference should be negligible to most users.

This Wi-Fi-only tablet is powered by a current generation Qualcomm Snapdragon
CPU along with 2GB of RAM. It comes with 16GB of internal storage, though a
microSD card allows users to increase it by 64GB.

Samsung Galaxy Note 8 with LTE

With a 1,280 x 800-pixel display, the Samsung Galaxy Note 8 lacks the screen
resolution to match some of its rivals, but it has a secret weapon in the form
of the S Pen stylus. You can easily crop images, scribble and draw on this using
its stylus and the supported Samsung apps.

The hardware, which includes a quad-core processor, is also capable enough to
support multitasking. The Multi Window feature lets the device run two apps
side-by-side at the same time.

