

Google on Tuesday announced that the Daydream View VR headset would go for sales
on the Google Store from November 10. Google said that from November 10, the
device would be available in 5 different countries, namely, USA, Canada, United
Kingdom, Germany and Australia. The Daydream View VR will require a phone with
minimum specifications to run the device, like the Google Pixel smartphones.
Google had launched the Daydream along with the Google Pixel smartphones. The
Daydream View VR is a massive upgrade from the pre-historic Cardboard headsets.
Well, at least they were an affordable bunch.

The Daydream View was launched with the motive to compete with the likes of
Oculus Rift and HoloLens, Samsung's Gear VR and even Xiaomi's new VR headset.
Google has plans of dominating the VR market by offering a huge range of VR
related content. The content providers for the Google Daydream View VR headsets
range from various news publications to hi-resolution games to its own Street
View. Among the news publications, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times
and the Guardian are to provide content. The NYT is to provide 3 films in the
Daydream app. Both Youtube and Hulu are to bring their entire collection of
videos, movies and TV shows to a virtual platform. Invasion, an award-winning VR
animated film will also be made available in the Google Play Movies in VR.

Google's Star Chart is also to be made available in the headset, giving viewers
an opportunity to explore cosmic objects; for instance, the moons of Saturn or
the far lands of Pluto. The Street View is also to be made available for the
headset, where viewers would be able to visit 70 different countries over 150
tours. The multi-billion company has also partnered with Warner Bros. for the
promotion of Fantastic Beasts and Where to find Them; a prequel to the Harry
Potter franchise. The Daydream View Headset is to be priced at $79 ib the United
States, which roughly sums up to Rs 5,000 in Indian currency.

