                              599 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                    September 27, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



Google Nexus 6 spotted carrying the Motorola logo



LENGTH: 298  words





The rumoured Google Nexus 6 that is the Motorola Shamu was just spotted lying

alongside the LG's G3 handset. The Shamu clearly seems bigger than the LG G3

which comes with a 5.5 inch display.



According to GSMArena this leak "further credence to rumors that the Shamu is

going to feature a display in the -inch ballpark."



As a matter of fact, we do not believe in the name "Shamu" taped on the back

side, but a look at the back panel does confirm that this is the Shamu. Recently

the back panel of the handset leaked against the Moto X and Moto G sporting a

bigger profile, but similar design.



Look at the back side panel of the Motorola phone. The top side of the back

panel, camera placement and camera lip design clearly resembles the Moto design

that is reflected in the Moto G and Moto X handsets.



"The phone is largely devoid of branding aside from that signature Motorola 'M'

dimple, and appears to have a black soft-touch matte plastic rear cover", says

AndroidPolice who posted the pictures online via Droid-Life.



The next Google could be called Nexus 6 or Nexus X and models or code name that

is making waves around the Internet use the name Moto S or Shamu for the

handset. This will be Google's premium device (this time made by Motorola,

instead of LG who made the Nexus 4 and 5) with a 5.9-inch QHD (25601440 pixels)

display offering a pixel density of 564 pixels per inch. It is expected to run

on a 2.65GHz Snapdragon 805 quad-core processor with Adreno 420 GPU with 3GB of

RAM, which also powers one of the variants of Samsung's Galaxy Note 4.



The handset is expected to sport a fingerprint scanner.



The phone is expected to be announced this month in October. Google could make

an announcement of the phone on thge October 16th alongside Nexus 9 and Android

L and launch it later.



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





