

Agencies

SAN FRANCISCO

Google fired back at Apple with a pair of new smartphones, a "convertible"
tablet and other gadgetry ahead of the year-end holiday shopping season.

The California tech giant unveiled on Tuesday two new Nexus smartphones with
enhanced features including fingerprint sensors and improved cameras aimed at
the high end of the market dominated by Apple and Samsung.

The launch of the phones, the Nexus 6P and the Nexus 5X,comes a day after Apple
reported record first-weekend sales of its new iPhones.

Nexus devices, which typically do not sell as much as iPhones or iPads, are a
way for the tech giant to showcase its latest advancements in mobile hardware
and software.

Google said it was partnering with South Korea's LG for its 13.20-centimetre
screen Nexus 5X, and with China's Huawei for its "phablet" sized
14.47-centimetre Nexus 6P.

Both handsets will be sold unlocked, with Google hoping to capitalise on a trend
in the US and other markets away from smartphone subsidies as part of long-term
contracts.

"We care about making sure there are affordable, high quality smartphones for
users around the world," said Sundar Pichai, the Google product chief who is
slated to head the company's largest unit under a reorganisation announced
earlier this year.

The phones, which aim to showcase the Google Android operating system, were
available for ordering in the United States, Britain, Japan and Ireland, with
more countries to be added next week, Google said as it unveiled the phones at a
San Francisco media event.

The Android mobile platform is a key element in Google's strategy to maintain
revenue from online advertising as people switch from Web browser searches to
smartphone apps.

The Nexus 5X starts at $379 (Bt13,780) for US customers and the 6P starts at
$499.

The devices will feature the new Android operating system known as Marshmallow,
which allows for fingerprint sensors for unlocking and other features including
Android Pay.

The fingerprint sensors will help quickly authorise purchases made through
Android Pay, the one-touch payment app on Android devices that competes with
Apple Pay.

The phones are priced below the premium devices from Apple such as the new
iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, and similar offerings from Samsung.

With the Nexus-branded devices, Google is able to control much of the hardware
and software in a manner similar to Apple, which has its own operating system.

"We try to push the next generation of computing forward; to do that we build
hardware," Pichai said of Google making its own branded devices.

Google makes Android mobile software available free to device makers, but makes
its Nexus line to showcase capabilities of the operating system. The Pixel C is
the first tablet built ground-up by Google and is seen as an alternative to the
iPad Pro unveiled this month and Microsoft's Surface.

The "C" in the name stands for "convertible" because it features an optional
keyboard that doubles as a cover and connects magnetically for laptop-computer
style use.

"We think the Pixel C tablet and keyboard experience really unlocks ways to play
and be productive across one device," Google's Andrew Bowers said while showing
off the new hardware.

Pixel C tablet will be available in time for the year-end holidays at a starting
price of $499, with the keyboard priced at $149, Google said.

Google unveiled an upgraded version of its popular Chromecast device that plugs
into television screens to stream content wirelessly from the Internet, with
smartphones or tablets serving as controls.

The company also introduced Chromecast Audio, a pendant sized device designed to
plug into stereo speakers for streaming music, #124podcasts, YouTube or other
audio content through home sound systems.

"Now you have a simple way to amplify your experience to the biggest devices in
the home," said Rishi Chandra of the Chromecast team.

Chandra announced that the mobile app of music-streaming service Spotify will
work with Chromecast Audio, which avoids Bluetooth connectivity hiccups.

Chromecast Audio promised to provide a low-cost way for people to outfit homes
with Internet "smart" stereo systems, according to Gartner analyst Brian Blau.

"It is an interesting play on having your music anywhere you want," Blau said.

Both new Chromecast devices kept the $35 price of the earlier version.

