                              602 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Electronics For You



                                 March 1, 2014



Looking to Buy a Low-Cost Laptop? Chromebook could be a Perfect Choice



BYLINE: Diksha Gupta



LENGTH: 968  words





Forget about the regular PCs and laptops, even the MacBooks could not survive

the Chromebook onslaught. Such is the magic of these Google machines. Like

Android, Chromebooks have plenty of options. One finds some really interesting

choices in the range of Chromebooks. Although these Google laptops have recently

ventured into the Indian market, they seem to have already made their mark in

the international market



Chromebooks are low cost laptops that offer a rather refreshing and enjoyable

experience. Google is promoting its Chromebooks as "a new type of computer with

everything built-in. For everyone. Starting $199." Chromebooks are definitely

the latest breed of laptops and are here to stay. These low-cost laptops were

first announced in 2010 and started emerging in 2011 as the web-centric

alternatives to the traditional laptops.







What is a Chromebook



Google defines Chromebooks as "a new type of computer designed to help you get

things done faster and easier. They run Chrome OS, an operating system that has

multiple layers of security, cloud storage and the most popular Google products

built-in." Chrome OS has the Linux kernel as its base and the Google Chrome Web

browser serves as the interface which allows users to access files and run

Chrome Web apps.



Chromebooks can be used best only when connected to the Internet, unlike the

traditional laptops. And you do not have to work on traditional software if you

are a Chromebook user. For instance, for anything to be done on Microsoft

office, Chromebook users resort to Google Docs and save them in Google Drive.



It is not that you cannot work on a Chromebook offline, you just need to pick

the right apps for that. Google highlights the apps that can be used offline

from the Chrome Web Store itself.



Advantages of buying a Chromebook



Chromebooks are for those looking for a basic, trendy computer, while saving on

their credit card bills. There are many advantages of buying a Chromebook.



Number one and really the most important one is its cost effectiveness.

Chromebooks are super cheap as compared to a Windows laptop. They are available

for as low as Rs 22,999. At this price, you can find a Windows laptop but surely

of a very low configuration as compared to the svelte MacBook Air like

Chromebook. Of course, do not even think of getting a MacBook Air at this price.





Second biggest advantage of getting a Chromebook is that you can start working

on it almost instantly. You just need to turn it on, log onto your Google

account, get on with your bookmarks and extensions and get going with your

Chromebook. You cannot get the same pleasure even on your iPad and Nexus 7,

because both the devices will run the mobile version of Chrome and you will not

be able to access your extensions there.



Chromebooks can be switched on in less than 10 seconds. These are full-fledged

laptops, with proper keyboards and built-in video chat cameras. They can support

many USB devices. Some of the Chromebooks also have an HDMI port along with a

Secure Digital memory card for expandable storage facility. Also, other users

can comfortably use your Chromebook without peeping into your account, yet

signing into their separate accounts.



Another advantage that Chromebooks bring along is their regular software

updates. Chromebooks update themselves regularly. Google states that the

multi-layer security it has rendered to Chrome OS almost eliminates the need of

an additional anti-virus, which is a cost-saving area.



Disadvantages of buying a Chromebook



Users of Chromebooks need to be very well planned for using their device

smoothly on the go. If you are boarding a flight for a long journey, you can use

your Chromebook even without a Wi-Fi connection provided you store the files in

Google Drive beforehand and enable the offline mode of the drive too. You also

have to perform an offline sync before boarding the flight. Alternately, you can

use an SD card to store all your data and use it with your Chromebook while you

are travelling.



For all those working on a specialised software or technology, Chromebooks are

surely not for them. Like a heavy photo shop user cannot resort to a Chromebook.

Yes, there are many image-editing apps in the Chrome web apps collection, but it

can eventually be a frustrating experience for someone looking for extensive

usage of the editing technology.



Factors to look for while buying a Chromebook:



Cost. Since Chromebooks are cost friendly and affordable, you can look for a

variety of models available in the basic range. But you can buy an 'allaround'

Chromebook experience at a higher cost (US$ 1300) with Chromebook Pixel.

Chromebook Pixel has the Chrome OS at its best and sports a high-end hardware.

With its luxurious design and 4.3-million-pixel touch enabled display,

Chromebook Pixel is surely a user's delight.



Design and build quality. Almost all the Chromebooks offer the same kind of

features, barring the design and build quality. Some companies offering

Chromebooks have worked extensively on coming up with a sleek and minimalist

design. HP Chromebook 11 is one such example of a sleek device. The build

quality is also something that you should pay much stress on.



Performance levels. If you are looking for high-level performance, go for a

powerful variant of the device. Of course, you cannot match the power levels of

Chromebook Pixel at a reasonable price, but there are some high-end models

available for you to explore.



Chromebooks with 4GB RAM and new-age chipsets (such as Has well based ones) are

available in the market, which offer better performance than the entry-level

systems. The entrylevel Chromebooks provide very basic computing needs. However,

the power Chromebooks could be a bit bulky and heavy, as compared to their sleek

siblings, but who minds if they are truly worth the money.



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





