                              603 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                           Free Press Journal (India)



                                October 16, 2016



e-pundit: Google Pixel, new binoculars and more



BYLINE: Frederick Noronha



LENGTH: 759  words





Wildlife, binocs play a role



Journalist Rituparna Sengupta recently shared this news about plans by Ricoh

India and WWF-India to bring "nature closer to wildlife enthusiasts" by sharing

their Pentax Papilio 8.521 WF binoculars.



Tokyo-headquartered Ricoh India says it wants to "enhance wildlife viewing in

finest detail without disturbing its natural habitat", and so is launching an

exclusive edition of co-branded Pentax Papilio 8.521 WF binoculars.







These binoculars come equipped with fully multi-coated optics and aspherical

lenses for edge-to-edge clarity and sharpness, a unibody design and extreme

close focusing capability. This all makes it ideal for nature trails, wildlife

viewing and travel, as they are equipped with close focus of just 50cm.



"It is a first of its kind endeavor by an imaging company in India to support

biodiversity conservation," says the promo. This joint endeavour is an extension

of Project Nature Watch, an ongoing CSR collaboration between the two

organizations.



The RICOH MP Pentax Papilio 8.521 WF comes at a MRP of Rs. 10,555 and is

available on: WWF-India web store:

http://shop.wwfindia.org/binoculars-papilio-ii-8-521-wf-from-ricoh-pentax.html

and Ricoh sellers networks



http://www.wwfindia.org



Google Pixel: Camera, Assistant and more



The first phone developed by Google, which has decided to let go of the Nexus

line and third party manufacturers. Socialmaharaja.com highlights that Google's

powerful Assistant comes built-in, and praises the Allo app.



Google Pixel is also VR and Day dream ready. It might also have the "best-ever

camera". Google also provides unlimited cloud storage for pictures and videos in

full resolution. Besides, the chance of fast charge (get an extra power for

seven hours with a 15 minute charge). The price in India? Rs 50-55k.



http://bit.ly/GooglePixel22



Chromebooks, laptops



What to buy? Chromebook or budget laptop? That's a regular dilemma for anyone

wanting access to computing on the move.



Check out this article titled Why a Chromebook isn't the same thing as a budget

laptop on cnet.com. It goes on to add: They may look the same, but a laptop and

a Chromebook are more different than you might expect.



In short the differences are: the operating system (Chromebook runs on the

Google Chrome OS), the apps it runs and the way it runs apps, how much it costs

(Chromebooks start at $200 equivalent), build quality, how much storage it

supplies (a speedy SSD but not lots of room), how it handles your printer

(you'll have to route print jobs over Google Cloud Print).



Incidentally, as far as Google Chrome - the web browser developed by Google goes

- it is now reached Chrome 54. Google Chrome is also the main component of

Chrome OS, where it serves a platform for running web apps.



As of September 2016, StatCounter estimates that Google Chrome has a 62%

worldwide usage share of web browsers as a desktop browser, Wikipedia informs.



http://bit.ly/chromebook22



New brands



New mobile brand phones in India: Zenfone 3 Laser from ASUS. Huawei's Honor 8,

Honor 8 Smart and Honor Holly 3.



The ASUS ZenFone first came in 2014 (first generation) and it features the Intel

Atom processors on Android. It also features the Asus Zen UI which is a user

interface from Asus. The Honor 8 is a flagship smartphone of Huawei's smartphone

brand Honor. It has an eight-core HiSilicon Kirin 950 processor, a Mali-T880 MP4

GPU, and a 3000mAh (typical) battery. Its 'Smart' version comes with an

aluminium alloy frame and more (Rs 19,999). Holly 3 is to be the first Huawei

smartphone under a 'make in India' branding, Rs 9,999.



Cellular signals-based navigation for driverless cars soon



A team of US researchers has developed a reliable and accurate navigation system

that exploits existing environmental signals such as cellular and Wi-Fi rather

than the Global Positioning System (GPS). The technology can be used as a

stand-alone alternative to GPS or complement current GPS-based systems to enable

highly reliable, consistent and tamper-proof navigation.



The technology could also be used to develop navigation systems that meet the

stringent requirements of fully autonomous vehicles, such as driverless cars and

unmanned drones, said the team from University of California, Riverside.  "Our

goal is to get autonomous vehicles operate with no human-in-the loop for

prolonged periods of time, performing missions such as search, rescue,

surveillance, mapping, farming, firefighting, package delivery and

transportation," said Zak Kassas, assistant professor of electrical and computer

engineering, reports IANS.



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





