

DJI Phantom 4 Price: (EURO)1,599 from www.Apple.com or www.DJI.com Within an
hour of taking it out of the box, I was flying it above Mayo.

The 4K video footage was stunning (you can see some of it on www.Independent.ie
- google 'Phantom 4 Erris Mayo'). The Phantom 4 uses your phone or tablet as a
guidance screen, showing you a live stream. The physical controller has two
joysticks and a number of buttons for and dials for things like camera control.
The Phantom 4 records in 4K resolution by default, although you can switch down
to 'full' HD (1080p). It can also film at 120 frames per second for slow motion.
The drone comes with a 16GB microSD memory card. Remember, drones like this must
be registered with the Irish Aviation Authority.

Google Pixel C Price: from (EURO)509 (keyboard extra) 'Pro' tablets are all the
rage. Google's latest device, the Pixel C, tries to get into the game with a
fairly powerful processor, nice design lines, a good screen and a slick keyboard
((EURO)169 extra). The 10-inch machine has stereo speakers, 308 pixels per inch
and comes in either 32GB or 64GB. For those whose work or leisure phone is an
Android one, this will be a comfortable and stylish machine for pleasure and
light work. The keyboard, in particular, is impressive. It also uses USB-C to
recharge, which is very fast. On the other hand, it's up against a rejuvenated
iPad line, which is a big task.

Microsoft Hololens Price: (EURO)2,650 I got my hands on the Hololens, the
headset that gives us 'augmented' reality. The difference between it and
'virtual' reality is that while VR encloses you within its artificial world, in
AR you can still see your actual environment with virtual artefacts overlaid
onto it. So I can conjure up a digital object and see it placed on the floor in
front of me, on a table, or floating in mid-air. To a limited extent, I can
control that object using finger gestures in front of my headset. The only
limitation I found was in the field of view, which is restricted compared to a
VR headset. It's still at an early stage of commercial production, so the models
are 'developer edition' products for app creators.

