                              60 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 9:27 PM GMT



Google launches Pixel smartphone in direct bid to take on Apple's iPhone;

Search company unveils first own-brand phone with 12 megapixel cameras and

unlimited photo storage, pitting it directly against Apple Google Pixel phone

launch - as it happenedGoogle launches new Assistant and puts it at heart of

Home



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 1159 words





Google has launched two own-brand smartphones, the Pixel and Pixel XL, in a bid

to take on Apple and its iPhone 7 head on.



The two Android smartphones are the first to carry Google's branding without

being associated with another manufacturer and are a clear mark in the sand by

the Android-maker: the fight with Apple is now on for the top premium

smartphone.



Google even went as far as to reference Apple on stage, showing a "storage full"

message from an iPhone, something it said the Pixel would avoid with unlimited

full resolution backups of photos and videos using Google Photos' cloud storage.



Burn. Unlimited full res photo and video (4K included) backup on Google Pixel.

No more storage full alerts. Apple. pic.twitter.com/2yICubIVLQ - Samuel Gibbs

(@SamuelGibbs) October 4, 2016



James Nugent, product manager for Pixel, said: "We're putting a stake in the

ground for the Android ecosystem in terms of what we think is the best from both

the software and hardware point of view, which has been developed and made by

Google."



The Google phones come in two sizes with either a 5in or a 5.5in screen, have

the latest processor the Snapdragon 821 from industry leader Qualcomm, aluminium

bodies and the next version of Android 7.1 Nougat.



The Pixel smartphones also have 12 megapixel cameras with large 1.55 micrometre

pixels for boosted low light performance on the back, which were awarded a

rating of 89 by camera analysts DxOMark, making it the highest ranked smartphone

camera to date, beating both Apple's iPhone 7 with 87 and Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

with 88.



For Google, however, the most important part of the Pixel phones is the new

Google Assistant, which replaces Google Now and Google voice search previously

available to other Android smartphones with a new integrated smart assistant.



Nugent said: "This is the first device with Google Assistant, a conversational,

contextually aware assistant that will help you through you day. You can talk to

it, ask it various questions and it will provide a consistent experience

throughout, as well as prompting you with information when it thinks its

relevant."



Ana Corrales, vice president of global operations and Google Store, said: "We're

leveraging 18 years of search and evolving it into an assistant powered by

machine learning and artificial intelligence that we believe will be the next

wave of computing for the next 10 years or so and it will get better and better

as people use it."



Google Assistant will be available through the familiar "OK Google" hotword,

which can be said at any time, and a long press of the Pixel's home button. But

the Assistant access through the Pixel is just one of a new roster of devices

Google is pushing, including a new Amazon Echo-like speaker, Google Home, and

future products including tablets and smartwatches.



Assistant will be able to answer questions, perform actions and help get things

done through voice and text, learning your preferences and habits over time and

pulling information from all of Google's disparate services. Google Assistant

will be the Pixel phones' unique selling point, at least in the short term, in a

very competitive market where Apple and Samsung dominate, but neither have been

able to crack the useful integrated and intelligent personal assistant.



The Pixel will also have unlimited full resolution phone backup with Google

Photos, where other smartphones are limited in photo size and quality. They will

be some of the first devices to feature the latest version of 4G - cat 9 LTE

advanced - for the fastest possible data speeds, 4G calling and Wi-Fi calling,

supported by EE as Google's exclusive network partner in the UK.



Google will also provide a so-called Quick Switch Adapter to import iMessages,

photos, videos, contacts and other data directly from Apple's iPhone, clearly

targeting users disenfranchised with Apple's recent efforts.



The 5in Pixel will cost £599 with 32GB of storage or £699 with 128GB of storage.

The 5.5in Pixel XL will cost £719 with 32GB of storage or £819 with 128GB of

storage. Both models match the pricing of Apple's iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

They will be available through EE, via Google's online store and Carphone

Warehouse in the UK.



The Pixel and Pixel XL will also be the first smartphones compatible with the

Google's new virtual reality headset called Daydream View, and a controller. The

device, similar in idea to Samsung's Gear VR accessory, is a step up from the

company's basic Cardboard viewer and represents the next phase in Google's push

for virtual reality, complete with a new minimum specification for Daydream

compatible smartphones.



Andrey Doronichev, Google's product Manager for VR, said: "Most of the other

headsets out there that are bulky, made of plastic with connectors and cables

everywhere. Daydream is none of these things. It's made of fabric, very

lightweight and it feels like clothing, not like a piece of electronics.



"Cardboard is a great way to get introduced to VR with short experiences, but we

designed it without a head strap for a reason for quick, bitesize experiences.

By contrast Daydream is designed for long term, high quality VR for a much more

immersive and richly interactive experience."



Alongside the Pixel smartphones Google also launched its take on the Amazon Echo

called Google Home, which represents a different in-home outlet for the

company's smart assistant.



Home is a small speaker equipped with a series of far-field microphones capable

of responding to voice commands, controlling other smarthome devices, setting

timers, playing music and giving access to Google's voice search. But Assistant

goes beyond relatively simple voice recognition, and as on the Pixel

smartphones, can pull personal information, schedules, the weather and other

day-to-day activities. It is designed as an artificial intelligence in-home

helper.



Explaining how Home would work in day-to-day life, Gummi Hafsteinsson, product

management director on the Assistant engineering team said: "The other day I was

trying to cook some eggplant, so I said 'OK Google, how do I cook an eggplant?'

It then described it to me and said I had to cook it for 25 minutes, so I just

said 'OK, Google, set a timer for 25 minutes' and it was done. I didn't have to

touch anything, because my hands are busy doing something in the kitchen, and I

can just get it to play music while I wait.



"The long-term vision is for the assistant be available wherever you need it,

not just on your phone. In your home, your car, wherever. For now, it's just the

new phone from Google and the Home," added Hafsteinsson.



Google Home will be released in the US in the near future, but the company has

yet to announce release details for the UK. Google also launched an updated

version of it's instant smart TV dongle, the Chromecast Ultra, which supports 4K

streaming and will cost £69.





     ·    Google Pixel phone launch - as it happened

     ·    Google launches new Assistant and puts it at heart of Home





LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





