                              612 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                   The Independent on Saturday (South Africa)



                               September 10, 2016

                                   E1 Edition



Worried about online privacy? That's just the way the cookies crumble



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 507 words





It is not a coincidence that when you have been googling south-east Asia, your

Facebook page is inundated with ads for holidays in Thailand.



Neither is it a sign from the retail gods that you need to buy the pair of shoes

that you've browsed once, when its image keeps popping up on your social media

accounts.



It's not that you've been cyberstalked, but the practice of retargeting - using

your internet browsing habits to track your preferences - is widely used by

companies to send you advertisements of products and services you've googled.



Rohan Isaacs, director at Norton Rose Fulbright said it was all done through the

use of cookies (a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in your web

browser) and tracking pixels (the basic unit of programmable colour on a

computer display).



"Pixels embedded within an advertising slot on a web page can access cookies

previously dropped on to your computer by the advertiser. These cookies give the

advertiser information about previous searches and browsing habits, enabling the

advertiser to target your preferences."



Isaacs said whether this was an invasion of privacy depended on one's point of

view.



"Services which obtain this information about you would argue that you have

consented to it. You aren't forced to use the service after all. Their privacy

policies invariably explain what they do, at least in general terms," he said.



Nathan Desfontaines, cyber security manager at KPMG agrees. "Privacy policies

are loosely explained. Websites tell us that they are using cookies and give us

an option to opt out by disabling cookies. But doing so means some features of a

website may not work."



Desfontaines also agrees that retargeting is not illegal. "But the problem is

that we are not given an option to decide if we want to opt in."



And for that reason, he said, this practice tested ethical borders and had the

potential to embarrass users.



"If a woman thinks she is pregnant, for example, and googles contraceptives or

abortion and then moves away from her desk. Then when these adverts pop up on

her screen everyone can see what she has been browsing," Desfontaines said.



"By using Google to browse the net you have automatically opted to be tracked if

you already use other Google unpaid services such as Gmail, Google Maps and

Google Drive."



"To access many of these services you need to log into a Google account. And as

long as you're logged in, Google knows exactly who you are and mines everything

you are doing within the Google environment for information about you," Isaacs

said.



"They use this information to monetise their services by selling advertisers the

abili-â[#x20ac]¨ty to target you through pixels and cookies... if the product is

free, you're the product."



Both Isaacs and Desfontaines agree retargeting is far from illegal because we

typically grant websites permission to track us and browsing habits on their own

don't generally constitute personal information.



But, if you don't want to be tracked, you can turn cookies off on your browser

setting or switch browsers.



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NS





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





