                              616 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                                October 28, 2016



Q3 Bottom Line: Google A Cash Machine, Amazon A Free Spender



BYLINE: REINHARDT KRAUSE



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 471 words





http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/IT12-googl-102816-iStock.jpg



Amazon.com's (AMZN) free-spending ways are far from over, while Google parent

Alphabet (GOOGL) is a cash-flow machine.



That's the verdict from third-quarter financial results. Alphabet stock closed

0.3% higher at 819.56 on the stock market today, while shares in Amazon fell 5%

after the e-commerce giant late Thursday guided to higher spending on

fulfillment, digital content, cloud computing and India.



Google reported third-quarter EPS and revenue that topped expectations.



Alphabet will step up investments in cloud computing in 2017 as spending on

Pixel smartphones and artificial intelligence software also grows.



But its pullback on Google Fiber, a superfast broadband service, will lower

capital spending on that project.



The bottom line is that analysts expect Google to stay a cash-generating machine

even as it spends on online website YouTube and "Other Bets," such as life

sciences company Verily and smart home company Nest.



"Alphabet reported its strongest quarter ever of free cash flow which came in at

$7.3 billion," Citigroup analyst Mark May said in a report.



Google announced a new $7 billion stock repurchase plan. An earlier $5 billion

buyback ended in the June quarter.



IBD'S TAKE: Amazon and Facebook have been on IBD's Leaderboard of top growth

stocks. Alibaba Holdings and Domino's Pizza are other companies on the

Leaderboard. Facebook reports Q3 earnings on Nov. 2.



Google had $83 billion in cash on its balance sheet as of Sept. 30, up from

$78.4 billion in the June quarter.



Google signaled higher investments in the cloud business -- renting hardware and

software computing resources online to companies -- in 2017, as it takes on

Amazon and Microsoft (MSFT).



Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat, on its earnings call, said she expects Q4

marketing costs to rise following Google's September launch of Pixel-branded

smartphones and a smart home speaker that competes with Amazon's Echo. Porat

said the shift of Google's search business to mobile platforms from desktop will

continue to pressure gross margins.



"Core Google margins are unlikely to significantly expand near-term, in our

view, due in part to revenue mix shift to lower margin sources and to

investments in Google Cloud Platform, the Pixel phone and other growth

initiatives," May said.



Google's Q3 capital spending rose 4.4% from a year earlier to $2.4 billion.



Google said Q3 earnings per share minus items rose 23% to $9.06 from the

year-earlier period. Total revenue shot up 20% to $22.45 billion. Analysts

polled by Thomson Reuters had projected $8.63 EPS and $22.05 billion in sales.



RELATED:



Amazon Q3 Earnings Fall Short; Stock Slumps



This Is What Google Won't Tell You About YouTube's Financials



Alphabet Stock Flat After Google Hardware Launch Has Few Surprises



LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





