

The new combined OS Andromeda might be announced at the Google event to be held
on October 4, alongside new flagship smartphone devices.

Andromeda, the purported new combined OS of Android and Chrome OS, just might
make a teaser appearance on Google's October 4 event. Though it will be held to
garner attention towards the Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones (running on Android
7.1 Nougat), which is another new branding from Google to replace the Nexus
series, it just could pull of a surprise teaser for the tech world with the
Andromeda OS, especially if Hiroshi Lockheimer, the SVP of Android, Chrome OS
and Play, is to be taken seriously. In a slightly cryptic tweet, he mentioned,
"We announced the 1st version of Android 8 years ago today. I have a feeling 8
years from now we'll be talking about Oct 4, 2016." The speculation for the same
had actually started by a report last year, which said that Google would be
unveiling a new OS, and whose other predictions turned out mostly true.

Like most new creations, the name for the new OS is being kept under wraps, and
is called Andromeda, as a code name. The aim of the OS is being pitched as
Google's effort to bring Android to the laptop and convertible devices, but
would ideally be successful, if they worked like Chrome OS interface. Hence, the
conclusion of assuming Andromeda to be a combo OS of Android and Chrome OS, is
not entirely wishful thinking.

[Representative Image via CultOfMac]

Other sources like 9to5Google, quoting unnamed sources, says that the Andromeda
is currently being tested on the 2 year old Nexus 9 tablet. There have actually
been several mentions of the combined OS on the Android 7.0 Nougat AOSP source
code. With the tests being conducted, SurfaceCompositionTest.java, which is
perhaps a graphics performance measurement tool, mentions that Andromeda would
need a performance score of 8.0 which is double to that of Android's 4.0.

However, while testing on the Nexus 9 tablet, the scores touched 8.8, which
hopefully is above Google's own requirement. Another slightly confusing mention
on the same platform says, "Detect Andromeda devices by having free-form window
management feature," which as it turns out, happens to be Android Nougat 7.0
salient features. However, till the October 4th event gets over, the speculation
on Android forums will continue to generate interest. Till then, Pixel is the
center of Google attention, where it seems they would bring back the 'restart'
option in Android. Would be interesting to see however, in which avatar it
comes.

