

iPad Pro (9.7-inch)

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: The new iPad Pro delivers a fast processor; a bright, antireflective
display; support for Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard accessories; better, louder
speakers and top-notch cameras, in the same exact body as the iPad Air 2.

The bad: A higher price, plus expensive accessories. Less RAM and a slightly
slower processor than the 12.9-inch iPad Pro. iOS still limits overall
flexibility of this iPad.

The cost: $531.85 to $646.80

The bottom line: It's still not a full-fledged laptop killer, but the new
9.7-inch iPad Pro is the best iPad ever made - a near-perfect balance of tablet
power and portability.

Google Pixel C

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: The Google Pixel C has a slim, compact aluminum build that feels
sturdy. Its optional Bluetooth keyboard is equally solid and doubles as the
tablet's cover, and it has a powerful, long-running battery. The tablet runs the
latest version of Android and its performance is lightning fast. The screen is
sharp, bright and colorful, and gaming graphics look stellar.

The bad: It's a bit heavy when attached to the keyboard (which is sold
separately). Big-name apps and games still tend to hit iOS before Android.

The cost: $678.00

The bottom line: The Google Pixel C is the best Android tablet money can buy.

Microsoft Surface Pro 4

CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Very good)

The good: The Surface Pro 4 fits a larger screen with a higher resolution into a
slightly slimmer body than last year's model. The pen and keyboard cover are
also improved, and this is one of the first mobile systems shipping with Intel's
latest processors.

The bad: Microsoft still refuses to include the Type Cover keyboard by default,
forcing a separate purchase. Battery life still isn't enough for a full day.

The cost: $688.36 to $899.00

The bottom line: A host of small refinements cements the Surface Pro 4's
position as the best-in-class Windows tablet - as long as you're prepared to pay
extra for the required keyboard cover accessory.

iPad Pro (12.9 inch)

CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Very good)

The good: The new iPad Pro is the biggest and fastest Apple tablet to date. The
pressure-sensitive Pencil stylus offers superior sketching and drawing, and the
Pro's gorgeous giant screen and quad speakers are ideal for split-screen apps,
multitasking and watching movies.

The bad: At launch, very few apps are currently optimized to take advantage of
the iPad Pro's full potential. Its large size makes it less portable than other
iPads. Once you've paid for the Pencil and keyboard peripherals, the iPad Pro
costs as much as a good laptop, but lacks its flexibility.

The cost: $707.85 to $799.00

The bottom line: The iPad Pro is a dream machine for graphic designers and media
mavens, but this elegant tablet needs more optimized apps and accessories before
it can fully achieve laptop-killer status.

