

During a special event held September 29, Google presented two new smartphones,
a tablet and a second-generation Chromecast key along with a version dedicated
for audio. Here's what you need to know about getting your hands on Google's
latest devices as they roll out to store shelves through the end of 2015.

The new Chromecast

Redesigned both inside and out, the new Chromecast device is round and colorful.
The product still allows users to cast multimedia content on HD television
screens from their favorite device. It's compatible with the most recent Wi-Fi
standards and includes support for video game streaming. The dongle remains
compatible with a number of video applications from YouTube to Netflix.

The new Chromecast key is now available for US $35.

Chromecast Audio

The idea behind Chromecast Audio is to broadcast your music, follow your
favorite podcasts or listen to the radio from a computer, a smartphone or a
tablet through any speaker or hi-fi stereo system. The audio stick is compatible
with the most popular music streaming applications including Spotify, Deezer and
Google Play Music.

Chromecast Audio is available for US $35.

The Nexus 5X

The first smartphone to operate under Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) was created in
collaboration with LG. The 5.2-inch smartphone boasts a fingerprint sensor, a
12.3 megapixel camera and a USB Type-C port. The device is also compatible with
Android Pay, currently available only in the United States.

The Nexus 5X will be available October 2015 starting from US $379.

The Nexus 6P

The aluminum smartphone designed by Huawei is a first for the Nexus range. The
5.7-inch smartphone contains the latest version of the Qualcomm Snapdragon 810
processor and includes nearly all of the same characteristics of the Nexus 5X.

The Nexus 6P will be available in November 2015 starting from US $499.

The Pixel C

Inspired by the Pixel Chromebook (aluminum hardware, USB Type-C port and led
band) the 10.2-inch tablet (2560x1800 pixels) has positioned itself as a
potential rival of the Microsoft Surface range and the latest iPad Pro. A
separate keypad is available for purchase to transform the tablet into a hybrid
device, the classic PC alternative.

The Pixel C tablet will be available before the year-end holidays starting at US
$499.

