                              626 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                            December 5, 2014 Friday



US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on December 2, titled as

"Detection and suppression of flicker in a sequence of images"



LENGTH: 267  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,903,171, on

December 2, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Detection and

suppression of flicker in a sequence of images"



Inventors:  Volcker; Bjorn (Bromma, SE), Kleijn; Willem Bastiaan (Lower Hutt,

NZ)

Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "The

invention relates to a method, device and computer-program product for detection

of undesired temporal variations (flicker) in a sequence of video frames. In one

embodiment, frame-wise luminance means are compared with a reference level and

the crossing frequency is compared with expected variation frequencies, such as

frequencies associated with an illumination frequency through aliasing. The

crossings count can be refined by introducing a latency zone around the

reference level. In case of a positive detection of an undesired temporal

variation, there is further provided a correction method, device and

computer-program product using cumulated distribution functions. The visual

detriment of flicker-induced saturation of pixels is alleviated either by

brightening non-saturated pixels or by replacing the saturated pixels by

randomly sampled values in accordance with a reference cumulated distribution

function. The invention provides embodiments suitable for real-time processing

of streamed video sequences."



The patent was filed on February 6, 2010 Application no. 13/521,144



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





