                              628 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                           January 22, 2015 Thursday



US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on January 20 titled as

"Generating a road network based on satellite imagery"



LENGTH: 251  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,938,094, on

January 20, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Generating a road

network based on satellite imagery"



Inventors:  Kehl; Roland (Dubendorf, CH), Heiler; Matthias (Zurich, CH), Bakir;

Gokhan Hasan (Zurich, CH)

Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A

system and method for generating a road network based on satellite imagery.

Plural pixels corresponding to satellite imagery of a region are obtained. For

each of the plural pixels, a probability value corresponding to the probability

that the pixel belongs within the road network is calculated. A grayscale image

is formed based on the calculated probability values. Plural curves are produced

based on the grayscale image, wherein the producing of each curve includes

positioning a shape on the grayscale image so that an average intensity of the

grayscale image covered by the shape exceeds a preset threshold, moving the

shape about the grayscale image while the average intensity is maintained, and

tracking the movement of the shape to produce the curve. A planar-connected

graph is generated by connecting at least portions of the plural curves. The

planar-connected graph corresponds to the road network."



The patent was filed on April 13, 2012 Application no. 13/446,948



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





