                              62 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                           October 22, 2016 Saturday



Google's Pixel not all that new but is standout;

Ambitious phone has a starting price of about $650.;

TECHOOLOGY



BYLINE: ByAnickJesdanun



SECTION: ; Pg. SPB3



LENGTH: 791 words





Apple's iPhone 7 Plus (top), Samsung's Galaxy S7 (middle), and Google's Pixel XL

are shown in New York's Central Park. The Pixel's camera falls short in extreme

close-ups.



Google's ambitious new smartphone, the Pixel, doesn't offer a lot that's new.

Yet it's still one of the best out there.



Google achieves that by pulling together the best features from Apple, Samsung

and other phone makers and offering them at prices comparable to iPhones -

starting at about $650 for the regular, 5-inch model and $770 for the 5.5-inch

"XL" edition. Both versions go on sale Thursday through Verizon, Best Buy and

Google's online store.



I tested the Pixel XL model; the regular version has identical features except

for its smaller display and battery - still enough for 13 hours of internet use,

according to Google. With either, you get an excellent camera and a strong voice

assistant that promises to get smarter - all without the bloat common with other

Android phones.



The Pixel isn't quite an iPhone replacement, as Google wants you to believe ;

hardware is just part of what makes an iPhone an iPhone. But it might serve up a

strong challenge to Samsung, especially as people look for alternatives to the

fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 .



The camera



The Pixel's image quality is superb - though purists may quibble. Colors in some

shots look too strong and clean to me, thanks to software processing intended to

reduce distortion and improve detail (something all phones do to some extent).



But automation pays off in another way: The Pixel will automatically combine

successive shots into an animated "GIF" file, offering a fun way to share a

toddler's steps or a dog jumping. For video, the Pixel's stabilization

technology compensates for shaky hands and other movement, matching what the

iPhone and Galaxy phones can do.



The Pixel borrows a quick-launch feature from Samsung phones. Just double tap

the power button to start the camera, even if the phone is locked. To switch

between the front and rear cameras, just double twist the phone like a door knob

- a feature Motorola, which Google once owned, has long offered.



Low-light images taken with the Pixel in three museums aren't as crisp as those

from the iPhone 7 and Samsung's Galaxy S7 (which has the same camera as the Note

7). But differences are small, and the Pixel does better than typical

smartphones. Where the Pixel falls short is in extreme close-ups, such as

shooting a flower petal or a small bug; photos were typically blurry. The

Pixel's selfie camera is also inferior, with no front flash or control over the

focus. But it's fine in good light and at typical distances for selfies.



The assistant



Google's voice assistant, simply known as Google Assistant, will seem familiar

to those who have used Apple's Siri or Amazon's Alexa features.



Google's version goes further in offering daily updates such as weather and

news, though plenty of apps already offer similar capabilities through

notifications. Google is also better at remembering preferences - say, if you

prefer temperatures in Celsius - and at integrating with its own services, such

as Translate and Photos.



But Assistant doesn't yet sync with a similar Assistant in Google's Allo chat

app and upcoming Home speaker. And it isn't as proactive as the Google Now

assistant already built into Android phones. Google Now, for instance, will look

through your Gmail account for flight reservations and remind you when to head

to the airport. It will analyze your daily commute and warn of delays. Assistant

waits for you to ask.



Assistant holds up well compared with Siri and Alexa, but for more, swipe from

left to right to get the old Google Now back. Google says Assistant will

eventually get the Google Now functionality.



Other features



If you need help, you can reach Google's customer support and enable screen

sharing reminiscent of Amazon's Mayday help feature. And the Pixel will work

with Google's upcoming Daydream View virtual-reality headset, much as Samsung

phones have Samsung's Gear VR.



Long-pressing an app icon brings up a menu of shortcuts, such as getting

directions to home or launching the selfie camera. It's similar to the iPhone's

3D Touch. The Pixel also offers "Night Light," a feature that tints your screen

amber by filtering out blue light that might keep you up at night. Apple calls

it Night Shift.



Pixel owners get unlimited storage of photos at original resolution, though

that's a little like offering Google search for free. Google Photos already

offers unlimited storage at up to 16 megapixels; the Pixel's camera is 12

megapixels. The free offer will make a difference for those who take video in

ultra-sharp "4k" resolution, but the default setting is lower, at 1080p, which

is already free at Google Photos.



LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





