

Google finally unveiled the much rumored Nexus 6 Smartphone, in hardware
partnership with Motorola. This is the first Nexus device to come with a massive
5.96-inch display with 2K display resolution, and also gets Android's newest 5.0
Lollipop operating system.

The device is priced at $649 (INR 40,000 approximately) and will be available in
store beginning November, which is in line with the latest report on Forbes. In
that price, the Nexus 6 packs in impressive specifications and here are six such
specifications and features that make it a powerful device.

Design: Speaks the new Moto X's language

The Nexus 6 is a giant Smartphone which takes design cues from Motorola's Nexus
X second generation version. It features a similar metal RIM around the sides as
well as gets a circular flash ring as was seen on the new Moto X. Also, like
other Motorola new Smartphones this one too gets a dimpled Motorola logo.

A giant leap over Galaxy Note 4

This phone sports an almost 6-inch QHD display which accommodates 3840x2160
pixels at a pixel density of 493 pixels per inch, that is the better than the
1440x2560 pixels display resolution based Samsung Galaxy Note 4 which debuted in
India a couple of days back, and the LG G3 which was launched in India in the
middle of this year.

The display gets Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection and offers 16:9 aspect
ratio. With such high resolution and pixel density, the display should be a
delight for viewer.

A powerhouse

The phone is powered by 2.7GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 quad-core processor which
incorporates Adreno 420 GPU, which also powered the LG G3 and Samsung's Galaxy
Note 4. This Snapdragon processor is expected to deliver smooth performance of
the devices as well as impressive low level graphics performance, and result in
good results even with such a high definition display. The processor is paired
with 3GB of RAM to enhance the device's performance and has  been launched in
32Gb and 64GB storage options, which is a lot for a smartphone, however could
have be even better with microSD card support.

Photographer's delight

The newest Nexus smartphone adorns a 13-megapixel rear camera with optical image
stablisation. It comes with f/2.0 lens and is capable of shooting videos at 4K
resolution. The phone also gets a 2-megapixel front facing camera with 720p
video recording capabilities.

Flavoured with the Lollipop

The Nexus 6 is powered by the latest Android 5.0 Lollipop that was launched
along with the Nexus devices. The software is obviously one of the major
attractions of Nexus devices, as these get direct software support from Google.

As far as its software features are concerned the newest OS version comes with a
new design and improved UI that offers a playful and colorful look. The new OS
is designed to be flexible, to work on all Android devices, and can be
customized for the user as the user finds it fit.

Monster with monsterous battery

Nexus 6 packs a 3,220mAh battery and includes what Motorola calls as its Turbo
Charger, which can offer a quick burst of power by giving six hours of battery
life in just a 15-minutes-battery charge!

