

Pixel prices

I have seen a digital camera with 5 megapixels for £250. The next model up, with
8 megapixels, is £400. Is it worth paying £150 for the extra megapixels?

Toby Wood

Jack Schofield replies: Other things being equal, more megapixels will produce a
more detailed picture, but they never are. For example, some pixels are bigger
than others, because the camera's CCD sensor is bigger. Some pixels have a
different shape, and the ones in Fujifilm's Super CCD sensors are octagonal
rather than square. This isn't a bad idea, but it inflates the pixel count
faster than it increases the picture quality. Some pixels are "interpolated"
using software that guesses what a pixel could contain based on the pixels next
to it, so a 3 megapixel sensor can produce a 6 megapixel image. If you go by the
pixel count, check the sensor size, and make sure you are comparing like with
like.

Digital cameras take pictures that fit PC screens. If your screen is set to 1024
x 768, then simple multiplication gives 786,432 pixels or 0.75 megapixels. A 5
megapixel camera will take pictures that are up to 2592 x 1944 pixels, while an
8 megapixel camera will probably take pictures at 3264 x 2448. This is only a
26% improvement from a camera that has 60% more pixels and, in your case, costs
60% more. To get an image that was twice as good as a 5 megapixel camera, you
would need four times as many pixels, i.e. a 20 megapixel camera.

Obviously you don't need many megapixels to fill a screen, but they are
important when printing images. For example, if you want to make a 10 x 8 inch
print, and print at 200 pixels per inch (ppi), then you need 2000 x 1600 pixels,
or 3 megapixels. Printing at a higher resolution of 300ppi, you need 3000 x 2400
pixels or 7 megapixels. Make your own calculation of how many pixels you need
based on the size of the pictures you print and the quality of your printer.

In general, beyond 5 megapixels, the extra pixels are of diminishing value for
most people, and the difference between 5 and 8 is marginal. The benefits could
easily be swamped by other factors, such as the quality of the lens and the
manner in which the CCD image is converted into a JPeg. It is therefore
essential to read reviews at Digital Photography Review (www.dpreview.com) and
perhaps DCP Review (www.dcresource.com) before deciding. However, bear in mind
that any pixels you don't capture when you take the picture are gone for ever.

Getting noticed

How do you get a website "spotted" by search engines? I mean spotted, as opposed
to being high up the list.

Nick Peed

JS: The web is a network of interlinked pages and search engines use robot
"spiders" to crawl it. Any website will be found if it has incoming links. The
more incoming links there are, the sooner a site will be noticed and indexed, so
get people to link to your site. Most search engines also allow you to submit
your site's address or URL: Google's is at www. google.com/addurl/. It is also
beta testing a way to submit sitemaps at www. google.com/webmasters/sitemaps/.
This doesn't guarantee inclusion. If your site is no good, it may be found and
ignored.

Disappearing disk space

I recently bought a new laptop with a 60 gigabyte hard disk. I installed
Microsoft Office (with Outlook, Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint) and the new
Adobe Creative Suite, and have only 2GB left .

Richard Calvert-Smith

JS: A simple way to find out where your space has gone is to run Sean Werkema's
freeware program, SpaceMonger (http:/tinyurl.com/34q8f). Alternatives are listed
at http:/tinyurl.com/bkx8u and http:/tinyurl.com/dhrzq.

On my notebook PC, Windows XP takes up about 2GB for files plus a swap file
(pagefile.sys) and a hibernation file (hiberfil.sys). Microsoft Office takes up
about 300MB and typical Adobe programs about 100MB each. Adobe reckons Creative
Suite 2 Standard needs 7GB. Since a "60GB" drive is really a 57GB drive, that
leaves about 47GB not accounted for.

Backchat

* Raj Panjwani wanted broadband without paying for a BT line. David Dixon points
out that ADSL Guide has a list of wireless broadband providers at
http:/tinyurl.com/8gqc7.

* Chris Dewey asked about buying a digital recorder. Toby Wilson, a training
officer, reports good results with Sanyo ICR-B175 and related devices. "They
record directly into stereo MP3 format at a choice of qualities. You can plug in
an external microphone or use the built-in one. We have had excellent results
using them with pupils on a variety of projects." However, Dewey says he found
digital recorders too expensive, and took the cheaper suggestion proposed by
readers: a portable Hi-MD Sony MiniDisc recorder and an external stereo mic. He
says: "The MD recorder uses its own Atrac format on the discs but this can be
converted to wav format when transferred to computer using a USB cable. The
recording quality is excellent."


