                              637 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Sunday Times (South Africa)



                             October 9, 2016 Sunday

                             Business Times Edition



As if Google was not ubiquitous enough already



BYLINE: Arthur Goldstuck



SECTION: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 574  words





As if Google was not ubiquitous enough already ...



IT was arguably Google's biggest device launch yet. Much like Apple on iPhone

launch days, it rolled out the big guns in San Francisco this week, unleashing a

swathe of new devices that would take on not one, not two, not even three, but

four major device categories.



For the iPhone, Google unveiled the Pixel, echoing its rival with two size

options. Instead of a voice-controlled Watch, it debuted Google Home, a "smart

agent" that takes voice instructions and turns them into actions. For Apple TV,

it updated the Chromecast streaming device with the Ultra, which delivers video

in 4K or ultra-high definition.



It rounded out its product set with Daydream View, a low-cost, high-definition

virtual reality viewer, and Google Wi-Fi, an expandable home signal routing

system. That sets it up as a challenger to everyone from Facebook, Samsung, Sony

and HTC on the virtual reality side, and a vast industry of Wi-FI connectors on

the routing side.



The sheer ambitiousness of the range signals Google's arrival as a broad-based

hardware player.



But if the strategy was to come out with guns blazing at the competition, it has

fallen dramatically short. From the competitors' point of view, these are merely

smoke signals emitted as the Google guns misfired.



But it would be a mistake to read the smoke as merely being the result of

misfired guns. It's a classic case of where there's smoke, there's potential for

fire. The devices may not be the best on the market, and they may not reinvent

any of the categories they represent, but they set the scene for Google to catch

fire next time round.



For example, the $69 (about R1000) price tag on Chromecast Ultra is less than

half that of the latest Apple TV. Daydream View costs a little more, at $79,

compared to Samsung's Gear VR equivalent at $99. Google Home costs $130,

compared to the rival Amazon Echo's $180 price tag.



The two Pixel smartphones, coming in at 5-inch and 5.5-inch, appear to compete

with both Apple and Samsung's flagship handsets but at substantially lower

prices.



If that is what it comes down to, similar products at lower prices, Google can

claim to be bringing those products to a broader audience. But then, the likes

of Huawei and Xiaomi are not too shabby in their own roll-outs of high-end

devices at low cost.



More likely, Google is creating platforms that allow it to showcase its software

and services more effectively. A case in point is Google Assistant, a competitor

to Apple's Siri. The Pixel phones will be the first to have Assistant built in,

and it will be integrated with chat interfaces in a way that allows it to make

suggestions for reservations, travel and the like when they come up in

conversation in instant messaging services. What better way for Google to

demonstrate the extent of its capabilities than to build a phone that makes full

use of them?



The opening salvo of devices also allows Google to get a better sense of what

needs improving, what gaps remain in its armoury, and what type of products get

a natural boost from carrying the "Made by Google" label that emerged this week.



So while these will not be the shots that are heard around the world, once the

smoke clears, we are likely to see the beginnings of a powerful new ecosystem in

the consumer electronics market.



oGoldstuck is the founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of

Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @art2gee



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





