                              638 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  Yourstory.in



                     October 5, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



What's new in the latest Google Chromecast



BYLINE: Team YS



LENGTH: 293  words





Launched on Tuesday at the Google Pixel event, Chromecast Ultra, boasts of

advanced features like 4K and High Dynamic Range (HDR) support, faster speed and

Wi-Fi improvements.



Google announced the much awaited launch of Pixel, the first 'Made by Google'

phone. The other launches of the day include Daydream - platform for high

quality mobile VR; Google Home - voice-activated speaker powered by Google

Assistant; and Chromecast Ultra - the new Chromecast with 4K and HDR support.



The features of the new Chromecast include:



Deeper colors



Chromecast Ultra supports 4K, HDR and Dolby Vision, and gives a crisper picture

with higher resolution and more vibrant colors. Right now, users can stream 4K

content from Netflix, YouTube and Vudu. Later this year, Google Play Movies & TV

will be rolling out 4K content. Even if a TV isn't 4K-ready, Chromecast Ultra

automatically optimizes TV's picture.



Faster Chromecast, with optional Ethernet port



Chromecast Ultra loads videos 1.8 times faster than other Chromecast devices and

includes major Wi-Fi improvements to support streams from full HD to Ultra HD

without a hitch. For tricky Wi-Fi environments, Google is adding Ethernet

support for a wired connection.



Old features



Users can cast the content from thousands of apps using your phone, tablet or

laptop. They can mirror any content from their Android device or from a browser

tab (using Chrome) to the TV.



Works with Google Home



Google Home, the voice-activated speaker powered by the Google Assistant, can

control smart home devices, including Chromecast. Combined with Chromecast or

Chromecast Ultra, Google Home can control TV - completely hands free.



Google Chromecast Ultra will be available for pre-order in November in US. India

launch hasn't been announced yet.



LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Yourstory.in, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





