                              645 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                              May 11, 2015 Monday



Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Scale Sensitive

Treatment of Features in a Geographic Information System"



LENGTH: 231  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.

20150128089  for US Patent, published on May 07, 2015, by Google Inc.

(California), titled as "Scale Sensitive Treatment of Features in a Geographic

Information System" for the registration of patent.



Inventors:  Johnson; Kirk; (Boulder, CO) ; Mayster; Yan; (Aurora, CO) ; Tsankov;

Georgi; (Boulder, CO)

Assignee:     Google Inc.

Mountain View

CA

US



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:

"Systems and methods for presenting information in response to a user

interaction with a geographic image at a point of query in a geographic

information system are provided. A user can request information at point of

query in the geographic image. Responsive to the user request, the geographic

information system can search for and obtain information associated with the

request. As part of the logic used to return information responsive to a request

at a point of query, a zone of influence can be defined for one or more features

depicted in the image. The zone of influence can be defined by a pixel threshold

in a pixel space associated with the geographic image. The pixel threshold can

be constant across a plurality of zoom levels of the geographic image."



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





