                              648 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                            June 27, 2012, Wednesday



Google unveils 7-inch tablet, new Android version;

Nexus 7 tablet tightly integrated with Google Play online store



BYLINE: Network World Staff



LENGTH: 588 words





Google today announced its first tablet product, the Nexus 7, fitted with a

powerful quadcore processor and specificallydesigned to work with the expanding

Google Play, the online media and apps site.



MORE FROM GOOGLE I/O 2012: First look -- Google's new Nexus 7 tablet Ask the

magic 8-ball: Google's Nexus Q brings Play to the home Seven Nexus 7 concepts

Unveiled today at the Google I/O conference in San Frncisco, the tablet has a

7-inch diagonal screen, with 1280 x 800 high definition display, with a pixel

density of 216 pixels per inch (compared to Apple's Retina Display on the new

iPad of 264 pixels per inch). It's powered by a four-core Tegra 3 processor,

including a 12-core graphics processing unit.



It's equipped with the Google Chrome web browser, Google Currents, which is a

mobile magazine format for news feed with integrated Google Translate. The

tablet has a front-facing 1.2 megapixel camera, Bluetooth, a micro USB port and

near field communication.



The Nexus 7 is priced at $199, and Google is offering several movies, books and

complimentary magazine subscriptions as a starting package.



It runs the next Android version, Android 4.1, dubbed Jelly Bean. One of Jelly

Bean's key features is Project Butter, a comprehensive effort by Google to boost

Android performance and response time by increasing the frame rate to 60 fps.

The demonstration showed fast, smooth animations, and the tablet's CPU

automatically speeds up when it detects an onscreen touch.



The Android notification system has been revamped. Alerts now expand and shrink

automatically as they appear. You can see a preview of an MMS image, and view it

in full size all inside Android's notification area.



Also part of Jelly Bean is Google Now, with a redesigned user interface for your

mobile searchers. It now features, like Apple's Siri, a very realistic

synthesized voice interface to respond to search requests or remind you of

appointments. But Google Now blends this with a predictive capability: it uses

data about your location, the date, from your contacts and prior searches to

proactively recommend an alternative way home if your usual commuting route is

congested. And the app will verbally update you on new offers or changes as you

walk past restaurants or retails stores.



Jelly Bean will appear first on the Galaxy Nexus, Nexus S and Xoom devices in

mid-July. The SDK is available for developers now as part of preview.



Google also unveiled its first consumer electronics product, called Google Q, a

ball-shaped Android computer that Google calls the first social media streaming

device. Controlled by Android tablets or smartphone, Google Q has

high-definition interfaces to plug directly into speakers and flatscreen TVs.

It's designed specifically to exploit the content available through Google Play,

the online market for Android content and apps, so you can't stream audio or

video from your Android tablet or smarphone, for example.



It has a micro HDMI output, an HDMI cable, optical audio port, Ethernet, and

speaker connections; an integrated 25-watt amplifier, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and NFC.



In a demonstration, one user's Google Play library of music and video is

displayed on a TV screen. It streams an audio track to a set of speakers in a

selected room, in this case the living room. Nexus Q is a "cloud-connected

jukebox" - a group of people can add music tracks from their own Google Play

library to a shared queue, from which it can stream to the living room speakers.

Google Q ships in July, with pre-orders staring today.









LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2012 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





