                              64 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:56 PM GMT



Google Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones finally revealed - can they compete with

the iPhone 7?;

The search giant unveiled two new handsets along with a virtual reality headset

at an event in San Francisco



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 424 words





The much-anticipated Google Pixel has been revealed by the US tech giant at an

exclusive event in San Francisco.



Widespread leaks had already taken much of the surprise out of the announcement,

but Google still made the most out of its answer to Apple's market-leading

iPhone.



The company's CEO Sundar Pichai launched the phones from the stage and was met

with plenty of applause.



Taking over from the Nexus brand, Pixel is a shift towards a more premium phone

that will compete with both the iPhone 7 and Samsung's popular Galaxy S7.



Google Pixel XL vs iPhone 7 Plus - which smartphone will win when Google takes

on Apple?



As expected, Google revealed two different versions of the Pixel - a standard

5-inch model and a larger 5.5-inch version called the Pixel XL.



Inside the Pixel is a quad-core 2.0GHz 64-bit processor, 4GB of RAM and a

non-removable 2,770mAh lithium ion battery. The phone comes with either 32GB or

128GB of storage.



The Pixel XL meanwhile has a 2,560 x 1,440 AMOLED display with a quad-core

Qualcomm processor, 4GB of RAM and a big 2,450mAh battery.



Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer day before official

announcement



Both phones boast the same 12MP rear-facing camera and 8M front-facing one. And

what's more, in Google's own words, "there's no unsightly camera bump."



They both have fingerprint scanners on the back of the phone and the new USB-C

charging port on the bottom. And, unlike Apple, both phones come with 3.5mm

headphone ports.



One of the biggest benefits of the new Pixel phones is that they will ship with

the latest version of Android pre-installed. Also, when it comes to future

updates, Google's own phones tend to get their first compared with other Android

phone makers like Samsung or Sony.



How much will the Google Pixel and Pixel XL phones cost? Best UK deals and where

to find them



Android "Nougat" is notable for a new AI-powered assistant called Allo and the

FaceTime-style video chat app called Duo.



If you're keen to ditch the iPhone and get hold of either of the Pixels then you

won't have to wait long as they're going to be available on October 20th.



However, it won't be cheap.



Buying directly from Google or Carphone Warehouse means you can pick up the

phones SIM free and unlocked for the one-off price of £599 for the 5-inch Pixel

and £719 for the 5.5-inch Pixel XL.



That puts them in exactly the same kind of territory as Apple's iPhone models.



It looks like EE is the only network in the UK that will stock the phone on

contract, and we'll update this as soon as we know for certain.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





