                              650 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)



                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday



Why does Google ignore NZ?



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 14



LENGTH: 353 words





Google announced a range of products this month including an iPhone- killer, but

if you want to buy them in New Zealand you may have a long wait.



The new Pixel smartphones, Google Home device, and its virtual reality headset

were announced a few weeks ago but there's no way for Kiwis to buy them unless

you or someone you know is heading overseas.



When I asked Google when its products would arrive here, I got a vague response

about how they plan to launch in more countries in the future.



Google fans have a right to be disappointed especially as companies such as

Apple and Sony always include New Zealand in the first group of countries to get

devices.



So why does Google ignore New Zealand?



First, we are a small country so we're not a priority for the giant company.

Also, this isn't the first time we've been forgotten. Google's last range of

phones was hard to find here. The Nexus range got great reviews but you had to

do a lot of searching for them as they were rarely promoted.



The main reason for our lack of priority is probably because Google is not a

retailer.



These new phones are the first they've made from start to finish. Previously,

its used companies such as LG and Huawei to manufacture their devices and those

firms also help with marketing and selling the phones.



Apple has run physical retail stores for 12 years (though none are in New

Zealand) and also has hundreds of authorised dealers and an extensive online

store.



Google has to rely on external retailers and setting those up takes a lot of

time, as does putting in place advertising.



It doesn't seem to have a relationship with Spark, Vodafone or 2degrees,

companies which usually heavily promote new phones.



In Australia, Google is using JB HiFi to sell its Pixel phones. Hopefully, for

Kiwi Google fans this means they may soon go on sale here.



However, we have not been completely forgotten by Google. The new Chromecast

Ultra which features 4K streaming is available in the New Zealand Google Store

for pre-order.



But for everything else, I wouldn't hold my breath. Chances are they'll

eventually end up in stores here but without much fanfare.



LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





