                              652 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                              July 8, 2016 Friday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Google could be building its own smartphones and smartwatches, due late 2016



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 330 words





After a first PC (Chromebook Pixel) and a tablet (Pixel C), Google reportedly

has its own smartphones and smartwatches in the pipeline, optimized for use with

the web-search giant's mobile operating systems.



The Telegraph reports that Google could be gearing up to release its own

smartphone by the end of 2016. Until now, Google has relied on its Nexus devices

-- manufactured in collaboration with various tech firms -- as a means of

releasing products that get the best out of the latest version of Android. Now,

the firm apparently wants to go it alone with handsets manufactured in-house and

under its own name, optimized for use with its mobile OS -- starting with

Android Nougat, due Autumn 2016. That said, two new Nexus devices built by HTC

are also scheduled to land in autumn 2016.



What's more, Google could be set to release a new kind of smartphone with a

modular design, after demonstrating an advanced prototype of its Project Ara

handset back in spring. Modular mobiles use interchangeable "blocks" to boost

performances or replace faulty parts. The smartphone could come with six modules

(extra screen, camera, memory, speaker, etc.), with the main display, processor

and RAM all housed in the phone's unmodifiable main block. A developers' kit is

due out in the autumn before commercial release expected in 2017.



A pair of smartwatches in the pipeline



According to the specialist website, Android Police, Google may also be working

on two watches featuring Google Assistant, an even more intelligent version of

Google Now. These would be optimized to run Google's wearables operating system,

Android Wear 2.0.



Google is reportedly working on two models -- one relatively basic, low-cost

watch, and a more high-tech model with more features (4G, GPS, heart-rate

monitor, etc.) and boosted battery life. These are said to go by the codenames

Swordfish and Angelfish.



These products -- if they really exist -- could be unveiled at a specially

dedicated event in the autumn.



LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





