                              655 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday



Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Using Geographic

Coordinates On A Digital Image Of A Physical Map"



LENGTH: 254  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.

20150154773 for US Patent, published on June 04, 2015, by Google Inc.

(California), titled as "Using Geographic Coordinates On A Digital Image Of A

Physical Map" for the registration of patent.



Inventors:  Cosenza; Roberto; (Mountain View, CA) ; Zanolin; Luca; (Mountain

View, CA)

Assignee:  Google Inc.

Mountain View

CA



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:

"Systems and methods are disclosed for using geographic coordinates on a

physical map. The system may include a mobile device having a processor and a

display, where the processor receives a first input that instructs a camera to

capture a digital image of a physical map. The mobile device may then display

the digital image of the physical map. The mobile device may further receive a

second input from a user interface, where the second input identifies a first

location on the digital image of the physical map. The first location may be

associated with an image pixel coordinate, and the mobile device may obtain a

geographic coordinate based on this image pixel coordinate. The mobile device

may then determine a transformation matrix based on the image pixel and

geographic coordinates. Using the determined transformation matrix, the mobile

device may determine further image pixel coordinates based on received

geographic coordinates."



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





