                              660 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:52 PM GMT



Google announces Daydream VR headset - and it will be available in early

November;

Virtual reality is going from strength to strength as Google joins the likes of

Oculus Rift, Samsung, HTC and Sony's PlayStation VR



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 237 words





Google has had a virtual reality headset on the market for a few years - but

it's basically a £13 piece of cardboard .



But today the gigantic technology company unveiled a brand new headset called

Daydream VR.



It's more than just a piece of card - instead it's closer to Samsung's Gear VR

headset. But rather than being made out of plastic, it's crafted from fabric

more akin to sportswear.



Google says the Daydream VR is 30% lighter than similar headsets.



Of course, it still requires a smartphone to work and Google is no doubt hoping

you'll pair it up with one of its two new Pixel phones .



The Daydream VR headset comes with a small remote control that works a bit like

the remote sticks for the Nintendo Wii. It tracks motion control and can be used

for navigation and gameplay.



Inside the remote are sensors that respond to the way you move. Google says it's

so precise you can even write with it.



There's going to be quite a few apps that work with the Daydream headset as

well. Google first announced the platform at its I/O developer conference back

in May.



The platform will be optimised to run on a number of Android smartphones -

including those from manufacturers like Samsung, Huawei and HTC.



But Google still pointed out that its new Pixel phones are the first that are

"Daydream ready".



The headset will come in a choice of three colours: Slate, Snow and Crimson.

It's set to launch in early November in the UK for £69.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





