                              667 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday



Try these for size;

If you would rather keep your precious smartphone tucked away at home, here are

three alternatives to consider for the barracks



SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight



LENGTH: 671 words





Sony Xperia Go



Being rough with the Sony Xperia Go is not an issue.



This Android smartphone is sufficiently protected against a watery death - it is

able to survive a swim in fresh water as long as it does not go deeper than 1m

for 30minutes. Dust is also unlikely to enter the phone if its ports are

properly sealed.



If you perspire a lot, have no fear. The 3.5-inch display is equipped with a

feature known as wet finger tracking, which lets you interact with the screen

even if your fingers are coated with sweat or water.



The disappointment here is a low screen resolution of 320 x 480 pixels, making

the phone less likely as an entertainment tool.



But if you can forgive its display density of 165pixels per inch, it still fares

pretty well when you need to read e-mail messages, browse the Web and watch some

low-resolution videos on YouTube.



A dual-core 1GHz processor powers this Android smartphone, so it has sufficient

juice to run apps without visible lag.



While it is preloaded with last year's Google Android 2.3 Gingerbread, the phone

is slated for an Android 4.0 update.



TECH SPECS



Price: $488

Operating system: Google Android 2.3

Processor: Dual-core 1GHz

Display: 3.5-inch LCD; 320 x 480 pixels

Camera: 5 megapixels

Battery: 1,305mAh



Samsung Galaxy Beam



With its 12.5mm thick profile, the Samsung Galaxy Beam feels like a clunky

phone. Good thing the army uniform has deep pockets.



You may even be able to carry along other accessories such as a battery pack or

mini-speaker.



Speaking of batteries, you get two 2,000mAh ones to power the device. They are

relatively slim, so you can slot a second one into a pocket and hook it up when

the first one dries up.



The device does not guzzle energy heavily, so you can probably stretch it for a

day if you go through your Facebook, Twitter and e-mail updates in between

training hours.



Weighing 145g, the Galaxy Beam is also a relatively heavy phone - at least, you

will know if it has slipped out of your pockets while you are running around.



This Android smartphone also comes with a pico projector, which lets you extend

its 4-inch display to a massive 50-inch projection on a blank wall. Pair that

with external speakers for a mini-cinema effect.



TECH SPECS



Price: $648

Operating system: Google Android 2.3

Processor: Dual-core 1GHz

Display: 4-inch LCD; 480 x 800 pixels

Camera: 5 megapixels

Battery: 2,000mAh



Motorola Defy XT



Now, here is a rugged smartphone that will not burn a hole in your pocket.



Similar to the Sony Xperia Go, it has the same IP67 rating that makes it

waterproof up to 1m for 30minutes and is resistant to dust particles.



Likewise, it runs on Android 2.3 Gingerbread, which is nearly two years old.



The edge it has over the Sony smartphone is its display.



At 3.7inches, the Defy XT is slightly larger and has a much better screen

resolution of 480 x 854 pixels. This creates sharper details and finer text when

you are browsing through your e-mail or scanning a website.



If you are concerned with its performance, its single-core 1GHz processor could

be the deal breaker though.



While most basic features, such as Web browsing, messaging and calls, can be

handled, it is not advisable to overload it with multiple apps.



TECH SPECS



Price: $399

Operating system: Google Android 2.3

Processor: Single-core 1GHz

Display: 3.7-inch LCD; 480 x 854 pixels

Camera: 5 megapixels

Battery: 1,700mAh



Pair it with:



X-Mini II Capsule Speaker



Bring along this inexpensive and tiny - yet powerful - speaker to share your

music with everyone.



Created by home-grown brand Xmi, the X-Mini II Capsule speaker is more than

capable of filling up a small room. A larger area - say, your bunk - could prove

to be a challenge for the compact speaker though.



But if your bunk mate also has an X-Mini speaker, you can link both up and

extend the sound across the room.



Link a few more X-Mini speakers and you can create a makeshift cinema with a

decent surround sound system.



TECH SPECS



Price: $49.90

Speaker output: 2.5W

Frequency response: 100Hz to 20kHz

Connectivity: 3.5mm audio jack

Weight: 83g



LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





