

Start scrimping to get your hands on these upcoming gadgets and concepts, which
will change the way you call, see, drive and play.

BlackBerry 10

The powerful QNX-inspired operating system (already installed in the Play-Book)
is going to make its way into the handsets by the end of January 2013.

The new OS is completely revamped and features a new, intelligent keyboard,
BlackBerry Hub, and is operated using intuitive swipe gestures. Two devices are
slated for the first phase of the launch: a dual core, 4.5 inch touchscreen
device and a touch+qwerty keypad phone.

4K TVs and projectors

Full high definition (HD) has its limitations--get too large a screen or come
too close and the pixels become apparent. However, 4K resolution fixes this
problem with 3,840x 2,160 pixels, or roughly four times the number of pixels
that full HD offers. While 4K TVs are already available, they are absurdly
expensive and true 4K resolution content is non-existent. Next year will see
wider adoption of the new format with cheaper TVs and more content.

Google Project Glass

Rather than look down at your smartphone or tablet for the information you need,
Google Glass will project what you need to know right into your field of view
through an augmented reality, head-mounted display. For those who wear glasses,
the device can be fitted with prescription lenses.

Samsung Galaxy S4

Samsung's upgradation of the flagship Galaxy smartphone is rumoured to have a
(slightly) flexible and unbreakable 5 inch screen, with a full 1,080p
resolution. It is also expected to have superior performance due to a new quad
core processor, quad core graphics chip, 3 GB RAM, up to 128 GB of inbuilt
storage, and a 13 MP camera with 4K video recording ability.

Smarter connected cars

The growing usage of smartphones could provide more traction to the concept of
the connected car. Such cars will link with your smartphone, play media from any
source (including the Internet) and provide live traffic information, navigation
and other info--all of these via multiple screens and voice commands. The system
may also have automatic braking and numerous cameras.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

