                              671 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                            October 10, 2016 Monday



With Andromeda, Google looking beyond Pixel



BYLINE: Ishaan Gera



LENGTH: 880  words





The I/O conference earlier this year was enough to establish the strategic shift

Google would make towards the development of smarter devices. Though the

company's absolute focus was on its new services that would incorporate a

personal artificial intelligent assistant on the lines of Siri called Assistant,

on Tuesday the Mountain View based giant turned towards conceptualising of not

just services but hardware. In making a shift from its traditional approach of

enroping a mobile producer like HTC, Motorola or LG to create a new line of

Nexus phones, Google, much like its competitor Apple, conceptualised, designed

and created a new brand of smartphones called Pixel. It also announced the

launch of home speaker, named Home, powered by Google Assistant to compete with

Amazon's home speaker Echo.



Though it is still recognised as a search engine provider, Google made a shift

towards services beyond search and advertising way back in 2007, when it had

launched its first Android operating system. The company has since then entered

into everything from home automation to virtual and augmented reality systems.

While Android is still the market leader-it has 1.4 billion devices and captures

87.6% of the market as compared to Apple's iOS share 11.9%-the Nexus line of

phones hasn't taken off as expected. But Google expects that to change with

Pixel. The company is offering a better optimised system and higher performance

specs with Pixel, along with features like unlimited storage. Whether the new

gamble from the 'everything company' will bring windfall gains is anybody's

guess, given that Apple has a good hold on the market and Samsung despite, its

recent exploding Note 7 debacle, is expected to come back strong, but the

company will certainly bring a difference once its future plans materialise.



To look at Google's hardware foray without a peek into its future plans for

softwares and services would be a fallacy. Though the company stopped short of

launching its new OS for Google run laptops and desktops, this is what is

expected to define the future of its parent company Alphabet. The much hyped

Andromeda OS, which is expected to take over from Chrome OS is believed to be an

amalgamation of Android and Chrome operating systems. Unlike, Apple which runs

iOS both on tablets and phones, Google had created two different systems Android

for mobile phones and Chrome for Google run-laptops and desktops. But, now the

internet giant is thinking of marrying the two.



So, what is Andromeda?



Google launched Chrome OS for laptops and tablets back in 2011 with a hope to

target users who wanted fast operating systems with as little clutter as

possible. In order to make that happen the company had integrated everything

online. While Chrome had a certain array of apps, one could not download and

install apps like in Android systems. Moreover, a developer had to create

separate systems for both android and chrome in case they wanted to feature on

both. The company at its I/O conference, did try to address this by allowing

Chrome users to download Android apps, but the whole interface is expected to

see a change when Andromeda comes about. In simple terms, Andromeda would bring

Chrome's online functionality to Android so one can rely on apps as well as web

functionality for running the device.



How is it revolutionary?



What Google is trying to pull is a Microsoft. The company is banking on

integration of all devices much like Windows with a one-stop operating system.

Although most reports suggest that Google would run Andromeda on laptops,

personal computers and some tablets, the platform may soon evolve into a single

system for all its devices, including smartphones. The convergence of systems

and their integration would not only benefit the users but also the developers

as now they would have to create device agnostic apps which would be optimised

for all the versions, saving users much hassle on battery and performance. Also,

with the company now producing its own devices like Google Home, OnHub router

and smart IoT systems, one can expect a single OS to control everything from

laptops, tablets to mobile phones. Moreover, with the single OS, Google may

decide to junk all the other devices as now the smartphone can become a desktop

with help of a computer screen, mouse and keyboard or can power a laptop.



Google was rumoured to have been working on an OS called Fuchsia which could run

on a multitude of devices, though it is not clear whether Andromeda is Fuchsia,

but the company has certainly moved closer to that dream. While this may all

sound complex, one thing is for sure that Google would try and make things as

simple as possible, as is evident from its latest array of apps-Allo and Duo.

The company has achieved a convergence in terms of apps as one can now access

most features like setting the alarm, searching over the net and booking a cab

with use of Maps from Allo, what this hardware and software shift indicates is

that it may try to do the same convergence for devices. While this may be a

far-off dream where one can control everything with their glasses or smartwatch

and a smartphone, initiatives from Microsoft and Google towards convergence

suggest that future may not be too far away.



ishaan.gera@expressindia.com



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





