
ABSTRACT

Charles Arthur: Plus how Twitter upgraded for scale, Googliness and Appliness,
BlackBerry's fundamental failing, and more

FULL TEXT

A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team

NSA broke privacy rules thousands of times per year, audit finds && The
Washington Post

The National Security Agency has broken privacy rules or overstepped its legal
authority thousands of times each year since Congress granted the agency broad
new powers in 2008, according to an internal audit and other top-secret
documents.

Most of the infractions involve unauthorized surveillance of Americans or
foreign intelligence targets in the United States, both of which are restricted
by statute and executive order. They range from significant violations of law to
typographical errors that resulted in unintended interception of U.S. e-mails
and telephone calls.

In case you missed this on Friday. Question is, who watches the watchers?

Google engineer explains why multi-user isn't enabled for phones, offers hope
for future functionality && Android Police

"...it is not at all clear how it should work on a phone, specifically with
respect to SMS and phone calls," writes Dan Morrill, Google Engineer and a
regular on the popular /r/Android subreddit. "Suppose you have device sharing
enabled and then a call comes in. Who gets it? Do you punch through to the
current user? Only the owner gets it? If only the owner can answer, does it ring
for the second user? Is it worse to annoy the current user with a ringing phone
they can't answer, or worse for dad to miss a call from his boss because Junior
was playing Angry Birds?"

(The discussion is on a Reddit AMA.) Pretty clear that phones are more
individual than tablets (where Google has enabled multi-user).

If the new Nexus 7 can have a Retina-like screen, why can't the iPad mini? &&
iMore

Rene Ritchie:

To maintain app compatibility, like the iPad 3 and iPhone 4 before it, Apple
would need to go to @2x (double the horizontal and vertical pixels) to increase
the density

· The iPad mini is 7.87- x 5.3- x 0.28-inches and weighs 0.69 lbs. It currently
uses the aforementioned 4:3 1024x768 (786,432 pixel), 163ppi screen, and gets 10
hours of battery life.· A theoretical iPad mini Retina would need to stick very
close to those same size, weight, and battery life measures, but bump up the
display to a 4:3 2048x1536 (3,145,728 pixel), 326ppi monster.· The Nexus 7
(2013) is 7.87- x 4.49- x 0.34 and weighs 0.64 lbs. It now uses a 16:10
1920x1200 (2,304,000 pixel), 323ppi screen, and gets 9 hours of battery life -
in airplane mode.

So the Nexus 7 is a little thicker (though still light thanks to the plastic
back), but more importantly, has only 3/4 of the amount of pixels an iPad mini
Retina would need, and even then at only a fraction (who knows how much?) of the
battery life. In other words, the Nexus 7 (2013) is thicker, has less pixels,
and less battery life than a theoretical iPad mini Retina.

Engadget's review of the 2013 Nexus 7 confirms that its battery life is shorter
than last year's model. (The battery also has less capacity.)

Newly crowned Miss Teen USA: I was a victim of cybercrime && TODAY.com

About four months ago, [Cassidy] Wolf said she was notified through Facebook
that someone had tried to log into her account from another state. She then
received an anonymous e-mail from a stranger saying he was in possession of
photos of her that were taken in her bedroom via the webcam on her computer
after it was hacked. The person tried to extort her in return for ensuring the
photos were not made public. She cannot divulge all the specific details because
the incident is now under federal investigation.

The FBI has a suspect. Her advice: put a sticker over the computer's webcam when
you're not using it.

Stack && Mugi Yamamoto

My diploma project is a compact inkjet printer, which is placed on top of a
paper pile. When printing, "Stack" slowly moves downwards and swallows the pile
until no paper is left. The paper disappears under the printer and exits on top,
where it creates a new pile.

Thanks to this new way of printing it is possible to remove the paper tray, the
bulkiest element in common printers. This concept allows a very light appearance
and avoids frequent reloading.

New Tweets per second record, and how && Twitter Blog

Raffi Krikorian (@raffi), VP, Platform Engineering, on how Twitter learned to
cope with gigantic demand - which meant dumping Ruby On Rails:

When it came down to it, our Rails servers were only capable of serving 200 -
300 requests / sec / host.

Twitter's usage is always growing rapidly, and doing the math there, it would
take a lot of machines to keep up with the growth curve.

At the time, Twitter had experience deploying fairly large scale JVM-based
services - our search engine was written in Java, and our Streaming Api
infrastructure as well as Flock, our social graph system, was written in Scala.
We were enamoured by the level of performance that the JVM gave us. It wasn't
going to be easy to get our performance, reliability, and efficiency goals out
of the Ruby VM, so we embarked on writing code to be run on the JVM instead. We
estimated that rewriting our codebase could get us & 10x performance
improvement, on the same hardware -- and now, today, we push on the order of 10
- 20K requests / sec / host.

Incidental: successive tweets are no longer incremented by 1. Really fascinating
blogpost about the big and small picture of dealing with huge real-time demand,
and how to retool for it.

The Meanings of Googliness && Jens O. Meiert

In case you missed this last week:

Here's my own interpretation of what it means to be googley. What qualifies me
to give one? Apart from having worked at Google for more than five years, I got
to work with a few extraordinarily googley people who've been at Google for many
more years, some of who paid special attention to teaching their protégés
googliness. In my career at Google I too have then tried to inspire googliness,
mostly by leading by example. Whether I succeeded (my personality can interfere
with my intentions) is on others to judge, but I'll give myself the credit of
working much on it. The idea of googliness made me love Google, and made me love
going to work.

Qualities cited include "doing the right thing", "striving for excellence",
"doing something nice for others, with no strings attached", and more.

Should do better for hiring than The Intern, anyway. Though judging by the
comments..

The Meanings of Appleiness && asymco

Horace Dediu responds:

I think I can get away with replying to the Meaning of Googliness with the
following.

Looks pretty accurate.

BlackBerry - and Nokia's - fundamental failing && stratechery

Ben Thompson recalls December 2009:

Android 2.0 "Eclair" had launched two months previously, and a second app
ecosystem was starting to take root, sealing BlackBerry's fate as a standalone
ecosystem. It wasn't just BlackBerry; Nokia's door to platform independence
closed at the exact same time for the exact same reason: while the history of
software ecosystems is not long, the maximum number of said ecosystems seems to
be about 2, maybe 2.5. This has held true for the desktop, for consoles2, and
now for mobile.

Quite a sobering thought - that three ecosystems, max, is what you get in any
space. See also what he thinks BlackBerry and Nokia should have done.

Apple seems to be beefing up hiring in China && WSJ

Among the more than two hundred openings in China on professional network site
LinkedIn, some of the eye-catching China-based positions include an
environmental affairs program manager, a  security specialist and a store
specialist.

You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard

To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free
Delicious service.

