                              676 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                           Canberra Times (Australia)



                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

                                 Final Edition



Google rolls out new smart devices



BYLINE: Technology; Stephen Hutcheon



SECTION: A; Pg. A023



LENGTH: 251  words





Google's smart speaker and its new Pixel phone. Photo: AP Google rolls out new

smart devices Technology Stephen Hutcheon On the cusp of what it calls an

"inflection point" in the history of computing, Google has unveiled a conga line

of new devices in its biggest single hardware launch.



The devices -- smartphones, a virtual reality headset, a smart speaker, Wi-Fi

router and an upgraded version of its Chromecast streaming gadget -- were rolled

out at an event in San Francisco for (eventual) worldwide distribution.The

"inflection" was described by Google chief executive Sundar Pichai as the moment

at which advances in machine learning and artificial intelligence have filtered

out of the labs and into real world applications.



"When I look ahead at where computing is headed, it's clear to me that we're

moving from a mobile-first to an AI-first world," Mr Pichai said.



"Our goal is build a personal Google for each and every user," he said.



Australian users will be among the first in the world to get some of the new

gear.



The new Pixel phones, Google flagship Android smartphones, will be available for

order on Google's online store. The phones will also be sold through Telstra and

JB Hi-Fi outlets.



They will comes in two sizes: a 5-inch screen and a phablet-sized 5.5-inch

screen with prices starting at $1079 -- in the same league as the latest iPhones

and top-tier Samsung phones. And they come with 3.5-millimetre headphone jacks.



The author attended the launch in San Francisco as a guest of Google.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: CT





       Copyright 2016 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





