

Reports suggest that Amazon is set to refresh its entire tablet range with
higher resolution alternatives and that they could be on sale by September.

Amazon's range of Kindle Fire tablets may be some of the only tablets that are
holding their own against the iPad in terms of sales and web use -- but as both
Apple and Google gear up to unveil new, refreshed tablets lines later this year,
Amazon will need to follow suit if it is expected to stay in touch with its
closest rivals.

According to BGR, the company is planning a full range refresh which will bring
resolution levels currently only seen on the full-sized iPad and Google's
Nexus-10 slate to some of its models.

The report claims that Amazon intends to keep a three-model lineup: a Kindle
Fire (7-inch screen); plus 7-inch and 8.9-inch variants of the Kindle Fire HD
tablets.

The entry-level and until now standard-definition model will see its pixel
density increased to a decidedly more HD 1280x800.

The 7-inch Kindle Fire HD will see its resolution upped to 1920x1200, while its
larger, 8.9-inch brother will get a 2560x1600 pixel screen taking it past the
current fourth generation Retina display iPad in terms of pixel numbers and
pixel density.

As well as reworked displays, the new devices are expected to be lighter and
have a more 'chiselled' appearance, a move away from the current trounded corner
look.

Amazon's Kindles are by no means the best tablets on the market and as Ars
Technica points out, the forked version of Android that the devices use as an
operating system is still wanting in terms of responsiveness and smoothness.

However, they remain very popular because of Amazon's competitive pricing and
the number of apps and multimedia content the company offers Kindle users. The
increased resolution will not only help the tablets stay up to date in the eyes
of US and European consumers but will also help them to win a greater market
share in countries that use character-based languages, such as China, Japan and
India.

At a 300 dots per inch resolution, text based on the Roman alphabet would look
smooth, crisp and clear to even those with the keenest of eyesight. However, a
greater pixel density is needed to achieve the same effect for text written in
Mandarin or Hindi.

If the report is to be believed, and BGR's Amazon sources have an excellent
track record, then expect the new devices to debut in September for the same
prices as the tablets they will be replacing.

