

BEST FOR VALUE

Toshiba Chromebook 2 CB30-B-104 £270

Squint and you might mistake this laptop for a MacBook Air: the off-white
plastic body looks remarkably like brushed aluminium. The Toshiba is a
handsomelooking Chromebook, the 1.35kg chassis is sturdy and Toshiba has
squeezed in all the essentials: the keyboard feels crisp and responsive and the
large, buttonless trackpad works well too. Inside is a 16GB solid-state drive
(SSD) and an Intel Celeron processor with a generous 4GB of Ram, so performance
is sprightly. There is a cheaper B-103 model (£190) but our choice would be this
version with a 1080p 13.3in screen: it delivers pin-sharp images with great
viewing angles and is on a par with those of PCs costing twice as much. The
laptop also supports the latest wi-fi and has a fast USB 3.0 port, an SD card
reader and seven hours of battery life. Verdict Good looks and performance, and
a gorgeous screen.

***** www.toshiba.co.uk

BEST FOR STUDENTS

Dell Chromebook 11 £214

Cast in dull grey and black, Dell's Chromebook 11 is no looker. But what it
lacks in allure it makes up in practicality: the tough, 1.2kg body is bolstered
with rubber edges, making it robust enough for a tough working life. The spec is
also up to scratch: speedy wi-fi capability; an SD card reader to supplement the
16GB of storage; and an easy-to-use keyboard, even if the buttonless trackpad is
a little fiddly. The Dell delivers 7½ hours of battery life, but the 11.6in
display is disappointing - images wash out when you tilt it back. Forgive that
flaw, though, and there's much to love.

Verdict Tough, practical and portable. The display is a letdown, though.

**** www.dell.co.uk

BEST FOR SHOWING OFF

Chromebook Pixel £799

Google's own version of a Chromebook is designed to show off just what the
system can do. None of the plastics used by rivals here: the 1.5kg Pixel is a
metal machine and is peppered with high-end hardware and nifty features. Tap the
lid twice and multicoloured LEDs glow to indicate the remaining battery power,
the superb keyboard has touch-activated backlighting and the glass trackpad is
the best on test. This standard model has a powerful Intel Core i5 processor,
8GB of Ram and a 32GB SSD; a £999 model ups the ante with a Core i7 chip, 16GB
of Ram and a 64GB SSD. Whichever you choose, the Pixel's 12.9in touchscreen is
the match of any on the market: it's bright, and colours are accurate. With 11
hours of battery life and the graphical grunt to show 4K on a compatible TV or
monitor, the Pixel is the ultimate in Chromebook oneupmanship. But the price is
a big turn-off. Verdict Stunning design and an amazing display - at a price.

*** www.store.google.com

BEST FOR CONNECTIONS

HP Chromebook 14 £249

While others in this line-up settle for a monochromatic look, HP's device wraps
an attention-seeking turquoise or green band around the base and lid, and the
keyboard is surrounded by metallic silver. The 14in display brings a weight
penalty - the HP is an unwieldy 1.7kg - but the spacious keyboard layout and big
trackpad are a pleasure to work on. The big difference, however, is the hardware
inside. HP has opted for Nvidia's Tegra K1 processor, and that's no bad thing:
battery life approaches the nine-hour mark, performance is nippy and, like the
Toshiba, it needs no fan, so it's silent. You can also use the HP outside wi-fi
networks: builtin mobile broadband via a pre-installed Sim is good for 250MB a
month for two years, with a 500MB add-on at £6 a month.

Verdict Built-in 3G makes for an always-connected laptop.

**** www.store.hp.com

BEST FOR BUSINESS

Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga 11e Chromebook £330

Lenovo's ThinkPads are popular with business people because of their bulletproof
build. The "Yoga" label refers to the machine's flexibility: the 11.6in
touchscreen folds back through 360 degrees, allowing the Lenovo to transform
from laptop to tablet, or you can make it into a tent shape for watching movies,
say. The quadcore processor powers past most of its rivals, the touchscreen
delivers cracking images and the keyboard is excellent. Unusually, the latest
wi-fi compatibility is accompanied by an old-school Ethernet socket.

Verdict A little pricier than most, but you get what you pay for.

*****lenovo.com/uk/en

