                              688 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             The New Zealand Herald



                            January 10, 2011 Monday



Tech Universe: Monday 10 January



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General



LENGTH: 272 words





I SEE ICE: The IceCube Neutrino Observatory at the South Pole is now complete.

The main IceCube detector contains 5,160 optical sensors on 86 strings embedded

2 Km below the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station. This frozen observatory is

looking for elusive dark matter. Through the ice, darkly. More at and video on .



BODY SEARCH: The latest Google Labs search shows you inside the human body, in

3D. Use Google Chrome or Firefox to view muscles, bones, organs, blood vessels

and nerves, all with labels. Zoom in and out and even mark locations. Bone up

before your next doctor's visit. More at .



FAST TRACK TO STUDY: At the Technische Universitat in Munich there's a very

quick way down to the ground floors: not a lift, not stairs, but a slide. Why

not add some practical fun to studying? More at .



30 PIXEL CAMERA: How do you X-ray lightning? Quickly, and at low res. US

scientists created a 680 Kg 30 pixel camera containing an x-ray detector that

captures 10 million images per second. It caught images of lightning travelling

at 1/6th the speed of light. The X-rays were all in the tip of the lightning

bolt. Yes, that's 30 pixels, not megapixels. Details at .



SICK BREATH: We all know about breathalysers used to test drivers for alcohol,

but now researchers have created a medical breath test. Polymer particles coated

with metal oxide are deposited on microhotplates. Heating burns off the polymer,

leaving a very porous and very sensitive metal-oxide film as the sensor.

Biomarkers in breath change the electrical properties of the sensor. "That'll be

a $100 fine and we recommend a visit to your doctor." More at .



- Miraz Jordan



LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2011 The New Zealand Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





