                              693 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 Business Line



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung phone recall portends Android turf war



LENGTH: 643  words



DATELINE: New York





New York, Oct. 12 -- Samsung Electronics's abandonment of the Galaxy Note 7 due

to safety concerns will likely touch off a turf war among Android smartphone

makers, analysts said, presenting them a rare opportunity to gain share but with

less room for archrival Apple Inc.





 Consumers tend to commit to their choice between Apple's iOS operating system

for smartphones and Google's Android, leaving Samsung's fellow Android

manufacturers such as LG Electronics and Alphabet Inc's Google in prime position

to strike. Both have newly released phones.

 A hardware problem is unlikely to change a customer's preference for software

systems, said analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research.

 "Samsung has the premium end of the smartphone market pretty much sewn up on

the Android side," he said. "This creates a slightly bigger opening."

 Apple sales may go up

 Research firm TrendForce revised up Apple's 2016 smartphone shipment forecasts

by 3 million to 208 million, while slashing Samsung's shipments estimates by 4

million. It also raised forecasts for China's Huawei Technologies, No.3

globally, by 4 million.

 "A substantial portion of consumers' demand will now go to the three major

Chinese brands - Huawei, Vivo and OPPO," it said in a note.

 Nevertheless, in San Francisco, prime Apple territory, some consumers were

switching to the home team, and Apple stock has risen on expectations of a

broader move.

 "Some people might have already been thinking about making the switch and now

here's their chance," said Robin Williams, a sales associate at Sprint store on

Van Ness St in San Francisco, describing some customers moving to Apple.

 Bob O'Donnell of TECHnalysis Research said Apple would benefit, "but I don't

think they are going to get all of it because Apple has a single product."

 Samsung announced the recall of 2.5 million Note 7s in early September

following numerous reports of the phones catching fire. On Tuesday, the South

Korean tech giant that has long dominated the premium market pulled the plug on

the $882 device in what could be one of the costliest product safety failures in

tech history.

 Advantage Google

 The news is a boon for Google, which last week announced a new line of Pixel

smartphones, plunging the company into the hardware market that it has

previously left to manufacturers such as Samsung. Samsung's retreat will prompt

consumers to take a closer look at Google's phones.

 "Samsung's meltdown is a big opportunity for Google to do far better with Pixel

than it has with its previous Nexus devices," said Richard Windsor, analyst at

Edison Investment Research.

 And despite the reputational damage, Samsung will remain competitive for

premium smartphone sales, analysts said. LG's V20 smartphone will not arrive in

the United States until the end of the month. Google's Pixel phones do not ship

until October 20, and will only be available in the United States at Verizon.

 "Google needs to be present at retail and with operators in volume in time to

meet this demand... it needs to accelerate the launch as much as it can," said

Windsor.

 For consumers seeking immediate replacements for the Galaxy Note 7, it may be

easiest to go with another Samsung phone, said O'Donnell at TECHnalysis. "You

can't write off Samsung," he said.

 And Apple may have room to shine, especially before new Android phones arrive.

 At a T-Mobile store in San Francisco, salesperson Omar Arreola said some

Samsung customers were so upset with the company that they switched to the

iPhone 7. "They trust the brand," he said.

 Brian Green, whose Note 7 caught fire on a Southwest Airlines flight last week,

also said he replaced his device with an iPhone. He raced to purchase the Note 7

after its release, but he said he is unlikely to be an early adopter again.

 "Next time I think I'll wait and get it once it's been around the block a few

times," he said.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





