

Google has launched two new flagship smartphones, the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P, to
demonstrate what its new version of Android "Marshmallow" can do.

The two new handsets are made by Google's long-term partner LG and smartphone
newcomer Huawei, and push the new features of Marshmallow, including fingerprint
scanners, the new Nexus camera and Google's improved personal assistant Now on
Tap.

Andrei Popescu, an engineering director within Google's Android team, said: "The
Nexus devices are our idea of embodiment of the perfect Android device - a
platform for application developers to show off the new features of Marshmallow
and show what Android can do."

The LG Nexus 5X features a 5.2in 1080p screen with a density of 423 pixels per
inch (ppi), which is protected by last year's Corning's Gorilla Glass 3. The
smartphone features the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 hexa-core processor as the
LG G4, 2GB of RAM and the choice of either 16 or 32GB of storage within a
relatively compact frame.

The 16GB Nexus 5X will cost £339 - £379 for 32GB of storage - and replaces the
now two-year-old Nexus 5. It will be available on 16 October in the UK.

The Huawei Nexus 6P is the Chinese manufacturer's first Google Nexus device,
having made Android smartphones for several years under both the Huawei and
Honor brands.

The Nexus 6P features a 5.7in 2K AMOLED screen with a pixel density of 518ppi,
rivalling that of Samsung's Note 5, which is protected by the latest Gorilla
Glass 4, as featured on Samsung's Galaxy S6 range of smartphones. The Huawei
smartphone features the Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 octo-core processor, 3GB of RAM
and a choice of 32, 64 or 128GB of storage in an aluminium unibody shell
available in silver, black and white.

The Nexus 6P will be available from 26 October costing £449 for 32GB of storage,
£499 for 64GB, and £579 for 128GB in the UK.

Both new smartphones share common Google features beyond the software. Both
smartphones feature quick charging and the new USB type-C connector, also used
in Google's Chromebook Pixel, the OnePlus 2 and Apple's new MacBook. They also
both feature Nexus Imprint fingerprint scanners on the back showing off
Marshmallow's now built-in support for fingerprint sensors.

Popescu said: "With baked in fingerprint support in Marshmallow it will allow
application developers to use the fingerprint sensor and not have to try and
support each individual manufacturer's implementation."

Google has also been able to make sure that something as important as a
fingerprint is stored on the trusted zone - a secure area of the system that
cannot simply be accessed by any app, as was the case for some implementations
such as HTC's One Max.

Google's new Sensor Hub motion co-processor and new Nexus Camera are also
available on both smartphones, with an 12.3-megapixel image sensor that promises
to capture more light and take photos faster with laser autofocus.

The new Nexus smartphones will mark the start of the rollout of Google's next
version of Android, which promises to extend battery life, provide more
intelligent assistance features and support more advanced hardware features such
as motion and voice-recognition co-processors.

Marshmallow will also continue Google's "Material Design" aesthetic - a
significant upgrade in design and uniformity across the operating system and
applications that better rivals Apple's iOS running on the company's iPhones.

Popescu said: "Marshmallow is our most polished version of Android to date.
We've really worked hard on making things like the animations super smooth."

Marshmallow will come to some of Google's previous Nexus devices, and to other
Android devices made by other manufacturers in the next year.

· Google Android 5 Lollipop review - faster, prettier and better battery life

