                              703 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday



Android One (second-generation) review



BYLINE: Komal Mohan



SECTION: REVIEWS



LENGTH: 1104 words





NEW DELHI: Google is giving Android One a reboot in the country, with Lava

launching the first of these smartphones. With Lava pixel V1, Google hopes to

ace the budget-smartphone category and reinvigorate its Android One initiative.



However, in the road to achieve this goal, it has to compete with the existing

rulers of the category - Lenovo K3 Note and Micromax Yu Yureka.



Does the Lava pixel V1 smartphone achieve what its predecessors failed at? We

try to find out in our review...



Design



In terms of design, the second-generation Android One smartphone has received a

major upgrade compared to its predecessors.



The front is dominated by a 5.5-inch screen with Asahi Dragon Trail Glass

protection and houses an 8MP camera along with the usual sensor array and

speaker grille. The phone does not offer any hardware capacitive keys for

navigation.



The metallic keys for volume control and power are located at the right edge and

offer good tactile feedback. The 3.5mm headset and micro-USB port jack sit at

the top.



The removable back comes with a metallic finish and houses the Lava logo in the

middle, there's some Android One branding at the bottom and loudspeaker grille

is placed just below it. The back also features the 13MP rear camera along with

LED flash light.



Removing the cover reveals the two micro-sim slots (one mini-sim and the other

micro-sim), a microSD card slot and a removable battery.



The phone, although made of plastic, gives a sturdy and durable feel perhaps

because of the metallic frame. However due to the large screen size, it becomes

difficult to handle it with one hand.



Display



The second-generation Android One smartphone features a 5.5-inch HD (720x1280p)

display.



Although the phone has received an upgrade from the FWVGA(480x854p)IPS display

that was seen in the Android One smartphones, it is still not good enough in

today's competitive budget smartphone market.



Many new phones, such as Yu Yureka Plus and Lenevo K3 Note, are now offering a

full-HD display in this price range making this one of the major limitations of

the phone.



The display offers good viewing angles, however, the colour temperature is on

the warmer side and the screen has a pinkish tinge to it. Text and images looked

decent enough but not as sharp as how these look on full-HD displays.



Though the screen is pretty reflective and slightly prone to smudging, the

smartphone manages to deliver decent sunlight legibility at full brightness.



Software



The Lava pixel V1 smartphone comes with stock version of Android Lollipop 5.1.

Just like the previous Android One phones, Google will directly seed software

updates to the phone, which also implies that it will be one of the first

devices to receive a software update when Google turns on the switch.



The software comes with two pre-loaded apps -- Flipkart and Myntra -- that

cannot be uninstalled.



The phone comes with all Google apps. We'd specially like to mention the Google

Photos app here that directly integrates your phone's pictures to your Google

account.



Hardware & performance



In terms of hardware, Lava pixel V1 smartphone packs a 1.3GHz quad-core Mediatek

MT6582 processor backed by 2GB RAM. This chipset is pretty old as it was

launched in 2013. This is a fallout for the Android One smartphone as

competitors such as Lenovo and Xiaomi offer latest chipsets.



Another important feature lacking in this phone is 4G connectivity, which is

available in all major budget smartphones today. As telecom operators are now

moving towards rolling out 4G for their users, the absence of 4G might be a

deal-breaker for some.



The phone offers 32GB of internal storage, of which over 25GB is available to

users. For additional storage, users can install microSD cards of up to 32GB

capacity.



Coming to the performance, we did not notice any major lag while navigating

through the phone's menu, launching apps and switching between them.



The phone offers decent gaming performance. We were able to play games like

Subway Minion Rush and Flow Free without encountering frame drops or freezes or

major heating issues.



The Lava pixel V1 smartphone scored 19,033 in Antutu, 5,321 in Quadrant and 53.8

in Nenamark 2 benchmark tests. We don't endorse benchmark tests and at times

real world performance is very different from benchmark scores.



It offers Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and GPS connectivity options.



The second-generation Android One smartphone offers good call quality and signal

reception and we did not encounter problems while making calls even in areas

where cell signal is relatively weaker. It also offers FM Radio. The phone was

able to lock to GPS without any hiccups.



The sound output through the phone's speaker outlet offered decent sound

quality. We were able to play most popular video and audio file formats on the

phone.



The phone is backed by a 2,600mAh battery and will last you a complete day.



You'll be able to make about 2-3 hours of phone calls, play some casual games

and browse the web in this time period. The phone can play video continuously

for 3-4 hours. Your mileage may vary with a different usage pattern.



Camera



The second-generation Android One smartphone sports an improved 13MP BSI rear

camera (software enhanced 8MP sensor) with f2.0 aperture, LED flash and an 8MP

BSI front-facing camera (software enhanced 5MP sensor) for selfies.



The phone's camera app is pretty basic with no granular settings for camera

attributes.



Most photos we took using the rear camera of the smartphone under direct

sunlight came out pretty well with decent level of detail and colour

reproduction. The camera can also record good quality 1080p videos.



Low-light and indoor images turned out pretty good but were a little noisy and

smudged.



The front camera also shoots good quality selfies and is capable of recording

720p videos which were of decent quality.



Verdict



With Lava pixel V1, Google has attempted to revolutionize the budget smartphone

market again but has not been able to do so.



The phone does offer good design, excellent touch response, smooth performance

and decent camera, however at the same time lacks full-HD screen, 4G

connectivity and the latest processor - features that are already available in

various phones in this budget segment. However, users who value stock Android

and priority updates may find this one to be a good option.



At Rs 11,350 the smartphone fails to compete with Lenovo K3 Note, which is

available at Rs 10,000 and offers better features including display, processor

and camera. YU Yureka Plus also comes with better specifications at a lower

price.



Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>



Like TOI Tech on Facebook >>>



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





