

The Daydream View headset has a stretchy, breathable fabric that encourages
longer viewing.

YouTube form, with has VR developed , 360 and a 2- VR D content app built
available especially . for the plat-

NEW YORK Virtual reality has a new entry-level competitor: a fabric-covered
headset from Google that will compete with the mid-market $99 Samsung VR.

Daydream View is a $79 mobile virtual-reality headset - with, notably, a VR
motion controller that is normally in the domain of more expensive VR gear -
that will be compatible with Google's just-announced Pixel smartphones and
eventually other Daydream-certified handsets. Google first announced its
Daydream VR platform at its I/O conference last May.

Preorders for Daydream View start later this month, with the product slated to
ship in early November. It will be available in slate gray, crimson or snow
colors.

Daydream promises to go well beyond Google Cardboard, the company's early entry
into VR, and comes at a time of heavy activity in the still-developing alternate
reality universe. Wednesday, Facebook-owned Oculus kicks off its Connect
developer event in San Jose. Sony is poised to bring out its VR offering,
PlayStation VR.

As a mobile offering, think of Daydream View more as a direct competitor of
Samsung Gear VR (which is powered by Oculus), a similar-looking headset that
works with specific high-end Samsung phones. In contrast, PlayStation VR, which
plugs into a PlayStation video game console, Oculus Rift and the HTC Vive system
all cost hundreds more and are tethered by cables to powerful computers.

The View headset is roughly a third lighter than Gear VR, Google says, and
features a stretchy, breathable fabric that is supposed to provide a comfortable
fit, which could encourage longer viewing.

View uses an alignment system of conductive knobs that make contact with the
front of the phone screen to determine which pixels are aligned with which
knobs, which the software then self-corrects as needed, providing, Google
claims, a better optic experience. The headset and phone get in sync wirelessly.

The real difference in this segment of the market is the portable palm-sized
View controller, which allows you to swipe and click through content that you're
watching. The controller provides 3 degrees of freedom and is flexible enough to
be used by apps and games that let you draw, paint or swing it like a baseball
bat or golf club.

While Google is taking ownership of this initial Daydream View headset, it also
is opening up the Daydream specs to other Android hardware partners to modify
and add elements to Daydream and presumably to commercialize their own VR
offering as they see fit.

So what exactly will you be able to watch on Daydream? For starters, YouTube has
developed a VR app built especially for the platform, with VR, 360 and
2D-content available. Through Google Street View, you'll be able to watch 150
virtual tours of such places as the Taj Mahal or Great Barrier Reef. You'll also
be able to take in purchased or rented flicks through the Google Play Store-the
movies will be in 2D but you'll be able to watch in an immersive big-screen-type
VR environment.

Third-party app contributions will come to Daydream from Electronic Arts, Hulu,
Netflix, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and other content creators.

