                              708 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                Nottingham Post



                            August 20, 2016 Saturday



Bird's-eye view tracks changes on reserve



SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 28-29



LENGTH: 340  words





BESIDES the people arriving back at East Midlands Airport from their summer

holidays, and of course our resident birds, few get to see Attenborough Nature

Reserve from the air. That is however, until we recently commissioned a high

resolution aerial photographic survey of the site.



Although satellite imagery such as Google Earth has been freely available for a

number of years, the maps are often outdated and do not include some of our

recent habitat changes - for instance the current Google Earth map of

Attenborough is around eight years old. The resolution is also quite low and

specific details are difficult to pick out - particularly around the edges of

different habitats.



In order to get better images that will assist with the conservation management

of the Reserve, our aerial photographs were taken using a computer controlled

light aircraft which took over 450 high-res pictures of the site. It flew at a

height of 120m, along a pre-determined linear path, in all covering 627

hectares. The photos were later stitched together using over 5,500 point matches

per image to create one single aerial map. Each pixel on the map represents an

8cm area on the ground. To put that in to perspective, the older Google Earth

images have a resolution of 15 metres per pixel. Even the latest satellite

imagery only has a resolution of 30cm per pixel.



The high resolution images will enable us to better map habitat change over the

coming years, and compare the changes over recent years using existing satellite

imagery. It will also enable us to accurately map the existing habitats,

highlight shallow water areas and monitor scrub and woodland encroachment in our

wild flower meadows over a period of time. Subject to funding, it is hoped that

we can repeat the survey every five-10 years.



If you want to learn more about the management of Attenborough Nature Reserve,

both hi-tech and traditional, why not come along to our Habitat Management Walk

as part of our 50th anniversary Weekend of Wildlife? It will run between 2pm and

4pm today.



LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: An aerial view of Attenborough Nature Reserve.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                           Copyright 2016 Localworld

                              All Rights Reserved





