                              712 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                          October 31, 2012, Wednesday



Torvalds on laptops: Make higher-def resolution standard;

Linux czar praises high portable display resolutions, slams misconceptions



BYLINE: Jon Gold



LENGTH: 268 words





The outspoken creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds, called for laptop makers to

follow the tablet world's lead in using thehighest-resolution displays possible

on mobile devices, in a post on Google Plus.



MORE NEXUS 10: First Look: Google's Nexus 10 tablet MORE LINUS: Does OpenStack

need a Linus Torvalds?



"So with even a $399 tablet [the Samsung/Google Nexus 10] doing 2560x1600 pixel

displays, can we please just make that the new standard laptop resolution? Even

at 11"? Please. Stop with the 'retina' crap, just call it 'reasonable

resolution'. The fact that laptops stagnated ten years ago (and even regressed,

in many cases) at around half that in both directions is just sad," he wrote.



Torvalds also hit out at "less-than-gifted tech pundits" who assert that

high-resolution displays mean smaller, more difficult-to-read font sizes.



"And the next technology journalist that asks you whether you want fonts that

small, I'll just hunt down and give an atomic wedgie. I want pixels for

high-quality fonts, and yes, I want my fonts small, but 'high resolution' really

doesn't equate 'small fonts,'" he added, noting also that high-res fonts help

those with poor eyesight read more easily.



Particularly given the references to retina displays, Torvalds' post is easy to

interpret, in part, as a dig at Apple. The Nexus 10 to which Torvalds referred

actually outstrips the latest retina display iPad in terms of pixels-per-inch,

and the new iPad mini has a comparatively low display resolution of 1024x768, in

order to preserve app compatibility.



Email Jon Gold at jgold@nww.com and follow him on Twitter at @NWWJonGold.









LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2012 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





