                              715 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

                               Bangalore Edition



Lava Pixel V1



BYLINE: KARAN BAJAJ



SECTION: GADGETS & YOU



LENGTH: 480 words





Android One smartphones launched last year proved to be a good budget option for

users who wanted a pure Android experience and the latest OS updates. Google had

announced that they will be working with more partners for the next set of

devices in Android One.Lava is one of the partners in the program -they have

launched the first dual SIM phablet in Android One series, Lava Pixel V1.



Build quality of the phone is good -it almost feels like a unibody device. The

back panel is removable and while it has a metallic finish, it is made of

plastic. On the right side are the power and volume keys that are placed

ergonomically for ease of access.



If you are impressed with how slim the bezels of the display are from pictures,

you should know this that the actual phone screen is not like this. There is a

thick black border surrounding the display , clearly visible when the display is

turned on -trying to impress with incorrectly rendered photos just seems

deceitful on Lava's part. In addition, the HD resolution (1280 x 720 pixels) on

the 5.5-inch display lacks sharpness. We have seen other devices with 5.5-inch

HD displays (Yureka, Redmi Note, Honor 4x) that are pin-sharp, but in

comparison, the Pixel V1's display is a letdown in overall quality .



Specifications include a 1.3Ghz quad core Mediatek processor, 2GB RAM, 32GB

storage (expandable) and a 2,650mAh battery . Since the



phone belongs to Android One range, it comes with a stock Android user

interface. However, much to our surprise, the performance from the phone is

disappointing. We saw random sluggishness during navigation and switching

between apps took a few seconds.While the phone managed to play a full HD video

(using MX player), there were random frame drops.Even games such as Temple Run 2

and Subway Surfers suffered from the same issue. Lack of 4G connectivity is also

a downside. Battery life was the good part -the phone regularly lasted over a

day with constant data connectivity and mix usage including calls, multimedia, &

social networking. The camera has terrible shutter lag: the phone has to be held

steady for 2 to 3 extra seconds while capturing an image.If you are taking a

photo of a moving object (children, birds, animals) you are sure to miss out on

your shot due to the delay . Image quality is above average -there is visible

noise but its good enough to view onscreen or share on social networks. Front

camera also suffers from capture delay and while the selfies capture soft

details, they are also good enough for sharing.



Lava Pixel V1 is a Google certified Android One smartphone and while you get

better hardware specifications compared to last year's Android One devices,

overall the pixel V1 fails to impress. We think that you can do better (and

spend less) by getting the YU Yureka Plus or Lenovo K3 Note with full HD display

, 4G connectivity and much better performance.



LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





