

GOOGLE first introduced smartphones of its own design nearly seven years ago,
and hardly anyone has bought one. On Tuesday, it unveiled a revamped lineup,
branded with Google's Pixel name. The company's Android software already runs
the vast majority of smartphones sold in the world, but Google wants to hedge
its bets by having control over every feature and function in a selection of
Android phones.

Google's aims only can pan out if it sells a large number of Pixel phones -
which it won't. And its strategic goal isn't a good enough reason for Google
-branded smartphones to exist at all.

So why do it? Below I outline three potential benefits from Google's own line of
smartphones, and the drawbacks of each: 1) Ensure the use of Google apps:
Android powers about 88pc of the smartphones sold globally, according to data,
but Google is losing control of the sprawl of manufacturers such as Samsung,
Huawei and Oppo. In China and India, local companies sell smartphones with the
Android operating system but with local versions of app stores in place of
Google Play. In China, people carrying Android smartphones may never use Google
search, YouTube, or Google Maps at all - undermining Google's strategy behind
Android.

That's a big risk. If the company's internet options aren't front and centre on
people's phones, they may use Google less, and spend more time on Facebook,
WhatsApp and WeChat. That in turn crimps Google's opportunities to turn consumer
attention into ad sales. A home-grown line of phones has the benefit of ensuring
Google's apps have prominent placement.

But the challenges remain unless Google can sell at least tens of millions of
phones - and it can't because of inherent business conflicts. If Pixels sell in
huge numbers, Google risks annoying essential partners - the companies like
Samsung that make Android phones, plus the legions of mobile phone carriers
likewise needed to push Android.

2) Showcase the best of Android and spur hardware innovation: There is a useful
analogy here between Google and Microsoft. The latter company for decades
designed the operating software for personal computers, and left the design and
selling of PC hardware to partners such as Dell.

That arrangement changed in 2012 when Microsoft started selling its own line of
Surface computers. Microsoft in part was trying to show some fresh ideas for PC
designs, which had grown a bit dull and rote. It was a strategy I didn't
understand at the time, but it has worked. Microsoft and its PC partners now
make some clever personal computers and tablets that are being copied by others
- including Apple.

But unlike the PC business, companies that specialise in smartphones are still
churning out new ideas. Samsung, Huawei and Xiaomi don't need Google to show
them how to do it.

That's on the hardware side. In software, when Google makes its own smartphones
it can ensure they run the best of Android software. Too many Android
smartphones are clogged with clunky software made by the smartphone maker.

Google's own devices will be tidier and easier to use. And with Google's own
phones, the company also can spur hardware makers and suppliers to build more of
the cutting-edge features Google has designed for Android, such as virtual
reality functions and special processors to manage crisp digital photos.

That's a worthy goal. So worthy that Google agreed to buy Motorola Mobility five
years ago, also with the aim of expanding the boundaries of Android smartphones.

The market has changed, but it remains unclear whether Google can convince
hardware partners to follow its lead in smartphone technology.

3) Sell people on the merits of Google's wireless phone service: We deserve new
ideas in mobile phone service, and Google's 18-month-old, low-cost Project Fi
wireless phone technology is among the best. Project Fi is only available on
Google's own line of smartphones.

But Google hasn't pushed its wireless service very hard, and likely still won't,
again because of potential business clashes. Google can't afford to anger the
traditional mobile phone companies like Vodafone that pitch Android smartphones.

Awareness of Project Fi, then, likely won't spread beyond a niche of tech nerds.

To be clear, making smartphones isn't a highrisk gamble for Google. The
company's $70bn annual advertising revenue - a growing share of which is
generated from smartphones - provides a big cushion to absorb any failures.

But Google's strength is a weakness when it comes to its self-designed devices.
Its business empire makes Google simply too conflicted to make good on the
promise of its smartphones. (Bloomberg View)

Unlike the PC  ;  ;  business, companies  ;  ;  that specialise in  ;  ;
smartphones are  ;  ;  still churning out  ;  ;  new ideas. Samsung,  ;  ;
Huawei and Xiaomi  ;  ;  don't need Google  ;  ;  to show them  ;  ;  how to do
it  ;

