

[THE INVESTOR] Internet giant Google has unveiled a range of new hardware and
software products, including a smartphone, a smart speaker and a virtual reality
headset -- an apparent move to flex its muscles in the hardware sector.

The newly unveiled products, many of which will be in direct competition with
traditional hardware behemoths including Samsung Electronics and Apple, will
likely pose a great risk to the conventional market players and allow Google to
have digital devices closely connected with users -- a dream long chased by many
electronics firms, especially Samsung.

Having rolled out electronic products, including TV and fridges, fitted with
network sensors, Samsung has long been hoping to pry open the door to the truly
connected world.

Google's virtual home assistant Google Home (left) and its Pixel smartphone.
Google

Lacking advanced software solutions that enable the flawless use of connected
devices, however, Samsung has fallen short of achieving its dream so far.

Google's virtual assistant software controlled by human voices --Assistant -- is
expected to play an integral role in helping the internet giant connect devices
and users in a seamless manner.

The artificial intelligence-powered Assistant, which will be integrated into its
hardware products such as virtual home assistant Google Home and Pixel
smartphone, will serve as a brain for basically all its devices and services.

Unlike many of its peers including Apple's Siri and Microsoft's Cortana, which
present answers to requested queries, the Google software solution can better
process the natural language than its rivals and offers search results in
one-sentence answers in a more natural way. Users will be able to web search,
schedule events, set alarms and adjust hardware settings with their voice via
Assistant-embedded Google Home.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai emphasized in his keynote speech at the firm's launch
event in San Francisco on Oct. 4 that the company's ultimate goal is to make
services and products personal to users.

"When I look ahead at where computing is headed, it's clear to me that we're
moving from a mobile-first to an AI-first world," Pichai said.

"Our goal is to build a personal Google for each and every user. Just as we
built a Google for everyone, we want to build each user his or her own Google."

He forecast that the Assistant solution would one day be able to speak to users
with different voices and multiple personalities and even capture user emotions.

In a bid to expand its presence, Google has announced that it would allow third
party developers to have Google Assistant installed on their devices and
services, which will let users see the increasing number of connected devices
down the road.

"As global tech firms Amazon, Microsoft, and Apple are all trying to nurture
their own AI-powered virtual assistant, hardware-oriented firms like Samsung may
feel the pressure not to get left behind in the race for connected technology,"
an industry source said.

Samsung launched its own voice command mobile application S Voice in 2012, but
the software is barely utilized by Samsung smartphone users due to its poor user
interface and natural language recognition.

By Kim Young-won (

