                              721 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                   Gulf Times



                             August 28, 2016 Sunday



Sharp launches latest 4K UHD television



LENGTH: 289  words





local



Sharp has launched its latest flagship 4K UHD TV, which has been integrated with

Android technology.

With the Aquos 4K UHD powered by Android TV, entertainment available on a

smartphone can now be enjoyed on television, providing for a more comfortable

watching experience - on the large screen - with the whole family, according to

a press statement.





Sharp products are represented by Al Muftah Trading & Contracting Co in Qatar.

The TV is equipped with 4K technology with a pixel resolution of 3,840x2,160, or

four times the pixel resolution of a full High-Definition TV, the colour

reproduction is richer and the 4K Master Engine Pro, a resolution converter from

Sharp, helps produce more vivid images, the statement notes.

With its Smart Remote, the dream of "talking" to a television will come true.

Users just need to press the Microphone button on the Smart Remote, and the TV

will follow the instructions given, such as searching information on Google and

videos or movies on YouTube, finding favourite applications on Google Play and

so on. Besides, Google Voice Search is supported by a significant number of

languages with a high degree of accuracy.

The Recommendation feature will automatically appear on the home screen and

display recommended video, music, games and other entertainment that is

personalised based on a user's viewing history. In addition, the TV will satisfy

gamers as a total of four controllers can be connected to it, allowing users to

play interactive games on a large screen.

"The product is targeting tech-savvy, upper middle-class families in their

30-40s. Our strategy is to create products with features that are favourable for

this group, but with a logical price for them," the statement added.



LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 183





                      Copyright 2016 Gulf Times Newspaper

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





