

TECH SPECSPrice: $948

Operating system: Google Android 4.0

Processor: Dual-core 1.7GHz

Display: 4.3-inch, 540 x 960 pixels

Camera: 8 megapixels

Battery: 1,650mAh

RATING

Features:4

Design:4

Performance:4

Value for money:3

Battery life:3

Overall:4

If I had to say what S stands for in the HTC One S, the answer is pretty simple:
slim.

Compared to its HTC One X and HTC One V siblings, the One S, with its 7.8mm
profile, is a svelte beauty.

Weight-wise, I have no complaints about its 119.5g unibody chassis, made with
high-quality aluminium. The One S is a natural fit in my hands, which can be
attributed to its curved borders.

The same material is used for the power and volume buttons, which are thin
strips at the top and right of the One S respectively. The buttons are easy to
locate with their slight elevation.

Physical buttons aside, the three standard touch-sensitive buttons - back, home
and recent apps - are found below the 4.3-inch display.

HTC took the liberty to change the way you close apps with this Google Android
4.0 feature.

Instead of swiping the apps' thumbnail to the side, an upward swipe will close
the app. While Sense 4.0 is the predominant user interface on the One S, you
will see some hints of Google's Ice Cream Sandwich flavoured operating system on
it, such as Face Unlock, which captures an image of your face and uses it to
lock the phone.

Its imaging performance gets the same thumbs up that was given to its larger One
X sibling.

Photos taken in adequate- and low-light environments came out decent with
minimal noise. Detail levels are above average. And it helps that the One S can
capture up to 99 images with its burst shot mode, with fast autofocusing and
minimal lag between pressing the shutter and having the image captured.

Audio enhancement is provided through Beats Audio, which is now available not
just for the music player. While I was listening to local radio stations with
the TuneIn Internet radio app, I found the bass enhancement too strong for my
liking. Unlike the One X with its generous 4.7-inch display, the One S is
downsized to a 4.3-inch display with a lower screen resolution of 540 x 960
pixels. Though its pixel density sits at approximately 256 pixels per inch,
videos and images are still sharp.

A dual-core 1.7GHz processor is the brains behind the whole operation.

A 720p test video running on the One S had no visible lags for fast action
scenes. The same video was looped repeatedly and pushed its 1,650mAh battery to
the limit for approximately six hours.

Outside of the intensive battery test, the One S survived a barrage of e-mails,
Web-surfing, video playback and voice calls for nearly 20 hours.

The HTC One S has a good balance of performance and design. But without an
option to purchase it without the bundled Beats Audio headset, its steep price
tag might deter interested parties.</p>     teinhee@sph.com.sg

