                              726 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          International New York Times



                            January 17, 2014 Friday



Tracking tool lets Facebook challenge Google for smaller advertisers



BYLINE: EILENE ZIMMERMAN



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 18



LENGTH: 955 words



ABSTRACT



While Facebook has more than 25 million small businesses active on its site,

only a million or so advertise there.



FULL TEXT



Last June, Facebook released a tracking pixel, a snippet of code that allows

advertisers to track customers who come to their websites from Facebook ads. For

Amy Norman, the co-chief executive officer of Little Passports, the pixel was a

game-changer.



Ms. Norman, whose San Francisco company sends children a monthly package to

introduce them to geography and history, began testing ads on Facebook to see

which ones brought in more customers. In June, Little Passports spent about

$30,000 on Facebook ads and the company's revenue for the month was about

$130,000. By the end of the year, the company's monthly advertising spending on

Facebook had grown to as much as $150,000 and its revenue for December was

$700,000.



Ms. Norman conceded that $150,000 was a huge amount of money to spend on

advertising in a month for a company with annual revenue of just under $2

million, but she said ''we also tripled our customer base in six months.''



The tracking pixel is one of several changes that Facebook has made to its

advertising tools in recent months. Advertisers can now specify objectives like

increasing traffic to a website, encouraging more ''likes'' or converting more

sales. They can choose whether their ads appear in Facebook's ''news feed'' or

in a column on the far right of its pages. And they can target demographics they

want to reach more precisely.



Facebook acknowledges it made the changes, at least in part, because while it

has more than 25 million small businesses active on its site, only a million or

so advertise there. By contrast, Google's AdWords program, which shows users ads

related to specific searches they have entered, has become a small-business

staple - although some small businesses say they have been priced out of the

market.



Jeff Gibbard, the president of True Voice Media, an agency in Philadelphia that

devises social media strategies for small and midsize businesses, said Facebook

was ''clearly trying to position this as an alternative to Google AdWords, but

the difference is that activity on Facebook is very passive.''



''You're being shown ads based on things you put in your profile potentially

years ago,'' he said. ''You aren't actively looking for a product or service.''



Josh Brown, who owns Far North Kennel in Anchorage with his wife, Theresa

Sheldon, focuses on likes, and Far North now has more than 64,000. ''Most of my

likes are from women that love dogs,'' said Mr. Brown, whose kennel breeds

German shepherd puppies and had revenue of close to $100,000 in 2013. ''When

their friends start thinking about getting a dog, these women say, 'Have you

seen this Facebook page?' That's what drives sales.''



Facebook users spend most of their time in the site's news feed. That is where

you will find promoted posts, ads that look like other posts, but are labeled

''sponsored.'' Mr. Gibbard of True Voice Media said that people generally

recognized that these posts were ads, but clicked on them anyway. ''They are in

the same stream as other content, so the ads feel more native,'' he said.



The ads that run on the right side of a Facebook page are more recognizable as

paid advertisements. Their click-through rates are generally lower than those

for ads in the news feed, and they are not even shown to mobile users. Mr.

Gibbard calls them ''completely useless.''



But some businesses say the ads can be effective. Paola Bottero, the chef and

owner of Paola's, an Italian restaurant in New York with annual revenue of more

than $5 million, used right-column ads to increase her lunch business. Ms.

Bottero created ads with photos of a summer salad and the outdoor terrace dining

area, and text like ''Paola's Patio now open!'' She targeted people over 35

living in 10 postal codes around Paola's.



Over four weeks, Ms. Bottero spent just $250 to run the ads in the right column

of the targeted Facebook pages, according to Wendy Weinstein Karp of W2K

Marketing Consulting in Larchmont, N.Y., which handles marketing for Paola's.

Ms. Karp said the ads reached more than 12,000 people, with 482 visiting the

restaurant's Facebook page through the link. ''That's a 3.966 percent

click-through rate,'' she said. ''In digital advertising, the average is closer

to 1 percent.''



For a physical business like a restaurant, it can be difficult to determine how

many Facebook visitors actually become customers. But Ms. Bottero said she could

tell when the restaurant, which has 80 seats, was busier than usual. Right after

the campaign, she said, she saw an increase in lunch customers, and many said

they had seen the ad on Facebook.



Business owners who create ads on Facebook are asked to choose an audience for

their ads, based on characteristics like gender, interests, location,

relationship status, education and even whether the user owns an Android device

or is expecting a child. Ms. Norman, who founded Little Passports along with

Stella Ma, uses a new Facebook tool, Custom Audiences, to try to reach mothers

who, for example, have a specific educational background or read particular

magazines.



Some business owners use targeting to zero in on their markets. When Tiago

Forte's San Francisco start-up, GSD.LAB, began offering a work-flow design and

productivity class on Skillshare in October, he guessed that his market would be

young men interested in maximizing their productivity. He ran 16 different ads

in Facebook's news feed over 24 hours, spending a total of $174 for the

campaigns - and found that women were twice as likely to click on his ads as

men.



''It turns out my market,'' he said, ''is middle-aged women looking for

work/life balance.''



LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 International Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





