

Lenovo becomes the first manufacturer worldwide to bring Tango technology to a
consumer product. Google's technology that allows devices to understand spatial
information is an exclusive feature in the PHAB2 Pro smartphone launched at the
Lenovo Tech World 2016. Based on the Time-of-Flight principle, the REAL3 image
sensor chip from Infineon Technologies AG equips the smartphone with a
3-dimensional perception of the surroundings in real-time. Infineon provides the
only image sensor chip worldwide meeting Google's specifications.

"Through the Tango-enabled PHAB2 Pro, we are opening a completely new era in
mobile applications," said Hua Zhang, Vice President, Lenovo Android/Chrome
Computing Business Group. "The REAL3 image sensor chip from Infineon is a key
component for Lenovo's PHAB2 Pro." Its users have instant access to augmented
reality, benefiting from the phone's motion tracking feature which responds to
physical movements, depth perception that measures the distance between objects
and area learning capability which enables the device to recall the data
recorded from previously visited locations.

Augmented Reality for everyone is no longer a dream

"3D machine vision will drive multiple new applications both in the consumer and
the automotive world," said Jochen Hanebeck, President of the Automotive
division at Infineon. "The depth perception and motion tracking today
implemented in Tango devices can also be applied to driver monitoring or gesture
detection inside the car."

The sensor chip was developed at the Infineon competence centre in Graz,
Austria, combining analog and digital signal processing with high data rates. It
integrates the pixel array, the control circuitry, ADCs and the digital
high-speed interface on a single chip. The development was made in co-operation
with pmd technologies.

This measuring principle involves infrared light. For each of its pixels, the 3D
image sensor chip measures the time the light takes to travel from the camera to
the object and back again. Each pixel detects the brightness value of the
objects. Compared to other technologies, the ToF technology from pmd
technologies offers the best spatial resolution and highest robustness both
mechanically and concerning background light. Yet, it has the lowest current
consumption and size. Thus, the camera is currently the smallest 3D-camera
worldwide.

Followers of Google's developer conference, Google I/O, just recently witnessed
Infineon's involvement in Project Soli: Google and Infineon collaborated on a
sensor chip facilitating gesture recognition. The Project Soli works with 60 GHz
radio microwaves, whereas Tango is based on sending and receiving infra-red
light signals. Thus, it stands apart from common 3D imaging methods. These are
either based on a stereo camera requiring a minimum distance for triangulation
and higher computing efforts. Alternatively, 3D images could so far be created
with structured light with a lower object resolution, involving a higher bill of
materials.

