                              729 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                            Business World (Digest)



                          September 30, 2015 Wednesday



Google unveils latest Nexus phones;

Google unveils ...



LENGTH: 398 words







HIGHLIGHT: Google Inc unveiled its new Nexus phones on Tuesday in its latest

attempt to take a bite out of Apple's dominant share of the smartphone market.





Google Inc unveiled its new Nexus phones on Tuesday in its latest attempt to

take a bite out of Apple's dominant share of the smartphone market.



The launch of the phones, the Nexus 6P and the Nexus 5X, comes a day after Apple

Inc reported record first-weekend sales of its new iPhones.



The Nexus 5X 16 GB model will be priced at dollar 379, while the Nexus 6P 32 GB

will cost dollar 499, Google said at an event live-streamed on YouTube.



Apple's 6s and 6s Plus start at dollar 199 and dollar 299, respectively, with a

two-year service-provider contract. Nexus devices, which typically do not sell

as much as iPhones or iPads, are a way for the tech giant to showcase its latest

advancements in mobile hardware and software. Google also unveiled a tablet

built entirely by the company based on its Android operating system. The latest

version of Android, dubbed Marshmallow, will be available to existing Nexus

customers from next week. The Android mobile platform is a key element in

Google's strategy to maintain revenue from online advertising as people switch

from Web browser searches to smartphone apps. The Nexus 5X is made by South

Korea's LG Electronics Inc and the Nexus 6P by China's Huawei Technologies Co

Ltd. Both phones feature Google's new fingerprint sensor, Nexus Imprint, which

is located on the back. The fingerprint sensors will help quickly authorize

purchases made through Android Pay, the one-touch payment app on Android devices

that competes with Apple Pay. The phones are available for pre-order on the

Google Store from a number of countries including the United States, the United

Kingdom, Ireland and Japan. The Pixel C tablet will cost dollar 499 for the 32

GB model and can be bought with a detachable keyboard, which will cost dollar

149. The tablet will be available in time for the holiday season on the Google

Store. The Pixel tablet puts Google in the sights of its biggest competitors,

Apple's iPad Pro and Microsoft Corp's Surface tablets, which also have optional

keyboards. Google also unveiled a redesigned version of its Chromecast device

for streaming Web content to TVs and introduced Chromecast Audio, which plugs

into speakers to stream audio over Wi-Fi. Chromecast Audio, priced at dollar 35,

works with apps including Spotify, Pandora and Google Play Music. Chromecast

competes with the Apple TV set-top box. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





