                              734 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



New Amazon Kindles Respond To Mayday; Provide Help Via Live Video; E-commerce

leader willing to spend on user support in battle vs. Apple, others



BYLINE: DOUG TSURUOKA



SECTION: INTERNET & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A04



LENGTH: 680 words





Amazon.com geared up for the holidays, unveiling new tablets aimed at rivals

Apple, Google and Samsung and a secret weapon in the form of a live video chat

user-support service.



The e-commerce leader late Tuesday announced its updated Kindle Fire tablet

line, adding three third-generation devices in a challenge to Apple's iPad mini,

Google's Nexus 7 and Samsung's Galaxy tablets. The company made the

announcements via press release, forgoing the media events that it's held for

past Kindle Fire launches.



The Amazon releases were led by two new high-definition-screen tablets: the

Kindle Fire HDX with a 7-inch screen and one with an 8.9-inch screen.



Both devices boast a novel "Mayday Button" that a user presses to connect to an

Amazon tech support staffer via live video chat. The helper can teach users how

to operate the tablet, answer questions and can run the device remotely if

necessary. The user can see the Amazon staff member, but the employee can't see

the user.



"I love it, conceptually. Video chat is long, long overdue and hopefully it will

help with customer satisfaction for the Kindle," Forrester Research e-commerce

analyst Sucharita Mulpuru-Kodali told IBD.



Prices start at $229 for the smaller Kindle Fire HDX and $379 for the larger

device. Apple's 16 gigabyte Wi-Fi iPad mini, with a 7.9-inch display, starts at

$329 and the 16 GB Wi-Fi iPad with 9.7-inch display starts at $499.



Amazon's latest high-def tablets have what the company calls "exceptional" pixel

density, 323 pixels per inch for the 7-inch HDX and 339 pixels per inch for the

other. Both tablets run on a third-generation "Mojito" Fire OS, which is

Amazon's version of Google's open-source Android operating system.



The new HDXs have other improvements over prior Fire HDs, including the ability

to download Amazon Prime instant videos and TV programs directly to the device,

as well as stream content to TV sets. The improved "X-Ray" feature lets users

look up reference details about the content they're viewing.



Lower Cost For Regular Fire HD



Besides the two HDX devices, Amazon rolled out an improved version of its

regular Kindle Fire HD priced at $139, down from $199 for the prior version.



Amazon aims to make live video help on its HDX tablets available 24/7, with a

response time of 15 seconds max. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos reportedly said at a

briefing with reporters late Tuesday in Seattle that the company is training

"thousands" of employees for its Mayday service and will hire more if necessary.

Bezos said Mayday would be ready by Christmas.



It's not clear how Mayday's costs will affect Amazon. The company already

subsidizes its Kindles, counting on the devices to drive sales of books, movies

and other content. Selling at cost, or below, helps Amazon keep prices lower

than the competition.



Amazon has been sacrificing short-term profit for long-term gains in a big

expansion of its product fulfillment centers. Amazon reported a Q2 loss of 2

cents per share. Its cost of sales that quarter rose 18%.



Mulpuru-Kodali points out that Mayday might not help when the problem is such

that users can't access the video help service.



"You often still need to be on the phone with someone when they tell you to

reboot your system, for instance," Mulpuru-Kodali said. "Video chat probably

works better when it's not a hardware challenge but is about content or "where

something is.' "



GVA Research principal David Garrity and other analysts expect Apple to announce

its newest tablets soon.



"It's nice to know that Amazon's still working on their product innovation, but

I think we'll still find ourselves in a situation where Apple's going to come

out with a response sooner rather than later," Garrity said.



Of the new Kindles, he said, "I don't think it's going to make any difference in

the tablet wars vs. Apple and Samsung."



Amazon stock fell a fraction on Wednesday.



Market tracker IDC said in early August that global shipments of Amazon's Kindle

Fire slipped in the second quarter.



For the first time since Kindle Fire's launch in late 2011, the device didn't

rank among IDC's top five tablets.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2013 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





