                              735 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                The New York Post



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung disaster of Note an Apple delight



BYLINE: James Covert



SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 31



LENGTH: 332 words





The Samsung Galaxy Note 7 has blown up for good - and Apple and Google are

picking through the wreckage.



Shares of Apple edged higher Tuesday as analysts predicted the iPhone 7 will be

the big beneficiary of Samsung permanently pulling the plug on its troubled Note

7 smartphone.



Likewise, experts said Google's new Pixel phone, priced from $650, could get a

boost from Samsung's woes - although it's tethered to Verizon's network.



"Among the Android alternatives, the Pixel has to be at least worth

considering," said Jonathan Chaplin of New Street Research.



Samsung shares tumbled 8 percent - their biggest one-day slide in eight years -

erasing $17 billion of the South Korean tech giant's market capitalization.



Analysts expect it to lose billions on the giant tech fiasco. After customers

discovered their brand new Note 7's could catch fire, Samsung issued a recall

and redesigned it - only to discover the replacement was also prone to catching

fire.



On Tuesday, Samsung threw in the towel and stopped making the Note 7. Customers

were told to power them down.



Evidence of the iPhone 7's momentum against the damaged Samsung was clear last

month, according to Slice Intelligence, a research firm that tracks online

sales.



In September, Apple's smartphone market share of online sales, thanks to the

recently released iPhone 7 and Samsung's Note 7 problems, leaped to 92.3 percent

- versus 4.2 percent for Samsung, according to Slice.



A month earlier, Apple's market share advantage was 42.2 percent to 33 percent.



Drexel Hamilton analyst Brian White said Samsung's woes could help Apple sell an

additional 8 million iPhones by Dec. 31.



The market's original expectations for Samsung, White said, were that the

company would sell 10 million to 14 million Galaxy Note 7's by the end of this

year - a number now dropping to zero.



jcovert@nypost.com



Smartphone market Share



Apple -- Samsung



Aug. 16: 42% 33%



Sept. 16: 92% 4.3%



Source: Slice Intelligence



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Oh, the humanity! It stands to reason that Samsung CEO Oh-Hyun Kwon

can't bear to watch the corporate flameout of the once-highly touted Galaxy Note

7. [Post pohoto composite]



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





