                              737 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Android One Devices Reportedly Receiving Marshmallow Update



BYLINE: Phalgunn



LENGTH: 238  words





It's big news time for Android One users in India with Google rolling out

Android Marshmallow 6.0 update over-the-air.



However, though Google has not yet announced anything about this officially, a

few users have posted screenshots on XDA-Developers website.



Speaking about the update being rolled out, it is being said that the devices

receiving the update as of now are Micromax Canvas A1, Karbonn Sparkle V and

Spice Dream Uno.



Surprisingly, there is no information about the latest Android One smartphone

Lava Pixel V1 receiving the Marshmallow update.



We can recall that Lava had announced during the launch of its Android One

smartphone that the Marshmallow updates would be rolled out as and when they are

available. Considering that, we would suggest the Pixel V1 users to stay calm

and wait  for a few days until they receive the update.



However, if you cannot wait for the OTA update to come to your device, you can

also manually download the file (https://developers.google

.com/android/nexus/images?hl=en)for your device and flash it.



Speaking about the update, the Marshmallow update brings new features like

support for fingerprint scanning, Google Now on Tap, Doze mode that is said to

improve battery life, etc.



Finally, other than the Android One devices, Motorola has also announced its

list of devices which will be receiving the update.



Also, the update has also been started to roll out to the Nexus line of

smartphones.



LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2015 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





