

Apple's iPad Mini and the Nexus 7 from Google are the two fierce competitors for
the top spot when it comes to 7-inch tablet devices as both are ergonomically
designed with software features and hardware specifications that suits the
current demand for an effective mobile productivity and flexibility.

Apple's foray into the 7-inch tablet market with the launch of the 7.9-inch iPad
Mini steamed the already brittle battle between the mini-pad likes of Amazon's
Kindle, Nook and HTC One X.

Apple's drive to follow Google's trend and venture into the new market simple
reveals that the future points towards mini pad as possible replacement for
smartphones and viable challenge for the tablet market with increasing demand
for portable, powerful and all-in-one device model.

The iPad Mini, in almost every way is packed with specifications that match that
of the iPad 2 thus presenting the device as a very powerful productivity tool.
On the other hand, Google's Nexus 7 is rated the best 7-inch Android-powered
tablet been belled by Google's latest mobile operating system.

7-inch tablet devices are touch-screen devices with a display measuring between
7.0 - 7.9 inches diagonally.

7-inch tablet is just pocketable and easily allows for single hand operations;
whereas the slightly bigger 7.9 inches like Apple's iPad mini pushes the limit
and in-effect may present some difficulties when it comes to single hand
operations and comfort of fitting into pant pockets.

Nexus 7 tend to be easier to hold but the iPad Mini has a bigger screen. This
now comes down to preference and the purpose for which the mini tablet is
required, however, for leisure around the house, the iPad Mini's larger display
offers an idea tool.

But for a more mobile working experience, Nexus 7 presents a better comfort zone
in terms of size and weight.

Apple's latest iOS 6 cores the iPad mini,

the operating system comes with over 200 new features. Apple's ecosystem of
computer devices also makes it easy to synchronize the iPad Mini with other
devices giving room for remote backup of the tablet's memory.

iOS 6 features an enhanced notification center and a more useful Siri. The
replacement of Google Maps with Apple Maps presented an unfinished service which
left lots of Apple devotees frustrated with its location service applications.

Nexus 7 has 4.1(4.2 update now available) Jelly Bean Android OS belle; it
features an integrated notification center and electronic assistant as well as
hundreds of thousands of apps through Google Play. With the project butter
effect the OS tends to improve the VSync; this set the frame rate for the entire
OS at 60 frames-per-second thus improving the perception of speed and
responsiveness by making everything consistent.

Apple's A5 processor which is a dual core 1GHz processor with 512GB of RAM
powers the iPad mini, also available in 16GB, 32GB and 64GB with no memory
expansion slot like microSD card.

The quad-core processing chip NVidia Tegra 2 T30L processor powers Google's
Nexus 7; it features a 1.2GHz ARM Cortex-A9 with 16GB RAM.

Nexus 7's processor out-performs that of iPad Mini but with 8GB of storage that
can be expanded to 16GB.

Apple's mini tablet features the same 1024x768 pixel resolution as the iPad 2
with no Retina Display and 162 pixels per inch (PPI), while Google's Nexus 7
features an impressive 1280x800 pixel resolution and 216 PPI. Both devices
feature light sensors and scratch-resistant glass.

