

Moscow 's State Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts is taking part in the Google Art
Project, RIA Novosti reported on Tuesday.

The online art project has expanded from an original 17 galleries in nine
countries, to have gathered more than 30,000 artworks from 150 collections in 40
countries, according to Google.

'Using a combination of various Google technologies and expert information
provided by our museum partners, we have created a unique online art experience.
Users can explore a wide range of artworks at brushstroke level detail, take a
virtual tour of a museum and even build their own collections to share,' the
Internet search giant wrote of the project on its website.

Giga-pixel picture

The Pushkin Museum's contribution to the virtual online collection has been
considerable. Google specialists filmed full-panorama sequences in 20 halls of
the museum - which is fortunate as the halls are all due to be completely
overhauled and reformatted as part of the city's Muzeiny Gorodok program. The
museum's 'Return of the Bucintoro to the Molo on Ascension Day' by Canaletto was
chosen to be photographed in giga-pixel resolution as part of the Google Art
Project.

In good company

The Pushkin Museum is not the only Russian gallery taking part in the online
project. The State Tretyakov Gallery, the Hermitage and the Russian Museum have
also taken part. The Russian  Museum has contributed 50 images of its artworks
from its collection. A panoramic image has been created of Karl Bryullov's 'The
Last Day of Pompeii' and a special video sequence about the museum has also been
shot. This summer, street-level filming of the museum will be taking place.

'  In   the Google Art [Project] will be included significant works of the
Russian Museum, in particular, you will see many of our icons there,' RIA
Novosti quoted Olga Babina, head of the Russian Museum's Virtual Museum project,
as saying last month when it announced its participation in the program.  '
This can be considered   our world premiere.'

