                              742 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

                                 First Edition



Google gadgets aimed at rivals



BYLINE: Ky Chow



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 736 words





The big screens of the iPhone 6 range might have lured many Android defectors

back into the Apple fold, but Google has launched a counter-offensive it hopes

will bring it up to speed with arch rival Apple.



The new LG Nexus 5X (5.2-inch screen) and Huawei Nexus 6P (5.7-inch screen)

handsets have the rapid fingerprint scanning of the iPhone 6S, which was the

first phone that didn't make you push a power or home button before its security

check.



Unlike the iPhone's home button at the bottom of the phone, the Nexus Imprint

scanner is on the back under the camera, the perfect position for your finger to

be scanned as you're pulling your phone out of your pocket or bag.



Android users also finally join the Apple faithful with a charging cable with an

end that is the same top and bottom, so no more squinting and fumbling to get

the cable into your phone. Google also claims a faster charge time than an

iPhone.



The new Nexus phones also have a crack at a technology that didn't quite pan out

for HTC - using big pixels on its camera sensor for better low-light shots.

While the side-by-side sunset photo comparisons with the iPhone 6S Plus at the

San Francisco launch looked convincing, we're keen to test because we've found

such claims about phone cameras to be a bit optimistic.



While Android's cheap Chromebook laptops have never exactly been captivating,

its new Pixel C convertible tablet is impressive and could tempt many away from

Microsoft's hit Surface Pro range.



By shaving a bit off the sides, the optional keyboard attachment fits the Pixel

C's 10.2-inch screen but manages the same pitch (distance between keys) and

travel (how far the keys squish down) as a normal laptop keyboard, and it felt a

lot more natural typing than the Microsoft Surface Pro's Type Cover. The

keyboard and tablet fit together with powerful magnets, and with no hinges or

bits to line up, as with Asus' Transformer Chi, it's a very fast exercise.



The tablet portion doesn't feel much heavier than an iPad Air, at just 7mm

thick, though there are thinner and lighter Android tablets out there, such as

Sony's Xperia range.



Nexus phones and tablets are always the first to roll out a new Android

operating system and the new devices showcase a few new tricks. Google says it

delivers 30 per cent better battery life with the screen off, and screen

animations have changed a little, but it's the new Now on Tap enhancement to

those Google Now cards that stands out.



If you hold down the home button on any screen, Android will scan the screen and

suggest actions. Read a message that mentions a restaurant, and Now on Tap can

present cards with a review and contact details for the restaurant. It'll save a

few screen presses for sure.



If you like projecting Netflix and YouTube from your Android to your TV and use

your phone as a remote control, the new Chromecast Audio lets you do the same

with audio services such as Spotify, even if you're on an iPhone.



You can even plug the $50 - same as the original Chromecast - device into an old

hi-fi or even just resurrect one of your favourite old speakers. At the launch,

Google's Chromecast product manager Micah Collins also told us multi-room

casting was coming soon, which must surely worry the likes of Sonos.



Shared albums are also coming to Google's photo storage service, which means if

you and a bunch of friends have all taken photos at the same wedding, you can

share them with each other, and even non-Google users can subscribe so they'll

know about any new pictures.



Facebook has similar functionality, but Google Photos offers another typical

creepy but useful touch. Thanks to photo recognition technology, from early

October you'll be able to search and collate photos based on the friends, places

and things in them, without ever having to tag a thing or person.



Punch in "John", "surfing" and "2008" and Google will fetch every photo of your

mate John surfing in 2008.



We also saw a bevy of the latest Android smartwatches from Motorola, Huawei and

Asus. Besides their normal-looking circular faces, Android's wearables also

display a low-energy face that shows the time permanently, so you won't need to

make the pronounced arm lifting motion the Apple Watch needs to simply tell the

time.



The author attended the launch as a guest of Huawei.



Key points



New Android Huawei and LG phones were debuted at a San Francisco event.



Smartwatches operating on the platform also launched.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Top: The latest Android smartwatches from Motorola, Huawei

and Asus. Right: Huawei's Nexus 6P has an all-metal case and is slightly larger

than an iPhone 6 Plus.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





