                              743 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Mirror Publications



                              May 22, 2016 Sunday

                                Bangalore Mirror



Ashoka edicts: Researchers identify 121 possible sites



BYLINE: Mihika Basu



SECTION: SCI-TECH



LENGTH: 761 words





Ground search may yield high probability of finding new inscriptions



While Ashokan edicts are considered the first decipherable written documents in

India, researchers have now identified 121 possible locations of undiscovered

inscriptions of Ashoka.



The research focuses on the stone inscriptions ascribed to Ashoka. Known as

'edicts', the texts are carved into the living rock and onto shaped stone

pillars, found in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. The inscriptions contain

pronouncements about kingship, administrative duty and religion, with some

sections repeated verbatim from one location to the next. "We have identified

121 possible locations in the Indian subcontinent that conform to the same

criteria where yet undiscovered inscriptions may be found.



The Ashokan edicts are significant as they constitute the first decipherable

written documents in the Indian subcontinent coincident with the development of

urbanism. Their emplacement as an act of royal proclamation throughout such a

large area is interpreted as the evidence for the first substantial unifying

political regime of the subcontinent.



Also, the edicts are the first tangible expression of religious practices

related to Buddhism. As documents of national and international significance,

the Ashokan edicts are also a focal point of heritage management and

preservation," said the authors from the Department of Geography and the Cotsen

Institute of Archaeology and Department of Anthropology, University of

California, Los Angeles. This research had three primary objectives. The team

tested whether or not a "species distribution modelling approach" can be used to

successfully identify known Ashokan edict locations, and identified the

environmental metrics that best explain the distribution of known Ashokan

edicts.



Further, they identified regions and locations with a high probability of yet

undiscovered Ashokan edicts within the Indian subcontinent.



Species distribution modelling programmes, according to the research team,

require two sets of inputs in order to create distribution maps of the targetted

species within landscapes: species locality data from prior research, and

environmental predictors in a GIS format "We used an algorithm to model the

current relationship for known Ashokan edict sites and mapped suitable habitat

on the basis of climate, topography, geology and population.



Utilising Google Earth imagery, we systematically conducted a visual search of

the high-probability grids to identify topographical locations (outcrops) and

geologic (rock type) attributes similar to known Ashokan edict location. One

kilometre pixels with a probability greater than and equal to 75 per cent of

containing edicts were overlaid on Google Earth and systematically searched

along a north-to-south gradient," said the findings, which are being published

in the Current Science journal of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Each pixel was

assigned a unique identification number and classified as high likelihood or low

likelihood. Locations designated as high likelihood were those that looked

similar to known edict locations and generally satisfied two additional

criteria, that is location on raised, lone outcrops, and containing many visible

boulders. After examining each one km pixel visually within Google Earth, 121

pixels were classified as high likelihood and matched known Ashokan edict

attributes.



"Examples include points of interest 1973 and 2024 located on small, isolated

outcroppings that rise higher than the surrounding region, a configuration

similar to the known edict locations of Dhauli, Jaugadh, and Palkigundu.



These locations have various boulder-sized rocks, which would make a suitable

place for inscriptions," revealed the findings. It added, "When distribution

models were run based on the 29 known locations, they were successful in

reliably predicting the distribution of Ashokan edicts in the Indian

subcontinent".



The authors believe that a ground search for edicts in any of these locations

would yield a higher-than-average probability of finding new inscriptions.



"The development of a purpose-specific research project to examine each of the

121 high likelihood areas represents an ideal opportunity for distributed

research projects based in local academic institutions in the subcontinent,

utilising the principles of volunteered geographic information and citizen

science. We, therefore, seek to release information about the location of high

likelihood areas into the public domain for use by in-country scholars and

students," the authors said.



LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





