                              744 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                            March 21, 2015 Saturday



Get hooked on to the cutting edge global technology



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 845 words





Here's a look at the very latest in technology and trends from around the world

that will take your breath away:



Google Chrome Pixel (2015)



While Google did not change the name of the new ChromeBook, they did change

everything else. The laptop has a 12.85-inch touchscreen with a resolution of

2560 x 1700 pixels in an aluminum chassis that weighs only 1.5Kg.



In terms of hardware, you have choice between an Intel Core i5 or i7 processor,

8/16GB RAM as well as 32 or 64GB flash storage. After the latest Apple MacBook,

this is only the second laptop to use USB-c ports.



On each side of the laptop is a USB-c port that can be used for charging or for

connecting additional storage and peripherals. In addition, you get two USB 3.0

ports, an SD card reader and audio/microphone jack. Other features include a

backlit keyboard, etched glass trackpad, 720p HD webcam, WiFi 802.11ac,

Bluetooth 4.0 and a battery life of up to 12 hours. It's priced at US$ 999

onwards and is currently available only in the US.



Vaio Phone



After the split with Sony, Vaio has now chosen to set its sights on the

smartphone market. Their first smartphone, simply called the Vaio Phone, runs

Android 5.0 out of box and is priced at about US$ 420. It features a 5-inch IPS

display with a resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels and weighs 130 grams.



Inside the 7.95mm slim body is a 1.2Ghz quad core Snapdragon 410 processor, 2GB

RAM and 16GB storage (expandable via micro SD cards). Other specifications

include a 2,500mAh battery, 13MP rear camera, 5MP front camera and 4G support.

To start with, the Vaio phone will be available exclusively in Japan from 20th

March 2015 onwards.



The Runcible



Remember the pocket watch? That's where the makers of this unique smartphonelike

device have taken inspiration from. They call it a new category of digital

device for the post-smartphone era.



According to them, it sits somewhere between a smartphone and a wearable (like a

smartwatch). You'll notice that it has a circular display and arounded, organic

shape that fits neatly in the palm. All the typical connectivity options you get

in a smartphone (LTE, Bluetooth, WiFi) are present but it will never take over

your life.



In fact, it distills your digital life and alerts you in subtle ways. For

instance, you can select 12 contacts you wish to speak to -others will go to

voicemail. Activity around your social networks is represented by bubbles

(larger bubbles = more activity). Further details are not available but it

should be available some time this year at a price of US$600 onwards.



JIVR Bike



Tackling urban mobility is no easy task. Currently in the funcing stage on

Kickstarter, the JIVR Bike is a foldable, go-anywhere, chainless, app-enabled,

electric assisted bicycle.



With the batteries and everything included, it weighs just 15kg and folds up in

a few simple actions. It can still be pedaled like a bicycle - the mechanical

drivetrain is hidden inside the frame. Without any human power, the bike can

reach a speed of 32 kmph and travel about 30kms on a single charge (extendable

by pedaling).



The electric motor is a small unit that fits to the front wheel hub, the

batteries are integrated into the frame and there are dual disc brakes to haul

it down from speed. It charges using any 110 to 220 volt outlet in about 90

minutes. As a bonus, it also has a smartphone mount on the handlebar - you can

fire up the JIVR app to view distance traveled, calories burned and for

navigation.



Ampware CrankCase



This mobile phone case that combines age-old dynamo technology with protection.

They're starting with cases for the iPhone 5/5S & 6 but others are in

development. When the device starts running low, you can pull out the crank

handle and start winding it for a battery boost.



The makers say that a minute of cranking will get you about 40 minutes of use

and 5 minutes will net an extra 3 hours. Theoretically, you won't need to plug

the phone in ever again.



As a bonus, it also has a USB port which you can use to charge other gadgets.

You can check out the project on Indiegogo (it's currently in the funding stage,

5% funded at the time of writing).



Autodesk Tinkerplay



When you think of 3D printing, you normally think of industrial applications,

prototyping, architectural scale models, prosthetics and so on. However,

Autodesk, makers of the AutoCAD 3D software have come up with a 3D printing app

for children called Tinkerplay. The app is a result of Autodesk's acquisition of

Modio.



Unlike Modio though, Tinkerplay will be available on iOS, Android and Windows.

The idea is to encourage children to get started with 3D printing sooner. Using

the app, you can easily (and quickly) mash together designs (like toys or action

figures) using the pre-loaded templates and parts. Creating something new is as

simple as using drag-and-drop.



Once you're done with designing your creation, the file can be exported in a

format that is understood by a 3D printer. Oh, and the app is completely free,

so even if you don't have access to a 3D printer, you can still give it a whirl.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





