                              746 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                             June 13, 2015 Saturday



Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Method and Apparatus

for Centering Swivel Views"



LENGTH: 245  words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.

20150163402 for US Patent, published on June 11, 2015, by Google Inc.

(California), titled as "Method and Apparatus for Centering Swivel Views" for

the registration of patent.



Inventors:  Frueh; Christian; (Mountain View, CA) ; Conley; Ken; (Mountain View,

CA) ; Jain; Sumit; (Santa Clara, CA)

Assignee:  Google Inc.

Mountain View

CA



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:

"Methods and an apparatus for centering swivel views are disclosed. An example

method involves a computing device identifying movement of a pixel location of a

3D object within a sequence of images. Each image of the sequence of images may

correspond to a view of the 3D object from a different angular orientation.

Based on the identified movement of the pixel location of the 3D object, the

computing device may estimate movement parameters of at least one function that

describes a location of the 3D object in an individual image. The computing

device may also determine for one or more images of the sequence of images a

respective modification to the image using the estimated parameters of the at

least one function. And the computing device may adjust the pixel location of

the 3D object within the one or more images based on the respective modification

for the image."



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





