

WHEN we talk about wearable cameras, many think of Google Glass. However, Google
is not the only player in this particular arena, as Panasonic has rolled out
Panasonic HX-A500, the first 4K/30p wearable camera in the world.

It comes equipped with WiFi and NFC support that allows it to hook up to your
smartphone. The camera also delivers incredible image quality and offers
straightforward functionality so that whatever you capture will result in scenes
that would make your viewers feel as though they are in the middle of the action
as well. Sporting a black outer shell, the Panasonic HX-A500 retails at
US$399.99 (about RM1,300). Using its powerful lens, sensor and engine, you are
able to record clean and clear low-noise video. Once connected to a smartphone
or tablet, you can upload recently recorded video to the Internet in a jiffy.
There are also various mounts available to enable easy shooting in different
situations, offering additional user flexibility. You can preserve your memories
in high frame rates across a trio of resolutions: 1920x1080 pixels at 60 fps,
1280x720 pixels at 120 fps and 848x480 pixels at 240 fps.

The Panasonic HX-A500 comes with a 1.5-inch colour LCD display that lets you
check field of view and mode settings at a glance.

www.panasonic.com

Ultimate audio experience

VIZIO has just released its latest 54-inch 5.1 Sound Bar System, touted to be
the ideal complement to the large-sized TV in your living room. Offering a wider
sound stage that allows it to project true, cinematic home theatre audio to
every single seat in the room, you will be able to enjoy an immersive true
surround sound experience.

The sound bar system features include an intuitive LCD display remote that
allows you to make discrete adjustments to the input, enable/disable audio
technologies, make manual adjustments to the left, right or rear speakers as
well as turn on Bluetooth pairing for wireless streaming - all without having to
leave the couch.

The device also delivers 104 dB of room-rocking, crystal-clear sound with less
than one per cent total harmonic distortion. Besides the left and right
channels, this device also features a third centre channel for enhanced dialogue
clarity. A pair of rear satellite speakers and a wireless 8-inch subwoofer
complete the whole picture, delivering an immersive surround sound experience
alongside low frequency response that is as low as 35 Hz for thumping low bass.

There will be a 38-inch model as well to cater to those who have smaller screen
TVs at home. The 54-inch 5.1 Sound Bar System is priced at US$499 (RM1,600).

www.vizio.com

Perfect crime fighter

ARE mobile devices free from the scourge of viruses and malicious software? The
answer is a resounding "No!" and there are different methods to prevent any
untoward incident on your mobile device.

Introducing Umbrella USB, which is touted to be a 100 per cent effective
Firewall for mobile devices. Whenever you plug the Umbrella USB into any USB
port, this device will charge it up while it physically disconnects the
available data connections. Such technology prevents any possibility of data
theft, otherwise known as Juice Jacking.

The Umbrella USB is also capable of completely stopping the automatic
synchronisation, iTunes or Windows drivers. What makes the Umbrella USB even
more appealing is the fact that there is no need for any kind of apps,
downloads, setting changes or charging required, all that you need to do is to
plug it in and it ought to (theoretically speaking) deliver 100 per cent
protection.

Small in size and extremely affordable without the need for any kind of set up,
it is compatible with any mobile device that is charged via USB. At the moment,
the Umbrella USB is a Kickstarter campaign that needs to raise an adequate
amount of funds before it can be realised in the flesh.

www.umbrellausb.com

Sleek mobile game controller

RAZER is back under the spotlight again with the Razer Junglecat gamepad for iOS
devices. This latest release is as slim as it can be to ensure that it will be
able to fit seamlessly in the iPhone's sleek profile without making it look
bulky. This durable slider peripheral comes with a full set of gaming functions,
including AXBY pressure-sensitive buttons, D-pad and bumpers, ensuring that
there is no more need for on screen controls, freeing up valuable screen real
estate along the way.

You can leave the Razer Junglecat gamepad attached to your iPhone as it will not
come in the way of the buttons and ports that are available on the handset
itself. At 20mm thick, the Razer Junglecat resembles a standard protective case
at first glance. Priced at US$99.99 (RM320), it works best with a free
downloadable iOS app, which allows users to remap and define the entirety of its
button functions as well as make minor adjustments to the level of pressure
sensitivity accordingly. You can store up to 20 personalised profiles within the
app itself and can choose a corresponding profile to go along with your
favourite titles.

The Razer Junglecat is compatible with iPhone 5 and iPhone 5s.

www.razerzone.com

( END )

