

If you're interested in great web-based imaging applications like Google Earth
and Google Streetview, check out the beta version of Microsoft's .

Over the weekend I came across Microsoft's technology specialist where he has a
link to a fantastic panorama of Wellington in HD View.

It's well worth a look. You'll need to download a small ActiveX plug-in and
currently it only works in Windows and Internet Explorer.

So, what is HD View all about? Here's a pretty good explanation from Microsoft:
"Recent advances in camera and sensor technology and software for stitching
images together has led to the creation of images containing billions of pixels
(gigapixels).

"These images are often panoramic, that is, they cover very wide fields of view.

Since monitors typically contain only one to two million pixels, it is only
possible to actually see 1/1000th of such image data at once.

"Also, viewing very wide fields of view require unwrapping of an image projected
onto a curved surface (think of a map of the world) which can cause
distortions."

Effectively, HD View lets you zoom around these web-hosted gigapixel photos in a
very user-friendly way. You can pan and tilt and zoom in.

Only the area you have zoomed in on will be retrieved from the web so you only
need the full resolution for the part of the photo you are looking at.

That means you can look at high-resolution photos without having to open the
entire file online or download it. It's early days for HD View but I like what I
see - that panorama of Seattle on the HD View homepage is very nice.

HD View is being made available to people who want to high-resolution images
that are easy to navigate.

A plug-in that will allow you to create HD View photos in Photoshop is in the
works.

I'll be keeping an eye on what people come up with as this is one application I
can see plenty of business and entertainment uses for. Also over the weekend I
logged onto the website from time to time to check out the web-streamed coverage
of the concerts taking place around the world.

It was a stuttery experience, which was disappointing as the Live 8 webcast back
in 2005 which was organised by the same people, worked pretty well.

All sorts of things can effect the experience you receive when viewing webcasts
so I'll hold my judgement on the service. The streaming set a

for a web event so I'm sure a good deal of people had a good experience.

The On Demand replays will no doubt be getting a thrashing over the next few
weeks.

While I was happy to see some of my favourite acts like Dave Matthews Band, the
Smashing Pumpkins and Roger Waters performing at Live Earth, I have to agree
with Aardvark when it comes to the underlying value of holding the massive
event.

There's no way you can say those shows were anywhere near carbon neutral and our
awareness of global warming is already so heightened, the concerts just
threatened to make people even more jaded with the Al Gore's forecefully
delivered message.

This had the air of a celebrity love-in, more so than Live Aid or Live 8 and
Bono and Geldof weren't even in the line-up.

