

Gorilla Glass maker launches new paper-thin glass

Glass maker Corning of Gorilla Glass, the tough glass used in many smartphones,
has a new product that is both paper-thin and flexible. It has been dubbed
Willow Glass.

The 100 micron-thick glass, which is about as thin as a sheet of photocopy
paper, will enable smartphone, tablet and notebook makers to produce even
thinner, lighter and more flexible devices, including ones with curved displays
or where the display is wrapped around the product.

Google to warn users of state-sponsored cyber attacks

Google announced a service via its online security blog last Tuesday that it
will automatically prompt users if their Google account has become the target of
state-sponsored phishing or malware attacks.

The warning will be in the form of a red banner above the Google search bar that
reads: 'Warning: we believe state-sponsored attackers may be attempting to
compromise your account or computer.'

Beside the banner, a link will lead users to information on how they can secure
their computers, mobile devices and Google accounts.

Small but laser-sharp LCD panel

LCD display maker Japan Display has announced a super-sharp 2.3-inch LCD panel
with a resolution of

651 pixels per inch (ppi) - double that of the 326ppi retina display of Apple's
iPhone 4 and 4S models, reported the Japanese news portal Tech-On!.

The LCD panel, which is less than half the size of the usual 3.5-inch smartphone
screens, has a 1,280 x 800 pixel display. The characters on the LCD panel will
appear as smooth as printed characters, without the jagged edges.

Google buys Quickoffice

Last Wednesday, Google announced that it is buying mobile productivity start-up
Quickoffice, the online technology blog VentureBeat reported.

The app, which is also called Quickoffice, enables Android, iOS and Symbian
devices to view, edit and synch all kinds of documents including those created
using Microsoft Office.

Quickoffice said its apps are installed on more than 300 million devices in more
than 180 countries. A corporate version lets administrators turn off features
such as Wi-Fi sharing as well as copying and pasting.

DBS uses Instagram to promote regatta Instead of the usual Facebook campaign,
DBS Bank used photo-sharing app Instagram to raise awareness of the DBS Marina
Regatta held last month. The Instagram competition for the two-day inaugural
dragon boat regatta received more than 1,600 photo submissions. AsiaOne's Diva
and YourHealth are No. 1 on Hitwise

Women's lifestyle site Diva (Divaasia.com) and health site YourHealth
(Yourhealth.com.sg) topped Internet monitoring service Experian Hitwise's
ranking for their respective categories last month.

Both sites are part of AsiaOne, a Singapore Press Holdings news and lifestyle
portal featuring content from Singapore and the region.

E-paper without colour filters

Fuji Xerox has shown off a prototype electronic paper (e-paper) that displays
colours without using colour filters, Japanese news portal Tech-On! reported.

Instead of using filters to add colour, the Fuji Xerox e-paper uses colour
particles of red and cyan for the 5-inch, 600 x 800 pixel e-paper.

Without colour filters, the display can be brighter. Fuji Xerox is working on a
full-colour e-paper based on three primary colours.

Compiled by Tan Chong Yaw

