                              765 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                               New Indian Express



                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday



Digitise art,culture to attract virtual tourists



LENGTH: 457 words



DATELINE: India





India, April 10 -- The future is on the Net. This is true about art and culture

as the success of the Google Art Project highlights. Since its launch in

February 2011, nearly 150 museums and art galleries, including some of the

prestigious ones like the Tate gallery in London, have been digitised and the

images made available on the Internet. It is now possible to sit at one's home

and virtually tour all those museums and see tens of thousands of art objects

and paintings. The quality of the images can be gauged from the fact that they

have a density of 7 billion pixels, thousands of times more than those taken by

conventional digital cameras. This means that the images are as good as the

real.



The future is on the Net. This is true about art and culture as the success of

the Google Art Project highlights. Since its launch in February 2011, nearly 150

museums and art galleries, including some of the prestigious ones like the Tate

gallery in London, have been digitised and the images made available on the

Internet. It is now possible to sit at one's home and virtually tour all those

museums and see tens of thousands of art objects and paintings. The quality of

the images can be gauged from the fact that they have a density of 7 billion

pixels, thousands of times more than those taken by conventional digital

cameras. This means that the images are as good as the real.



Though the Louvre in Paris, considered the mother of museums, is not among the

150, art lovers can access such classics as Van Gogh's works through their

computers. What's more, the high pixels allow artists to zoom on sections of the

art works and study them in detail. For instance, an artist wanting to know

whether Mona Lisa's hands are really feminine will be able to do so by doing

sectional studies of the world-famous painting once the Louvre, too, joins the

project in the next phase. That last year 8.8 million people visited the Louvre

alone shows the popularity of museums the world over. The entry fees in Indian

museums may be low but in Europe, it is so high that it is beyond the reach of

the average student.



Of course, the virtual cannot be a substitute for the real. In other words, the

project is unlikely to diminish the popularity of museums, while it will allow

billions of people to enjoy art and culture from the comfort of their homes and

offices. This is tantamount to democratising art and culture and this needs to

be encouraged. India, which has a rich cultural heritage, stands to gain if it,

too, makes it possible for virtual visitors to see and study, for instance, the

paintings of Raja Ravi Varma and architectural wonders like the Sun temple at

Konark. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.



For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,

please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.

                              All Rights Reserved





