

OPTUS has taken the wraps off Google's first mobile phone -- but the ``HTC
Dream'' could turn into a nightmare for the big telco.

Experts say the highly anticipated phone, built by Taiwanese brand HTC, won't
take sales away from Apple's popular iPhone 3G, despite having some amazing new
features.

What could be even more depressing for Optus are internet reports that the first
version of the HTC Dream (also called the G1) could be outdated by a series 2
Google mobile that could be unveiled in the US as early as May.

Technology expert Alex Zaharov-Reutt says the deadline for all new smartphones
will be June.

``Everyone is trying to go to market before or at the same time Apple announces
its new iPhone model, which has been June for the last two years,'' Mr
Zaharov-Reutt said.

``So I'd expect we'd see Google's updated Dream phone, rumoured to be called the
G2, in Australia in the lead-up to Christmas.''

On paper the HTC Dream boasts an impressive list of features, headed by Google's
Android open source operating system. But that will mean little to the man in
the street.

``The Dream, like the Blackberry, appeals to Google fans and soccer mums, ''
says The Gadget Guy, Peter Blasina.

``It's a great little organiser and has all of Google's internet tools and
functionality built into it.

``But the iPhone will remain more of an emotional purchase and remains more of
an entertainment device that appeals to a market that looks for something
cool.''

Stylistically, the new HTC Dream G1 is nowhere near as slinky as the iPhone, and
its user interface is not as responsive or as friendly.

Applications loaded into the HTC Dream include YouTube, Google Talk, Gmail,
Google Search and Google Maps. The HTC Dream is exclusive to Optus and is
available on four, 24-month plans from $59 per month.

heraldsun.com.au

Future tech: Holograms, electronic paper and other cool concepts

Battle of the super phones

iPhone 3G

Screen size: 89mm (3.5in)

Resolution: 480x320 pixels

Weight: 133g

Camera: 2.0MP

Standby Time: 300 hours

Speaker: built-in

Memory: 8GB or 16GB

GPS: yes

WiFi: yes

Bluetooth; yes

Touchscreen: Multi-touch

Applications: mail, Google Maps, Calendar, YouTube

Price: On contract only

HTC G1 Dream

Screen Size: XXmm (3.2in)

Resolution: 320x480 pixels

Weight: 158g

Camera: 3.2MP

Standby Time: 402 hours

Speaker: built-in

Memory: 192MB

GPS: yes

WiFi: yes

Bluetooth: yes

Touchscreen: single-touch

Applications: Google Search, YouTube, Gmail, Google Talk, Google Calendar

Price: On contract only

