

REDMOND, Wash. -- There are technology companies that won't say anything about
the futuristic inventions they're tinkering with in their labs -- Apple, for
instance.

Then there are the companies that won't stop talking about them. Think Google
and its driverless cars and Google Glass.

Microsoft is firmly in the latter camp. The company says it has the largest
research organization of its kind and is a prolific publisher of academic-style
papers, which it shares openly. For years it has operated a home of the future
in a building on its campus where it invites visitors for a glimpse of how
technology could reshape kitchens, living rooms and bedrooms years from now.

Earlier this week, it held an annual event for a small group of journalists
inside its home of the future, recently remodeled to include more examples of
what workplaces of the future might look like. One technology Microsoft returned
to again and again in its demonstrations was jumbo-size touchscreens, which are
based on designs by Perceptive Pixel, a company Microsoft acquired last year.
Perceptive Pixel's screens, which look like the offspring of an iPad and a
television set, are most familiar to people who have watched election night
coverage on networks like CNN, where on-air commentators have for years
manipulated electoral maps using the technology.

Microsoft believes the technology will have a big impact on offices, where they
will replace whiteboards, allow for more immersive video conferences and
transform the way presentations are delivered. Microsoft showed one research
project that used the displays in which a presenter could revamp charts and bar
graphs on the fly with different data by using a stylus to sketch little codes
on the screen.

''It changes the way meetings work,'' said Rick Rashid, Microsoft's chief
research officer.

The company is using the technology widely in-house now, a process known in the
tech industry as ''dogfooding.'' Its chief executive, Steve Ballmer, has a giant
touch-screen in his office, as do a number of other senior executives. Some
meeting spaces at Microsoft are being redesigned to be more open so they can
accommodate the giant screens, which can be bigger than 80 inches.

''It won't be unreasonable to think of all walls being touch-enabled,'' said
Kurt Delbene, president of the Office division at Microsoft, who said Microsoft
would bring the cost of the devices down ''substantially'' from the tens of
thousands of dollars that bigger ones cost today.

Microsoft talks a lot more than Apple does about projects like giant
touchscreens partly because it thinks it can spark wider interest and investment
in categories that will come back to benefit the company, as a major provider of
software and services for computers. Apple, in contrast, says almost nothing
about the technologies it is working on until shortly before they can be
purchased as products in a store, the better to maximize sales.

It's also worth mentioning that Microsoft far outspends Apple on research and
development, devoting nearly $10 billion, or close to 13 percent of revenue, in
its most recent fiscal year (the vast majority of this figure stems from
development costs, rather than pure research). Last year Apple spent $3.4
billion, or 2 percent of its revenue, on research and development.

Apple appears to have gotten a lot more out of a far smaller investment than
Microsoft has. But whatever their research investments, it's tough to overstate
how Apple has out-executed Microsoft over the past five years in creating
compelling mobile products like tablets and smartphones. Microsoft was in both
categories long before its rival, but fumbled its leads there.

Mr. Rashid said Microsoft's hefty investments in research, especially basic
technology research that may not yield products for years or ever, are essential
for its future. He said the technology industry was littered with companies that
didn't invest enough in long-term research, only to run into trouble when
technology trends shifted.

''It gives you the ability to survive if things go wrong,'' he said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/03/06/microsoft-is-talking-about-the-future-a
-lot/

