                              777 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                             August 26, 2016 Friday



Here's how to install Android 7.0 Nougat on your device



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 273 words





NEW DELHI: The latest version of Google's Android operating system -- Nougat --

is here. The search giant announced that it has started rolling out Android 7.0

Nougat OS to Nexus devices, it also mentioned that the process will be

incremental and will take time to reach all Nexus devices. The OS will be

hitting select devices including the Nexus 6, Nexus 5X, Nexus 6P, Nexus 9, Nexus

Player, Pixel C and General Mobile 4G (Android One).



The search giant has not revealed exactly when the OS will be reaching different

regions. However, if you are one of those users who did not risk your Nexus with

developer previews but cannot wait enough to get the final public version

either, then these following steps are for you. Users won't need to root their

Nexus device in this process and can also switch back to the final consumer

version of the OS if required:



- Head to Google's Android Beta programme website from the Nexus smartphone or

the Pixel tablet. Mind you, the version can only be installed in those devices

that are currently eligible for it.



- Sign-in with your Google account connected with the particular device.



- Hit on 'Your eligible devices' find your device and hit on 'Enrol device'.



After the processes, you would receive an OTA update, which you can download to

enjoy the taste of the latest Android 7.0 Nougat OS. It is worth adding that if

you stay on the Beta version, you will keep receiving future maintenance

releases.



Note: The device's data won't be wiped off while upgrading. However, if you opt

out while being in Beta version, all user data from the device will be wiped

off.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





