

Samsung and LG have joined the Google smartwatch brigade.

At its annual developer conference in San Francisco last week, Google showed off
a Samsung smartwatch, known as the Gear Live, and an LG smartwatch, known as the
G Watch, both of which are already available to buy on Google's online store in
the US.

LG said its watch will be available in 12 countries starting from June 25, and
then an additional 27 countries including Australia, "soon after".

Just how soon is soon, we will have to wait to see, although the signs are that
it actually will be very soon indeed. On Google's Australian store, the LG G
Watch (pictured) is listed as costing $249, with a "leave warehouse" date of
July 4.

Samsung's Gear Live, meanwhile, is listed with a price of $250, with no shipment
date other than "coming soon".

The smartwatches run Google's recently announced Android Wear operating system,
which works hand in glove with its just-announced Android L operating system,
the biggest upgrade that Google has ever given to Android, redesigning its look
and feel so that it will be possible to design apps that work consistently
across Android phones and tablets, across PCs, TVs and, yes, even smartwatches.

Both the Samsung and the LG watches will have a rectangular screen, similar to
the screen Samsung already uses on its Gear 2 line of smartwatches. Motorola's
previously announced Moto 360, the first Android Wear smartwatch to sport a
round screen, will be available later this year, Google said.

Google demonstrated the LG and Motorola watches using voice commands and showing
notifications coming from Android phones.

Users will be able to install apps on the new smartwatches simply by installing
apps on their Android phone. If a Wear-enabled app detects that the phone is
paired to a Wear watch, it will automatically install itself on the watch, too.

Google execs showed off Google Maps running on an Android phone, but sending its
turn-by-turn navigation messages to a Wear watch.

LG said its G Watch will have a 1.65-inch (4.2-centimetre), 280x280 pixel
display, and will weigh 63 grams. By comparison, Samsung's existing Gear 2 watch
has a 1.63-inch, 320x320 pixel display and weighs 68 grams.

A teardown of the new iPod touch Apple announced last week has revealed what
many suspected: Apple appears to be losing interest in the venerable media
player, the same way the market as a whole is.

Apple announced the new, low-cost version of the iPod touch last week. It's got
16Gb of storage and sports a 5-megapixel iSight camera, and costs only $249.

The higher-capacity versions of the iPod touch came down in price too, such that
the 32Gb model is now just $299, down from $329, and the 64Gb is now just $349,
down from $439.

The price cut is in response to a long decline in iPod sales, as the world moves
onto smartphones. iPod sales have dropped by roughly 50 per cent since 2008.

The folks at iFixit purchased one of the new iPod touch players, pulled it
apart, and found that Apple had made no changes to the already very old
technology, other than reducing its memory capacity.

Here's what iFixit concluded about the new device, after peeking inside: "We
delved inside Apple's 'refreshed' device and found the same components we'd seen
in Touches of yesteryear ..."

I don't know what they were expecting to find. The same chips as in a current
generation iPhone?

The thing about the iPod touch is that it's devolved into a device you buy for
kids, so they get to use apps and do some WiFi-based messaging without racking
up a huge phone bill. It's a cheap and cheerful device, and in a sense, the less
power it's got, the better. Kids, just like the rest of us, need something to
look forward to.

