                              784 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)



                                 August 2, 2005



Zooming right in to your neighbourhood



BYLINE: MARK PRIGG



SECTION: LSE_04; Pg. 9



LENGTH: 288 words







IT can give you a bird's eye view of the gardens at Buckingham Palace, and look

into tourist cruisers on the Thames.



Experts even say it could let you see if the hotel you're about to book really

is a stone's throw from the beach.



These are some of the stunning images on Google's new mapping site, which claims

to be able to show the entire world in unprecedented detail.



The pictures, taken from a spacecraft 450km above the earth and planes flying at

low altitude over major cities, are the most detailed ever put on the internet.



"Areas are covered at different resolutions," said a Google spokesperson.



"The resolution varies from 1km per pixel, where a single pixel in the image

covers an area of 1km, to 6 inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, large

geographic features such as mountains and lakes are visible, and at the highest

resolution, detailed features of the earth such as buildings and cars are

visible."



Visitors to the site at maps.google.co.uk can enter a postcode, or simply type

the name of the landmark they want.



The system can even superimpose street names onto the satellite image, and show

a detailed route map using satellite photos to show exactly where you need to

go.



Pictures are retaken every 18 months to keep the system up to date.



Experts say the images could even lead to new way to plan holidays.



Several travel web sites are working on including the satellite images into

their web sites, so holidaymakers can click to see if their hotel really is a

stone's throw from the beach.



Take a goggle-eyed look at these famous London landmarks...



Three of the best: Liz's place, the always changing Battersea landmark and our

ageless dome



LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005



LANGUAGE: English



GRAPHIC: CLOSE-UP: HOW TO GET A BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF ALBERT BRIDGE, WITH THE

CONTROL PANEL BOTTOM RIGHT



PUB-TYPE: Paper



                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.





