                              788 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                      The Halifax Daily News (Nova Scotia)



                            November 20, 2005 Sunday



Explore Rome, then Moscow's Red Square: Google Earth provides access to world



SECTION: YOUR TRAVEL; Pg. 13



LENGTH: 383  words





Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to the former

Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over to

Pyongyang, North Korea.



And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do so. You can just sit at your

computer and access an amazing new service called Google Earth, software that

puts satellite images of almost every inch of the planet within reach of your

mouse - for free. It's no exaggeration to say it's the ultimate armchair travel

experience.



You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,

buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address

of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it

will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.



Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the

Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.



"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message

to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author

Rick Broadhead. "People are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful they

almost don't know what to do with the information."



The benefits for travellers are clear - or at least as clear as the resolution

of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer

than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In

technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to 15

centimetres per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features like mountains and

lakes are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people

in Tiananmen Square.)



The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google

explains away the scarier aspects of the technology. Some nations, such as

India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes

politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.



There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program

(http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows

users and only in English. Three- dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows

you to "walk" around actual buildings. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around

whatever they see.



LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications

                                     Corp.

                              All Rights Reserved





