                              789 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Indian Banking News



                        June 30, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST



The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Nokia, Apple, Google, Microsoft and Aetna



LENGTH: 775  words





New Delhi, June 30 -- Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the

Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest

news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently

featured in the blog include Nokia Corporation (NYSE: NOK-Free Report), Apple

Inc. (Nasdaq: AAPL-Free Report), Google Inc. (Nasdaq: GOOG-Free Report),

Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq: MSFT-Free Report) and Aetna Inc. (NYSE: AET-Free

Report).







Here are highlights from Friday's Analyst Blog:



Nokia to Launch 41 MP Windows Phone



Nokia Corporation (NYSE: NOK-Free Report) expects to launch a Windows-based

smartphone that will possess a 41 mega pixel PureView camera. The launch will

bring to the forefront the innovative camera phone on the Windows platform that

has been rumored for long.



According to media reports, the device has been coded as EOS and has a Xenon

flash, OLED display, polycarbonate body and 32GB of internal memory. The

smartphone is believed to be a fraction bigger than Nokia's flagship Lumia 925

and is expected to be launched on Jul 11, 2013.



Last year, Nokia introduced its first PureView technology integrated phones with

the launch of Nokia 808 PureView. This imaging technology is a combination of

many pixels into one perfect pixel and provides a digital camera like effect.

The smartphone also has a high resolution Carl Zeiss lens and was one of the

last devices to run on Nokia's Symbian operating system (OS).



The Finnish handset manufacturer states that the new smartphone will allow its

users to zoom in three times better than its predecessor without losing any

resolution.



In the last couple of years, Nokia has fallen behind in the smartphone

leadership race, which has been mainly dominated by Apple Inc.'s (Nasdaq:

AAPL-Free Report) iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy range, which runs on Google Inc.'s

(Nasdaq: GOOG-Free Report) Android platform. Nevertheless, the company's

decision to join forces with Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq: MSFT-Free Report) is

finally paying off as the latest range of Lumia has performed better than its

predecessors.



Although Nokia has taken a long time to incorporate the PureView technology into

the Windows phone operating platform, we believe that the launch timing is

perfect for Nokia as demand for its Windows-based phones are currently picking

up. However, it will take time for the smartphone to gain wide acceptance as

such a high resolution camera technology has not been tested in a major OS yet.



Nokia currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).



Aetna Upgraded to Outperform



On Jun 21, 2013, we upgraded our recommendation on the shares of Aetna Inc.

(NYSE: AET-Free Report) to Outperform from Neutral as we gain increased

confidence about the company's operations.



Aetna has been performing strongly over the past several quarters and we expect

the company to continue performing well going forward, backed by the growth in

Medicaid and Medicare network segments, fast-growing health services segment,

and an expanding provider network.



Why Upgrade?



Aetna's execution over the last few years has been excellent. While performance

has been strong across the board, a stand-out area is the organic and

acquisition-fueled growth.



Aetna has made huge investment in technology upgradation as well as acquisition.





Aetna recently concluded the acquisition of Coventry. The acquisition enhances

the company's Medicaid footprint, gives it more credibility, and positions the

company better for the enormous Medicaid RFP, expansion and dual growth

opportunities.



It has also made a number of acquisitions in its Commercial business over the

past 2-3 years.



Additionally, Aetna is aggressively forming Accountable Care Organizations to

generate incremental revenues.



We also have a growing optimism for international growth opportunities at Aetna.

The company is actively entering foreign markets. It is targeting Asian markets

like India and China both of which present huge potential for growth.



Today, Zacks is promoting its ''Buy'' stock recommendations. Get #1Stock of the

Day pick for free.



About Zacks Equity Research



Zacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis

to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.



Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks.

Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to

developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations

and target prices are six-month time horizons.



Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest

analysis from Zacks Equity Research.



LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





