

Rating: ***

Price: Rs 12,999

Specifications: 11.6-inch IPS touchscreen (1366 x 768 pixels), 1.8Ghz quad core
Rockchip processor, 2GB RAM, 16GB storage, 4,200mAh battery, WiFi, Bluetooth,
dual USB 2.0 ports, HDMI, 1MP camera, Chrome OS, 1.5kg

NEW DELHI: One of the primary ideas behind the Google Chromebook is to deliver
functionality at a low cost. However, the launch of hybrid devices by Microsoft
(in association with various partners, in the sub Rs 20,000 bracket) has made
Google step up their game. They're taking the competition on by partnering with
even more budget brands: the Xolo Chromebook is amongst the first in the budget
segment.

For the price, you get an 11.6inch display with a resolution of 1366 x 768
pixels. While the display is bright and sharp, viewing angles are not up to the
mark. The device has a matte black finish on the exterior and around the display
that makes it look great. The tapered design also adds to the style. We liked
the large chiclet-style keyboard and the large trackpad.

In terms of ports, you get 2 x USB 2.0 ports, full size HDMI & microSD slot
Coming to performance, as long as you have a decent Inter net connection, the
Chromebook works great. The quad core processor with 2GB RAM keeps things
running smoothly. The device has 16GB internal storage which we think is far too
less for most users. Although Chrome OS works great for document editing ,
browsing and multimedia use, the available app selection for other functions is
limited (we're obviously comparing with a Windows computer, since the prices are
at par now).

Camera on the Xolo Chromebook suffers from excessive noise \xAD you can use it
for occasional video calls but make sure there is ample light for better photos.
The loudspeaker output is good enough for personal listening only -headphone
output is better and louder. We were able to eke out 7 to 8 hours from the
device depending on use: should be more than enough for most users.

Overall, the Xolo Chromebook has its share of pros and cons, but it can't
replace a Windows laptop yet. If you can spend a little bit more, consider the
Micromax Canvas Laptab.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

