
DATELINE: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM


THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, Nov. 2 -- Google is marveling its technology day-by-day and
latest in the Google's line up is Nexus 10, a 10 inch tablet that the tech
analysts expect to have the potential to affect largely in the iPad sales. The
Nexus 10 which has been made in partnership with the South Korean electronic
giant, Samsung Electronics Co will be run on Google's Android.

The features of the Google and Samsung Nexus 10 is that it will have the highest
pixel density compared to any tablet on the market. It will have a 2,560x1,600
pixel density which will place the tablet at the top and putting behind Apple
iPad's 9.7 inch display. Nexus 10 tablet is unique for watching movies or
reading magazines.

The company claims that the new tablet has the highest resolution available on
the planet.

Also another advantage is the longer battery life. Nexus 10 comes with a
powerful battery that stays upto nine hours of video playback and more than 500
hours of standby time. The front facing speakers of the tablet makes it all the
more appealing for watching movies as the sound produced is lot more clearer.

But what makes Nexus 10 unique is that it's the first truly shareable tablet.
With Android 4.2, one can add multiple users and switch between them instantly
right from the lockscreen.

The Google, Samsung Nexus 10 also features micro USB and micro HDMI ports, a
clear advantage over Apple's iPad 4, which has neither these. The dimension of
the tab is 10.4 x 6.9 x 0.35 inches weighing only 1.33 lbs. It uses 1.7 Ghz
Samsung processor, 2GB RAM which is larger than the iPad's 1GB and same as
Microsoft Surface RT.

The back camera of the Nexus 10 is 5MP photo/1080p video, with LED flash while
the front one is 1.9MP photo/720p video. Though the back camera and video
quality is same as Apple iPad, Nexus has LED flash and the front camera is
better than iPad's 1.2 MP.

The one drawback that the techies find in the Google and Samsung's 10-inch
tablet is that Google lags behind Apple in building strong collection of
tablet-oriented apps. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New
Indian Express. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

