

iPads so slim, Apple CEO Tim Cook has to ask if we can even see them. iMacs with
pixels so small, we couldn't see them if we tried. What more could we want?

Well, there were a few things that actually were invisible at Apple's gadget
extravaganza in California in the early hours of Friday. Not visible was the
long, long-expected iPad Pro, the big version of the iPad predicted to appear as
an alternative to the MacBook Air for low-power users. That doesn't look like it
will make the 2014 showing pundits were expecting.

And not visible, too, were any new MacBook Airs with high-resolution screens,
for which high-powered users of the MacBook have been clamouring for quite some
time.

Not quite as visible as expected was Apple Pay, an in-store payments system that
will allow iPhone and (now) iPad owners to use their devices like a
payWave/PayPass credit card.

That was expected to launch last week, but it won't launch until this week in
the United States, and who knows when in Australia?

But there was plenty to get excited about, including those super-slim iPad Air 2
tablets that will be available for pre-order from October 18, for delivery some
time next week. Just 6.1mm thin, the iPad Air 2 is slimmer than a Sony Xperia Z2
Tablet (6.4mm), not to mention a Samsung Galaxy Tab S (6.6mm), hitherto the
slimmest mainstream tablets around.

As expected, the iPad Air 2 and the new iPad mini 3 will come with Touch ID, the
fingerprint scanner built into the home button that users can swipe to unlock
their iPad or to make Apple Pay payments. If you thought people taking photos
with their iPads was bad enough, just wait until they start whipping out their
iPads in the checkout queue ahead of you and fumbling around trying to get the
NFC chips in the iPad to align with the NFC chips in the payments terminal.
Apple promises it's using a new form of NFC for Apple Pay that won't be so hard
to align with a reader, and for everyone's sake, let's hope that's true.

The new iPads won't be cheap, mind you: prices start at $619 for the 16GB,
Wi-Fi-only model and range up to $1019 for the 128GB, WiFi + wireless broadband
model.

Meanwhile, the new 27" 5K iMacs will cost $2999 for a model that comes with a
3.5GHz quad-core Intel Core i5 processor, an 1TB Fusion Drive and an AMD Radeon
R9 M290X graphics processor. 5K, in case you were wondering, is a screen with an
eye-watering 5120 x 2880 pixels. That's four times the resolution of the regular
27-inch iMac

Google has taken the wraps off its long-awaited new Nexus tablet, revealing it
will be called the Nexus 9 due to its 8.9-inch screen, and that it will be the
first to run Google's exciting new version of Android, "Lollipop". (So much for
it being called "Lamington", as we were hoping.)

The tablet will be made by HTC, and will have a screen with a resolution of 2048
x 1536 pixels, the same pixel dimensions as the 7.9-inch screen on an iPad mini
Retina.

Meanwhile, Google also revealed the Nexus 6, its latest phone, which will be
made by its former manufacturing arm, Motorola (recently sold to Lenovo). The
Nexus 6 will run Android 5.0, aka Lollipop, and will have a huge, 5.96-inch,
1440 x 2560 pixel display, making it more like a Samsung Galaxy Note than a
Galaxy S.

While the Nexus 9 tablet may not have a screen as sharp as an iPad mini Retina
(its bigger size gives it a sharpness of 288 pixels per inch (ppi), compared to
326 ppi for the mini), the tablet will have plenty of power to burn. It will
operate a 64-bit NVIDIA Tegra K1 processor running at 2.3 GHz, and will sport a
6700mAh battery.

The Nexus 9, which was available for pre-order from October 17, will come with
16 or 32 GB of memory, depending on how much you want to spend. Australian
pricing is $479 for the 16 GB model with Wi-Fi only, $589 for the 32 GB
WiFi-only model, and $719 for 32GB with WiFi and 4G.

