                              799 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                         May 9, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST



Smartphone Review: Moto X



BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network



LENGTH: 651  words





The Moto X is a reminder of Motorola's legacy in the smartphone market and why

this company ones defined mobile phones.



Friday, May 09, 2014: If Motorola's plan is to take over the budget and

mid-range smartphone then it has done everything right till now. While the Moto

E is expected to arrive on 13 May, with a price tag below Rs 10,000, I talk

today about Motorola's most expensive device in the market, the Moto X.



First of all, a sweeping declaration - this is the best Android experience you

will get below Rs 30,000. The Moto X is the company's flagship device priced at

an affordable Rs 23,999 and it is everything that you want in your smartphone.

Like the Moto G (http://efytimes.com/e1/fullnews.asp?edid=132203), this one is

also available exclusively on Flipkart.



Design



While the Moto X showcases a simplistic design, it still has a lot to offer.

Firstly, Motorola has two wood finish devices to offer in this and it also comes

in Red, White, Turquoise and Royal Blue colours with the polycarbonate finish.

The Moto X is light and thin enough to fit right into the hand and pocket. It

doesn't look humoungous like many other flagship devices, but the smaller size

of the device makes it just that much easier to handle.



Motorola's statement is very simple, you don't need a above 5-inch device to

make something look good. This is not just a good looking device, it is built

ergonomically too.



Features



The Moto X is not a device that can be judged by its display and all the usual

stuff. This device is loaded with features that set it apart from virtually any

other smartphone in the market. I'll start with what I like the most, the

touchless controls.



You remember how I was raving about the 'Ok Google' feature on the Nexus 5

(http://efytimes.com/e1/fullnews.asp?edid=126377)? Well, this is better. You can

train the Moto X to recognise your voice and then operate the voice through

voice commands alone without even needing to unlock the device. So, saying 'Ok

Google Now Call XYZ', will call whoever you want to call and so on. It's

something that no other phone can offer at the moment.



Next up is the Active Display feature of the Moto X. This feature lights up only

those pixels on your screen, which are needed in order to display an image. This

allows you to view notifications without needing to turn on the backlight of the

device. The pixel light up, which saves battery and makes for a useful new

feature on the device.



The Moto X also includes the Motorola Connect feature, which lets you control

the device from your desktop Google Chrome browser. In addition, the Migrate and

Assist features seen in the Moto G are also part of this device.



Performance



This phone is a testament to the fact that more cores doesn't mean better

performance. The Moto X is powered by a 1.7 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro dual

core processor. Dissapointed? Well, the device gives an AnTuTu benchmark score

of about 22,800, which is very close to the octa-core Micromax Canvas Knight

23,050. I tried running the game Asphalt 8 on this phone and sure enough, it

performs much better than any device with a dual core processor. It's a gentle

reminder of the rich legacy that Motorola has in the mobile phone market.



Camera



The 10 mega pixel camera on the back shoots good pictures, but fails in

low-light conditions. Also, the Moto X shoots 1080 pixel videos, only those

though. There is no way to change the resolution of the videos that you shoot.



Verdict



It's sad that the Moto X hasn't created waves in the Indian market the way the

Moto G did. Like the G, the Moto X also provides absolute value for money and

beats competitors in the same price segment. This is a device that comes from

the company that built the first mobile phone and Motorola has given it a lot of

thought.



The Moto X is a comfortably priced device that brings you a lot of high-end and

exclusive features. It is a very good device to buy.



LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





