

By DOUG STANLEY

dstanley@tampatrib.com

Now you don't need the latest, greatest Web-enabled wireless phone or handheld
device to tap the power of the Internet when you're on the road.

Google's new Short Message Service enables you to get answers from any wireless
phone or device capable of sending a simple text message.

With Google SMS, you can get phone numbers, dictionary definitions, product
prices and much more. You can do math problems, measurement conversions and even
look up basic facts.

Google SMS returns the answers to your queries in plain text, usually within a
minute. It's really pretty handy. The service works with most major wireless
carriers, including AT&T, Cingular, Nextel, Sprint PCS, T-Mobile and Verizon.

For a complete rundown on the service and how to use it, visit www.google
.com/sms.

D-I-Y Icons

If you're the type who likes to personalize every facet of your desktop,
consider do-it-yourself icons. It's fairly quick and easy to do with Windows XP.

Here's how: Click Start, Click Run, type "mspaint" (without the quotes) and
click OK to open the Paint application.

On Paint's Image menu, click Attributes. Enter 32 into both the Width and Height
boxes, click the Pixels radio button and then click OK to create a new,
icon-sized canvas.

From there, add color, type or whatever you like. You can even shrink photos to
32 by 32 pixels and paste them into the Paint document.

When you're done, click the File Menu and Save As, then give the icon a name and
use "ico" for the extension, ala "filename.ico".

Make note of where you've saved the file. To use your new icon, right-click on
any shortcut or folder, select Properties, click the Shortcut tab, click the
Change Icon button and browse to your newly created icon.

AOL Finally Gets It

For years, America Online customers had no choice but to use AOL's clunky e-mail
program.

That finally changed when AOL made its e-mail technology compatible with many
popular third-party e-mail applications applications.

If you're an AOL customer, you now have alternatives for sending and receiving
AOL e-mail, including Eudora, Microsoft Outlook and Outlook Express, and other
e-mail clients that support Internet Message Access Protocol.

The downside is some features of AOL e-mail won't be available if you choose an
alternate e-mail program. For example, you won't be able to check the status of
a sent message or recall an unopened message sent to another AOL member.

For step-by-step instructions on configuring Outlook Express and other e-mail
applications for use with AOL e-mail, visit tinyurl.com/3goak.

Gamers, Stand Proud

PBS presents the story of how a whimsical invention of the 1960s helped spawn
the computer industry as we know it.

Video games have influenced the way children live and play, forever altered the
entertainment industry, and even affected the way wars are fought. See how it
all began and find out what it means for the future, tinyurl.com/5nlfa.

Keyword: Tech. Read past columns by Doug Stanley.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

