

> an authentic response

Nokia has been named as the most authentic personal technology brand in
Australia after a study was conducted to measure brand value among consumers.
Developed by brand consultancy Principals, together with global research company
Synovate, the study took place over six months among 2400 people who were asked
to rank 70 brands.

The Authentic Brand Index (ABI) measures the brand in seven categories:
heritage, familiarity, personal utility, originality, momentum, sincerity and
declared beliefs.

Nokia was the third highest score among the 70 brands overall but the highest
ranked personal technology brand with Qantas and Cadbury taking out the number
one and two spots overall respectively. The brands which followed Nokia in the
personal technology category were Microsoft, Google, LG, Sony, Apple, Canon,
Motorola and Samsung.

Google was only narrowly beaten by Microsoft. While it scored highly in the
originality and momentum categories, it scored less in the familiarity and
heritage sections.

Apple and Sony were also strong in the sincerity and heritage categories but
their overall score was affected by a perceived lack of momentum by the people
surveyed.

''Authenticity is a powerful concept today, because it speaks of the need to
truly align business promise to delivery,'' says Principals planning director,
Wayde Bull.

''It's about being clear about who you are and what you do best.

''We'd argue that authenticity is the most fundamental achievement in today's
over-traded markets as consumers search for deeper meaning and rapport with the
brands they choose, in practically every product and service category.''


> million pixel baby

Hitachi has released the world's first 106cm (42-inch) true HD plasma panel,
complete with an integrated HD tuner.

The 42PD9600TA features 1080 lines of resolution as well as high pixel density,
which makes it possible to fit more than one million pixels on the screen.

There is also an SD card slot and a USB port on the display to allow users to
display their images directly off the memory card or from the camera. The
improved screen quality can also be utilised to hook up the computer via the RGB
terminal.

Connectivity is another of the Hitachi's strengths, with two HDMI inputs, along
with two component inputs and two AV inputs, which can all be accessed instantly
with a single touch of the remote instead of scrolling through the inputs to
find the right source.

To top it all off the Hitachi plasma panel has a motorised base, which can be
controlled via the remote. The Hitachi 42PD9600TA plasma is priced at $3849.

