                              811 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            The Star (South Africa)



                          September 10, 2016 Saturday

                                   E1 Edition



Yes, your browsing habits are being watched



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9



LENGTH: 442 words





It's no coincidence, when you have been Googling Southeast Asia, to find later

that your Facebook page is populated with ads for holidays in Thailand.



Neither is it a sign from the retail gods that you need to buy THAT pair of

shoes that you've browsed once, when its image keeps popping up on your social

media accounts.



It's not that you've been cyberstalked, but the practice of retargeting - using

your internet browsing habits to track your preferences - is widely used by

companies to send you advertisements of products and services you have Googled.



Rohan Isaacs, director at Norton Rose Fulbright, says it's all done through the

use of cookies (a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in your web

browser) and tracking pixels (the basic unit of programmable colour on a

computer display).



"Pixels embedded within an advertising slot on a web page can access cookies

previously dropped on to your computer by the advertiser. These cookies give the

advertiser information about previous searches and browsing habits, enabling the

advertiser to target your preferences."



Isaacs says whether this is an invasion of privacy depends on one's point of

view.



"Services which obtain this information about you would argue that you have

consented to it. You aren't forced to use the service after all. Their privacy

policies invariably explain what they do, at least in general terms," he says.



Nathan Desfontaines, cyber security manager at KPMG, agrees.



"Privacy policies are loosely explained. Websites tell us that they are using

cookies and give us an option to opt out by disabling cookies. But doing that

means some features of a website may not work."



Desfontaines also agrees that retargeting is not illegal. "But the problem is

that we are not given an option to decide if we want to opt in."



And for that reason, he says, this practice tests ethical borders and has the

potential to embarrass users.



"If a woman thinks she is pregnant, for example, and Googles contraceptives or

abortion and then moves away from her desk, then when these adverts pop up on

her screen everyone can see what she's been browsing," Desfontaines says.



"By using Google to browse the Net you have automatically opted to be tracked if

you already use other Google unpaid services such as Gmail, Google Maps and

Google Drive," he says.



"To access many of these services you need to log into a Google account. And as

long as you're logged in, Google knows exactly who you are and mines everything

you are doing within the Google environment for information about you," Isaacs

says.



But, if you don't want to be tracked, you can turn cookies off on your browser

setting.



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SS





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





