
DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, June 2 -- Nokia has launched two new smartphones, the Nokia XL and
the Lumia 630, in the Nepali market. Neoteric Nepal and Paramount Electronics
are the authorised distributors of Nokia in Nepal. The XL is the flagship phone
of its X series, the first Android-powered phone, while the Lumia 630 is a
Windows Phone-based smartphone.The XL is powered by a 1 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon
dual core processor and comes with a 5-inch IPS capacitive touchscreen. It
boasts a 5 mega pixel rear and 2 mega pixel front-facing camera. The smartphone
has 768 MB RAM with 4 GB mass memory, 2000 mAh battery and supports 32 GB micro
SD card.

Although the smartphone runs on Android, users do not have access to Google apps
and Google Play Store as it is a customized version of Android. The phone has
Nokia Store from which users can download 1.36 million apps, said the company.
It also has preloaded apps like Fastline, Skydrive and Outlook, among others.
The smartphone is priced at Rs 17,500 in the domestic market. It is available in
a wide range of colour options including bright green, bright red, cyan, yellow,
black and white.

Likewise, the Lumia 630 is powered by a 1.2 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor
and runs on Windows Phone 8.1 operating system. It comes with a 4.5-inch
ClearBack LCD display and 8 GB internal storage which is expandable up to 128
GB. The phone features 512 MB RAM, 5 mega pixel camera and 7 GB free Microsoft
Skydrive storage. According to the company, the Lumia 630 is available in bright
green, orange, cyan, yellow, black and white colours. The company has fixed the
price of the phone at Rs 17,630 in the domestic market.

Speaking at the launching of the smartphones on Friday, Country Manager Radi
Ahmed Chowdhari said that the Nokia would be unveiling more innovative
smartphones with a blend of features to meet the requirements of a growing
market. "After acquiring Nokia, Microsoft is looking for new innovations in
smartphones, and it will

regain its previous portfolio soon," he said. "The XL and the Lumia 630 got a
very good response in Bangladesh and Pakistan, so we are very

hopeful that it will do well in the Nepali market."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

