                              813 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                             April 26, 2011 Tuesday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Video time machine lets you zoom in on exact moments in time, space



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 341 words





Not  content to just show people regular old boring static videos and  gigantic

web-based gigapictures, the GigaPan team at Carnegie Mellon  University in

America in collaboration with NASA Ames Intelligent  Robotics Group and Google

have developed a time machine.



The  GigaPan Time Machine takes users on a super-high-res interactive video

experience. A viewing experience that -- like GigaPan's incredible  gigapixel

images -- can be zoomed into, panned around and seen in  extreme detail while

the video keeps on playing.

"The  sophisticated cameras the GigaPan team uses for their photographs  capture

hundreds or even thousands of digital pictures and stitch them  together to form

an interactive panorama," explained Google in an April  22 blog post about the

GigaPan Time Machine.

"With  Time Machine, the cameras capture these image mosaics at regular

intervals to create a video with hundreds of millions or even billions  of

pixels in each frame. The result is a video that viewers have the  ability to

zoom in on while it's playing and see incredible detail,"  said Google.

The technology makes watching the grass grow pretty interesting joked Google.

The  Time Machine has already been used to capture plant growth, a  simulation

of the early universe that is 600 million light years in  width, and human

anatomical datasets in billions of pixels -- all of  which can be viewed in

Chrome 7.0+ or Safari 5.0+ web browsers.

Users are encouraged to create their own Time Machine mashups and gigapixle

scale videos.

At  the bottom of Time Machine videos, users will find a Time Warp editor  that

can be used to build "an animated tour through time and space to  share." Time

Warps can be saved and shared with friends.

GigaPan's Time Machine website and how-to wiki provides detailed information

about the equipment and software needed  to create and stitch together

interactive gigapixel videos.

A video demonstrating the features of the GigaPan Time Machine can be found at

http://youtu.be/Dk9WanUO_gg.

http://timemachine.gigapan.org/wiki/Main_Page



LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2011 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





