

Steve Jobs was right when he talked of how we were entering the "post-PC" era.
He was just a bit premature. In 2007 people scoffed at the claim. Five years on,
things look different. Traditional computer sales are dropping as fast as iPad
sales are rising. Last month Apple announced that it had sold its 100 millionth
iPad and was shifting more tablets than any single PC manufacturer was selling
computers.

;But for the first time the iPad faces real competition. Last week Google and
Microsoft unveiled 10in tablets: showcases for their latest technology and
software, for sale at or below the price of Apple's bestselling device.

;Google's offering is the Nexus 10, the first 10in Android tablet it has put its
name to. Microsoft has the Surface, a 10.6in tablet running Windows 8, the first
version of the world's most popular operating system to be made for
touchscreens. The Surface is on sale now and starts at £399, the same price as
the entry-level "iPad with Retina Display", as Apple has styled the refreshed
9.7in tablet that was released on Friday. The Nexus 10 goes on sale on November
13, starting at £319. So who will be left standing in the three-way shootout?

We've had our hands on the tablet trio to bring you our assessment of the
advantages and drawbacks of each. Below you'll find the answer to the question
everyone will be asking: which one deserves space in your Christmas stocking?

GOOGLE/SAMSUNG NEXUS 10 £319-£389

Google's 10in device is only the second tablet to carry Nexus branding, which
the company applies to cutting-edge hardware that best shows off its Android
operating system. Made for Google by Samsung and available in 16GB and 32GB
versions, it has a 2,560 x 1,600-pixel screen, which is a higher pixel count
than the iPad with Retina Display.

;Like Samsung's Android phones, the Nexus 10 has a plastic casing that doesn't
feel premium. But what is lost in build quality is gained in lightness - it
weighs just 603g, against the aluminiumbodied iPad's 652g, making it noticeably
easier to hold. It runs an updated version of Android's latest Jelly Bean
software that allows multiple log-ins, so different people can use the same
device and each will see their own line-up of apps, email and other settings.

;Most impressive is the price. The 16GB Nexus 10 costs £319, £80 less than the
lowest-priced Retina iPad, and is in most respects at least as good a product.
Pricing has proved all-important for 7in Android tablets. The Nexus 7 - which
received a memory boost to 16GB last week - and Amazon's Kindle Fire HD, also
16GB, cost just £159 each and are the only non-iPad tablet big sellers to date.
Although figures have not been released, they are, to judge by the online
waiting lists, being snapped up as quickly as they are made.

;Verdict

Great screen, and the best version of Android yet.

;MICROSOFT SURFACE WITH WINDOWS RT £399-£559

Microsoft believes it doesn't have to undercut the iPad. Instead it has produced
an extremely competent 10.6in tablet for similar money: the Surface starts at
£399 with 32GB of storage. There's also a 64GB version. An optional,
magnetically attached "Touch Cover" protects the 1,920 x 1,080-pixel screen and
incorporates a keyboard with flat keys for £99 or superior, clicky keys for
£109. A hinged flap at the rear of the tablet allows it to stand at an angle for
video or to act as a laptop with keyboard.

;Both the Surface and the Nexus 10 have widescreen displays, unlike the iPad's
4:3 aspect ratio. The Microsoft device feels as fast and fluid to use, and
there's little to choose between the three tablets in terms of performance.

;The Surface runs the RT version of the new Windows 8. The operating software is
well written, although veteran Windows users will be thrown by the lack of a
Start button and an apparently Awol desktop. In fact it is in there, hidden
under an array of interactive tiles - each the shop window of a newly written
app. Many apps are installed; others can be added from Marketplace, Microsoft's
equivalent of the App Store. Apps that many users would think essential,
including iPlayer, Facebook and Twitter, are currently absent, although all can
be found through the browser.

;Verdict

Clever keyboard options and powerful software, but Microsoft's app cupboard is
looking bare.

;APPLE iPAD WITH RETINA DISPLAY £399-£659

Apple has tweaked its flagship tablet, putting a faster processor and upgraded
camera into the "new" iPad introduced just seven months ago but keeping the
2,048 x 1,536-pixel, 9.7in display - a once class-leading pixel density now
beaten by the Nexus 10's. A less welcome change is the smaller Lightning
connector: to dock this with any existing accessories you'll have to buy an
inelegant adaptor (£25). Memory options remain unchanged at 16GB, 32GB and 64GB.

;The screen still looks terrific: text appears particularly crisp; video and
photos are bright and colourful. Apple claims its A6X processor renders graphics
at twice the speed of the previous model, making the tablet an ever better games
machine.

;Thanks to the aluminium casing it feels a higher-quality product than Google's
tablet, although the Surface matches it for materials. It alone offers mobile
connections on 3G and 4G (via EE).

;Apple has by far the best-stocked app shop of any tablet maker: 275,000 have
been optimised for the big screen. But its operating system looks staid. Where
Apple icons can do little more than tell you how many emails remain unread or
whether there is a news story available, its rivals' resizeable, interactive app
icons offer at-a-glance previews without you having to open the relevant
software. It's the way forward.

;Verdict

The apps keep this on top, but the competition has never been closer.

