                              817 of 997 DOCUMENTS





               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)



                           November 12, 2005 Saturday

                            All but Toronto Edition



Explore Rome, then Moscow's Red Square: Google Earth provides access to

satellite images



BYLINE: Deborah Stokes, Weekend Post



SECTION: WEEKEND POST: TRAVEL; Inside Travel; Pg. WP11



LENGTH: 515  words





Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to the former

Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over to

Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do so.

You can just sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called

Google Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every inch of the

planet within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say it

is the ultimate armchair travel experience.



You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,

buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address

of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it

will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.



Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the

Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.



"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message

to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author

Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available

to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available

to pretty much anyone, for free. Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely. People

are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful, they almost don't know what to

do with the information."



The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution

of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer

than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In

technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to six

inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features such as mountains and lakes

are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people in

Tiananmen Square.)



The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google

explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as

India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes

politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.



"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is

already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says

Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google. "The same information

is available to anyone who flies above or drives by a piece of property."



There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go

to http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows

users and only in English. Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows

you to "walk" around actual buildings. And sophisticated video technology allows

for "fluid, free-form" exploration. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around

whatever they see.



"You can literally explore a destination before you get there," says Broadhead.



That may take away some of the surprise factor for travellers, but sometimes

that's a good thing.



LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2005



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Black & White

Photo: Google Earth; The Eiffel Tower dominates the landscape in Paris.; Black &

White

Photo: Google Earth / Cars can be seen driving around the Colosseum in Rome.



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column; Correction



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2005 National Post

                              All Rights Reserved





