

The lifeblood driving Google's new wave of devices

Search: it's the one thing that has pretty much defined Google. Which explains
why the product launches at their event on 4 October was clearly a concerted
move to extend 'search' further into people's pockets, kitchens, living rooms
and pretty much everywhere they live, seems like a natural progression for the
company.

Google's search is powered by a globally-distributed infrastructure of server
farms, terabit-speed network connections, and bleeding-edge software driven by
the advanced science of deep neural networks and natural language processing to
interpret raw data in ways that are startlingly human (that notification on your
Android phone which gently suggests leaving earlier for a flight owing to
unexpected traffic en route, for example.)

While their new Pixel phones, Google Home, the Chromecast Ultra, the Google WiFi
router and Daydream View will undoubtedly stoke fans for months to come, it
isn't really about the hardware. It's about the intelligence that's driving it
all--their cloud-based Google Assistant.

When it debuted at their I/O event in May this year, this service seemed like an
evolution of their ubiquitous 'Ok Google' voice recognition functionality that's
already available on millions of Android phones. But this piece of smart
software appears to be built to do more, to be the vanguard of Google's charge
in to imparting more human-like responses, context and conversation into their
new generation of smart devices.

Google Assistant is going to be baked right into the two new Pixel phones. This
smart AI service also serves as the foundation of their new Allo messaging app,
designed to leverage their Artificial Intelligence and search capabilities to
offer real-time suggestions and answers right within a chat environment.

With the new Google Home--a device that resembles a Bluetooth speaker--the aim
is to put voice up front and center of the daily experience. The only way to
communicate with it is by 'waking' it up with an "Ok Google", then asking it
pretty much any type of question. From the innocuous "What's the weather like
today", to being able to follow through with several related queries around the
topic, the device leverages Google Assistant to interpret questions, ferret
information from trusted sources on the Web, and respond to the user using
concise, natural speech.

Consider for a moment the AI at work here: a question like "Play me that song
from Dirty Dancing" would result in an elegant one-line acknowledgement followed
by just one song--the title track--being played. That's almost human-level
intelligence at work: deciphering that Dirty Dancing is a movie without being
explicitly told so, locating all the online sources that host its songs,
determining which of these songs is the most popular, and finally playing just
that one. And all of this happening in under a second.

Also announced was a new WiFi router that aims to add a few smarts into the home
wireless setup. With robust WiFi being the foundation of all this connected home
of the near future, this router was shown to communicate with other multiple
Google WiFi routers to automatically modulate strength of the wireless mesh
network to provide the best overall coverage--and bandwidth--to connected
devices.

It is intriguing to consider the possibilities of this new wave of devices,
backed by an ever-learning, always available and continuously evolving AI
engine. Assuming of course that all of this works as advertised. When breaking
through technology frontiers, it's always a question of whether a hArtificial
intelligence

Speech recognition uses advanced deep learning systems to understand the manner
in which each of us speak.

Vision systems, like the face detection box in your camera viewfinder, are
getting better that recognizing real objects.

Using the wealth of online data we generate, AI can now infer 'context' on its
own.ot new capability eventually turns out to be just a gimmick, or something
that would rock a user's world. Either way, connected AI systems are here to
stay--this is but the first of an impending wave.

