

Google has two brand spanking new phones to choose from - the Pixel and the
Pixel XL. If you're sick of the idea of another iPhone, then these are a worthy
alternative.

There are three different places you can get the new Google Pixel phone: From
the company itself, high street chain Carphone Warehouse and through the EE
network.

Buying directly from Google or Carphone Warehouse means you can pick up the
phones SIM free and unlocked for the one-off price of £599 for the 5-inch
version and £719 for the 5.5-inch model.

Google Home is the voice-controlled gadget that wants to take over your house

That's if you decide to go with 32GB of storage. If you opt for 128GB you're
looking at £699 for the Pixel and £819 for the Pixel XL.

Those prices put them in exactly the same kind of territory as Apple's iPhone
models.

If you'd rather buy it through a contract then you're either going to have to be
an EE customer or be willing to switch to the carrier. The phones themselves
will be available from October 20th whilst the Daydream View VR headset that
Google also announced will be available from early November.

Google announces Daydream VR headset - and it will be available in early
November

With EE, the Pixel is free on a £50.99 a month, 24 month 4GEE plan, which comes
with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 10GB of mobile data a month for
existing customers.

The Pixel XL is also available free on a £55.99 a month, 24 month plan, and
comes with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 10GB of mobile data a month
for existing customers.

Google Pixel XL vs iPhone 7 Plus - which smartphone will win when Google takes
on Apple?

4GEE Plan customers receive unlimited minutes, texts and 500MB of data a month
for use abroad in the EU. Alternatively, for just £5 per month more, you can get
Pixel and Pixel XL on 4GEE Max plans giving you access to the UK's fastest 4G
speeds, and inclusive access to the BT Sport App for the duration of the plan.

Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer day before official
announcement

Just as an extra sweetener, those who pre-order before October 20th will receive
a £50 Google Play voucher they can use to purchase content from the Google Play
store.

