                              821 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                  Namibian Sun



                            October 24, 2016 Monday



Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'



LENGTH: 549  words





Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'Digital companies compete in

bricks and mortar The global tech company is testing the waters with its first

physical retail operation in the US. It's not exactly a store, but the Google

"showroom" that opened on Thursday in New York is the internet giant's first

real-world shop and a step onto terrain where rival Apple has excelled.







The success of the temporary storefront Google opened in the trendy Soho

neighbourhood could help the California-based company decide whether to follow

Apple's lead and operate its own brick-and-mortar retail operation.



The New York pop-up shop will be open through the end of this year, and let

people get their hands on new Google devices such as Pixel smartphones which

began shipping on Thursday in a direct challenge to Apple's latest iPhones.



"This is not even a testing ground, just an extension of the launch," Google

spokeswoman Chrissy Persico said at the showroom opening event.



"We want people to come in and experience the products."



Google early this month took on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push

into hardware, launching the in-house designed Pixel smartphone and a slew of

other devices showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.



By producing both the phone hardware and its Android software, Google is making

a more direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.



The pop-up shop also displayed Google's freshly unveiled Daydream View virtual

reality headset, a modular wi-fi system, and a Home virtual assistant that will

challenge the Amazon Echo device.



Nothing is sold at the Google shop, but the staff directs potential customers to

the company's online store or telephone operators who can take orders for

products.



'Big battle'



A wall in the shop is decorated with an artful arrangement of blue, red, yellow

and green blocks, arranged to display the internet company's trademark colours.





Only 30 or so visitors ventured into the pop-up store for its opening morning, a

lean showing in comparison to mobs typically drawn to new Apple stores.



Apple has a shop in Soho, too, and many more across the country and around the

world.



As differences on the hardware side of premium smartphones have faded,

competitors have increasingly stressed "experiences" such as smoothly accessing

content or services.



"I am interested in technology, so I just hang out in stores," Columbia

University student Ravi Lakshmanan told AFP in the Google shop. "There is going

to be a big battle of platforms and it's going to be interesting to watch."





Another visitor, Ike McLaughlin, said he has flip-flopped between the rivals but

is on Google's side for now because he felt Apple was "playing it safe, when

Google is taking risks and making a push in artificial intelligence".



McLaughlin's verdict echoes the concerns of analysts that Apple has not

delivered a market-shaking new product since the death of visionary co-founder

Steve Jobs in 2011.



But even if its market capitalisation has fallen below peaks hit in 2015, Apple

remains the world's most valuable company based on its share price.



For the financial year ending September 2015, Apple posted a net profit of US$53

billion (N$742 billion), double the figure posted in the last year of the reign

of Steve Jobs.



NAMPA/AFP



LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1808





                              Copyright 2016 NHM.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





