                              823 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                               May 1, 2016 Sunday



HP's new Chromebook 13 is thin and versatile;

PERSONAL TECH



BYLINE: Ed Baig



SECTION: ; Pg. Z6



LENGTH: 311 words





The HPChromebook 13 can be docked.



NEW YORK HP unveiled a handsome new Chromebook on Thursday that invites

comparisons with Apple's MacBook Air on thinness and lightness, and Google's own

Pixel tablet as far as a high-end machine based on Google's cloud-based Chrome

operating system.



Several other laptop manufacturers also produce Chromebooks built on the Chrome

OS for computers. Chrome is distinct from the Android OS that Google and its

partners employ on smartphones and tablets.



HP says the new machine is the first Chromebook to run Intel's latest 6th

generation Core M processor and the first



to offer a docking



solution for a



Chromebook based



on the emerging USB-C standard, accomplished through



a $199 compact Docking Station accessory.



During my brief time getting to try it out during at event at Google's Chelsea

Market offices in New York City, I didn't get to crank up the volume, but it

also promises top sound through Bang & Olufsen. Called Chrome-book 13 and

constructed of a brushed anodized aluminum



body, the new computer is



about half an inch



thin and weighs under 3 pounds. The base



unit starts at $499. Of course, with more robust specs, the price of Chromebook

13 can climb north of a grand.



The 13.3-inch display with QHD resolution looks impressive, though there is no

current touchscreen option, something I frequently take advantage of with Pixel.



My brief reaction typing on the Chromebook 13 keyboard was very positive. So was

my reaction to the way it feels.



During Thursday's press event, HP and Google emphasized Chromebook 13's use in

enterprise environments and demonstrated how the docked unit could drive full

"virtualized" (through Citrix) versions of Excel and PowerPoint on one monitor

and an Android version of Ever-note on another, with no visible lag in

performance. But they also plan to sell the computers for home and educational

use.



LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





