                              827 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                           The Sunday Times (London)



                            February 1, 2015 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



Screen savers with all features great and small;

Small-form Android tablets offer hardware close to the standards of the iPad

Mini but at much lower prices. Matt Bingham tries out four



BYLINE: Matt Bingham



SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 34



LENGTH: 963 words





BEST FOR VALUE Tesco Hudl2 (EURO)170 The new tablet from the supermarket giant

is terrific value for money. Its specs might not be class-leading but are by no

means shabby, and unlike the plasticky first Hudl, this time round the hardware

is housed in an attractive case with a soft coating for easy handling. The

bright, sharp and colourful 8.3in display is 192200 pixels, working out at 273

pixels per inch (ppi). The 16GB of memory might come under pressure if you take

advantage of the bundled discount for Blinkbox, Tesco's video download and

streaming service, but can be supplemented with a memory card of up to 32GB.

Frankly the only giveaways that this is a budget tablet are the cameras, with

5Mp to the rear and a 1.2Mp on the front, and - if you must use it without

headphones - the sound, which is tinny.



Otherwise the Hudl2 will handle most users' gaming, video and webbrowsing chores

without breaking sweat. If you are a regular Tesco shopper and collect points,

you can get it for a discounted price.



Verdict Looks, feels and in most respects performs like a premiumpriced product.



??? www.tesco.ie BEST FOR BUDGET 4G Vodafone Smart Tab 4G (EURO)199 Opting for

the 4G version of a tablet is normally expensive, but this 8in Android tablet is

very affordable. At the base price you add a free Vodafone Sim and then pay for

data as you use it; alternatively, take out a two-year contract (starting at

(EURO)24.99 a month for 1GB of data) and the tablet comes free. The Smart Tab

runs on the slowest processor here, and other specs are similarly basic: the

1280x800-pixel screen gives 189ppi - meaning you'll notice the pixels when

looking at fine text - and it is less bright compared with others on test.

Memory is just 8GB (although up to 64GB MICROSD cards are supported), and the

cameras are 5Mp at the rear and 2Mp on the front. That said, it feels tough and

well built, while 4G data is fast and effortless to use, assuming you're in a

zone with good signal, such as a city centre. Stray into the sticks and unless

you can find wi-fi, you're down to 3G or slower: fine for email, less so for the

web.



Verdict A mobile data bargain - assuming Vodafone coverage.



{{{{(vodafone.ie BEST FOR BATTERY Lenovo Yoga Tablet 2 (8in) (EURO)259.99 The

Yoga is quirky but practical. The cylinder at the base of the screen contains a

battery big enough to power the tablet for up to 18 hours between recharges;

real-world use suggests more like 12 hours, but it's still double the life of

any other tablet on test. It also houses a kick-stand on a hinge that lets you

prop up the tablet in landscape mode at any angle you like, or hang from a hook

- useful in a kitchen or other messy environment - and a pair of speakers for

decent stereo sound. On the downside, teasing out the stand from its position

flush against the rear case is not easy, and the design is heavy and awkward to

hold. The Yoga 2's 8in display contains 192200 pixels for 283ppi, its cameras

are a rear-facing 8Mp and a 1.6Mp on the front, there's 16GB of memory and it

takes MICROSD cards of up to 64GB. Like all the tablets tested bar the Nexus 9

it comes with "bloatware" - services installed by the maker that you might not

be able to remove. The Yoga 2 is the most weighed down by these largely

unnecessary apps.



Verdict Brilliant battery life and useful upright desktop mode.



??? www.lenovo.com/ie BEST FOR DISPLAY Google Nexus 9 from (EURO)399 Nexus

products are endorsed by Google and are intended as showcases for its latest

Android software and apps. They also used to be great value for money, but this

tablet is nudging Apple-price territory. So is it worth the cost? It is made by

HTC for Google, and you get a lovely 8.9in display with 2048x1536 pixels for a

best-in-test 281ppi, plus it runs the latest version of Android - Lollipop -

which as well as performance tweaks brings a clean new look to the operating

system. The 8Mp rear and 1.6Mp front-facing cameras are the most impressive here

too - but not as good as the iPad's ones, if you must use a tablet to take shots

- while its 2.3GHZ processor is also the most powerful of our four. Among the

optional accessories are a clever case that doubles as a stand, with a corner

that folds back to expose the rear camera, and a magnetic wireless

keyboard/cover. But build quality is disappointing for the price, and there's no

way of expanding the 16GB of memory unless you plump for the 32GB version.



Verdict Looks overpriced in this company. ????? www.google.co.uk/nexus/9 BUYER'S

GUIDE Apple or Android? The iPad Mini was Apple's answer to small Android

tablets such as these, and despite being late to the party in some ways it is

the best. The 7.9in Mini 3 offers an outstanding screen resolution of 326ppi,

has a best-in-class rear camera and runs on a chip designed by Apple for its

mobile devices. It's supported too by the App Store and its 500,000-plus

tablet-optimised apps (there are far fewer for Android tablets). But the Mini 3

starts at (EURO)409 for a 16GB device, and no option to expand it with cheap

memory cards. If you use a tablet for web browsing, watching video, emails and

playing big-name games - most of which have Android versions as good as Apple

ones - then these devices hold their own against the Mini.



KitKat or Lollipop? All here bar the Nexus 9 run Android 4.4 - aka KitKat - the

second mostrecent version of Google's operating system. It's featurepacked,

although anyone used to Apple software will think it a little messy, especially

should you venture into the needlessly complicated settings. Version 5 - aka

Lollipop - brings a minimalist and attractive new look to the software,

particularly if in the main you use Google's own apps, such as Gmail and Chrome,

which have benefited from a similar makeover.



LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STS





                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





