

Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to the former
Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over to
Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do so.
You can sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called Google
Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every inch of the planet
within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say it is the
ultimate armchair travel experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available
to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available
to pretty much anyone, for free.

"Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely. People are stunned when they see this.
It's so powerful, they almost don't know what to do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer
than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In
technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to six
inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features such as mountains and lakes
are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people in
Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is
already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says
Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google. "The same information
is available to anyone who flies above or drives by a piece of property."

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go
to http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows
users and only in English. Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows
you to "walk" around actual buildings. And sophisticated video technology allows
for "fluid, free-form" exploration. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around
whatever they see.

"You can literally explore a destination before you get there," says Broadhead.

That may take away some of the surprise factor for travellers, but sometimes
that's a good thing.

