

Let's get this out of the way first: The latest Nexus smartphone from Google is
made by Huawei, a company seen by many as inferior to some other phone brands.

But it is about time the Chinese company, which has been making phones for a
very long time, gets some well-deserved recognition.

The latest partner of Google for its Nexus devices has already turned heads with
the 6P, yet many might not know that Huawei has been making well-designed
unibody Android phones since the beginning of the year.

The Huawei Ascend Mate 7, which came out in February, is a 6-inch phablet that
offers a responsive fingerprint sensor, while the Huawei P8 refines that build
in a smaller, 5.2-inch frame.

The Nexus 6P is a natural evolution of those devices, and it adds a QHD display,
12MP rear camera and the latest Android 6 operating system.

It comes in a thin chassis, with a small bump at the top rear, where the camera
and flash module are housed.

The QHD screen has become a standard with flagship smartphones from LG and
Samsung, so it is great to have a Nexus device offering it as well.

<ul class="background-story">  PRICE: 64GB $949
  128GB $1,049

PROCESSOR: Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 octa-core (Quad-core 1.55 GHz + Quad-core 2.0
GHz)

DISPLAY: 5.7-inch AMOLED Corning Gorilla Glass 4, 1,440 x 2,560 pixels (518 ppi
pixel density)

OPERATING SYSTEM: Android 6 (Marshmallow)

MEMORY: 64/128 GB, (No expandable memory) 3 GB RAM

CAMERA: (Rear) 12 MP, 4,608 x 2,592 pixels, laser autofocus, dual-LED flash.
(Front) 8MP

BATTERY: 3450 mAh (non removable)

FEATURES: 4/5

PERFORMANCE: 5/5

DESIGN: 4/5

BATTERY LIFE: 5/5

VALUE FOR MONEY: 4/5

OVERALL: 4/5

The screen delivered very well-defined graphics details and a colour
presentation that looks richer than real life, even with the brightness dialled
down.

The camera itself is also remarkable and comparable with the LG G4 and Samsung
Galaxy Note 5. While one might scowl at the 12MP offered here, compared with the
16MP on the Note 5, Huawei has used a larger 1.55-micron sensor which captures
more light.

This produces better low-light shots and brighter colours when used indoors. The
camera is also capable of recording 4K video, up to an astonishing 240 frames
per second.

There is no optical image stabilising, though I have yet to encounter any issues
with shooting while moving. That said, I still prefer the softer colours
produced by the Note 5, and I miss having the Lock Exposure settings of the Note
5 and iPhone 6S Plus. Also, for pro users out there, there is no option to shoot
in RAW format.

The High Dynamic Range (HDR) mode felt slightly laggy, which could mean that the
6P has a hardware-based HDR feature.

While I have grown accustomed to fingerprint sensors on phones, I have never
liked their positioning at the bottom of the screen. Activating biometrics with
one hand, especially when holding on to a phablet, is often a precarious
endeavour. The 6P's sensor is positioned at the rear where your forefinger
normally sits, which makes plenty of sense.

Sensor response is also very fast, so there is almost no delay in waking up the
Nexus 6P.

The phone is also one of the first to make use of a Type-C connector. Two cables
are provided. The USB to Type-C one connects your phone to your laptop and
current USB chargers. The Type-C to Type-C cable works with the provided Nexus
6P charger that supports fast charging.

While it is a hassle to start buying more Type-C cables, I like the stability
and sturdiness of the new larger connectors.

There is no wireless charging option. However, Android 6 has a powerful Doze
mode that runs in the background. If the phone is stationary and not connected
to a charger, the device will go into a lower-power idle mode that limits
notifications, aside from calls and SMS messages.

This means that at night, the phone on your dresser will not start ringing due
to game app notifications, which increases the stand-by battery life of your
phone.


o VERDICT: The Huawei Nexus 6P is a remarkable phone that makes up for some
missing smartphone features with new ones of its own.

