

Samsung Electronics Co halted sales of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones and asked
consumers to stop using the ones they've already purchased, another blow to
South Korea's largest company as it struggles with a crisis over exploding
batteries. Shares plunged, cutting $17 billion from its market value.

Samsung has already recalled the Note 7 once and the latest move comes after
customers reported that replacement phones were also catching fire. Samsung may
be forced to scrap an entire generation of Note smartphones, one of its two most
important phone lines, a severe setback in its competition with rivals like
Apple Inc.

The crisis has left millions of premium smartphone buyers looking for an
alternative. The obvious candidate is Apple's iPhone 7, but Google's slick new
Pixel device could get a lift, too.

Many people upgrade their phones during the Christmas shopping season, giving
Apple and Google an opportunity to fill the Samsung vacuum - and making it even
harder for the South Korean company to bounce back. The Pixel may be especially
appealing to Samsung users looking for another device that runs the Android
operating system.

The crisis has left Samsung scrambling to figure out the cause of the battery
fires and to explain how a company known for manufacturing expertise could have
missed such a critical product flaw twice. Samsung originally blamed one battery
supplier for the problems and switched to an alternative company, but it is now
investigating the issue again.

"It must find the cause and clearly say what it will do about it," said Yoo
Jong-woo, an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co.

Samsung shares fell 8 percent, the largest drop since 2008. The company has
growing competition for customers shopping for premium smartphones as they head
into the holiday shopping season.

A woman looks at her mobile phone as she rides an escalator past an
advertisement for Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 device at a Samsung store in the
Gangnam district of Seoul on Tuesday.AFP

(China Daily USA 10/12/2016 page14)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1496/2/147627200647.jpg

00221917e13e1967be3303.jpg

