

Oculus Rift was once synonymous with virtual reality in the same way the iPod
was with the MP3 player. Now the market has expanded to include a wide range of
platforms that vary in quality, cost and a few other parameters. VR may not be
an essential purchase just yet, but the time has never been better for those
looking to dip their toe into what is arguably the future of home entertainment.

Google Cardboard is very much the entry-level VR experience at about (EURO)20.
Users can either purchase the Cardboard with a pre-manufactured frame or
construct their own using basic, low-cost parts such as velcro, Sellotape and
cardboard, fitting them to the lenses provided.

In order to function, the Cardboard requires a smartphone running at least
Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean) or iOS, which is inserted at the front. The headset's
lenses then convert the phone's screen into an enveloping virtual reality,
although at this price point it's unsurprisingly one of the least convincing VR
headsets available.

The Cardboard's bigger brother, on the other hand, is a much more powerful
device. Google's Daydream View also requires the help of an Android smartphone,
namely its own recently released Pixel, though the company promises that more
"Daydream-ready" phones are on the way.

The Pixel, as well as its operating system, Nougat, is being developed with VR
in mind, and the Daydream will be able to take full advantage of the phone's
head-tracking algorithms and sensors.

HTC, Samsung, Asus, LG, Xiaomi, Alcatel, and ZTA have all announced Daydream
compatible phones but it takes more than hardware to create a successful
platform. Google has partnered with HBO, Netflix, Hulu, Lionsgate, NBA, MLB and
the Wall Street Journal to develop an impressive catalogue of apps as well as
flexing its YouTube muscles to bring in content creators like lifecaster Justine
Ezarik (also known as iJustine) and the Dolan twins (of AwesomenessTV) who will
create unique 360-degree promotional material.

Daydream View is an aesthetic departure from its rivals, sporting a cloth-based
frame as opposed to the industry standard's solid plastic. This makes it both
comfortable to wear and hand-washable - a reasonable selling point as prolonged
use of any headset can leave the user with a reasonably sweaty brow. The
material comes in three colour variations: Slate at launch with Crimson and Snow
available later down the line.

Similar to Cardboard and Daydream, the Samsung Gear VR works in partnership with
an Android phone. Provided you already own a Galaxy Note5, Galaxy S6, S7, or any
of their Edge and Plus variations the Gear VR is an incredibly cheap and
powerful alternative at around (EURO)60.

While the recent mass recall of faulty Galaxy S7 Edges doesn't necessarily
reflect poorly on the Gear VR, it does serve as a reminder that a faulty phone
means a faulty VR device. Buyer, beware.

Originally demoed back in 2014, the HTV Vive got a full release in April of this
year to almost universally positive reviews. As one of the most powerful virtual
reality headsets available right now the cost of more than (EURO)900 is steep,
yet that doesn't factor in the potentially steeper cost of upgrading or even
buying a PC capable of running software for the device.

The Vive is a graphically demanding headset, requiring roughly triple the power
of a typical gaming PC. Gaming rigs rocking anything less than Nvidea's Geforce
GTX 970 will likely need beefing up in order to run most of what the HTC has to
offer. Gameplay is projected onto two screens simultaneously (one for each eye)
at 1200 x 1080 resolution, making even low-intensity indie games a reasonably
big task to render.

The result of all this processing power is a thoroughly immersive gameplay
experience, further intensified by the Vive's unique controllers. The wireless
motion tracked controllers feature a comfortable trigger as well as
squeezeactivated buttons, which translate perfectly when the user attempts pick
up an object or otherwise interact with a digital world.

This digital world demands adequate space, however. While HTC recommends 2
metres x 1.5 metres some games issue a warning on startup if the user attempts
to play in anything less than 3m x 3m. A front-facing camera can be toggled to
provide picture-in-picture view of the surrounding area, allowing you to
maintain a safe distance from obstacles.

Further limiting your area of play is the sheer volume of cabling required to
hook the Vive up. While not a deal breaker, a wired VR connection might not be
for everyone, especially considering the headset weighs in at 555g before
everything's even plugged in.

The Oculus Rift is easily the Vive's biggest competitor with a similar level of
graphical fidelity and (EURO)200 knocked off the cost. The hardware requirements
are only slightly lower - you'll still want a pretty beastly PC to make the Rift
do its thing - and physical space is a non-issue with most software allowing you
to remain seated, negating any issues with cabling.

This crowdfunded machine's biggest drawback is lack of motion controls. The long
awaited Touch controllers are still in development, so for now players will need
to settle for the Xbox One game pad - a perfectly viable method of interaction
that unfortunately can't compare to the Vive's slick and visceral triggers.

In October, Oculus acquired the Irish micro-LED developer InfiniLED, a
Cork-based company specialising in the development of wearable displays and TV
screens. According to www.Uploadvr.com, InfiniLED has moved into Oculus
Research's new Cork offices in order to further develop inorganic LEDS, which
will reduce the Rift's power consumption without compromising visual quality.

The purchase of InfiniLED indicates that we'll either see a new, cheaper
generation of Rifts down the line, or at least a price drop for the original
Oculus as a more efficient version hits the market.

At (EURO)400, PlayStation VR seems to hit the sweet spot of affordability
without overly compromising quality. Similar to the Rift and Vive, external
hardware is essential, though here in the form of a PlayStation 4. The
difference is that in this case all hardware is created equal. Whether you
bought a PS4 at launch, just as PSVR released, or plan on waiting for the
upcoming PS4 Pro, Sony's headset will work just as efficiently regardless.

That said, in order to let the PSVR headset talk to your console you'll need to
drop a little extra cash on the PS4 camera, which clocks in at (EURO)60.

Optionally the PS Move motion controllers also run to (EURO)35, although the
standard PS4 controller works just fine.

Much like the Oculus Rift, some games are a little jarring without motion
controls but for titles such as EVE: Valkyrie (which is available on both
platforms) a game pad is actually preferable.

Virtual reality has crested through its content drought with plenty of games and
interactive experiences on the horizon that make any of these headsets a
worthwhile purchase. The one thing holding it back is potential motion sickness
as some but not all users complain of nausea after prolonged use, and in some
cases any use at all.

As unhelpful a cliché as it's become virtual reality needs to be experienced to
be truly understood. The most important aspect to take away is that the
technology works. Just how well it works will depend on how much money you're
willing to part with in return for a tour of a virtual world.

The Vive is a graphically demanding headset, requiring roughly triple the power
of a typical gaming PC

