                              848 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung shares plunge on Note 7 sales halt



BYLINE: Bloomberg



LENGTH: 307  words





Samsung Electronics Co halted sales of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones and asked

consumers to stop using the ones they've already purchased, another blow to

South Korea's largest company as it struggles with a crisis over exploding

batteries. Shares plunged, cutting $17 billion from its market value.



Samsung has already recalled the Note 7 once and the latest move comes after

customers reported that replacement phones were also catching fire. Samsung may

be forced to scrap an entire generation of Note smartphones, one of its two most

important phone lines, a severe setback in its competition with rivals like

Apple Inc.



The crisis has left millions of premium smartphone buyers looking for an

alternative. The obvious candidate is Apple's iPhone 7, but Google's slick new

Pixel device could get a lift, too.



Many people upgrade their phones during the Christmas shopping season, giving

Apple and Google an opportunity to fill the Samsung vacuum - and making it even

harder for the South Korean company to bounce back. The Pixel may be especially

appealing to Samsung users looking for another device that runs the Android

operating system.



The crisis has left Samsung scrambling to figure out the cause of the battery

fires and to explain how a company known for manufacturing expertise could have

missed such a critical product flaw twice. Samsung originally blamed one battery

supplier for the problems and switched to an alternative company, but it is now

investigating the issue again.



"It must find the cause and clearly say what it will do about it," said Yoo

Jong-woo, an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co.



Samsung shares fell 8 percent, the largest drop since 2008. The company has

growing competition for customers shopping for premium smartphones as they head

into the holiday shopping season.



(China Daily 10/12/2016 page13)



LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





