                              84 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                    September 29, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Google Pixel XL Renderings Show It Has Replicated Google Pixel



BYLINE: Wrik Sen



LENGTH: 422  words





The newest renderings show that the Pixel XL may have similar form factor to the

Google Pixel, after from new changes in the UI.



Even though the October 4 event is around the corner, it seems speculations

around Google's latest products is already filling up the market. In a latest

revelation of renderings, it seems that the Google Pixel XL handset, which is

set to get revealed alongside Google Pixel, are actually quiet reminiscent of

each other. VentureBeat in its latest posting claimed the latest renderings to

be the design for the Google Pixel XL handset which is the latest series of

products from Google, under the new brand name, ever since they let go of the

Nexus branding. Other similarities included the UI and launcher like the Pixel

launcher, and new icons being solid filled instead of being plain borders at the

bottom of the screen.



Other revelations about the new Pixel XL include the Home Screen buttons

alongside the other changes. The new rounded icon design could just be exclusive

to the Pixel and the Pixel XL handsets, as per the speculations. Not even the

other phones running the Android 7.0 Nougat would have those.



[Home Screen buttons on Pixel as shared by Android Police on it's website. From

top to bottom: Android 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, Pixel leak]



The form factor as mentioned earlier, does indeed look familiar. However, for

those looking at an upgrade in the Android experience, the UI of the new Nougat

edition of the Android OS, should see a 3D user experience, much like what

Apple's 3D technology entails. The additional challenge here would be to design

the hardware in such a way, that there might not be extra changes needed to

incorporate the new 3D user interface.



Since nothing is really official yet, AndroidPolice has revealed what it

considers the most probable specifications of the Pixel XL handset. Currently

codenamed Marlin, the handset is known to have a 5.5-inch QHD display, a

quad-core 2.0 GHz 64-bit processor, 4GB of RAM, 32GB of internal storage, apart

from a 3450 mAh battery, a 12 MP rear camera, and a 8MP version for the front

selfie shooter. Additionally, there could be the headphone jack on the top, a

Type-C USB port at the bottom, and a fingerprint scanner on the rear.



Not just this, the October 4 event is also expected reveal about Andromeda, the

supposed merger OS of the Android and Chrome OS from Google. Following this,

there is the expected details about the Google Wi-fi router, Chromecast Ultra,

and the Google Home Assistant, which could be revealed to the public.



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





