

CREATIVE Technology last week launched the Creative DiVi CAM 516, a mini digital
camcorder that also doubles as a 5.1-megapixel digital camera, MP3 player, voice
recorder and webcam. Available in three colours, the device is able to record
videos at 30 frames per second at a resolution of 640 x 480 pixels, and can also
be hooked up to a TV to playback the videos. The $249 camcorder works on four
commonly available 'AAA' size batteries, and has 32 MB of internal memory which
can be expanded via a Secure Digital memory card expansion slot.

Google Adwords in Salesforce

HOSTED business application solutions provider Salesforce has released
Salesforce for Google AdWords, a service which enables its customers to offer
Google's search engine marketing service, Google AdWords. It will be available
as part of Salesforce's online application marketplace, AppExchange. During the
pilot phase beginning on Aug 22, Salesforce for Google AdWords is available as a
free 30-day trial to all Salesforce customers. It will cost US$300 per
organisation per month upon release, currently planned for the second half of
this year.

5-megapixel twister phone from LG

LG's latest phone, the KG920, will appeal to shutterbugs with its 5-megapixel
auto-focus camera and a 2-inch LCD screen that can rotate 180 degrees to let
users capture shots from any angle. The 18.9mm thin KG920 is also able to
capture videos at 30 frames per second at a resolution of 640x480 pixels. Other
photography-related features include a flash that is effective up to 1.5 metres,
and the ability to take a burst of six consecutive shots. The triband phone also
features Bluetooth connectivity, MP3 playback capabilities and a Mini Secure
Digital memory card slot for expansion. It will be available in September at
$998 without a phone plan.

Sandisk offers 4GB memory card

IF you're looking for more storage space for digital images or digital audio
files, then Sandisk's latest 4GB Secure Digital High Capacity (SDHC) memory card
might just fit the bill. SDHC is a new specification designed for high-capacity
memory cards from 4GB to 32GB. While the SDHC cards look identical to SD cards,
they will only work with SDHC-compatible products. The Sandisk 4GB memory card
comes bundled with a USB card reader that reads both SDHC and SD cards. It is
expected to be priced around US$149.99.

Palm offers at electronics show

LOOKING for a Palm PDA? Head on down to the Palm booth at consumer electronics
show Comex from Aug 31 to Sep 3 at the Singapore Expo to get the Palm Treo 650
smartphone at a discounted price of $899 (usual price $968), and also get a free
Palm Z22 PDA worth $228. There will also be Palm Limited Edition Treo 650 Trip
Kits worth $299 each, to be given away to the first 50 customers. The Trip Kit
includes a leather case for Treo accessories, a leather case for the Treo, a
Bluetooth headset, a Treo in-vehicle charger, an extra battery, a stylus pen and
an international travel charger. The Palm TX is also on sale at $479 (usual
price $548), and comes with a free 1GB memory card and a Palm leather case.
Other Palm PDAs are also available at promotional prices, and Palm is also
running a trade-in programme. Find out more at www.palm.com

RIM releases 1st 3G version of BlackBerry

RESEARCH In Motion has released its first 3G version of its popular BlackBerry
handsets, the BlackBerry 8707g. The quad-band handset, coupled with its 3G
network compatibility, allows BlackBerry addicts to get their email almost
anywhere in the world. The device is currently available from StarHub and
SingTel at $948 without a contract. Compiled by ROLAND LIM

