                              858 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday



First look: Samsung Ativ S



SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight



LENGTH: 630 words





Battery and storage



The Samsung Ativ S values practicality over aesthetics in its design. Its

removable case makes it easy for you to replace the battery with a spare should

the juice run dry. It also allows you to insert a microSD card to expand the

phone's storage capacity.



Speaker



Unfortunately, the phone's speaker is placed at the rear bottom area. When you

hold the phone, your palm will block the speaker, resulting in muffled audio.



Placing the phone on the table does not help as the speaker will be firing

downwards onto its surface. Your best bet is to use a pair of wired or

Bluetooth-enabled earphones.



Display



Among the Windows Phone 8 line-up of devices, the Ativ S takes the lead with its

massive 4.8-inch display. But with a larger display and a screen resolution of

720 x 1,280 pixels, you get a lower display density of 306 pixels per inch.

Nonetheless, its Super Amoled display technology, which is generally more power

efficient and delivers richer colours, enhances its display prowess.



Physical buttons



The power and camera buttons are situated on the right of the device. Locating

them is relatively easy as the buttons are sufficiently raised from the surface.



Start button



Unlike most Windows Phone devices, the Samsung smartphone chose to use a

physical key for its Start button, while its back and

search keys remain as touch-sensitive buttons. A physical button is much easier

to click but repeated clicking may result in a damaged button.



Tips & tricks



Shared Google calendars



If you have shared calendars in your Google account, here are some extra steps

to take before they show up on your phone:



1. Launch Internet Explorer on your Windows phone, then go to M.google.com/sync

and sign in to your Google account.



2. Select your Windows Phone device. By default, it should be named Windows

Phone.



3. Select the additional calendars.



4. Click on the Start button, swipe left and down until you find Settings.

Select Email+Account, press and hold on Google account and select Sync. Your

shared Google calendars will now appear in the Calendar hub.



Automatic photo upload



Switch on Automatic Photo Uploads if you want to ensure that your photos are

accessible from your phone and any PC when you log in to your SkyDrive account.



Be warned that this may also jack up your data usage. If you wish to keep your

data usage in check, keep this function switched off. You can do this via

Settings, then Backup and turning it off in the Photos option.



Multi-tasking



As in earlier versions, you activate multi-tasking by holding down the Back

button on your Windows Phone. This will bring up the thumbnails of recently used

apps on your phone.



Only up to seven apps will be listed, so you will have to go back to your Start

screen to find apps that were opened much earlier.



Clicking on the back button will let you exit and close an app, allowing another

app to be featured on the multi-task menu.



Selecting the app in the multi-task menu will bring you back to the exact point

where you left off, so if you were conversing halfway in WhatsApp, it will bring

you back to the conversation.



However, if you were to return to the Start screen and enter the app, you will

not continue where you left off. This is inconvenient.



Downloading apps



Apps and games are deposited quite differently on Windows Phone. All apps are

found under the app list, which is accessed by swiping left on the Start screen.

Games are stored separately under the Games hub, which is also linked to your

Xbox gamertag.



Apps can also be pushed to your phone via the Windows Phone store website. But

you will need to allow push notifications on your Windows Phone before you can

send apps to that device. Go to Settings, followed by Find My Phone. Select Send

Apps To My Phone Using Push Notifications.



LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





