

Microsoft Lumia 950, £419.99, microsoftstore.com

Running on Windows 10, this phone could easily double up as a PC. However, with
a 5.2-inch WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up
to a larger monitor. The bright colours are crystal clear and there's even
'sunlight readability enhancements', which basically means if you're watching
outdoors, the quality  won't be reduced. Taking films and photos yourself? This
model has 4k video resolution, 3x video zoom and your snaps can be up to 20mp.

Huawei P8, £299.99,  carphonewarehouse.com

This phone  certainly looks pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, it's
packed with quality too. Huawei  is a market leading brand in the East and this
model highlights why. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display works a charm and its
Emotion UI function  lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to warm.The
camera comes with a good set of options and extras, including optical image
stabilisation. You'll struggle to find a better value phone.

iPhone 6s Plus, £619, apple.com

Like an actor with  an Oscar nomination every year, it's hard to top the appeal
of an iPhone - and it'd be impossible to not include the latest Apple model in
the best screen awards. The iPhone 6s Plus comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD
display and 1920x1080 pixel resolution. Yet, with this model, it's  about the
ease of use. The 3D Touch function will recognise how much pressure you're
applying to the screen and react accordingly.  Your pictures will be bold,
bright and unbelievably detailed, while the 4K video you record will be
practically blockbuster quality.

Google Nexus 5X, £299, store.google.com

From the moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the wallpaper colours,
you just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, tthe
5.2-inch Full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are super sharp. As
for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright lights - picking up
on the finer details (and colours) of what you're filming.

Moto X Force, £499, motorola.co.uk

Clumsy people unite! Motorola's X Force comes with the claim that it has 'the
world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be watching films
through annoying cracks. Despite the phone focusing on its super-strength lens,
its display packs a powerful punch and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display
with 540ppi, which gives deep, rich colours when you're using your phone as a
TV. The camera is also great quality - in fact, you'll be able to take 21mp
snaps on the camera and there's 1080p video capture facility.

Sony Xperia Z5 Premium, £599, sonymobile.com

Given Sony produces great TVs, it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone
focuses on ensuring its display is of the highest quality. In fact, it's sold as
'the world's first 4K smartphone' and when you take into account its ppi is 806
(its competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this phone
isn't the market leader when it comes to display capabilities.

