                              860 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                           The Sunday Times (London)



                           September 29, 2013 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



MIGHTY MINNOWS YOU'LL WANT TO CATCH ONE-HANDED;

Android 7-inch tablets are powerful and portable. Matt Bingham tries five



SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 18,19



LENGTH: 973 words





7-INCH TABLETS



BUYER'S GUIDE



WHY GO FOR THIS SIZE?



Small tablets hit a sweet spot between usability and portability.



Their 7in displays are nearly twice the size of a 5in smartphone's, making them

better devices for, say, web browsing or video, but you can still hold them

single-handed.



HOW ARE THESE DIFFERENT FROM AN iPAD MINI?



They're cheaper (the Mini starts at £269) and all have higher-resolution

displays (although the Mini's screen is 7.9in).



The Mini has a metal case and its cameras are better.



Apple will release a new version soon, with a higher pixel count.



WHAT CAN THESE TABLETS DO?



Thanks to wi-fi and Bluetooth, they can get you online, manage email and will

work with wireless speakers.



There are now lots of games in the Android store, and these tablets will play

most of them.



Their micro-USB ports mean you can connect them to TVs using a cheap cable, and

top up the battery using most non-Apple chargers.



BEST FOR BUSINESS USE LENOVO IDEATAB A3000 £150



The A3000 gives you a pair of Sim slots - useful if you divide your time between

two countries, say - and the 1024 x 600-pixel screen works out at 170ppi.



It's bright and attractive, with pixelation noticeable only when you are reading

small text.



The 16GB memory can be expanded by up to 64GB via a micro-SD card.



A useful feature is support for USB OTG (On-the-Go): buy a compatible cable for

a few pounds and you can attach and power-up flash drives and keyboards through

the micro-USB slot, turning the tablet into a serious piece of kit.



piece of kit Like all Nexus 7 rivals hereLike all Nexus 7 rivals here it's

chunky and heavy in comparison at 345g, but its "grippy" rear cover is handy.

Verdict Add some affordable accessories and Sim card(s) to make this a genuine

laptop replacement. HHHHI www.lenovo.com/uk



BEST FOR PERFORMANCE



NEXUS 7 (2013) £199



The first Nexus 7, released by Google and Asus a little over a year ago, proved

that a budget tablet could still be fast and boast a great screen.



Its successor is even more impressive: never has such a high-resolution display

been put into such an affordable device. y Google ago, could still reen. Its

ressive: lution n Its 192080 pixels give 323 pixels per inch (ppi) in a case

just 8.65mm thick.



That, plus its 290g weight, means the Nexus 7 can be held single-handed for

hours.



The screen is brighter, more detailed and more vibrant than any on test, and the

tablet has twice the Ram of its rivals here, helping it speed through tasks.



Being a Google-branded device, it's the only one on test to run the latest

version of Android, 4.3, which usefully allows the creation of separate user

profiles - if you can bear to share the device.



The battery will run for up to 10 hours. The entrylevel model has 16GB of

storage, but unlike the rest on test cannot be upgraded with memory cards (a

32GB version costs £239; a 3G Sim version is expected soon at £299).



The 5Mp rear and 1.2Mp front cameras are none too great, but otherwise this is

excellent hardware that's worth its price premium. Verdict Move over, iPad Mini

- this is the best small tablet you can buy. *****



www.google.co.uk/nexus/7



BEST FOR BACK-UP



HP SLATE 7 £99



Heavy and with an unimpressive display, the HP has a bargain-basement build

that's hard to disguise, but it does handle pretty much every task you throw at

it, making it a suitable back-up device or child's tablet. The screen is the

sticking point: at 1024x600 pixels - giving 169ppi - it's got decent resolution,

but looks dull to the point of graininess. Unusually here it has a 16:9 aspect

ratio: good for watching widescreen films, but web pages get stretched to fill

the space. It has 8GB of storage, expandable by up to 32GB via a memory card, a

3Mp rear camera and low-res front one though of thoseand low-res front one,

though of those on test it runs the oldest version of Android - 4.1.1 - and has

a battery life of about four hours. But it works with HP's wireless printing

technology, if you have a compatible printer, plus there's a good-quality case

for £25.



Verdict Highly affordable - but not fun. **



www.hp.com/uk



BEST FOR AFFORDABILITY



TESCO HUDL £119



The sale mo 238 ab lo £in ow "Te on take are The supermarket giant's first

tablet, on sale tomorrow, gives you a lot for the money: a 1440 x 900-pixel

display for 238ppi, a quad-core processor and about nine hours of battery life.

Tesco loyalty card users can get it for just £60 in points (that's a hefty

£6,000 in baked beans). Unlike Amazon's own-brand Kindle Fire HD (£159), the

"Tesco tablet" adds only a few extras on top of regular Android: a "T" button

takes you to a Tesco web page; there are similar shortcuts on the home screen;

and you get apps for Tescoowned Blinkbox film and music streams (with book

downloads coming soon). The 16GB of memory can be upgraded by a further 32GB.

This is a fairly slim, 370g device with an excellent screen that keeps its store

tie-ins to a minimum.



Verdict High-quality kit at a great price. ****



www.tesco.co.uk/hudl



BEST FOR NON-BRANDED ANDROID



ASUS MEMO PAD HD 7 £130



Nexus 7-maker Asus also has a 7in tablet, cheaper than the class-leader but

lagging behind in specifications. The MEMO Pad's display has 1280x800 pixels for

a respectable 216ppi, and the screen is sharp and bright. It has a high

contrast, although it's a little less attractive than the Hudl's. Unlike Tesco's

tablet, you get pretty much pure Android - whether that's worth the price hike

over the Hudl is your call. The 16GB device can take micro-SD cards of up to

32GB and has a battery life of about nine hours. Like all here, the processor

had no problem running apps quickly and loading web pages without fuss. Where

corners have been cut is in the build: the glossy plastic back cover and 11mm

depth make this a tricky hold for extended periods, but it feels light at 302g.

Verdict You'd rather have a Hudl. ***uk.asus.com



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STS





                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





