                              861 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Google has coming-out party for Assistant;

Goal is 'a personal Google for each and every user,' CEO Sundar Pichai says of

star of hardware unveil



BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 569 words





The star of Google's splashy launch event was the one with the speaking part:

the super-smart digital helper Assistant whose task is to maintain the Internet

giant's tight grip on consumers and their wallets as their attention shifts to

smartphones and Internet-connected devices.



Assistant will create a "conversation between our users and Google," CEO Sundar

Pichai said  Tuesday. The goal: "A personal Google for each and every user,"

Pichai said.



Assistant is central to a new and  aggressive push by Google to sell its own

consumer electronic devices rather than supplying the software to manufacturers.



Tuesday, Google executives showed off a series of gadgets:



A new line of Pixel smartphones with a powerful camera and long-lasting battery

-- not to mention the dedicated headphone jack -- to compete with Apple's

iPhone.



A new Home Internet-connected speaker device that responds to voice commands

like Amazon's Echo.



A virtual reality headset called Daydream View.



A Wi-Fi system.



A new version of Chromecast's media-streaming device.



Diving into hardware is a risky  move, yet Google needs its own devices to make

sure its online services and digital ads stay front and center with consumers.

What distinguishes the new wave of devices: years of investment in artificial

intelligence that produced the Assistant.



Tuesday, Google introduced two new devices that have the Google Assistant baked

in: Home and the Pixel smartphones, both vessels to showcase what the Assistant

can do and to "get Assistant in the hands of our users," Pichai said.



Google launched Assistant last month in Allo, a new messaging app. It's similar

to digital helpers such as Apple's Siri, Amazon's Alexa and Microsoft's Cortana.



"The Assistant was clearly at the center of the announcement today," Gartner

research analyst Brian Blau said. "Google is building a brand around their

ecosystem in a way they have not done before, and they are using this Assistant

as the glue that's going to tie together not only the new devices and how you

use them, but a lot of the services and apps Google has made popular over the

years."



Rick Osterloh, chief of the company's new hardware division, told reporters

Google will now focus on this intersection of hardware and software.



Google has struggled with hardware in the past. Its Google Glass wearable device

fizzled, and it recently abandoned a project to develop modular phones. Google's

Android software powers most of the world's smartphones, but sales of Nexus

phones have lagged other devices. Osterloh joined Google in April to create a

cohesive hardware strategy and bring the company's hardware groups into one

division.



"It lets us take full advantage of our capabilities like the Google Assistant

and lets us harness years of expertise we have built up in machine learning and

AI to deliver the simple, smart and fast experiences that users expect from us,"

he said.



At the heart of Pichai's vision for Google's future is the belief that we are

increasingly moving toward a world that runs on artificial intelligence, meaning

no matter what screen we are interacting with -- a smartphone or a smart-home

device -- we will be helped by the invisible hands of smart machines that answer

our questions and help us complete everyday tasks.



"This is Google's bread and butter," says Jan Dawson,  analyst with Jackdaw

Research. "A failure would call into question Google's entire value

proposition."



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





