                              862 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                              June 10, 2013 Monday



USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc. titled as "Laying Out

Displaying Media Content Across Heterogeneous Computing Devices"



LENGTH: 268 words



DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va





United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.

20130145251, on June 06, 2013, by Google Inc., titled as "Laying Out Displaying

Media Content Across Heterogeneous Computing Devices" for the registration of

patent.



Inventors:  Jureidini; Imad Maurice; (Arlington, MA) ; Shore; Maurice Bennett;

(Carlisle, MA) ; Kiefer, III; William Frederick; (Cambridge, MA) ; Shalabi; Sami

Mohammed; (Winchester, MA) ; Doll; Cassandra Lynn; (Santa Clara, CA)

Assignee:  Google Inc.

Mountain View

CA



According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A

system, computer-implemented method and computer-readable medium for displaying

edition content of a magazine edition are provided. In a method embodiment, a

virtual pixel space is generated based on the configuration of a screen of a

mobile device. Data structures that include the edition content in a plurality

of items, and a template associated with the magazine edition are received.

Display elements in the HTML document are generated by replacing the references

from the template with corresponding portions of the edition content included in

the items in the data structures. The edition content is generated, based on the

display elements of the HTML document, on the virtual pixel space as to be

rendered on the screen of the mobile device in the magazine edition."



The Patent was filed on December 6, 2011 under application No. 20130145251



For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query

regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





