
DATELINE: Washington


New Organizing Institute has issued the following news release:

This is part 3 of our 5 part tip series this week on Data and Technology. To
talk about these issues and more join us this Saturday, June 28th for UpRoots
Data and Technology. UpRoots is an unconference bringing the lessons and
collaborative spirit we share at RootsCamp year-round. You can get your tickets
here.

Over the past few years there has been an increasing trend towards
high-resolution "retina" screens. A high-DPI (dots per inch), or "retina"
display, is a display that has a significantly larger number of pixels
(individual dots that can be a mixture of red, green, and blue) per square inch,
making text and shapes appear extra crisp and clear.

Viewing text at that size, however, would be nearly impossible, so phones and
computers "scale" the image, usually by a factor of 2. Then they use algorithms
to fill in the extra pixels. Every pixel on my device is scaled to be 4 pixels
-- this means that the text is "vector" based, like the text in this email, and
it appears crisp and clear. Content in a .png or .jpg format, or "raster based,
requires that the device turns 1 pixel into 4, and it appears blurry by
comparison.

So how do we optimize for retina screens? Here are some ways that you can ensure
your content looks good:

Make all your images double the resolution. If an image in your email, or on
your website, is meant to be 300 pixels wide by 50 pixels tall, make sure the
original is 600 pixels wide by 100 pixels tall and set the 300px by 50px image
size in your HTML or CSS. This will allow both retina and non-retina browsers to
determine the best way to scale the image for the user's display.
    Default to using text. Besides just being a best practice for accessibility,
browsers will automatically render text for retina resolutions. For websites, if
you don't like the default fonts available with most browsers, try hosted
services like Google Fonts or consider paying for a webfont via Adobe Typekit.
Unfortunately there is limited support for custom fonts in emails. I recommend
adapting a default font in your email wrappers and make your logos 2x bigger.
    Make your site's icons vector-based. This is also a website-only option, but
consider defaulting to SVG (scalable vector images) for any icons or glyphs on
your website. Browsers will automatically scale these to be crisp at any
resolution.  Though you'll need to do a bit of work to support Internet Explorer
8.

A word of warning: be careful with your file sizes. It's sometimes better to
have one slightly blurry image instead of a very large image that loads slowly
on your user's mobile devices.

If you follow these rules, your content will look great at any resolution!

For further information please visit: http://www.neworganizing.com

