

Android M a.k.a Marshmallow was officially unveiled at the beginning of this
year at I/O developers conference and was finally available through Nexus
devices at the earliest to the customers. Once rolled out for its major devices,
it made sense for Google to start working on the next big thing, Android N.

Pixel C has been built from scratch by Google, and came with an attachable
keyboard to show the flexibility in using a tablet as a laptop. Marshmallow also
demonstrated that Honeycomb was not the last tablet-specific operating system
and Google has worked its way through all the potential issues. However, it is
still not as customizable as you would want it to be, and it does not make full
use of that big screen compared to a mobile phone.

The team working behind the next generation of Android OS, conducted an AMA on
Reddit, (https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/3w3x7p/hi_im_andrew_here_at_
google_and_im_with_the_team/) which has become an extremely popular method of
interacting with the masses. They did not completely reveal what we could see
from Android N, so as to hold on to the excitement, but they did reveal one
small detail which was enough for us to keep going.

Although expected now, Google is working on getting split-screen feature to the
next OS version and we sure can hope it to be more functional than the one in
iOS. With all that real estate, tablets usually do not see much support from
Google and this gives them an opportunity to showcase the potential through
Pixel C. Unlike iPads, tablets are mostly secondary devices for Google and do
not enjoy the same popularity. However, Google is trying to change everything
with Android M.

Remember Samsung had introduced this already long time back with the Note series
and some other companies had followed suit. Then why did Google notice it now?
Thanks to iOS 9. Yes Google and Apple have been trying to outdo each other since
the very beginning and they have been playing the catching-up game for years
now.

Glen Murphy, Director of Android and Chrome UX said,"We're working hard on a
range of enhancements for Android in this form factor. There are many things,
like multi-window, that we've been spending a lot of time on - hopefully we can
share more about this soon." Does multi-window ring a bell? Yes you've seen it
already on iOS 9 launched this year and Apple is already ahead in the game.

"We're working on lots of things right now for N that, of course, we wish we
had, you know, yesterday, but we'd spoil the surprise of N if we shared all of
them. Split screen is in the works," said Andrew Bowers, Consumer Hardware
Director at Google. We believe Google needs to make sure the final product is
better than iOS or it won't make sense to launch it separately through the next
gen OS.

To me, the news is not very exciting, but it does mean that Google is giving it
a very good thought and we might see some interesting features in Android N.

I wish Google would just pay attention to other companies who have been using
this feature from the very beginning, as an additional layer over stalk Android.
Although app support is lacking, but this gives Google an excellent chance to
make it work on its own will.

I really hope Google is able to give a well finished product with some
interesting features like video and messaging at the same for the heavy
smartphone and tablet users in this generation.

