

In just a few days since its release, the trailer for Adam Sandler's upcoming
summer 2015 movie release "Pixels" has set a new viewing record for Sony. A
quick refresher on where the iconic arcade motifs of "Pixels" came from in the
first place, and where to find the games today, on mobile, browser, console or
computer.

Pac-Man (1980)
Happy yellow maze runner, ghost-gobbling Pac-Man eviscerated its competition in
the early 1980s. "Pac-Man Championship Edition" (2007) is available today on iOS
and Android; the supreme "Pac-Man Championship Edition DX" (2010) or "DX+" is on
Xbox Live Arcade, the PlayStation Store, Windows Phone, and Windows PC via
Steam.

Donkey Kong (1981)
At this point, the great ape was facing off against not-yet-Mario, Jumpman;
Nintendo's ongoing ownership of the franchise means that it's on Wii, 3DS and
Wii U as a Virtual Console download. "Crazy Kong," which looked like a rip-off
but was in fact officially licensed, is available to play via
archive.org/details/arcade_ckong.

Space Invaders (1978), Galaxian (1979)
Taito's "Space Invaders" and Namco's "Galaxian" series are cut from similar
cloth, with phalanxes of enemies descending crab-like from the skies. The free
"Galaga 30th Collection" on iOS contains the original with 3 sequels as in-app
purchases. "Space Invaders Infinity Gene" on iOS, Android, 360 and PS3 is
Taito's modern remake.

Q*bert (1982)
This tube-nosed orange fellow is set on ascending a pyramid made out of
hexagonal blocks, a structure that is somehow the logo for our jumpsuited heroes
in "Pixels." "Q*bert Reloaded" is on Windows, Mac and Linux via Steam, and
Android via the Google Play store, and is due PS3, PS4 and Vita.

Joust (1982)
Medieval jousting meets fantasy fiction with this flappy, frantic game of flying
ostriches and pole-carrying riders. The $0.99 "Midway Arcade" on iTunes contains
"Joust" plus five other classics. Six more can be had via two $0.99 in-app
purchases. Internet Archive has the emulated original.

Centipede (1981)
Taking "Space Invaders" and replacing its alien horde with an aggressive
arthropod that's harder to stop with each landed hit, the original is in iOS's
Atari Greatest Hits as a four-game in-app purchase, or numerous other Atari
collections elsewhere. "Centipede Origins" is the modernized mobile update, free
with a slew of IAPs to boost player proficiency.

Breakout (1976)
A brainchild of Atari's Nolan Bushnell and an early success for pre-Apple pair
Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, the bat, ball and breakable wall game went on to
inspire Taito's "Arkanoid" (1986) which, despite confusing the "Pixels"
timeline, appears to be the mould for the film's flying paddles nonetheless.
Atari has Breakout Boost+ on iOS, Super Breakout to play in-browser, and Google
Image Search turns "Atari Breakout" results into another version of the game.

