

BEST FOR PRICE


MOTOROLA MOTO G £135 M driving

BEST BUY

BUDGET ANDROID PHONES

Motorola - now owned by Google - has torn up the rulebook with the Moto G, an
Android handset that with few compromises has the power and highdefinition
screen of phones costing three times the price. It puts any supermarket phone
for the same money in the shade, and is one teenagers' handset they won't
"lose". "And if they do, the device's GPS location hardware and Motorola's own
"lost phone web portal" will help you get it back (the system also works for
lost teenagers). There's a 4.5in display with 1280x720 pixels for a resolution
of about 330 pixels per inch (ppi) - the same ppi as the £469 iPhone 5C - that's
bright and high contrast too. It comes with 8GB of memory and respectable 5Mp
rear and 1.3Mp front-facing cameras. There are even coloured backs and flip
cases to replace boring black.

The Moto G is heavy at 143g but in a good way: it feels tough. A quad-core
processor handled every task we set it. Those compromises? It's thick, at
11.6mm, battery life should get you through the day but not much more, there's
no memory card slot and it's not 4G, though none should be deal breakers for
most users. VerdictThe best value-for-money smartphone - not just among these
four, but so far.

***** www.motorola.co.uk

BEST FOR SCREEN NEXUS 5 £299

Google's fingerprints are all over this handset. It's made by LG for the
internet giant, and as a Nexus device it gets Google's latest software with no
cosmetic tweaks. It has the biggest display of all here and it's a beauty: 4.9in
and 192080 pixels for a remarkably sharp 445ppi, yet the handset is light at
130g and is barely 8.6mm thick. A non-slip rear casing makes for an easy hold.
The 8Mp rear camera has a bright LED flash, but is not as strong a performer as
those found on top-end phones. Battery life is on a par with the Moto G, and any
app or game we threw at it ran without fuss. There's no memory card slot, but
you do get 16GB on board (a 32GB version costs £339) and it will work with all
UK 4G networks. Available in black or white, the Nexus 5 in most respects looks,
feels and behaves like a flagship handset. It was our Best Buy - until the Moto
G stole its thunder.

Verdict Top-end performance for mid-range money. HHHHH www.google.co.uk/nexus/5

HUAWEI ASCEND P6 £280

Affordable Android phones don't have to be characterless bricks. The P6 has the
look and feel of the iPhone and is built from many of the same high-quality
materials but is slimmer (a record-holding 6.18mm thick). It comes in black,
white or pink, weighs just 120g and, for digital narcissists, has a 5Mp
front-facing camera. Your selfies will never have looked so good after you
adjust the "beauty level" (software that enhances your face) and apply
Instagram-style effects. The 4.7in, 1280x720-pixel display gives an excellent
312ppi. The phone runs a highly customised interface: Huawei polled 5m customers
and obviously found they want a potentially headache-inducing amount of
interactive icons and effects. The specs might be underwhelming - no 4G, the
slowest processor on test and 8GB of memory (there is a memory card slot to add
more) - but on fashion credentials this is a star.

Verdict Eye-catching looks, clever cameras. ****

BEST FOR CUSTOM SOFTWARE HTC DESIRE 500 £200

The Desire 500 is the most affordable way of being able to use HTC's excellent
BlinkFeed software. This is a replacement home page comprised of an updating,
magazine-style feed made up of social network postings, plus any news and sports
outlets you add. You scroll down to see more feeds, tap to read any in detail
and swipe to get through to the regular Android running underneath. Take away
the attraction of BlinkFeed, though, and the Desire begins to look
unprepossessing: the 4.3in display has 800x480 pixels for 217ppi and there is
just 4GB of memory (thankfully it has a micro SD slot for an additional memory
card). There's no 4G and it runs the oldest version of Android on test, although
the 8Mp rear camera is no slouch, it weighs 123g and is a slim 9.9mm. It's
available in black or white. Verdict BlinkFeed on a budget.

*** www.carphonewarehouse.com

KNOW YOUR ANDROIDS BUYER'S GUIDE 4.1, 4.2 AND 4.3 JELLY BEAN

The HTC, Huawei and Motorola here all run Android Jelly Bean: versions 4.1, 4.2
and 4.3 respectively. Released 18 months ago, 4.1 introduced Google Now, search
software capable of learning your habits and eventually anticipating them. Email
and other notifications were enhanced, so you could open a web page or call a
number from one of these pull-down messages - a trick adopted by the iPhone.
Version 4.2 introduced gesture typing - sweeping a finger across the keyboard to
"draw" words rather than tap them out - and 4.3 revamped camera software.

4.4 KITKAT

The new name signified a major upgrade to Android. Unveiled in September, KitKat
brought enhanced voice control of the handset, and new apps such as the
Quickoffice software pre-installed. It also tied text messages in to Google's
Hangouts app (don't panic - you can install any texting app you like and make it
the default). Only the Nexus 5 here currently runs KitKat.

