                              868 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

                         1 - All-round Country Edition



Google tablet features put the torch to Kindle Fire



BYLINE: ARIK HESSELDAHL, HANDHELDS



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 36



LENGTH: 464  words





GOOGLE'S Nexus 7 tablet is the same size and price as Amazon. com's Kindle Fire,

but it costs a bit more to build.



Researcher IHS iSuppli took apart the Nexus 7 to analyse its components and

found the hardware cost $US151.75 ($149.20) for the low-end, 8GB model, a slim

margin for the device's $US199 sale price.



But the 16GB model, which sells for $US249, costs only $US7.50 more to build,

for a total of $US159.25, the difference being the price of memory chips.



Andrew Rassweiler, who leads the teardown team at IHS iSuppli, said Google would

break even on the 8GB model but turn a tidy profit on the 16GB.



``Like Apple, Google realises it can boost its profit by offering more memory at

a stair-step price point,'' Mr Rassweiler said.



All told, IHS iSuppli figures the Nexus 7 8GB version costs about $US18 more to

make than the Kindle Fire, which only comes in one version with 8GB of memory.

But that difference could change soon. Amazon is slated to debut a new Kindle

Fire with a better, and probably more expensive, display.



By comparison, Apple's least expensive version of the new iPad with 16GB of

memory sells for $US499 and costs about $US316 to make, according to a previous

IHS iSuppli estimate.



The Nexus 7 is similar to the Kindle Fire tablet in many respects, but has a few

more robust features.



For one thing, it has a Tegra 3 processor from Nvidia as its main computing

engine



That is a four-core chip, meaning it has four main processing brains, two more

than the Kindle Fire's Texas Instruments processor. TI, however, supplied two

chips for the Nexus 7, one a power-manager and the other a low-voltage

transmitter.



The Nexus 7, manufactured by Asustek Computer for Google, also has a higher

resolution display at 1280 pixel depth by 800 pixel width, versus 1024 by 600

for the Kindle Fire.



Mr Rassweiler said the display used a technology known as in-plane switching,

and added $US38 to the hardware cost of the Nexus 7, versus $US35 for the

display in the Kindle Fire.



The Nexus 7 also has a camera, which the Kindle Fire lacks, that added $US2.50

in cost.



The Nexus 7 has a chip from NXP Semiconductors that supports near-field

communications -- a close-range wireless technology that is intended for

wireless commerce transactions.



Broadcom supplied global positioning system receiver chips to support mapping

functions.



One other part that caught Mr Rassweiler's attention was a gyroscope and

accelerometer from Invensense.



It's common to see Invensense gyroscopes, but rare to see it combined in the

same chip with the accelerometer.



Both are used to measure position and movement of the device.



The only other combined gyro-accelerometer seen before, Mr Rassweiler said, was

in Samsung's Galaxy SIII smartphone, which was made by the European chipmaker

STMicroelectronics.



LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: AUS





                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





