

BEST FOR VALUE

Tesco Hudl2 £129

The new tablet from the supermarket giant is terrific value for money. Its specs
might not be class-leading but are by no means shabby, and unlike the plasticky
first Hudl, this time round the hardware is housed in an attractive case with a
soft coating for easy handling. The bright, sharp and colourful 8.3in display is
192200 pixels, working out at 273 pixels per inch (ppi). The 16GB of memory
might come under pressure if you take advantage of the bundled discount for
Blinkbox, Tesco's video download and streaming service, but can be supplemented
with a memory card of up to 32GB. Frankly the only giveaways that this is a
budget tablet are the cameras, with 5Mp to the rear and a 1.2Mp on the front,
and - if you must use it without headphones - the sound, which is tinny.
Otherwise the Hudl2 will handle most users' gaming, video and web-browsing
chores without breaking sweat. And if you're a regular Tesco shopper you can
pick it up for £65 - assuming you've got something like a year's worth of
Clubcard points to spare.

Verdict Looks, feels and in most respects performs like a premiumpriced product.

**** www.tesco.com

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER @ST_gadgets

BEST FOR BUDGET 4G

Vodafone Smart Tab 4G £125

Opting for the 4G version of a tablet is normally expensive - a 4G Nexus 9 costs
£460, for example - but this 8in Android tablet is very affordable. At the base
price you add a free Vodafone Sim and then pay for data as you use it;
alternatively, take out a two-year contract (starting at £17 a month for 1GB of
data) and the tablet comes free. The Smart Tab runs on the slowest processor
here, and other specs are similarly basic: the 1280x800-pixel screen gives
189ppi - meaning you'll notice the pixels when looking at fine text - and it is
less bright compared with others on test. Memory is just 8GB (although up to
64GB MICROSD cards are supported), and the cameras are 5Mp at the rear and 2Mp
on the front. That said, it feels tough and well built, while 4G data is fast
and effortless to use, assuming you're in a zone with good signal, such as a
city centre. Stray into the sticks and unless you can find wi-fi, you're down to
3G or slower: fine for email, less so for the web.

Verdict A mobile data bargain - assuming Vodafone coverage.

**** www.vodafone.co.uk

BEST FOR BATTERY

Lenovo Yoga Tablet 2 (8in) £200

The Yoga is quirky but practical. The cylinder at the base of the screen
contains a battery big enough to power the tablet for up to 18 hours between
recharges; real-world use suggests more like 12 hours, but it's still double the
life of any other tablet on test. It also houses a kick-stand on a hinge that
lets you prop up the tablet in landscape mode at any angle you like, or hang
from a hook - useful in a kitchen or other messy environment - and a pair of
speakers for decent stereo sound. On the downside, teasing out the stand from
its position flush against the rear case is not easy, and the design is heavy
and awkward to hold. The Yoga 2's 8in display contains 192200 pixels for 283ppi,
its cameras are a rear-facing 8Mp and a 1.6Mp on the front, there's 16GB of
memory and it takes MICROSD cards of up to 64GB. Like all the tablets tested bar
the Nexus 9 it comes with "bloatware" - services installed by the maker that you
might not be able to remove. The Yoga 2 is the most weighed down by these
largely unnecessary apps.

Verdict Brilliant battery life and useful upright desktop mode.

***lenovo.co.uk

BEST FOR DISPLAY

Google Nexus 9 from £300

Nexus products are endorsed by Google and are intended as showcases for its
latest Android software and apps. They also used to be great value for money,
but this tablet is nudging Apple-price territory. So is it worth the cost? It is
made by HTC for Google, and you get a lovely 8.9in display with 2048x1536 pixels
for a best-in-test 281ppi, plus it runs the latest version of Android - Lollipop
- which as well as performance tweaks brings a clean new look to the operating
system. The 8Mp rear and 1.6Mp front-facing cameras are the most impressive here
too - but not as good as the iPad's ones, if you must use a tablet to take shots
- while its 2.3GHZ processor is also the most powerful of our four. Among the
optional accessories are a clever case (£25) that doubles as a stand, with a
corner that folds back to expose the rear camera, and a magnetic wireless
keyboard/cover (£120!). But build quality is disappointing for the price, and
there's no way of expanding the 16GB of memory unless you plump for the £376,
32GB version. Incidentally the 4G version of that model is free on a
£29-a-month, two-year contract from O2 for 1GB of data a month.

Verdict Looks overpriced in this company.

*** www.google.co.uk/nexus/9

BUYER'S GUIDE

Apple or Android?

The iPad Mini was Apple's answer to small Android tablets such as these, and
despite being late to the party in some ways it is the best. The 7.9in Mini 3
offers an outstanding screen resolution of 326ppi, has a best-in-class rear
camera and runs on a chip designed by Apple for its mobile devices. It's
supported too by the App Store and its 500,000-plus tablet-optimised apps (there
are far fewer for Android tablets). But the Mini 3 starts at £319 for a 16GB
device, and no option to expand it with cheap memory cards. If you use a tablet
for web browsing, watching video, emails and playing big-name games - most of
which have Android versions as good as Apple ones - then these devices hold
their own against the Mini.

KitKat or Lollipop?

All here bar the Nexus 9 run Android 4.4 - aka KitKat - the second mostrecent
version of Google's operating system. It's featurepacked, although anyone used
to Apple software will think it a little messy, especially should you venture
into the needlessly complicated settings.

Version 5 - aka Lollipop - brings a minimalist and attractive new look to the
software, particularly if in the main you use Google's own apps, such as Gmail
and Chrome, which have benefited from a similar makeover.

