                              874 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        The International Herald Tribune



                           November 1, 2012 Thursday



3 new toys, each great in its own way;

State of the Art



BYLINE: BY DAVID POGUE



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 18



LENGTH: 1263 words



ABSTRACT



Meet the iPad Mini, Nook HD and Windows Phone 8.



FULL TEXT



Hollywood studios try to avoid opening big movies on the same weekend, to avoid

diluting the buzz and the news coverage. ''Oh, no - we can't open that day,''

one might say. '' 'Titanic II: The Return' is opening that weekend.''



That is usually the way it works with technology companies, too, especially as

the holiday shopping season begins.



This year, though, a barrage of huge technology announcements all landed within

about a week. Windows 8.   Microsoft's Surface. The iPad Mini. Google's

Chromebook. The Barnes & Noble Nook HD. Windows Phone 8. A 10-inch Samsung

tablet and a new Google phone.



Meet the iPad Mini, Nook HD and Windows Phone 8.



The iPad Mini  The rumors were true: Apple now has a smaller iPad.



The iPad Mini is half the weight of the big iPad (0.7 pounds versus 1.4, or 318

grams versus 635), thinner (0.28 inch versus 0.37, or 7 millimeters versus 9

millimeters), shorter (7.9 inches versus 9.5) and narrower (5.3 inches versus

7.3). Those specifications add up to one towering meta-change: You can

comfortably hold this iPad in one hand. It is still too wide for a blazer

pocket, alas, but it certainly fits in a purse or overcoat pocket.



It is available in white-and-silver and black-on-black, both with metal backs,

both gorgeous.



Apple's masterstroke was keeping the screen shape and resolution the same as on

the iPad 2 (1,024 by 768 pixels). As a result, the Mini can run all 275,000

existing iPad apps unmodified, plus 500,000 more iPhone apps. The text and

graphics are a little smaller, but perfectly usable.



Sadly, the Mini does not gain Apple's supercrisp Retina display. Nobody's going

to complain about the sharpness - it packs in 163 pixels per inch - but it is

not the same jaw-dropping resolution as the big iPad (264 ppi). Gotta hold

something back for next year, right?



You pay $330 for the base model (16 gigabytes of storage, Wi-Fi connections).



Prices run all the way up to $660 for four times the storage and the option to

go online over the cell network.



The Mini's price allows the $200 class of seven-inch Android tablets and readers

to live (Google Nexus, Kindle Fire HD, Nook HD). Those tablets also have

high-definition screens (1,280 by 800 pixels), which the Mini does not.



But the iPad Mini is a classier, more attractive, thinner machine. It has two

cameras instead of one. Its fit and finish are far more refined. And above all,

it offers that colossal app catalog, which Android tablet owners can only dream

about.



Over all, the Mini gives you all the iPad goodness in a more manageable size,

and it is awesome. You could argue that the iPad Mini is what the iPad always

wanted to be.



Barnes & Noble Nook HD  The redesign of this $200 e-book reader/video player

focuses on the three things that matter most in a hand-held e-book reader:

weight, size and screen clarity.



In those ways, the Nook HD trounces its nemeses, Amazon's Kindle Fire HD and

Google's Nexus 7. The Nook is lighter (11.1 ounces, or 315 grams, versus 12 for

the Nexus and 13.9 for the Kindle) and noticeably narrower, despite the

same-size screen, because it has a far slimmer bezel. You can wrap your hand

around its back, even if you are dainty of hand.



And the screen is much sharper: 1,440 by 900 pixels (versus 1,280 by 800). At

243 dots ppi, the Nook's screen comes dangerously close to the iPad Retina's 264

ppi. Wow, is this screen sharp. Movies, books and magazines pop.



Whites are so white on this screen, it could be a bleach commercial; the Nexus

and Kindle screens look yellowish in comparison. (A 9-inch, $270 version, the

Nook HD+, is also available.)



The software continues to improve. You can now create as many as six accounts,

one for each family member, each listing different books and movies. (It does

not remember where each person stopped reading a given book, but the company

says that is coming soon.)



The base-model, $200 Nook comes with only 8 gigabytes of storage - half as much

as the Kindle; on the other hand, it has a memory-card slot, so it is simple and

costs little to expand. The Nook includes a wall charger (it cannot charge from

a USB jack), which the Kindle does not. And the Nook does not display ads, as

the $200 Kindle does.



However, there is no camera at all. (The company says it spent the money on the

nicer screen.) And the speaker volume is way too low during movie playback, but

B&N says a fix is coming this week.



Still, in the hardware war, Nook HD clearly wins this round. It is fast, fluid

and gorgeous; the Fire HD lags in all of those categories.



Then again, Amazon's movie service - rent, buy or stream free as part of the

$80-a-year Prime program - is mature and delightful; Barnes & Noble's movie

store is just starting up. If you can tolerate that fledgling store awhile, then

you will love the way the company exploited its second-mover advantage.



Windows Phone 8  The good news in touch screens continues with Windows Phone 8.

It is what you will get on sleek coming phones like the Nokia Lumia 920 and

HTC's Windows Phone 8X (the one I tested).



Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 - a fresh, colorful, efficient, tile-based

alternative to the icon-based design of iPhone and Android - earned rave

reviews. But few phones run it and few people have it.



Windows Phone 8 may look identical, but the company says it is a complete

rewrite based on underlying code from Windows 8 for PCs. It is therefore ready

for far more hardware flexibility than 7 was: multicore processors, screens with

different resolutions, phones with memory cards and so on.



The Start screen is more customizable; you can choose from three different tile

sizes. Apps can modify your Lock screen automatically; for example, the Groupon

app might display a special offer that is tailored to where you are right now.



If you swipe leftward from the Lock screen, you enter Kid Corner, an inspired

idea. It is a quarantined world containing only apps, music and videos that you

handpick for your offspring. Next time you hear, ''I'm bored - can I play on

your phone?'' you can hand the phone over without worry; the phone, Web and text

messages are off limits.



More solid improvements: The desktop software can load the phone with your

iTunes music and video libraries. ''Rooms'' are private groups - Bowling

Buddies, Teen Party and so on - whose members can share their locations,

calendars, photos and chats. You can now back up the phone online.



Two juicy features are promised: a ''pay with your phone'' option brought to you

by NFC, or near-field communication, chips in phones, and Data Sense, which

tries to conserve Internet data and monitors your monthly allotment.



Microsoft's phone software is fast, simple and beautiful. But it still lacks

universal dictation for quick text entry. Its new Maps app does not offer spoken

directions (in 2012? seriously?). And the audience will not come until there are

more great apps.



There are promising signs; Microsoft says that there are 110,000 Windows Phone

apps and that software companies can reuse chunks of code from their Windows 8

programs. That should make it easier to bring new apps to the phone.



So there you have it: three touch-screen technology toys, each triumphant in its

own way. One comes from a market leader hoping to swipe business from its

bargain-basement rivals; two come from underdogs determined to make a bigger

dent.



None of these products are themselves perfect. But they represent new highs on

the graph that plots price against polish and pleasure - and for gadget lovers,

that portends some very merry holidays indeed.



LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





