

The Hollywood sign is starting to look like Salvador Dali's melting clock. The
film industry is in the biggest crisis of its 100-year history. The watershed
event was the Google purchase of YouTube recently for $US1.5 billion ($1.9
billion). Google last week was valued at $US150 billion on the stock exchange.
It marks the final victory of the digital paradigm over those century-old cans
of 35mm film. Jean-Luc Godard famously said: "Photography is truth. And cinema
is truth 24 times a second."

Well, we don't have those 24 frames a second any more. We have pixels, RAM, HDV,
streaming and self-broadcasting. Truth may be deleted, frozen or is now a pixel
or a dead battery.

Meanwhile, the six major studios - or the ugly sisters, as they are sometimes
called - are reeling from Wall Street demands for big stock increases as well as
from piracy, bloated marketing costs, ridiculous budgets, overpriced stars and
generally a lack of ideas, reflected in a punishing, if not farcical, slew of
sequels, remakes, movies of old TV shows and then remakes of sequels and sequels
of remakes.

I'm not kidding. Film scripts were once written by Truman Capote, John
Steinbeck, William Faulkner, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Norman Mailer, Dorothy Parker,
Tennessee Williams ... Now they are based on comic strips.

Hollywood had a similar panic attack when it thought television was going to
destroy it. It counterattacked with Cinemascope, 3-D and some good scripts. In
that frenzy, one highly intelligent studio hired a one-eyed film director, Andre
de Toth, to direct the first 3-D film (House of Wax, 1953).

For obvious reasons, the media focus on the most marketed "tent pole" films. The
studios now live or die by the gross takings from the first weekend or the even
first night of their films. The rule of thumb is that a film's total gross will
be twice the takings of its opening weekend. This model has driven quality down
radically because studios concentrate on hyping the first days. Films don't have
to be any good, just marketable on a fast-food basis.

The latest report from the Motion Picture Association of America says the
average cost of making and marketing an association film last year was $US96.2
million. This included $US60 million in production costs and $36.2 million in
marketing costs.

These numbers mean that every time a studio gives the green light to a picture
it is a $US96.2 million commitment. So they are making fewer pictures. These
huge numbers also mean there is a great opportunity for well made independent
pictures that can be made for far less. Bloated overheads and enormous fees to
stars contribute to the studio model, as well as outmoded and open chequebook
production methods. Very few studios have completion bonds - they effectively
bond themselves, so that there is no objective third party check on spending and
production methods.

Interestingly, and kind of under the radar in this era of boring testosterone
movies, when $US100 million is routinely spent on movies for teenagers with
pimples, the most successful and profitable films aside from studio "tent pole"
productions are films based on the lives of famous or infamous people in history
and a curious sub-genre, movies about weddings.

What are sometimes disparagingly referred to as "biopics" turn out to be some of
most commercial and memorable films ever made. Many of these films and their
cast members are Oscar nominees and/or winners. This reflects the fact that not
all audiences want their eyeballs hanging out and their eardrums abused with the
sight and sound of digital kinetic mayhem, accompanied by dialogue such as
"Run!" and "Watch out!"

Some audiences respond to stories about real people and the human condition, and
dialogue with more than one syllable a word. Despite studio market research that
is sometimes akin to voodoo and often results in generic, homogenised movies,
films celebrating an interesting person attractan audience.

The biopics that have scored well with audiences have budgets well below the
studio average. Some of these films cross over into the genre of epic so they
have considerably higher budgets.

Three recent films in the budget range of $US25 million did very well: The Hours
(about Virginia Woolf), Finding Neverland (about J. M. Barrie) and Shakespeare
in Love (about Shakespeare). All three films appeared to appeal to the literate
demographic that is generally ignored.

Other recent movies in this genre include Infamous, Walk the Line, Ray, Pollock,
Fur, Marie Antoinette, King of Scotland, Hollywoodland, Copying Beethoven, Bobby
and The Aviator. There are also feature documentaries that cross over into the
genre such as The US vs John Lennon.

It may be stretching the point, but it is worth noting that completely fictional
semi-biopics such as the latest Bond film, Casino Royale, about the "origins" of
James Bond, and Borat, about a crude moron from Kazakhstan, are spectacular
successes as of last week. Venus, a thinly veiled biopic about Peter O'Toole,
starring O'Toole, is destined for Oscar nominations.

The wedding picture is now also a profitable staple. In fact, let's declare it a
new, full-on genre that should stand beside horror, action, science fiction and
so on. In fact, you would be hard-pressed to find a studio that is not preparing
another wedding movie.

Just a smattering of successful wedding titles will give you the picture: Four
Weddings and a Funeral, My Big Fat Greek Wedding, The Wedding Crashers, The
Wedding Singer, My Best Friend's Wedding, The Wedding Planner, Muriel's Wedding
and American Wedding. Don't forget the new French hit I Do, or Prete-moi ta
main.

As the entertainment world reels from high costs and the crushing effect of the
new media, it is heartening that two very basic human themes are surviving the
corporate melee: the life stories of fascinating people and the celebration of
an ancient ritual - getting married.

MONEY MAKERS
    YEAR  BUDGET   US BOX OFFICE
     $US million  $US million
 Lawrence of Arabia   1962  na   44
 The Sound of Music   1965  na   158
 Patton    1970  12   61
 Raging Bull   1980  na   23
 Coal Miner's Daughter  1980  na   67
 Gandhi    1982  na   52
 Amadeus    1984  na   51
 The Last Emperor   1987  na   43
 JFK    1991  na   70
 Hoffa    1992  na   24
 Schindler's List   1993  22   96
 Nixon    1995  44   13
 Braveheart   1995  na   75
 Shakespeare In Love  1998  25   100
 A Beautiful Mind   2001  58   170
 Frida    2002  12   25
 Catch Me If You Can  2002  52   164
 The Hours   2002  25   41
 Finding Neverland   2004  25   51
 The Passion of the Christ  2004  30   370
 Capote    2005  7   28
 SMH GRAPHIC: DIONNE GAIN
 Amounts are for dollar value of noted year and not adjusted for 2006 value.
 US theatrical only, not including world grosses and lucrative ancillary rights
 such as television and DVD. SOURCE: BOXOFFICEMOJO AND OTHERS


