                              876 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                            May 15, 2013, Wednesday



Google I/O: A lower-key Android keynote, but devs get huge set of new tools;

New integrated development environment, game tools, and wide array of Google

Play upgrades puts developers at center stage.



BYLINE: Jon Gold



LENGTH: 543 words





Those hoping for a major new Android version or splashy device launch were

likely disappointed by the Android portionof the keynote today at the Google I/O

conference in San Francisco - but developers may have gotten more than they

bargained for.



Google promised a stronger focus on developers than at last year's event - which

saw the company roll out a new version of Android and a well-received tablet,

among other things - and delivered in no uncertain terms. Among the new

dev-focused features announced this morning was an all-new integrated

development environment, dubbed "Android Studio."



[MORE GOOGLE I/O: Google says it has 900 million Android activations  Google I/O

attendees each given a pricey Chromebook Pixel ]



  Google says it has 900 million Android activations Google I/O: The buzz from

this Google-extravaganza is decidedly quieter Hours before I/O, Larry Page opens

up about his hoarse voice At Google I/O, attendees compete to save the world,

virtually Google I/O attendees each given a pricey Chromebook Pixel Studio

provides software makers with a number of built-in simplifications and

previewing features, allowing them to adjust screen layouts based on

localization and display size on the fly, rather than directly editing code. It

also provides previews of color and icon appearance alongside the relevant

lines, among other handy functionality.



Google also announced major additions to its cloud messaging system, which

originally rolled out at last year's I/O. Essentially a Google-managed method

for developers to push data to apps, GCM is now under the umbrella of Google

Play Services. It now supports continuous connectivity, the ability to handle

upstream messaging, and syncs notifications between Android devices on the same

account. (Which means, among other things, no more blizzards of "new email"

notifications when users turn on infrequently used devices.) Location-based

services also got a substantial update, as Google rolled out a "complete

rewrite" of that code, which it advertised as faster, more accurate and far

easier on battery life than the previous version. Developers can now also build

"geo-fencing" and activity recognition into their software, which means that

they can make apps behave differently in designated areas and identify whether a

user is walking, biking or riding in a car.



Google Play was the focus of much of the day's Android announcements. Along with

the ability to deploy and manage access to alpha and beta tests of new software

versions, new analytics and localization options and more, the Play Games

framework - which had leaked before the show - made its official debut. While

the demo didn't go so well - product management vice president Hugo Barra

couldn't get a three-way racing game session to work on stage - Play Games

promises matchmaking, shared high scores among friends, cloud-based save games,

and other built-in multiplayer features for Android game developers.



Finally, Google Plus got some love with support for cross-platform single

sign-on capabilities, allowing for more robust sync between web, Android and

even iOS.



Email Jon Gold at jgold@nww.com and follow him on Twitter at @NWWJonGold, but

remember that he's disappointed there were no skydivers this time around.









LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





