

While Google Translate app on your smartphone already allows you to visually
translate printed text in seven languages, the company has come up with an
update on Wednesday which expands instant visual translation to 20 more
languages including Hindi.

Giving more importance to the Indian market, the company has improved the
translation experience for Indian users and this move looks significant as India
is a very important market for the company.

Along with Hindi, the recent update also supports 19 other languages -
Bulgarian, Catalan, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Filipino, Finnish,
Hungarian, Indonesian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, Polish, Romanian, Slovak, Swedish,
Turkish, Ukrainian and Thai. However, Hindi and Thai are currently supporting
only one-way translations from English and not vice-versa.

Earlier, Google supported seven languages - English, French, German, Italian,
Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.

All you need to do is just open the Google Translate app, click on the camera
and point it at the text you need to translate - a street sign, ingredient list,
instruction manual or even dials on a washing machine. You would be able to see
the text transforming live on your screen with no Internet connection required.

This reminds us of Bing Translator for Phone which has quite similar features,
however, it seems to have a few less language support even though there's an
option to download basic language packs for offline use.

Along with this, Google has announced that the latest update would be making
real-time voice translations a lot faster and smoother. Having said this,
Google's picture mode translation which requires a snapshot of text can also
operate in 37 languages which may open the roads for many.

So, how this instant visual translation actually work? Well, the answer takes us
back to 2014 when Google acquired WordLens which is the master brain behind
recognizing printed words using its optical character recognition capabilities
and instantly translating these words in to the desired language.

The neural nets have all kinds of records in image recognition which means that
if you are translating a foreign menu or sign with the latest version of
Google's Translate app, you are using a deep neural net. But, surprisingly, it
can work on your phone without an Internet connection.

Well, here's how.

First, When a camera image comes in, the app finds the letters in the picture by
weeding out the background objects like trees or cards. It looks at blobs of
pixels that have similar colour to each other that are also near other similar
blobs of pixels. Those are possibly letters, and if they're near each other,
that makes a continuous line we should read.

Second step is where the deep learning comes in. This is where the app
recognizes what each letter actually is.

Next, the app tries to take those recognized letters and look in to the
dictionary for translations.

Finally, the translation is rendered on top of the original words in the same
style as the original in just a matter of seconds.

In case if you are interested to know more on how this technology actually works
(in-depth), you can check it out here.

