                              87 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                              March 1, 2013 Friday



Wolverton: Google's flashy Chromebook is beautiful, but pricey and limited



BYLINE: By Troy Wolverton Mercury News Columnist



SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; Personal Technology; News; Business; High-Tech;

Opinion; Science and Tech; Columnists



LENGTH: 693 words





Pixel is their attempt to create a Chromebook that the boss would be proud to

take home.



In terms of design, theGoogleGOOG ) folks have achieved their goal. The Pixel is

thinner and lighter thanAppleAAPL )'s comparable MacBook Pro, but feels just as

sturdy. Like the Apple laptops, the Pixel's case is made from aluminum, not from

the plastic found on the less-expensive Chromebooks. The Pixel has sharper edges

and is much more rectangular than the MacBook Pros, which gives it a sleek,

modern look.



The Pixel takes another page from Apple by including a high-resolution screen

similar to Apple's "Retina" display. In fact, the Pixel's screen is even higher

resolution than those in Apple's new MacBook Pros. It's beautiful and bright,

making text and pictures super-sharp.



But Google has also looked beyond Apple for inspiration. The Pixel features a

touch screen like those found in many of the latest Windows laptops. And it

includes a powerfulIntelINTC ) Core i5 processor, which is standard fare on

Apple and Windows-based notebooks, but is unique for a Chromebook.



The processor makes a difference. While the Samsung Chromebook I recently tested

felt sluggish, the Pixel is snappy and responsive, instantly resuming from sleep

and quickly switching among tabbed Web pages.



The Pixel also offers some uncommon features. One model includes an LTE radio,

which provides a fast Internet connection when you aren't near a Wi-Fi hotspot.

That model also includes a limited amount of monthly broadband access from

Verizon for two years.



All models of the Pixel come with 1 terabyte of space on the Google Drive cloud

storage service for free for three years. That's a bargain, because Google

typically charges $50 a month for that much space.



But despite all of its bells and whistles, the Pixel is still a Chromebook and

suffers the same limitations as the others.



Because Chrome is designed to run Web-based apps, the operating system lacks

many popular PC applications. You won't find Skype, for example, or Photoshop or

many high-end video games. And if you need to use special software for work or

to connect to a device in your house, you can almost be certain that software

won't be available for Chrome.



That lack of applications means you simply can't do as much with a Chromebook as

you can with a Mac or Windows PC. If you're spending only $250 for a basic

Chromebook, that shortcoming is acceptable. But it's not when you're spending

$1,300, which is the starting price of the Pixel. For that money, you can get a

very nice Windows machine or Apple's MacBook Air.



And some of the Pixel's embellishments that help to drive up its price seem

unnecessary. The touch screen in particular seems to have little use. Google

hasn't redesigned Chrome's interface to take advantage of the touch screen. And

unlike some of the new Windows notebooks, the Pixel's screen doesn't detach or

fold back on itself, so you can't use the device like a tablet.



While the screen is wonderful, it has one huge drawback: it drains the device's

battery. Google says users should see up to five hours of battery life from the

Pixel. That's already less than you'd get on many of the latest Mac or Windows

laptops. But in my testing, the battery life wasn't even as good as advertised;

I got around 4 1/2 hours of use at best.



So while I understand Google's impulse and appreciate the Pixel's design and

display, I'm not convinced that anyone yet needs a premium Chromebook.



Contact Troy Wolverton at 408-840-4285 or twolverton@mercurynews.com Follow him

at www.mercurynews.com/troy-wolverton or Twitter.com/troywolv.



What: Google Chromebook Pixel laptop

Likes: High-resolution screen; fast processor; solid-feeling aluminum body;

sleek, modern design; optional LTE radio; 1 terabyte of free space on Google

Drive

Dislikes: Pricey; lacks access to certain popular PC programs; doesn't take

advantage of included touch screen; relatively short battery life.

Specs: 1.8 GHz, dual-core Intel Core i5 processor; 12.85-inch, 2560 x 1700 pixel

screen; 4GB memory.

Price: $1,300 for Wi-Fi-only model with 32GB storage; $1,450 for model with LTE

radio, Wi-Fi and 64GB of storage.

Web:www.chromebook.com



LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: The Chromebook Pixel laptop from Google. (Google photo)

The Chromebook Pixel laptop from Google. (Google photo)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





