
DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Sept. 17 -- With the growing demand for ICT products in the market,
domestic distributors of various brands have been busy introducing the latest
devices. While companies like Samsung, ZTE, Olive and Prolink have already
featured the best of their tablets in the market, CG Impex, sole authorised
distributor of LG in Nepal, has unveiled its tablet the LG Optimus Pad.

Marketed as the first Honeycomb tablet, the Optimus Pad is powered by the
Android tablet-optimized 3.0 Honeycomb platform. According to the company, the
Optimus Pad is powered by a 1 GHz dual-core processor. The dual-core processor
operates with the NVDIA Tegra 2 mobile processor.

"The tablet has been launched with a motive to acquaint our customers with the
latest innovations in the world of technology," said Ramesh Shrestha, general
manager of CG Electronics. "This is the most advanced tablet launched in the
Nepali market so far." He added that the

newly unveiled device boasts numerous new features compared to the tablets
available in the domestic market.

"All the tablets available in the market are 2G. The Optimus Pad is the first 3G
tablet to hit the Nepali market," said Shrestha. According to him, the device is
faster than other devices as it features the NVDIA Tegra 2 mobile processor.
Likewise, the tablet has a 8.9 inch high-definition touch screen with 15:9 ratio
of 1280 x 768 WXGA resolution, 3D capable multi-touch display and playback with
HDMI to please gamers, multimedia users and movie buffs. There is also a 5 mega
pixel rear camera with LED flash and 1080p HD and 3D video capture feature. The
images and videos captured by the device can be transferred to 2D and

3D TVs or uploaded via You Tube

3D, HDMI 1.4 connectivity and 1080p video playback. Other attractions are the 32
GB inbuilt memory storage, console-quality games available through the Tegra
Zone app, Google services including Google eBooks, Google Maps 5 and Google
Talk, the company said.

The Optimus Pad is available throughout the country at an introductory price of
Rs 69,999. According to Shrestha, the company aims to sell around 50 tablets
monthly. "As our device is expensive compared to others, it is certain that
there will be a niche market for it. However, we are sure that it will be able
to entice techno lovers and customers of the high-end segment," he said.
Likewise, CG Impex

has also unveiled two new mobile handsets, the LG Rosemary2 S365 and the Brava
A230 in the economic segment. The Rosemary2 S365 is a dual-SIM mobile phone that
features Wi-Fi, 2 mega pixel camera, multi-design video player, internal memory
of 9 MB and expandable memory of up to 1 GB. Additional features are Bluetooth,
WAP, GPRS, USM connectivity and Opera mini browser.

The handset is available at Rs 8,799. The other handset, the LG Brava A230, is a
bar phone that gives talk time of up to 10 hours through its Lion 950 MAH
battery. Moreover, the phone features a 1.77 inch TFT colour display and 1.3
mega pixel camera. The handset costs Rs 4,499. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

