

APPLE is boasting that its grand plan to connect the world has just made a "big
leap" with a radically different mobile phone.

Running a new operating system called iOS4, the phone, dubbed iPhone4, will go
on sale in Australia late in July, about a month after its June 24 release in
the US, Britain, France, Germany and Japan.

Apple chief executive Steve Jobs unveiled the phone in San Francisco yesterday
to an almost euphoric audience of 5500 software developers, calling the iPhone4
"the biggest leap since the original iPhone".

The audience included a strong Melbourne contingent, among them Marc Edwards of
Bjango and Sean Woodhouse of Itty Bitty Apps, two small but successful
developers.

Mr Edwards and Mr Woodhouse said they regarded iPhone4 as "a significant jump
ahead, beyond the 3GS model".

Inevitably, comparisons are made with Google's Android, seen by some as treading
on Apple's coat-tails. But Android has a smaller share of the smartphone market,
according to recent Nielsen surveys that give BlackBerry 35 per cent of the US
market, iPhone 28 per cent, Windows Mobile 19 per cent and Android 9 per cent.

Mr Edwards suggested that Google was under pressure from Microsoft (with its new
search engine, Bing) and Facebook. Adding to this trend, Mr Jobs said Bing would
be added to Yahoo and Google on all mobile devices.

But Microsoft was also under attack from Google, Mr Woodhouse said. "Microsoft's
money comes from software licence fees," he said. But, increasingly, software
will be leased from the internet "cloud", which Google was good at.

So what has iPhone4 got?

Apple claims it is the thinnest smartphone in the world at 9.3 millimetres.

It has two 5-megapixel autofocus cameras. On its screen it doubles the pixels in
each direction to 960 by 640, or four times the resolution of the iPhone 3GS,
giving 326 pixels per inch on the 3.5-inch display.

Prime in iOS4's software bag is FaceTime, software that enables high-resolution
video calling but only over the internet via a Wi-Fi connection.

A gyroscope has been added to the accelerometer that allows six-axis control of
3D images on iPhone4.

But the big money is in the applications. So far 255,000 apps have been approved
in iTunes App Store.

