

BBC Radio does its required Sunday morning God stuff by stringing a handful of
programmes across its various networks and hoping not to offend anyone. It works
well most of the time, though complaints from believers that the religious
content is at best perfunctory do have an element of truth to them. Which is
probably why early risers of a nonreligious outlook - people like me - find the
programmes so instructive.

On that last score, one Sunday's predawn listening last year introduced me to St
Pixels, the UK's first cyberchurch.

Since then St Pixel's has also featured on Sunday Worship, with the online
congregation relocating to a church in Manchester instead of singing into a
laptop at home.

I wasn't surprised, then, to hear St Pixels featured in God.com (BBC Radio Four,
Monday, 11am), an examination by theologian and broadcaster Dr Robert Beckford
of the impact religion is having on the internet - and vice versa.

Beckford cast his net wider than just St Pixels though, speaking to Muslims,
Jews and Evangelical Christians about their relationship with the web.

He started with Pagans. The internet is "a godsend" said Mogg Morgan, secretary
of the Oxford Golden Dawn Occult Society, though he didn't specify which god had
actually licked the stamp and queued for an hour in the post offi ce with it.
Faunus, perhaps, the Roman god of fl ocks. Or maybe it was Suadela, goddess of
persuasion.

With Morgan as his guide, Beckford travelled into Second Life, the online
virtual world. As well as churches, synagogues and mosques he found a number of
ceremonial sites for pagan worshippers. Mogg Morgan's avatar turned out to be a
priest in some sunworshipping Egyptian sect.

Back in First Life, Beckford learned that Judaism requires all computers be
turned off on the Sabbath while in the Catholic Church canonical law means the
holy sacrament cannot be dispensed as an email attachment, nor confession heard
via webcam.

Beckford also consulted boffi n Will Dutton of the Oxford Internet Institute who
compared the web to the invention of the printing press, the engine that drove
the Reformation.

Ominously, he warned that the proliferation of information about religion, much
of it questionable, had brought about a crisis as challenging as the global
recession and climate change.

"There's no more important subject we're teaching in schools at the moment than
the critical evaluation of alternative sources of information, " he said.

Worry not: I'm sure the Romans had a god for that too.

