                              885 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                     November 3, 2015 Tuesday 12:23 PM EST



8 facts that explain Google's complex situation with Chrome OS



BYLINE: Steven Max Patterson



SECTION: NEWSANALYSIS



LENGTH: 770  words





Click for image



The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Google would fold the Chrome OS

into Android, spawning widespread rumors and speculation. Then Chrome and

Android VP of Engineering Hiroshi Lockheimer contradicted the Wall Street

Journal in a tweet confirming Google's commitment to Chrome OS. And a Google

spokesperson's response to my request for clarification unequivocally stated

that Google wasn't sun-setting the Chrome OS. But then again, Google CEO Sundar

Pichai, who once ran the Chrome group, has said that Chrome OS and Android would

come closer together. The controversy has been echoing ever since.



The root of this controversy is probably the high-end Chromebook Pixel C

introduced in September. The Pixel C runs Android Marshmallow 6.0 and created a

hybrid third use case, combining the unique features of both Android and Chrome

OS into a superset of both.



Here are the eight things that will help you understand the controversy for

yourself.





     ·    Chrome OS was built to provide compatibility on low-cost hardware

          running Google's Chrome browser. Chromebooks presume its users will

          have consistent access to a high-bandwidth internet connection and a

          use case limited to running all apps in a browser. Chrome OS provides

          a minimal set of OS resources that a browser needs to run, like

          storage, memory management, and connections to external services such

          as HTTPS, identity, and security.





     ·    Android was created to run immersive native mobile apps with rich

          interactions designed for the mobile internet. It's a complete

          operating system able to run many different autonomous apps, including

          the Chrome browser.





     ·    Both Chrome OS and Android system architects chose Linux as the

          foundation for their operating systems because it reduces the time to

          market and the risk of building a mobile device. Chromebook and

          Android device manufacturers gain time to market advantages too,

          because Linux has been cooperatively ported to many hardware platforms

          by system on a chip (SoC) manufacturers such as Qualcomm and Intel,

          device manufacturers like Lenovo and Samsung, and the Linux community.





     ·    Google would benefit immediately from the cost reductions from

          maintaining a single software stack of the Linux modules common to

          both Android and Chrome OS. However, there is a much bigger

          opportunity to scale Chromebooks by combining the Chrome OS and

          Android communities, especially with the device manufacturers. The

          hundreds of Android device manufacturers could quickly become

          Chromebook manufacturers.





     ·    Building apps for Android and extensions for the Chrome browser

          require entirely different skills. Android apps are built by native

          platform developers in Java and C/C++, while Chrome apps are built by

          front-end developers with HTML, CSS, and Javascript (not to be

          confused with Java). Different tools for different jobs. Android

          development targets the native features of the platform to build apps

          with rich interactions. Chrome targets the rich features of the web.





     ·    The mobile use cases for smartphones, tablets, and PCs are converging.

          So is the hardware. For example, a teardown of the new MacBook by

          iFixit revealed a mobile phone-sized system board with an Intel Core M

          mobile processor. Nearly the same hardware design could be used for a

          smartphone, tablet, Chromebook, or ultrabook. Devices are defined by

          software, not hardware.





     ·    As devices become more intelligent and the internet of things (IoT)

          emerges, many will need a user interface. Building a unique user

          interface for most applications wouldn't be justified when browsers

          are available and millions of developers understand how to program

          them. Android has been ported to every type of device, from power

          outlets to vending machines, making a merged Chrome OS and Android a

          strong and light candidate to support a Chrome browser-based user

          interface, not only for Chromebooks but for smart devices like

          refrigerators.





     ·    The Android App ecosystem has achieved large-scale efficiency, with

          over 1.5 million apps on the Google Play store. Chrome apps number in

          the tens of thousands, and could benefit from Android's scale.





Converging Android and Chrome OS into one OS that supersedes both is easier said

than done. The hardware is converging much more quickly than the use case and

the software. Chromebooks, embedded devices, and smartphones all are used

differently. The superset represented by the Pixel C is very attractive, but why

drag the overhead of all the underlying Chrome OS and Android software to an

interactive Chrome kiosk, a Chrome control panel, or a Chromebook used in an

environment where just a browser meets all the requirements?



LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





