                              886 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                            i-Independent Print Ltd



                                October 11, 2016

                                 First Edition



Google gives the elbow to robotic arms project;

TECHNOLOGY



BYLINE: Rhiannon Williams TECHNOLOGY CORRESPONDENT



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23



LENGTH: 480 words





Fears that robots will take over the world may have been greatly exaggerated.

Alphabet, Google's huge umbrella conglomerate that works on future projects such

as driverless cars, has just axed a product created by its robotics division on

the grounds that the machines would never be used by millions of people.



The division had developed a robotic arm that it had planned to sell to

warehouse operators and other large-scale enterprise customers but cancelled any

plans to supply the machines - although Alphabet will still use the technology

for future research.



The team that built Google has made a concerted play for the expansive consumer

product market in the past week with the launch of its Pixel and Pixel XL

smartphones, alongside its Google Home speaker, Chromecast Ultra streaming

dongle and Google WiFi system. Traditionally, Google has supplied software for

seasoned manufacturers such as Samsung and LG, rather than tackling the design

process itself.



The company has invested heavily in robotics over the past few years, but has

little to show for it in terms of market-ready offerings. It acquired a raft of

robotics companies in 2013 under the leadership of former head of Android, Andy

Rubin, who left the following year to found tech start-up incubator Playground

Global.



The robotic arm division is now focusing on how the machines can be used in the

application of machine learning, training them to gradually learn skills over

time and communicate with other arms.



Current experiments involve individual arms attempting to open doors after

observing a human instructor demonstrating how to do it. The purpose of this is

to increase the difficulty of the task by moving the door slightly out of the

robot's reach, training it through the acquisition of experience.



"We don't have any plans to sell these robots," a spokesman for Google told i.

"We're using them to do basic research on how machine learning might help robots

be a bit more coordinated - a promising field of research, but still very early

days."



Robots Relief or rival? Robots are already at work doing difficult or dangerous

tasks that free up humans for more rewarding work: Warfare The British Army is

using Dragon Runner, a multi-terrain robot capable of detecting a variety of

improvised explosive devices Agriculture The Wall-Ye robot is used in French

vineyards to carry out such routine tasks as pruning the vines and harvesting

the grapes.



Housework Roomba 880, a newer version of the floor-cleaning robot, is said to do

a better job than any upright vacuum.



Surgery Robotic surgery has become increasingly common. The Da Vinci robot has a

set of robotic arms controlled by a human surgeon.



Among the highest-profile of Google's purchases was Boston Dynamics. Google put

the unit up for sale in March this year, though it has yet to find a buyer for

the firm it paid $500m (£405m) to acquire.



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: III





                    Copyright 2016 Independent Print Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





