                              888 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                  New Orleans City Business (New Orleans, LA)



                           September 26, 2016 Monday



Tech talk: Mobile phone market in need of new sluggers at bat



BYLINE: Gatehouse News Service



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 655  words





If there was ever a time for the bad news bears of the smartphone industry --

Motorola, LG and HTC -- to get some runs on the board, it certainly is now.



After some bad errors by perennial sluggers Apple and Samsung, one with a yawner

of a new release and the other with a new release featuring literal fireworks,

the bottom dwellers are just a swing and a hit away from getting some much

needed runs on the board if they can quickly push some solid devices to market.



Buyers finally might be willing to look past top-shelf devices like the iPhone

and Galaxy Note after a round of wicked bad press. Apple just released its

iPhone 7 that to many seems like a step backwards with the removal of the

headphone jack. Fans of the biggest iFranchise device consistently clamor for

revolutionary new iPhones but generally only get evolutionary upgrades. To some,

the iPhone 7, with the lack of any real design upgrades, represents the first

new iPhone to have "neverlutionary" upgrades. Where Samsung could have taken

Apple's underhanded pitch and rocketed one out of the park but instead released

a franchise device of their own that has a problem with batteries catching fire

or even exploding. I'm not sure Molotov cocktail was on the list of features

Android fans have been asking for.



The questions becomes this: what is the best device not named Apple or Samsung?

To be honest, the aforementioned all-stars have been so good and racked in so

much of the profit shares, literally more than 100 percent, that they have

lapped the competitors.



Putting that aside, the first device I would consider is the forthcoming Google

Nexus Pixel/Pixel XL that is expected to be announced early next month. Its

biggest feature, a pure Android experience, actually negates Android's biggest

downfall and that is manufacturers who take Android and muddle it up or sell it

out with bloatware. Since the device has yet to be officially announced much of

what is known is still speculative. What you can expect is a device similar in

specs to the iPhone 7 but with perhaps a welcomed price break. Much of the

hardware is expected to be produced by HTC or possibly Huawei.



When you say Motorola, you once were saying Google -- but now you are saying

Lenovo. The longtime electronics maker brings a few new tricks up its sleeve

with the Moto Z and Moto Z Force that accept what the refer to as Moto Mods.

Through the use of magnets on the back of the device you can add an external

battery, speaker or a projector with potentially more mods in the pipeline. The

Moto Zs are no slouch on the spec side with great Quad HD AMOLED displays and a

super thin frame.



I have a nostalgic affection for HTC, which was the manufacturer of my first

smartphone. They've always designed great devices with rich features but somehow

got squeezed out of the market by Samsung and have seemingly been a bad device

or two away from ceasing to exist. HTC needed a great device and many consider

the new HTC 10 to be just that. The design is forward thinking in an almost

Apple-esque manner. The specs are in step with competitors and you can even buy

an unaltered pure Android experience through HTC.



The device that tends to peak my in-store sniff test is the LG G5. I'm drawn to

the beautiful display and dumbfounded at how such a large device can feel so

small in your hands. If HTC is the copycat iPhone, LG is certainly modeling its

devices after Samsung. The G5 features a modular design that allows for an

easily swap of batteries and even the addition of a grip for more comfortable

picture taking.



Is there a Louisville Slugger in the bunch of third-tier devices? Probably not.

But are there great devices that put pressure on Apple and Samsung to do better?

You bet.



To sign up for free CityBusiness Daily Updates, click here.



http://www.neworleanscitybusiness.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more

from this resource.



© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires

                              All Rights Reserved





