                              88 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                     September 29, 2015 Tuesday 6:03 PM GMT



Pixel C - first wholly Google-made tablet spells end for Nexus slates;

Made end-to-end by company, rather than by partnering with a third-party

manufacturer, new Android tablet follows in Chromebook Pixel's footsteps



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 372 words





Google is making its own Android tablet called the Pixel C, its second wholly

Google-made machine after the Chromebook Pixel.



The 10in Pixel C will have a high resolution screen, a metal body, and will

resemble the Chromebook Pixel with a multi-coloured bar light on the back.



The tablet will also have a keyboard accessory that docks with the tablet and

holds it like a laptop.



The Pixel C has a USB-C port for charging - the same one used on the Chromebook

Pixel and Google's latest Nexus smartphones - but is not designed to replace

Chromebooks, according to Google.



Nexus tablets dead?



The new tablet, briefly shown off at Google's Nexus and Chromecast launch event

in San Francisco, marks a departure from the partner-based model used by Google

before with its Nexus tablets.



The first Nexus tablet, the Nexus 7, was launched in 2012 and made by Asus. It

followed the model established by the first Nexus smartphone made by HTC in

2010, where Google partnered with a manufacturer to produce a device with a pure

Android experience without the manufacturer's standard customisations.



Google partnered with HTC last year to produce the Nexus 9 tablet, but the

device suffered from manufacturing defects and overheating issues. It appears

Google is replacing the Nexus tablet line with devices made wholly in-house.



The search company uses both its Nexus and Pixel device lines to show what its

platforms can do, attempting to entice developers to create apps for those

platforms.



In this case the Pixel C is the new flagship Android Marshmallow tablet

experience, which Google obviously thinks should be based at least partially

around productivity in the new hybrid laptop-tablet category, started by

Microsoft's original Surface tablet in 2012.



Apple recently announced the iPad Pro with a larger screen and similar keyboard

accessory available in November. The new devices will pit both Google and Apple

in direct competition with Microsoft.



The Pixel C will be available with either 32GB of storage for $499 (£330) or

64GB for $599 (£396) and is expected to be available before Christmas. The

keyboard will cost $149 (£98).



· Google Chromebook Pixel review: beautiful, powerful - but still just Chrome



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





