                              892 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                         The Queensland Times (Ipswich)



                            December 30, 2013 Monday



A whole lot of laptop



SECTION: Pg. 13



LENGTH: 427  words







HIGHLIGHT: For just $399, Acer's C720 Chromebook is an impressive piece of

technology





IMAGINE having a super-cheap laptop that could only do one thing - access your

internet browser.



That's what Google has done with its Chromebook series of laptops and the result

has been surprisingly useful.



It turns out you can do almost anything through your browser these days. Games,

documents, spreadsheets, videos, social media - all can be done with just one

program.



Acer's C720 Chromebook easily lets you tackle Google Music, Youtube, Google+

hangouts (video conferencing) with little to no performance drop.



But why the limited operating system? Why not put a full Linux or Windows system

on it?



Once you've seen how staggeringly fast the C720 boots, you'll never ask again.



This Chromebook will go from off to playing within six seconds. In under 40

seconds you can completely wipe the whole thing and have it back up and running.



The 11.6-inch display is a clear and precise viewport that runs natively at

1366x768 pixels. While this isn't 1080p, you do get a massive performance boost

out of not needing to push quite so many pixels through the pipe all the time.

This was most noticeable during Facebook games and video.



Another major speed boost comes from the use of USB 3.0. If you've not seen the

file transfer speed difference, you're in for a treat.



On paper, USB 3.0 transfers data 10 times faster than the older USB does, though

the hands-on experience here was closer to six to eight times faster on average.



The one thing that might be a problem for newcomers to Chromebooks is the need

to be online almost all of the time.



While you can edit Google Documents offline, most functionality is reliant on

being connected to the internet.



Fortunately the C720 has a notably quick and reliable network card that vacuums

up whatever Wi-Fi signal or dongle you throw at it.



The build quality might also put some off, as the plasticy finish might mislead

some people into thinking the C720 is less sturdy than it actually is.



This machine is a workhorse, no doubt about it, and the ergonomics are top

quality as well - using this Chromebook is somewhat easier than using most other

laptops, even, to an extent, HP's Chromebook offering.



Compared to last year's C7 from Acer, this unit is faster, sleeker, and less

terrible in general, mainly due to the newer technologies that have come out in

the year since the older laptop came out.



For only $399, you're getting a lot of laptop for not a whole lot of money.



You can get cheaper - but they're unlikely to be using the cutting-edge techs

like USB 3.0 or 802.11 N Wi-Fi with all the bells and whistles.



LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IQT





                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





