                              894 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                               The Sun (England)



                              July 28, 2013 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



Google's new Nexus sticks it to mini iPad



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 41



LENGTH: 391 words





Google's unveiled its super-slim Nexus 7 - and with its excellent specifications

and killer price tag, this tablet will be a serious contender against the iPad

Mini.



It has been a year since Google released its firstgen Nexus and once again the

web firm has teamed up with Asus to build the revamped device.



Speaking at the Nexus 7 launch in California, Google's Android Product

Management Vice President Hugo Barra revealed they are trying to follow up with

another "big hit". And judging by first impressions, it looks like they've

nailed it.



The Nexus 7 boasts the world's highest resolu- ation screen for a tablet - a

198200 display that offers twice the amount of pixels per inch than the iPad

Mini.



The screen is ideal for gaming and HD video thanks to its 16:9 aspect ratio,

compared to the iPad Mini's 4:3 ratio.



A 5MP rear-facing camera has been added to the Nexus 7 for the first time, a

feature the original one lacked and was seriously criticised for, with a 1.2mp

camera at the front.



It has been fitted with a speedy 1.5Ghz processor and 2GB of RAM which will make

applications, games and videos run smoother than ever, compared to the iPad

Mini's Apple A5 (1 Ghz).



One game-changing new feature on the Nexus 7 is wireless charging.



Users will be able to place their tablet on to a charging pad without the need

of any cables.



The Nexus 7 will be the first gadget to have Google's new operating system Jelly

Bean running on Android 4.3 installed on it, which will allow even more

customisation for users.



The updated operating system also has a new safety feature - a 'child mode' that

will stop kids from running up massive bills.



Barra said: "We're adding multi user so that parents can restrict their child's

access content and in-app purchases. You can hide all of the purchasing

functions with restricted profiles."



Winner Google claims the Nexus 7 has about nine hours of HD video playback and

ten hours of browsing the web or e-reading - similar to the iPad Mini.



Barra explained: "Even with more than twice the pixels and double the

performance, you get an extra hour - up to nine hours of video, and ten hours of

web surfing."



Pricewise, the Nexus 7 should be around '180 (it has been released in the States

at $229) making it the clear winner over the iPad Mini's '339 price tag.



The Nexus 7 is expected to be released sometime in September.



LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: SCREEN DREAM ... Nexus 7 has world's highest res for a tablet and its

speedy processor ensures a smooth performance



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SUN





                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              All Rights Reserved





