                              899 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)



                              July 24, 2015 Friday

                                 Final Edition



Saving Earth from Pac-Man; Adam Sandler and the gang create a mildly amusing

nostalgia trip



BYLINE: Chris Knight, National Post



SECTION: ARTS &; LIFE; Pg. C7



LENGTH: 627 words





Pixels



Rating: 3



Starring: Adam Sandler, Kevin James, Michelle Monaghan



Directed by: Chris Columbus Running time: 106 minutes



Here's a far-fetched concept for you: In 1982, the winners of a video-game

championship had their achievements videotaped and sent into space aboard a

probe that somehow wound up in the hands of aliens. They took the blasting of

space invaders as a personal affront, and have now mounted a retaliatory attack

on Earth. The gamers, one of whom (Kevin James) is now the U.S. president, must

use their mad skills to defeat the extraterrestrials, who assault our planet in

the form of real-life versions of Pac-Man, Centipede, Pong, Donkey Kong, etc.

Only by playing out these ancient computer games with light-emitting blasters on

the streets of New York and Washington can our planet be saved.



I know. Kevin James as president?



In fact, the Jamesian regime is one of a number of mini-plots that seem to have

been cobbled together to create a mildly amusing nostalgia trip, and probably

the funniest movie ever to feature both James and Adam Sandler. (Not a high

bar.) There's also Sandler as a tech nerd who falls for an out-of-his-league

lady (Michelle Monaghan). And Josh Gad as the shy loner who grew into an adult

version of the same creature, and now must find his way out of his shell.



That leaves Peter Dinklage as Eddie "The Fire Blaster" Plant, an amalgam of the

type of reallife gamers seen in such documentaries as 2007's King of Kong or

Chasing Ghosts. He also seems to be channelling the voice of Barry White, and

tells detractors in resonant tones that it doesn't really matter if he made up

his nickname himself; it still counts.



The real inspiration for Pixels is the short film of the same name by Patrick

Jean - Google "Pixels short" and you'll find it, two minutes and 34 seconds of

anarchic, creative joy. The short has little in the way of plot, which meant

professor Sandler scribes Timothy Dowling (Role Models, Just Go with It) and Tim

Herlihy (everything else) had to cook up a story beefy enough to fill an

additional 103½ minutes.



They almost manage it. After a Grown Ups-style prologue that sees young actors

playing the main cast members in 1982, the movie shifts to the present day, with

Sandler as Brenner, a guy who can set up your new home entertainment system.



In his orange uniform he looks like he has a get-into-jail-free card, but

somehow he maintains a close friendship with James' President Cooper. The two

are so tight that when a U.S. military base in Guam is attacked, the president's

first move is to call his buddy Brenner.



He also brings in Lt.-Col. Violet van Patten (Monaghan), who has just had a

meet-cute with Brenner.



The aliens communicate through video recreations of such '80s icons as Ronald

Reagan and Mr. Roarke, with their ultimatum being delivered by Hall and Oates,

which feels about right.



It's worth noting some of the references come from after 1982 - Max Headroom and

the Where's the Beef lady didn't appear until '84, and neither did Tetris, but

the vision of highrise meets low-rez was probably too tempting to let go.



Director Chris Columbus (Harry Potter 1 and 2) lets the scenes play out, often a

bit too loosely, to encompass random moments of karaoke, out-ofcharacter

speeches and shots of military types (Sean Bean, Brian Cox, etc.) looking grumpy

at having their world-saving jobs made redundant by a bunch of nerds.



Not sure what Tom McCarthy is doing in a robot suit, or why Dinklage's character

has a thing for Serena Williams and/or Martha Stewart, but maybe it's best to

let such moments pass without remark. Anyone who lived through the '80s knows

that not everything that happened in that decade made perfect sense.

!@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.



LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: / With cars coloured like the ghosts Pinky, Clyde, Blinky and Inky, our

heroes face down a menacing Pac-Man in the new comedy, Pixels.;;  Michelle

Monaghan, Adam Sandler, Josh Gad, and Peter Dinklage star in the absurd, yet

relatively funny, Pixels, blasting away aliens shaped like Pac-Man, Donkey Kong

and other 1980s game characters.;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2015 The Vancouver Sun

                              All Rights Reserved





