

A day after Google announced the Nexus 9 tablet in hardware partnership with
HTC, Apple unveiled its new generation iPads including the iPad Air 2 and iPad
mini 3. The Nexus 8 is Google's much awaited update to its tablet line, while
Apple's iPad Air is a leap ahead of the iPad Air, with major internal upgrades.
Since Google and Apple are arch rivals and their respective tablets are loaded
with powerful specifications as well as look promising, comparison between these
is obvious.

Here we compare the two tablets against each other, on the basis of their
specifications on paper, to see which one would fare better than the other.

Design:

The iPad Air 2 flaunts an aluminum unibody design which is thinner than ever at
merely 6.1mm. The Nexus 9 on the other hand looks like an entirely plastic
construction and measures 7.95mm in thickness. The premium metal body of Apple
iPad Air 2 would give it an edge over the Nexus 9. Also, Apple has opted for
original iPad Air like design language for iPad Air 2 as both the tablets look
almost similar, while the Nexus 9 looks pretty different from the previous
generation Nexus tablets.

Display:

The Apple iPad Air 2 comes with a 9.7-inch display with 2048x1536 pixels
resolution offering pixel density of 264 pixels per inch. The Nexus 9 on the
other hand has same resolution spread across a comparatively smaller 8.9-inch
display.

A smaller display size accommodating similar display would mean better visuals,
however considering that iPad Air comes with anti-reflective coating which as
per the company's claim can cut down glare by 56 percent, and offer improved
readability even in daylight, comparison would be difficult. Both the tablet
should offer good visuals, and reproduce colors well.

Processor:

Apple iPad Air 2 is powered by the second-gen 64-bit A8X chipset with M8 motion
co-processor, which promises 40 percent faster performance and 180 times better
graphics performance than the iPad Air. The Nexus 9, on the other hand runs on
Nvidia's Tegra K1 2.3GHz dual-core SoC, which also boasts 64-bit architecture.
Both the processors are powerful, and should be capable of offering glitch free,
smooth performance. It would be unfair to decide on the better one until both
the tablets are tested thoroughly.

Camera:

Both the tablets sport 8-megapixel primary camera with 1080p HD video recording
capabilities, though are based on different technologies. However, the Nexus 9
has a slightly bigger 1.7 megapixel sensor than the 1.2-megapixel on the iPad
Air 2.

Software:

Both tablets are based on completely different platforms, and come with a
variety of software features that seem useful. The iPad Air 2 runs the latest
iOS 8 while the Nexus 9 is powered by the newest Android version - the Lollipop
5.0, both of which have been designed to bring an integrated interface across
devices working on the respective platforms.

Others:

The iPad Air 2 comes with TouchID fingerprint scanner while the Nexus 9 gets NFC
connectivity.

Price:

This would be a key factor to decide the fate of these tablets. Going by the
officially suggested prices (starting from INR 35,900 for 16GB Wi-Fi only
version) of iPad Air 2 in India, the tablet would be a pricey affair over
Google's Nexus 9 which has been listed on Play Store for price starting from
28,900. However, that I sjust a major differentiating factor and does not mean
that Nexus 9 would be a better choice over the iPad Air 2.

