
DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Sept. 17 -- KATHMANDU, Sept 17: In a bid to tap the growing demand for
tablet PCs in the country, Nuevotronics International has launched Nuevo Phone
Tablet in the Nepali market.

According to the company, the device, which is assembled in China, has been
manufactured under supervision of its engineers and software personnel.

Sagun Dhungana, technical specialist at Nuevotronics International, said the
tablet supports mobile telephony and does everything that a computer does. "We
are hopeful that customers will love this tablet as it can function both as a
phone and a laptop," added Dhungana.

The tablet with 7-inch capacitive touch screen uses Android 2.3 operating
system. It has a SIM slot that helps customers make phone calls, send messages
and use 3G Internet. It is powered by ARM 11 dual core processor and uses 512 MB
RAM. It comes with 4GB internal memory and supports expandable memory up to
64GB.

According to Dhungana, other features in the tablet includes GPS, Bluetooth, USB
connector, 0.3 mega pixels front camera and 2 mega pixels rear camera, among
others. Customers get accessories like charger, earphones and USB connector free
with the tablet phone. The company is also giving away screen guard and card
dock for free.

Besides, the company has incorporated Google Cloud computing in the tablet. "We
have introduced Google Cloud computing with Nuevo phone tablet so that customers
can easily store their data," said Dhungana.

Nuevo phone tablet has inbuilt Skype, Viber, Facebook, Google Play and many
other applications so that customers. Though the tablet is available in black
color only, customers can choose covers in attractive colors like yellow, red,
cream, pink and grey by paying Rs 500.

Though the company has already started booking for the tablet phone, it will
start delivering the device from Wednesday onwards.

The company has priced the gadget at Rs 18,999. However, it will offer 15
percent discount for the first week as an introductory offer.

"We have already received bookings for 50 phone tablets. Most of the bookings
have come from the corporate sector," added Dhungana. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

