                              904 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             Waterloo Region Record



                           January 16, 2016 Saturday

                                 First Edition



Google's Kitchener hub impacting lives globally;

Gmail, Chrome, Google Ads, Pixel ... intimately tied to Canadian R&D efforts



BYLINE: Terry Pender, Record staff, tpender@therecord.com



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E10



LENGTH: 1013 words





The 350 software and hardware engineers in Google's office in the Breithaupt

Block work on a long list of products that underscore how much the technology

giant has changed since it started out as a search engine 18 years ago.



The Kitchener office is the centre of the company's research and development

efforts in Canada, and teams here do leading edge work on products used by

billions of people around the world.



The products developed here, or largely developed here include Gmail, Chrome,

Inbox, the OnHub Wi-Fi Router, Google Ads and Google Fibre, and high performance

tablets and laptops like Google Flip and the Pixel.



Engineers in Kitchener also develop mobile applications and mobile ads and work

on virtual reality as part of Google Cardboard.



Gmail is good example of the impact of the engineering and development teams in

Kitchener. The email service is used by more than 900 million people a day, and

75 per cent of them are on mobile devices, said Google engineer Matthew Izatt.



"So this is a really big product," he said. "The Canadian site is one of three

main engineering sites for Gmail world wide."



All of the Gmail-related development work for iPhones and iPads was done in

Kitchener.



"The Gmail app and the Inbox Gmail app are all developed solely in Canada,"

Izatt said.



More than 100,000 businesses in Canada use Gmail and Google Ads. Many

universities, school boards and cities do as well.



"The team here is really impactful across both consumers and businesses," Izatt

said.



Chrome, the open source web browser, was largely developed by Google in

Kitchener. And a team here continues to enhance and expand Chrome products.



"There are 800 million users searching the Internet on their mobile devices

using Chrome every single day," Alex Nicolaou, engineering director for the

Chrome team, said.



With the rise of mobile browsing, Nicolaou approached his bosses about forming a

dedicated team.



That was in 2010. He formed a team with deep expertise in mobile computing and

the touchable web, which involves interacting with information by touching the

screen.



Google engineers have done their jobs right when you drag your finger across the

screen of Chrome laptops Pixel or Flip and it feels like you are manipulating an

object behind the screen.



"And that takes a tonne of engineering work," said, Rick Byers, senior software

engineer for the Touch platform.



Byers and Nicolaou are working to make operating systems disappear. That will

make computers faster and easier to use.



"So instead of having to worry about bar scanners or software installs or

software updates, all you do is turn it on, you type in what you want, and you

get that from the web," Nicolaou said.



The developers working on Google Ads in Kitchener have access to one of the

world's largest computer systems. The server infrastructure that keeps Google

Ads working 24-7 is a massive technical challenge. It brings together

advertisers and some of the world's biggest content providers, protects privacy

and keeps other ads off client sites.



As the capabilities of computers and mobile devices increased the Wi-Fi routers

in homes lagged.



Frequent interruptions in Internet service were made worse by tiresome reboot

steps. So Google engineers and developers in Kitchener went to work, and created

the OnHub Wi-Fi Router.



"This is one of the highest performance routers you can buy on the market

today," said Jay Shah, a lead engineer for the OnHub team.



The software for OnHub learns and adapts the more it is used. With a sleek

design - it has no external antenna - it can be placed out in the open where

Wi-Fi works best.



Like 60 per cent of the Google engineers working in Kitchener, Shah is a

graduate of the University of Waterloo. He was one of the three founders of

BufferBox, an automated parcel delivery startup that Google acquired for $17

million in 2012.



"Another cool thing about it is you manage it through an app," said Melissa

Dominguez, an OnHub developer. "We have an Android and iOS app, which we

developed right here."



Users get real-time information about their Wi-Fi usage on their smartphones.

They also can share their passwords with visitors by sending the information to

their phone instead of looking for a piece of paper that fell off the

refrigerator door.



Google Fibre is the stuff of near legend, providing ultrafast Internet services.

It starts with a connection that provides Internet service at a speed of up to

1,000 megabits per second. Since it was founded in 2012, Google Fibre has been

rolled out in Austin, Kansas City and Provo, Utah.



Several other U.S. cities are on the list, but so far there are no plans to

bring Google Fibre to any Canadian cities. That may seem strange when people

learn that a lot of the engineering work for Google Fibre is done in Kitchener.



Fibre engineers and developers here work on the infrastructure that is needed to

light up a city with super-fast Internet. They also work on expanding

opportunities for Fibre in apartment buildings, small business, school boards

and universities.



The Google team for FibreTV develops both hardware and software. The network box

that brings the fast Internet into a residence was developed here.



So was the TV box that connects a TV to the Internet through either the ethernet

of coaxial cable.



FibreTV is controlled with a traditional remote, or an app on a smartphone.

Users can type in the name of their favourite actor, and every movie that actor

was in will be recorded for your FibreTV. Google HD-DVR can record up to eight

shows at the same time and can hold up to 20 days of HD content.



With FibreTV you can also watch live TV and on-demand content on mobile devices.



Steve Woods, the head of engineering for Google Canada, said these products pave

the way into the Internet of Things, the world in which common objects are

connected to the Internet and can communicate with each other.



"We are interested in hardware and consumers and their homes," Woods said. "So

those give us entry into those product areas and we will experiment. Some things

will launch, some things won't."



tpender@therecord.com



LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





