                              909 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                               Right Vision News



                             June 10, 2010 Thursday



Pakistan: Apple unveils iPhone with video chat



LENGTH: 721  words



DATELINE: San Francisco





San Francisco, June 10 -- Apple has unveiled a next-generation iPhone that

features video chat, can shoot and edit high-definition quality video and has a

crisper resolution screen.



"We are going to take the biggest leap since the original iPhone," Apple chief

executive Steve Jobs said as he showed off the "iPhone 4" at Apple's Worldwide

Developers Conference here.



The iPhone 4 will go on sale on June 24 in Britain, France, Germany, Japan and

the United States and will cost 199 dollars for the 16 gigabyte model and 299

dollars for the 32GB version.



The touchscreen smartphone, which comes in black and white versions, will be

available in 18 other countries in July and 24 more in August.



The iPhone 4 includes more than 100 new features including a front-facing video

camera to allow for video-conferencing between iPhones, a better still camera,

an improved battery and a screen with significantly higher resolution.



To demonstrate the video chat program, called "FaceTime," Jobs, dressed in his

trademark black turtleneck and blue jeans, called up Jonathan Ive, an Apple

product designer, and held an iPhone-to-iPhone video conversation.



The iPhone 4 can also shoot and edit HD video. Randy Ubillos, Apple's chief

architect for video applications, displayed an iMovie for iPhone video editing

program available from Apple's App Store for 4.99 dollars.



Jobs touted the higher-resolution screen as a major leap forward. "There has

never been a display like this on a phone," he said.



The 3.5-inch screen is the same size as on previous models but features 326

pixels per square inch, four times more pixels than the earlier iPhones.



"There is a magic number around 300 pixels per inch that is the limit of the

human retina," Jobs said. "We are over that limit.



"That's going to set the standard for display for years to come."



The improved battery life allows for 40 percent more talk time, Jobs said, and

the iPhone 4 -- at 9.3 millimeters or three-eighths of an inch -- is 24 percent

thinner than the previous model, iPhone 3GS.



The iPhone 4, which runs on Apple's A4 processor, features a five-megapixel

camera, an improvement on the previous three-megapixel camera.



Users will also have the option to use Microsoft's Bing as an Internet search

engine in addition to Google and Yahoo! Google remains the default search

engine.



Jobs joked that some of the attendees at the conference may have seen the iPhone

4 previously "because there have been a few photos around."



Technology blog Gizmodo obtained a prototype of the iPhone in April from a

21-year-old man who found it in a California beer garden, where it had been lost

by an Apple software engineer, and published details of the device.



Apple launched the iPhone in 2007 and has sold more than 50 million as it

battles Google's Android platform, the Blackberry from Canada's Research in

Motion and others for the fast-growing market.



Before displaying the latest iPhone, Jobs said that more than five million

digital books have been downloaded since Apple began selling its iPad tablet

computer two months ago.



Jobs, who received a standing ovation as he walked on stage to address the more

than 5,200 software developers attending the conference, said the 8,500

applications developed for the iPad have been downloaded more than 35 million

times from Apple's App Store.



Apple has sold more than two million iPads since it went on sale in the United

States in early April and in nine other countries late last month.



Jobs said that 225,000 applications for the iPhone and the iPod Touch were

currently available and that five billion applications had been downloaded from

the App Store as of last week.



The new iPhone received positive reviews from analysts, although most of the

features were known already because of the Gizmodo leak.



Altimeter's Michael Gartenberg said Apple has "raised the bar once again by

offering next year's technology at last year's prices.



"They are the first ones to make video chat easy and that will drive the sales,"

Gartenberg said.



Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi said the iPhone 4 "keeps Apple ahead of the

competition" by "driving software and hardware innovation hand in hand.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For more

information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at

htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,

please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News

                              All Rights Reserved





