

Anyone unwilling or unable to pay the minimum of £399 for the latest iPad will
welcome the launch of Google's first tablet - already dubbed the austerity
tablet. The Nexus 7 starts at £159 - but surprisingly, given the price, few
corners seem to have been cut in this fast and well-made device. The Sunday
Times is one of the few publications to have got its hands on one to test. Our
verdict: this is the most dangerous tablet challenger Apple has yet faced.

Google's hardware partner is Asus, and it has done the internet company proud:
the 7in tablet is one of the lightest available but it feels robust. Its screen
has the highest resolution of any seven-incher, better than that of BlackBerry's
PlayBook and Samsung's Galaxy Tab 2 7.0, and coming close to the quality of the
new iPad in the crisp way it renders text and its bright and colourful video.

It's the first tablet of any size to run on a quad-core processor. The extra
power is most apparent with ebooks, where animated page turns are quick and free
of stutter; video, which launches instantly and plays smoothly; and
graphics-rich games. Battery life is claimed to be an iPad-rivalling nine hours
- if that stands up, it's a significant improvement over existing 7in devices,
which have been hampered by proportionately small batteries.

Only the single, front-facing camera and the lack of Sim and memory card slots
betray the tablet's budget origins. You won't be able to get online outside
wi-fi zones, or bulk up the 8GB or 16GB memory. Links to Google and Asus's cloud
storage - a total of 10GB, free for one year - will help to ease the pain.

One thing prevents the Nexus from going head to head with Apple, and that's
size. Its screen looks small next to the iPad's 9.7in.

There's a reason Google has plumped for a screen of this size - the Kindle Fire.
The Fire, with a screen size of 7.1in, became the bestselling non-Apple tablet
overnight when it was launched by Amazon in America last year, priced at a
competitive $199 (£130). An estimated 6m were sold in the run-up to Christmas.
The implication was clear: while Android may not have behaved as predictably as
Apple's software, and while there were fewer tabletoptimised apps available,
millions of people were willing to overlook those flaws as long as the price was
right.

The Fire could be sold cheaply because Amazon put prominent links to its online
stores on the device's start screen. Sales of ebooks and downloads of music
subsidise the hardware costs. Google has got the message. As with the Fire, the
Nexus 7's home page is a user-friendly shop window for Google's online services.
The company now runs the world's biggest ebookshop, with around 4m titles; it
has smartened up its app store, now second only to Apple's, with about 600,000
programs available to download; and it rents out movies and plans to sell music
too.

Move away from the home page and you're in more familiar Android territory -
although the Nexus doesn't short-change you with an old version like the Fire's.
The tablet is the first to come with Android 4.1, aka Jelly Bean, the
smoothest-running edition yet. Highlights include notifications popping up as
new email and tweets arrive, and the excellent Chrome web browser, capable of
synching bookmarks between the tablet and your desktop PC.

The 8GB version of the Nexus 7 is available to pre-order now via play.google.com
and will start to be sent out in two weeks. The 16GB model will arrive in shops
at the end of the month. With rival 7in devices dropping in price in response to
the newcomer, there's never been a better time to try a tablet.

THE BUDGET RIVALS

BLACKBERRY PLAYBOOK From £169

Software BlackBerry Tablet OS

Processor 1GHz dual-core

Memory 16GB-64GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 425g

Sim slot? No

Cameras 5MP, 3MP

Reduced from a launch price of £399, the BlackBerry tablet is as well built as
the Nexus and runs attractive software. But very few apps and games have been
released for it, leaving it suitable for little more than browsing the internet
and grabbing your email. As for getting 3G on the move, you'll need to pair it
with a BlackBerry phone.

SAMSUNG GALAXY TAB 2 7.0 From £200

Software Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)

Processor 1GHz dual-core

Memory 8GB-32GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 344g

Sim slot? Yes

Cameras 3MP, 1.3MP

Samsung makes the bestselling Galaxy S Android phones, but its tablets have yet
to make as much of an impression. The 7in version of the Tab 2 is competent: it
runs fast and feels light in the hand, but the finish is plasticky. Its version
of Android is Ice Cream Sandwich, which was the most up to date - until the
Nexus appeared.

HTC FLYER 16GB From £200

Software Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)

Processor 1.5GHz single-core

Memory 16GB-32GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 421g

Sim slot? Yes

Cameras 5MP, 1.3MP

Like the PlayBook, this is a tablet that's had a big price drop since launch.
The Flyer is the only tablet to come with a stylus - useful for drawing apps,
accurate typing and hitting small buttons on websites. It feels chunky compared
with the Nexus and runs an earlier, far more pedestrian version of Android. You
do get HTC's own excellent apps, though.

AMAZON KINDLE FIRE About £170 (import only)

Software Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)

Processor 1GHz dual-core

Memory 8GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 413g

Sim slot? No

Cameras None

Amazon cannily launched its budget Android tablet as a version of the Kindle and
scored a hit in America. Like the Nexus, it's "skinned": users are greeted not
with a regular Android screen but a display featuring links to Amazon's book,
music and video shops - which don't work with their UK equivalents, should you
have one shipped over.

