                              914 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)



                          December 16, 2015 Wednesday

                                 METRO EDITION



How to show Apple screen on your TV



BYLINE: STEVE ALEXANDER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6D



LENGTH: 467 words





Q: I read your column about how to transfer a Windows 10 screen image to a

Samsung Smart TV (see tinyurl.com/jto844d.) How could I do the same thing with

an Apple computer?



MIKE DOSCH, EAGAN



A: There are a couple of ways to transfer the view on your Macintosh computer

screen to your HDTV, a process called screen mirroring.



To do it Apple's way, you'll need a newer computer and operating system that can

handle the AirPlay feature. Macs that can handle the task include the iMac, Mac

Mini, MacBook Air or MacBook Pro models from 2011 or later, Mac Pro models from

late 2013 onward and MacBook models from earlier this year. Those Macs must use

the operating system OS X Mountain Lion version 10.8, or a newer one.



In addition, you'll need an Apple TV device that plugs into your TV's HDMI port,

then wirelessly connects to your Mac. The most basic Mac-to-Apple TV connection,

which uses a home Wi-Fi network as an intermediary, requires a second-generation

or later Apple TV unit.



If you want to link a Mac directly to your HDTV without a Wi-Fi network, you'll

need a third-generation Apple TV and a 2012 or newer Mac running the operating

system OS X Yosemite version 10.10, or a newer one. For details, see

tinyurl.com/nnldkga.



A non-Apple method for screen mirroring involves linking, via a Wi-Fi network,

Google's Chrome Web browser on the Mac and Google's Chromecast device that plugs

in to your TV's HDMI port. See tinyurl.com/hfpdpoe. For Mac system requirements

and a Chrome browser download site, see tinyurl.com/l7w8wdf and click "Mac."



Q: I had Google Earth installed on my Windows 7 PC before I upgraded to Windows

10. Now when I use Google Earth, the screen image is poor at my "start location"

and gets worse when I move to other geographic places. In addition, once I close

Google Earth, I have to restart the PC in order to open the program again. I

tried uninstalling and reinstalling Google Earth, but it didn't help. What

should I do?



TOM MADERE, LAPLACE, LA.



A: Google Earth is acting as if your Windows 10 computer doesn't have high

enough screen resolution (picture sharpness) to display its images. That can be

fixed by changing the PC's DPI, or dots per inch, setting for Google Earth.

(While screen resolution is often measured by the number of pixels horizontally

and vertically, DPI counts just the pixels in a line 1 inch long.)



To alter the DPI setting, use Windows Explorer to find the Google Earth program

on your C drive. Right click the Google Earth application folder, select

"properties," then choose "compatibility." Under "settings," uncheck the box in

front of "disable display scaling on high DPI settings."



E-mail tech questions to steve.j.alexander@gmail.com or write to Tech Q&A, 650

3rd Av. S., Suite 1300, Minneapolis, MN 55488. Include name, city and telephone

number.



LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2015 Star Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





