                              917 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            Kashmir Monitor (India)



                           October 27, 2012 Saturday



Sony India launches new range of Xperia smartphones in India



LENGTH: 604 words



DATELINE: Srinagar





Srinagar, Oct. 27 -- Sony India announced the launch of its new Xperia

smartphone range in India. In an official statement, the company shares that the

trio - Xperia miro, Xperia J and Xperia SL, are equipped to deliver the next

step in connected entertainment, and are now available at all retail counters

across India. These new devices will be available across price points, catering

to smartphone requirements wants of different consumers.



The Xperia SL is powered by a dual core 1.7GHz processor. With a 12-megapixel

fast capture camera, Exmor R for mobile camera sensor to lighten up, Sony India

claims that users can get sharper pictures even in lowlight. The all out HD

smartphone, Xperia SL is known to have the highest pixels per inch (PPI) of any

Sony smartphone, and is certified as the sharpest HD smartphone display. The

company has priced it at Rs 32,549.



Xperia SL is armed with a 12MP shooter



Here's a quick look at the specifications of the Xperia SL:



4.3-inch capacitive touchscreen display with a resolution of 720 x 1280 pixels



3G, EDGE/GPRS, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct



GPS with A-GPS support for Google Maps



Bluetooth with A2DP and USB 2.0 (Micro)



12MP camera with LED flash, secondary camera



Stereo FM radio



32GB storage



The Xperia miro smartphone is available in a range of funky colours with deep

integration of Facebook throughout contacts, photo gallery and the music player.

It also comes equipped with Sony's xLOUD audio technology for crisp and loud

sound. The Xperia miro is priced Rs 15,249.



The Xperia Miro comes with deep FB integration



Here's a quick look at the specifications of the Xperia Miro:



3.5 inches capacitive touchscreen display with a resolution of 320 x 480 pixels



3G, EDGE/GPRS, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct



GPS with A-GPS support for Google Maps



Bluetooth with A2DP and USB 2.0 (Micro)



5MP camera with LED flash, secondary camera up front



Stereo FM radio



4GB internal + microSD card support for up to 32GB more memory



Sony has also announced the Xperia J, which it refers to as an affordable

smartphone, with eye-catching design and a stand-out screen size. The Xperia J

features a design measuring 9.2mm and is available in Black and White colours.

The Xperia J has been priced at Rs 18,399.



Xperia J is referred to as an affordable smartphone



Here's a quick look at the specifications of the Xperia J:



4.0-inch FWVGA display with a resolution of 854 x 480 pixels



3G, GPRS/EDGE, Wi-Fi, WiFi hotspot functionality



GPS with A-GPS for Google Maps



Bluetooth with A2DP and USB 2.0 (Micro)



5MP camera with LED flash, front facing camera



Stereo FM radio



4GB internal + microSD card support for up to 32GB more memory



Sony has also slashed down the price of its existing range of smartphones from

10th Oct onwards for the festive season. This includes price drop on Xperia U,

Xperia P, Xperia go and Xperia ion smartphones across all the markets.



A recent FICCI-KPMG report suggests that the consumption of media and

entertainment will grow at CAGR of 15 percent over next five years. Kenichiro

Hibi, Managing Director, Sony India, said, "Given the ever growing demand for

entertainment on-the-go, we are launching the new range of Xperia Smartphones

today, to offer seamless visual HD experience, social networking on-the-go,

Finest looks and the Smarter Music experience. Sony is also driving itself

across price segments to keep up with the expectation of every Indian consumer

who aspires to own a smartphone," he added. Published by HT Syndication with

permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any query with respect to this article

or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at

htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2012 The Kashmir Monitor

                              All Rights Reserved





