                              91 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          The Business Times Singapore



                            October 8, 2016 Saturday



Will Google pixelate the smartphone market?



BYLINE: Joyce Hooi , Will Google pixelate the smartphone market?



SECTION: OPINION; Commentaries



LENGTH: 657 words





1 What do you think was the most remarkable thing that happened this week'



As we come off a week of bond defaults and presidential election skirmishes, it

would be a nice change to look at something new and shiny. Incidentally, a nice

change is what Google is offering consumers this week.



On Tuesday, the Internet giant launched its Pixel phone in San Francisco. It

unveiled two variations - the Pixel and Pixel XL, with a five-inch and 5.5-inch

display, respectively. Pre-orders have begun in Australia, Canada, Germany,

Britain, and the United States. The phones are priced from US$649 in the US. So

far, there has been no word on when it will be sold in Singapore.



2 Why is this a big deal'



Dubbed "Pixel, phone by Google", the phone is the first one to bear the

behemoth's branding, even though HTC actually manufactures it. Up till now,

Google's phones had been under the Nexus brand.



The Pixel will be fresh and overdue competition, given how the smartphone

business has mostly become a two-company game played by Apple and Samsung. Both

dominant players have tested consumers' goodwill this year. Apple eliminated

standard headphone jacks from its new phones, and Samsung produced some

smartphones that caught fire.



Google clearly has its eye on Apple's and Samsung's shares of the pie. The Pixel

pointedly comes with an adaptor that lets you transfer your data from your

iPhone or another Android device.



The smartphone battle with Google will be more evenly matched than the

skirmishes involving other smaller handset makers. Unlike those players, Google

has already woven itself into the fabric of modern existence with services such

as Gmail, Google Drive and YouTube.



Also, what is remarkable about this development is not so much the Pixel phone

itself, but what Google is doing with artificial intelligence (AI) and virtual

reality (VR). On Tuesday, Google unveiled its US$79 VR headset, called Daydream

View, which works with the Pixel phones. The headset might not be the last word

on such devices, but could touch off a long and steady evolution of products in

that space.



Google Assistant, the voice-activated feature that comes with the Pixel, is

powered by AI and will compete with iPhone's Siri. The assistant will also

appear in Google Home, a voice-activated gadget going on sale in November, and

eventually, in a multitude of digital devices.



Between Google's advances in speech-recognition and AI technology, and its iron

grip on search results, the world could soon be intoning not just "Ok Google",

but "Whatever you want, Google".



3 Did you see this coming'



Who didn't? The Pixel's pre-launch period was leakier than a balloon that had

been pulled over a durian. Photos of the handsets were accidentally leaked, as

were details such as display sizes and the location of the fingerprint sensor on

the back of the handsets.



4 Should anyone be worried? Or excited'



It is hard to imagine smartphone makers doing cartwheels this week, as they are

already scrabbling for territory in an increasingly fragmented market. Google's

Pixel also means more competition for other phones that use its mobile operating

system, Android.



Also, the smartphone market is now a tougher place for all players. Today's

handset race is about small and incremental improvements, instead of

revolutionary leaps. It has become more difficult for a new model to

differentiate itself from its predecessor, even if it comes out of Apple or

Samsung.



5 What happens next'



While there are now more smartphone brands than you can shake a fire

extinguisher at, there is no particular handset that is the Platonic Ideal of

the Smartphone.



It remains to be seen if the Pixel will claim this title, but it is the most

promising challenger to Apple and Samsung, to date. That in itself is

refreshing.



For what it's worth, the Pixel comes with a cutting-edge 3.5mm headset jack. Is

it the smartphone that Gotham deserves? Who knows. But it is the one that it

needs right now.



LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Photos of the handsets were accidentally leaked, as were details such

as display sizes and the location of the fingerprint sensor on the back of the

handsets.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





