

Virtual Reality (VR) is something that is slowly gaining a lot of hype. After
big brands like Samsung, HTC, Lenovo and LG launched their VR headsets, Indian
brands have followed suit. Karbonn was the first to launch a budget phone with a
VR headset bundle and now Intex has launched their offering in this space -it's
called the Intex Aqua View.

The company includes a Google Cardboard type VR headset in the box -Intex calls
it the Intex Eyelet and says that it is based on ve r s i o n 2 . 0 o f t h e G
o o g l e Cardboard design. It is compatible with any smartphone as long as it
has a gyroscope and accelerometer. It is made of good quality cardboard and
feels sturdy -there is a button on the top right and it worked with a 5.5-inch
display size without any issue. It has a QR code at the bottom for quick setup
with the Cardboard app too.

S o m e m i g h t s ay t h a t t h e Karbonn offering is sturdier because it has
a rigid plastic body -the Intex Eyelet appears to be l a ck i n g i n c o m p a
r i s o n . We should also mention that there are various third party VR
headsets that can you can buy at a lower price from various e-commerce portals.

On the phone is a dedicated setting for VR calibration -it is recommended to
calibrate your headset the first time before you start using it for the best
experience.Intex preloads the Google Cardboard as well as the Google Cardboard
camera on the device along with a few photos and videos to use with the VR
headset. You can install various other VR apps and games from the Google Play
store -we tried some of the usua l s l i k e A r t e 3 6 0 , Vr s e,
Rollecoaster as well as YouTube and they all worked without any issue. However,
the 5-inch display with 1280 x 720 pixels' resolution is far from ideal when it
comes to VR use. You will be able to see individual pixels through the lenses.
Intex should have offered at least full HD resolution on the screen for a better
VR experience.

Specifications are like what we have seen on a number of devices launched in
this price range.There is a 1Ghz quad-core Mediatek processor, 2GB RAM, 16GB RAM
and a 2,200mAh battery. Since the phone has a nearstock user interface, the
navigation is smooth and there is no sluggishness. The phone had no issues
playing full HD videos as well as basic games like Subway

Surfer and Crashing Season.However, with heavier games like Dead Trigger 2, we
noticed frame drops during gameplay.With a full charge, the phone lasts from 9
am to 4pm.Considering that using a phone for VR drains battery rather fast (20%
consumed in around 10 minutes), one big issue is the lack of fast charging -it
takes over 3 hours for the phone to charge from 0 to 100%.

Camera performance from the Aqua view is a mixed bag. The rear 8MP camera's
daylight images look good on the phone's display but on close inspection, we
could see that they lacked sharpness. Images captured indoors also look fine on
the screen but there is visible noise. The front camera also had similar issues
and often resulted in dark images indoors since it failed to

capture enough light. Video recording is supported in full HD quality and is the
saving grace with above average quality.

There are two more issues with the phone. First

is that while it comes with a front fingerprint scanner, it doesn't work
properly -it worked fine 3 out of 10 attempts. We tried setting up different
fingers also but the fingerprint failed to work as expected. Second, there is no
USB OTG support on the phone which is disappointing.

The build quality of the phone is impressive. It looks and feels great in hand
even though it's not a full metal body. The back panel is removable and has a
brushed metal finish with a slight curve for better ergonomics. Up front, the
fingerprint scanner is placed under the screen and looks very similar to what
you get on the iPhone 5 (complete with silver ring). The screen has thick black
bezels on all four sides -that's never nice to look at either.

Overall, the Intex Aqua View has more negatives than positives. If it's only a
VR experience t h at yo u w a n t , I n t e x a n d Karbonn are the only two
that offer a bundled headset. We would suggest that you buy a third party
headset and use it with a better phone. For instance, you buy the Coolpad Note 3
Plus at the same price. It offers better hardware and a full HD screen. A
third-party VR headset will cost an additional '1,000 \xAD 2,000.

