                              925 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                     September 15, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST



5 things that are missing from the Android One smartphones



LENGTH: 786  words





A few months after the project was unveiled at the Google I/O, Android One

budget Smartphones finally see the morning sun today. Snapdeal has just launched

the Karbonn Sparkle V Android One Smartphone price for INR 6399 in India.

Earlier Spice too accidentally revealed its first Android One Smartphone 'the

Mi-498 Android One Dream UNI' priced at INR 6999 on Flipkart. On the basis of

the information revealed by these smartphone players as well as information

revealed by Google at its I/O, we lest down five things that are missing from

Android One Smartphones.



Today Google's Android head Sundar Pichai along with Micromax, Karbonn, and

Spice would be announcing the first wave of Android One Smartphones. These

smartphones are meant to cater to the low-range Smartphone segment in the

country, and as per Google would offer a rich-user experience. Though Google had

already revealed information about some of the specs of the Android One hardware

reference phone, there has been some more information leaked online.



These smartphones are priced for INR 6,399 instead of the earlier mentioned

sub-$100 price point, which we feel is slightly more for the phones with such

specifications especially considering that competitors have better options

available in this price point.



It was highlighted by Google that these phones will get an edge over others in

terms of software related updates, but is that enough to attract buyers to

invest in these phones? Here we give you five reasons that we feel would be

missing from these phones.



1. Display resolution:



Google Android One smartphones including Spice Mi-498 Android One Dream UNI, and

Karbonn Sparkle V Android One smartphones come with 4.5-inch display with

480x800 pixels display, which gets a beating from Xiaomi RedMi 1S that flaunts a

4.7-inch HD display accommodating 1280 x 720 pixels resolution with 312 pixel

per inch density. The RedMi 1S' display is not only bigger but also boasts

better resolution in a lower price point of INR 5,999. The Android One

smartphones clearly loose the charm in the display department!



2.Memory:



The Android One smartphones come with 4 GB of internal memory, expandable by up

to 32 GB via microSD card. This sounds good only when you do not look at the

Celkon Millennium Vogue Q455 that has got 16 GB internal memory and 64 GB

expandable memory, or the Lava Iris X1 that has 8 GB internal memory and 32 GB

expandable memory. These two are however, placed slightly above INR 7K, but will

still compete against the Android One smartphones.



Don't we want the Android One smartphones to offer better features than what its

counterparts in this price range!



3. Water and dust proof quality:



When Motorola launched its budget Moto E with the water proof coating at merely

INR 6,999, it surprised us all. Didn't it! Water proof qualities in the

Smartphones in this price range was completely new to us, as we had not really

seen any local vendor offering such feature on their smartphones. Sadly, the

feature is missing even from the Android One smartphones.



4. Camera goodness!



As was revealed by Google's Sundar Pichai, these Android Ones smartphones are

supposed to come with a 5-megapixel rear camera, which is nothing that we have

not seen before. There are smartphones with an 8-megapixel rear camera in this

range, and Xiaomi RedMi 1s is just one of them. We do get an 8 megapixel camera

(with flash) on the Xiaomi RedMi 1S at almost INR 6,000, and on others like the

Lava Iris X1, Karbonn Titanium S5 Plus, XOLO Q700S (Silver) and Celkon

Millennium Vogue Q455, though these are placed at a slightly higher price range

of INR 7K to 8K.



Please note that we do not say that more megapixels would assure you better

performance as it depends on lens type and quality as well as other features,

but the megapixel number does sound good to the consumer who look for this

number on the spec list.



5. Price



INR 6,999 for the Spice Mi-498 Android One Dream UNI - is not that a high price

for such specs? Don't we have Mozilla phones today at less than INR 2,000 and

the Snapdragon 400 chipset powered Xiaomi RedMi 1S at INR 5,999?



In this price segment, we expect Google and partnering smartphones players to

play intelligently with the specs and features to create a space for themselves.

Motorola played it well by launching feature packed-smartphones at a

ridiculously low price point, which changed the Smartphone market dynamics to a

great extend.



It was the launch of the Motorola's Moto G and later Moto E that paved way for

quality-rich smartphones in the budget segment. However, considering the rumored

price and price of the Spice's Android One smartphone, we are somewhat

disappointed with the pricing of the Android One smartphones.



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





