                              928 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            December 20, 2015 Sunday



Google Nexus 5X and Apple iPhone 5S @ Rs 25,000: Which one to buy



BYLINE: Ravi Sharma



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 862 words





Applebrought down the price of iPhone 5S, its flagship smartphone two years ago,

to Rs 24,999. This pricing puts iPhone 5S - the highest-selling smartphone for

Apple India - in direct competition with Google Nexus 5X, whose priceto a little

under Rs 25,000.



Now this presents a conundrum for any buyer who is looking for a flagship

smartphone at mid-range prices. We take a look at the pros and cons of both

smartphones so that you can decide which one is the right model for you.



Apple iPhone 5S: Pros



READ ALSO:



iPhone 5S may not be the cheapest iPhone you can buy in India right now, but it

is surely the one we would recommend if you want your first taste of the Apple

brand. It is also the model that made fingerprint sensors a mainstream feature

among smartphones. And the gold colour as well.



Here are a few pros of buying iPhone 5S...



* iOS 10 update



iPhone 5S may be over two years old, but it will be upgraded to the next version

of iOS next year (going by Apple's software update strategy so far). This means

you will get access to many of the new features the company will introduce to

the iPhone series (though not all features will get to iPhone 5S).



* Great build quality



iPhone 5S has a well-crafted metallic body that looks premium from the get go.

Courtesy the small screen of the phone, it is easy to operate with one hand as

well.



* Sharp screen



iPhone 5S' 4-inch screen sports resolution of 640x1136p, resulting in pixel

density of 326ppi or what Apple calls Retina display. This is the same pixel

density that the new iPhone 6S also sports, so with iPhone 5S you will get a

smartphone that shows sharp text as well as images.



* Decent performance



Though iPhone 5S is an ageing smartphone, it is certainly no slouch in the

performance department. You can expect all apps and games to run smoothly and

without any lag.



* Good camera iPhone 5S was ranked among the best camera smartphones at the time

it was launched, so you can expect great shots from the handset.



READ ALSO:



Apple iPhone 5S: Cons



iPhone 5S has a lot of pros, but not everything about it is great. Check out a

few cons of the smartphone...



* Storage insufficient



At Rs 25,000, you will get only the base model of the iPhone 5S, which offers

storage of only 16GB. Therefore, you will find yourself running out of storage

if you plan to have a lot of music, photos and videos on the phone.



* Weak battery life



Apple, seemingly in a bid to keep phones thin, has always compromised on the

battery. Due to this, heavy users have to keep a power bank with them in fear of

the phone running out of juice. One reprieve is that Apple has introduced

several small improvements with iOS 9 that have had a positive effect on the

battery life of iPhones in general.



* Small screen size



This is an unavoidable trade-off for anyone who wants to buy an iPhone under Rs

35,000 today. The small screen makes for a compact handset but also means that

you have a very small screen for videos as well as for typing.



Google Nexus 5X: Pros



READ ALSO:



Nexus 5X, unlike iPhone 5S, is a fresh-off-the-rack smartphone and comes with

some of the best features Google has to offer to a smartphone, including the new

Nexus Imprint fingerprint sensor and fast-charging. Here are some of the pros

you can look forward to in Nexus 5X...



* Android Marshmallow



With Android Marshmallow still only on a handful of smartphones, Nexus 5X is

your most affordable bet if you want a taste of the latest version of Google's

mobile OS.



* Excellent camera



One of the most compelling reasons to buy Google Nexus 5X is its stellar camera.

Camera was always a weak point for the Nexus range, but that all changed this

year. You can expect super-sharp photos that capture even the small details,

offer great colour reproduction and white balance.



* Great performance



Powered by Snapdragon 808, Google Nexus 5X delivers a stellar performance across

the board, whether it is heavy apps or games.



* Sharp display



The 5.2-inch display of Google Nexus 5X offers pixel density of 423ppi due the

Full HD (1080x1920p) panel. This makes for a very crisp screen that does not

show any pixelation and offers colours that are not oversaturated.



* Compact design



One big advantage of Google Nexus 5X is that its design ensures that you get a

sufficiently big screen without making it unwieldy to operate with one hand.



Google Nexus 5X: Cons



But even Google Nexus 5X is not without cons of its own...



* Just 2GB of RAM



One of the gripes we have with Nexus 5X is that it packs only 2GB of RAM under

the hood. The performance of the smartphone was excellent throughout our review

period, but Android apps are expected to get heavier over the coming couple of

years and 2GB of RAM may be insufficient for them.



* Insufficient storage



Google Nexus 5X, like iPhone 5S, offers just 16GB of internal storage (and no

microSD card support) at Rs 25,000. Thankfully, Android offers file system

access to users, so you can add storage via USB OTG.



* Plastic body



The Nexus 5X is mostly plastic, so the smartphone does not feel as premium at

first look as does a metal-bodied handset.



READ ALSO:



Other models you can buy at Rs 25,000: OnePlus 2, Lenovo Vibe Shot, YU Yutopia



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





