                              92 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      October 3, 2016 Monday 11:37 AM GMT



Google Pixel smartphone accidentally leaked by UK retailer day before official

announcement;

Google has a new gadget to show off tomorrow - but thanks to a huge slip-up we

already know what's coming



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 402 words





Trying to keep a cutting-edge new gadget under wraps is getting harder and

harder. And it doesn't help when a massive UK retailer accidentally spills the

beans.



Carphone Warehouse has revealed almost all the details of the forthcoming Google

Pixel phone a day before the company was scheduled to announce it.



The US tech giant has been building momentum for an event on October 4 for a few

weeks now - but it appears to have fallen at the final hurdle.



Google Pixel and Pixel XL: Specs, price, screen size, news and rumours about

Google's new Android smartphones



Google Pixel launch LIVE: Pixel smartphones, Google Home speaker and Daydream VR

expected at October 4 event



The finished pictures show the phone from both sides as well as listing some of

its key features. The white gadget bears a striking resemblance to the iPhone 6

although it has the rear-mounted fingerprint scanner popular with other Android

handsets.



Google October 4 2016 event expected to see release of new Pixel and Pixel XL

phones



Both the smaller Pixel and the larger Pixel XL will make the jump to the USB-C

charging port and both will have 4GB of RAM and the same 12MP camera on the back

(8MP on the front). There will be a choice of either 32GB or 128GB of internal

storage.



Samsung Galaxy S8: Release date, price, specs and other rumours about the next

generation smartphone



According to the Carphone Warehouse listings, Google will be offering unlimited

amounts of photo storage through its Google Photos app. The latest version of

Android (Nougat) is pre-installed and with that comes Google's AI-powered

assistant Allo and the FaceTime-style app Duo.



It also revealed new Live Cases - basically covers for the phone that match with

live wallpapers you can install.



Differences between the two phones come down to things like size, screen

resolution and battery power. The Pixel has a 5-inch, 1080p screen with a

2,770mAh battery whilst the Pixel XL offers a 5.5-inch, 1440p screen with a

3,450mAh battery.



For comparison, Apple's iPhone 7 has a 4.7-inch screen with a 750p display and a

1,960mAh battery, while the iPhone 7 Plus offers a 5.5-inch screen with a 1080p

display and a 2,900mAh battery.



In fact, the only thing that wasn't revealed about the two new phones was their

pricing and availability.



Google is also heavily expected to reveal some other hardware at its event

tomorrow, including a competitor to Amazon's smart Echo speaker .



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





