                              932 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)



                           November 5, 2016 Saturday

                               Bangalore Edition



BIG SHOTS



BYLINE: Ashutosh Desai



SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS | TECHTONIC



LENGTH: 2252 words





If you're looking for an Android smartphone with a great camera, you're spoiled

for choice: the Pixel is the first \x93phone by Google\x93. It runs Nougat and

packs in quality optics. Then, there's the Moto Z, a modular smartphone that

trans



forms into a point-and-shoot. And finally , the Honor 8, a smartphone that comes

with dual rear snappers. All three devices are equipped with top-end chips,

high-res scratch-resistant screens, day-long battery life and the USB Type-C

interface for fast charging and OTG pen drive support.Read on to find out which

one is for you...



HONOR 8



Build: The Honor 8 is the new device from Huawei's spinoff brand that builds

smartphones for online sales. In keeping with its flagship status, it is

fabricated out of aluminium alloy , which is then encased under multiple layers

of glass to give it a shimmery look. Its screen is fronted by toughened Gorilla

Glass that's scratch resistant and protects against accidental nicks and bumps.



The Full HD display renders crisp text and punchy colours with deep blacks and

excellent contrast. You also get the option to tweak the colour profile

according to your viewing preferences, as well as a reading mode that filters

out blue light to reduce eye strain. Overall, the Honor 8 looks plush and feels

solid, but with so much glass in its fabrication, we would be extremely nervous

if it slipped or fell.



User Interface: The handset's customised user interface comes packed with a lot

of accessibility settings for improved handling. For instance, you can enable a

floating dock that lets you navigate the screen without reaching for the touch

controls at the bottom; you can clear background tasks and even lock the display

with a tap. Its fingerprint sensor, which also responds as a clickable button,

can be used to unlock the handset, answer a call, silence the alarm, and

recognise gestures for direct access to the Honor 8's notification panel and

photo gallery. You can also assign this \x93smart key\x93 to launch an app or

utility , take a screenshot, etc with a few quick presses.



The Honor 8 is equipped with motion recognition that allows you to mute an

incoming call by flipping the device over, answer a call by raising the phone to

the ear, and more. Plus, you get an infrared port and a companion app to control

your television, cable TV box and Bluray player from the handset itself.



Performance: The Honor 8 works without any hiccups despite the heavy

customisation over the Android Marshmallow OS. In fact, its processor is almost

on a par \xAD in terms of synthetic benchmarks \xAD with the chips on the Moto Z

and Google Pixel. This means, it runs highdefinition content and intensive 3D

games very smoothly . Call quality and network handling is easily one of the

best in smartphones, and audio playback with earphones sounds balanced, complete

with low bass lines, crisp mid ranges and pronounced highs. On the downside, the

music player doesn't include any presets or a graphic equalizer to fine-tune the

output.Cameras: The dual rear cameras \xAD one is equipped with a monochrome

sensor for detail while the other captures colour \xAD on this handset are quick

to focus and take photos that are sharp, and rendered with neutral colours and

contain a considerable amount of detail.



A depth of field effect lets you decide on the



subject you want to focus on even after taking a snapshot. That said, this

software optimisation is not perfect, but works well in most cases to give you

snapshots that are comparable to those you would shoot on a point and shoot

camera.



Pictures taken in low light are impressive, retaining detail with minimal image

softening.Results can be further improved with the Honor 8's manual mode. You

even get presets for scanning documents, photographing food, capturing light

trails, shooting slow motion clips, and more.The front snapper takes selfies

with neutral colours and slightly muted skin tone, which are still pretty good

for sharing online.



Battery: Despite its bright, high-res display and processing muscle, the Honor 8

manages to provide well over a day's worth of battery with mixed usage. Plus,

you get three power management modes and the ability to lower the screen

resolution to save juice.



As far as flagship devices go, the Honor 8 ticks all the right boxes. If you're

looking for a premium handset that sports eye-catching design, promises

consistent top-of-theline performance, great set of cameras (with customisation

modes) and battery life, this is worth your consideration.



MOTO Z



Build: The Moto Z's biggest differentiator is its modular design. Depending on

your need, you can opt for a camera mod with 10x optical zoom, a dual 3-watt

speaker mod, a 50-lumens projector mod, and a 2220mAh battery attachment (all

sold separately).These add-ons snap onto the device magnetically and connect to

it via 16 gold contacts on its back.



The smartphone is fabricated out of aluminium, stainless steel and toughened

glass. You get a textured back cover in the box for when you use the device

without its add-ons, and a hard plastic bumper case to protect the edges in case

of accidental falls.



Like most other Motos, the Z is treated with a water-repellent

\x93nanocoating\x93 to guard against accidental spills. Its Quad HD display

renders bright colours, crisp text and is usable even under sunlight.



The handset feels solid, but we recommend careful handling when used with its

accessories \xAD especially the camera mod \xAD as a fall could lead to both

components separating, and even damage to the add on.



User Interface: For most part, you get a stock Android Marshmallow interface

with subtle additions like Active Display , where sensors detect a wave of your

hand to display the date, time and notifications. You can also twist your wrist

twice to activate the camera, or shake the handset to activate its rear flash

for torchlike illumination. A fingerprint sensor adds a layer of security to

your device. All in all, the lack of bloatware makes the handset responsive and

spiffy .



Performance: The Moto Z pairs with the mods seamlessly. Also, you don't need to

turn the device off before attaching the mods. The handset posted high scores in

synthetic benchmarks, and this processing muscle is reflected in day-to-day use.

It handles Full HD movies, as well as 3D games like Modern Combat 5 and War

Robots without a problem.



Notably , the Moto Z lacks a 3.5mm headphone jack.



Instead, you will have to use a wireless headset, or invest in a pair of USB

Type-C earphones, or use the included converter to use the Moto Z's standard

hands-free kit. Considering this is a top-end phone, the included earphones are

underwhelming performers with muted highs and dull lows. Calls are clear, crisp,

and the Moto Z's handling of networks is comparable to some of the best

smartphones that exist.



Camera: The rear shooter captures quality stills in well-lit environments. It

uses a laser to focus on subjects quickly and the results appear evenly lit with

adequate detail and sharpness. Grain begins to appear



in photos \xAD and there is also some softening of details \xAD as soon as there

is a drop in lighting. Shooting pictures in HDR poses quite another problem:

There is a noticeable lag after you press the shutter release button, and moving

subjects end up looking blurry because the camera takes a split second to

process the shot. The front shooter is quite average; skin tones look pale and

washed out. Here, the strong front-facing flash adds some warmth to the frame.



Snap on the Hasselblad True Zoom mod ('19,999) and the phone becomes a

full-fledged camera \xAD with a 12MP sensor, flash and 10x optical zoom. Photo

captures, without magnification, are mostly on a par with the Z's stock camera,

except that it achieves better depth of field. Use the zoom lens, and framing a

shot requires steady hands. Even though the mod includes optical image

stabilisation, shooting at fullzoom results in shots with mixed results. For

instance, we managed to take some very good shots of birds under a canopy of

leaves, which is not usually possible with a smartphone, but only after a few

frustrating tries.



Battery: The True Zoom mod draws power from the phone's battery , so long

sessions with it will dent the Moto Z's battery life to much less than a day .

Thankfully, the JBL SoundBoost Speaker ('6,999) and the Moto Insta-Share

Projector ('19,999) mods \xAD which were not available to us for tests \xAD

include a 1000mAh and 1100mAh battery , respectively. By itself, you can expect

to get a day's worth of work done with a single charge of the Moto Z's battery .

Add the battery mod ('5,999), and you can expect almost two days.



The Moto Z's modular design will require some tweaking before it becomes truly

viable. At present, it is an expensive proposition with each mod costing almost

as much as an entire smartphone.Buy if you are an 'early adopter' of tech and

want bragging rights to owning a phone that can shape shift into a camera,

speaker and projector.



GOOGLE PIXEL



Build: Google's flagship smartphone keeps things simple with a smooth anodised

aluminium body and a dual-tone finish on the back panel. You get a bright Quad

HD oleophobic toughened display that's responsive and works wonderfully when in

the bright outdoors. Colours appear vibrant with excellent contrast. The Pixel

will not win any awards for original design, but you will find no reason to

complain about its build, which feels solid and well balanced in the hand.

Still, for its asking price, we would have preferred if it came with some form

of water resistance.



User Interface: The Pixel comes with the latest version of Android, called

'Nougat'. There's Google Assistant, a personal voice-activated helper, which is

an augmented version of Google Now, where you can expect to get some amusing

answers for cheeky questions like \x93What do you like to eat?\x93, \x93 Are you

married?\x93.The Assistant was able to understand myriad thick accents we used

and it did a fair job of finding answers too. That said, it is unable to extract

info locally from the phone as easily as it reveals web results for nearby

restaurants and world trivia.



You can now preview notifications and perform basic actions (archive an email,

reply to an SMS) without unlocking the screen. The notification panel is also

redesigned to make it easier to access quick settings, which can be reorganized

to your preferences.Visually , icons and text look smaller and crisper. However,

Nougat lets you adjust their size as well. Pressing and holding an app icon now

displays a contextual menu with quick-action options for that app. For instance,

press and hold the Contacts icon to quickly add a new contact; do the same with

the Gmail icon to choose Compose, and the Camera icon to choose between \x93Take

a video\x93 or \x93Take a selfie\x93.



With Nougat, you get native support for faster switching between apps: Double

tap the Recents button (extreme right control in the navigation panel)



to switch between two recently-used apps. This is equivalent to the Alt+Tab

shortcut on a Windows machine. And if you long press this control, it enables a

multi-window mode. However, this works only with supported apps, which as of now

is restricted to Google services like Gmail, Chrome, Maps, etc.



You also get unlimited online storage for photos and videos at their original

resolution \xAD so you don't have to worry about running out of memory .



Performance: The Google Pixel notched the highest scores in synthetic

benchmarks, thanks to the currentgen processor purring under the hood. The

handset worked fluidly; switching quickly between apps, working across two apps

in split-screen mode without freezing up, and playing stutter-free HD games.

Simply put, this is one of the most powerful smartphones in the market right

now.



Camera: Ever since the Pixel's launch, everyone has been talking about its

cameras. Well, it's true: this handset is equipped with the best set of

smartphone cameras. Portraits taken with the rear camera are sharp with lots of

detail and vibrant colours. Low light shots are also impressive; noise is kept

under control with little loss of detail. Here, the Pixel uses electronic image

stabilisation (EIS) and shots tend to take on a slight yellow tinge. Selfies

taken with the front camera are much better than what the Honor 8 and Moto Z

were able to manage. There was just the right amount of exposure and warm skin

tones. So if you want a good Android handset primarily for a good camera, put

your money on the Pixel.



Battery: Now with all its processing muscle and sterling hardware, the Pixel XL

still manages to eke out almost two days of service before requiring a recharge.

This can vary if the device is used for watching movies and mobile photography .



The Google Pixel comes at a premium price tag, but it comes with one of the best

cameras, the absolute current and fastest mobile processor, and runs the latest

version of Android. You also get a Type-C-to-USB cable to connect pen drives for

direct file transfers. If budget is not a constraint, get this phone for its

hardware, display, battery life and fantastic cameras. It's an allround winner

alright.



What the ratings mean Below 5: The product is poor and doesn't offer the

experience it promises | 5 and 6: The product works as advertised | 7: The

product is good; will not disappoint the buyer | 8: Very good; super value for

money | 9: The device is exceptional | 10: You're kidding, right?



For more tech stories, visit toitech.com



LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





