

The new Bravia is gorgeous - but don't bother trying to surf the net.

Try to view the website of The Daily Show With Jon Stewart on a new Sony Bravia
HX925 TV, and you'll get this message: "The size of the page was too large to be
displayed. Please view an other [sic] page."

That might be an understandable error message if, say, the HX925 were a digital
watch that doubled as a web browser. The size of a lot of pages would be too
large for a screen that size. But it's not a digital watch. It's an
internet-enabled TV with (in the case of this review) a humungous 55-inch
(134cm) screen. Just how big is Jon Stewart's noggin, that it's too large to fit
on a screen that huge? The guy is obviously smart, but bigger than 55 inches'
worth of smart? It can't be.

It turns out, it's not. It's not size that the HX925 lacks, but grunt. Like all
the smart TVs we've looked at lately, the Sony just doesn't have what it takes
to view a lot of web pages on the internet. Web pages that (like the
thedailyshow.com) use a recent version of Flash are a particular problem for the
Bravia, as are sites such as Nine's Fixplay catch-up TV service, which use a
video plug-in from Microsoft, known as Silverlight, that can't be installed.

Some catch-up TV sites, most notably those of the ABC, SBS and Channel 7, can be
viewed, not through the TV's web browser but through separate apps on the
Bravia, but other than those you're out of luck. The pages just won't play.
Given that most of the sites you're going to want to view on the Bravia are ones
that use video plug-ins, it's a real problem. And even sites that don't use
video plug-ins can have display problems on the HX925, too. Google searches
didn't work on our review unit (any search term we entered returned a Google
page featuring a picture of a broken robot), and sites that did work were
painfully slow to load and to navigate.

Smart TV just isn't as smart as you might think. A smarter option would be to
plug some other internet device into your TV, and use its grunt and the Bravia's
gorgeous screen to watch it.

Thankfully, there are plenty of other reasons to buy the $4999 HX925, the main
one being it's a beautiful piece of furniture with a gorgeous screen which, in
spite of its error messages, really is large enough to display anything.

It's one of those LCD screens that has LED backlights that can switch off in
black regions of the image, making for blacks so deep that, at times, you can't
tell where the screen ends and the black bezel that surrounds the screen begins.
The Intelligent Peak LED technology, as it's known, is quite remarkable.

It's not perfect, though. Because the LED backlights only turn off zone-by-zone
rather than pixel-by-pixel, zones that contain a mix of bright images and black
(and which therefore have to leave the LED backlights switched on) won't display
blacks as deep as zones that are completely black and can turn all the LED
backlights off. At times this creates a sort of halo around the bright images.
Intelligent Peak LED is still very good, though, and the next best thing to a
plasma display, which actually can turn its lights on and off pixel by pixel.

A feature of the Bravia which you may be slightly less interested in, but which
we nevertheless spent some time reviewing just in case, is its 3D. The HX925 has
active 3D, which has the advantage of showing 3D Blu-ray movies in all their
1080p high definition glory, but the disadvantage of meaning you have to wear
fairly expensive, fairly bulky electronic glasses if you want to see that third
dimension. As you may recall from last week's review of an LG TV, we've come to
prefer passive 3D, which is lower resolution but which uses cheaper, more
comfortable, easier-to-use glasses that won't make the room flicker and won't
make your eyes twitch the way active glasses can. (Well, active 3D makes my eyes
twitch disconcertingly, at any rate. Doubtless I'm in a small minority of
unfortunates.) Still, the HX925 does show very good, smooth 3D if you're into
that sort of thing.

As a bonus, the glasses will make you look pretty cool while you're watching 3D.
Not a brainy, Jon Stewart sort of cool, perhaps, but a rock star, Roy Orbison
sort of cool, definitely.

jdavidson@afr.com.au

It just doesn't have what it takes to view a lot of web pages.

