

1. GOOGLE GLASSES Created under the moniker Project Glass, Google's wearable
technology was finally seen in the real world in April on the face of Google
co-founder Sergey Brin.

The spaceage spectacles replace one lens with a 1.3cm heads-up display offering
information otherwise seen on a smartphone screen. Google Glasses can, for
example, let users message friends, read maps and look up pub trivia answers.

Google Glass Explorer Edition will be available to app developers early next
year for $US1500.

2. MINIATURE TABLETS

Small tablets became big business this year, starting with a little something
from Google (Nexus 7) and finishing with a handbagfriendly number from Apple
(the iPad Mini).

3. LYTRO CAMERA

It's the camera that lets photographers change a photo's focus after it's been
captured. The Lytro camera, created by Australian Ren Ng, makes sophisticated
technology easy to use, as it contains a series of tiny lenses that capture
light from all angles.

4. PHONES GO LARGE

Big phones are now big business.

From the HTC One X, with its 4.7inch display, to Motorola's new 4.7inch RAZR HD,
smartphones edged closer to tablet size. Samsung retained its crown as size
leader, however, with the Galaxy Note II boasting a 5.5-inch screen.

5. 4G SPREADS

Not only did many more smartphones and mobile modems start supporting 4G this
year, but Telstra and Optus delivered LongTerm Evolution (LTE) networks to more
areas. Vodafone promises 4G next year.

6. MACS SEE RETINA

Unveiled in June, the 15-inch MacBook Pro became the first Apple Mac to receive
a Retina screen, so-named because users are unable to see individual pixels up
close. The screen features more than five million pixels, giving it a resolution
sharper than a TV.

7. MUSIC-STREAMING SERVICES

Subscription music service Rdio was joined by Rara and big-name service Spotify.
Then Telstra's MOG, Sony's Music Unlimited, Nokia Music and Microsoft's Xbox
Music started dancing to the same tune, all for a monthly subscription fee.

8. CONNECTED CAMERAS

Cameras joined the internet revolution this year.

Samsung's Galaxy Camera offers the latest Google Android software and, for the
first time, a built-in 3G connection for instant sharing.

Similarly, the Nikon Coolpix S800c features a wi-ficonnection and Android apps.

9. INSTAGRAM BOOM

This photo app launched on the Google Android system, announced it had attracted
30 million users and was bought by Facebook in a $1 billion deal in April.

10. OLED TV SCREENS

Organic light-emitting diode screens offer significantly brighter pictures,
higher contrast, smaller screen borders and significantly thinner forms.
Samsung's 55-inch screen was just 4mm thin, while LG's was just 9mm.

