                              939 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                              March 4, 2013 Monday



Cloud security, Chrome Pixel review, Apple vs. Samsung award slashed, more



SECTION: COLUMNISTS



LENGTH: 433 words





Holding everything from highly personal medical and social media material to

confidential financial and corporate documents, Internet-based cloud services

are gathering an enormous trove of information   already a quarter of the

world's business data   that is provinga powerful lure for hackers .



Troy Wolverton reviews Google's Chrome Pixel: Despite all of its bells and

whistles, the Pixel is still a Chromebook and suffers the same limitations as

the others.



GoldieBlox, anengineering toy for young girls , is the brainchild of Stanford

graduate and engineer-turned-entrepreneur Debbie Sterling, who wants to teach

girls basic engineering skills and encourage them to pursue jobs in the

male-dominated industry.



Mike Cassidy writes : When Stanford's Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller started

Coursera they didn't realize just how powerful a movement they were joining. By

taking a Coursera course, I'm beginning to see how massive open online courses

hold the promise to change the way the world learns.



Larry Magid is a judge for a contest that encourages young people to explore the

benefits of technology. And he writes: Thanks to a bill passed by the House of

Representatives last week, Congress is on the verge of creating a competition to

encourage students to create mobile and computer "apps" that demonstrate their

mastery of science, technology, education and mathematics.



A San Jose federal judge on Fridayslashed about $450 million from the $1 billion

award Apple won last August in its patent feud with Samsung, the latest in a

series of decisions weakening Apple's legal assault on its smartphone and tablet

rival.



Facebook is planning an event this weekto show off a new look for its signature

"News Feed" page , in the latest of several moves the company has made to

bolster its business and keep users coming back to the social networking site.



Seagate Technology on Fridayunveiled a $180 million cutting-edge research and

development complex at the former Solyndra solar factory in Fremont, a site the

company will use to invent next-generation disk drives.



Activist investor David Einhornwithdrew his lawsuit against Apple on Friday,

after the company pulled the proposal at the center of the court battle from the

agenda of its recent shareholders meeting.



The federal government announced Friday it willseek private bids for the

restoration and reuse of Moffett Field's Hangar One , giving fans of the

Depression-era structure a reason to cheer



Mercury News interview : Don Faught, new president of the California Association

of Realtors, talks about the housing crash and nascent recovery.



LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





