                              93 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



Expert views: Google's Pixel to make dent into Apple ecosystem



LENGTH: 494  words



DATELINE: New Delhi





New Delhi, Oct. 5 -- Google's newly-launched artificial intelligence-powered

premium device Pixel will impact Apple's iPhone ecosystem and even Samsung's

flagship premium device Note 7 to an extent, experts have said.





 Samsung has delayed on its Note 7 owing to battery explosion fears, thus

creating a void in the premium segment.

 India is among the first six countries where Pixel is being launched. Starting

at Rs, 57,000, the device will be available for pre-order in the country

starting October 13.

 "Google, while merging software and hardware towards creating a new ecosystem,

poses a direct threat to the Apple ecosystem. Pixel will come with the newest

Android operating system - Android 7.1 Nougat. Pixel phones will also get

software and security updates as soon as they are available, directly from

Google," Tarun Pathak, Senior Analyst, Mobile Devices and Ecosystems at New

Delhi-based Counterpoint Research, told IANS.

 "On the other hand, the void created by the absence of Note 7 is also going to

help Pixel cement its position in the premium segment. Note 7 is yet to arrive

in India so Pixel may have a headstart here," Pathak told IANS.

 Pixel comes in two sizes - 5 and 5.5-inch - with 2.5D Corning Gorilla Glass 4

protected super AMOLED display.

 Pixel is first smartphone with Google Assistant - a built-in AI programme that

works as an intelligent personal assistant and knowledge navigator like Apple's

"Siri".

 Users can have a natural conversation with Google to find answers or get things

done on the go. Say "Ok Google" or touch and hold the Home button and Assistant

is ready to help.

 According to Anshul Gupta, research director at Gartner, Google now has a

complete ecosystem in place and needs to focus on bolstering its distribution

network.

 "Having said that, it can't outsell devices like iPhone7 or Note 7 right now as

Apple and Samsung have hundred and thousands of touchpoints. Overnight, Google

can't outsell these brands. It has to build a robut distribution network to gain

ground," Gupta told IANS.

 "With controlling both hardware and software, Google is making a statement here

to deliver the best product powered with Google Assistant. Good news is that the

company will now reach out directly to its customers and not via partners,"

Gupta added.

 Although HTC has manufactured the smartphones, the new devices bear Google

branding.

 Google is also offering free and unlimited online storage for photos and videos

- in original quality. Pixel also comes pre-installed with Google Duo video

calling app and messaging app Allo.

 With powerhouse specifications, both the devices have similar hardware under

the hood. Pixel smartphones are fitted with Qualcomm's latest Snapdragon 821

Quad core (2x 2.15 Ghz and 2x1.6 Ghz) processors and 4GB RAM.

 Pixel has a 2770 battery while the 5.5-inch device has 3450 mAh battery. Both

devices support "Quick Charge" technology, promising 7 hours of battery life

with just 15 minutes of charging.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





