                              944 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          The Courier Mail (Australia)



                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                              CourierMail Edition



All I want for Christmas



BYLINE: Rod Chester and Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: SWITCHEDON; Pg. 30



LENGTH: 419  words





Rod Chester and Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson hunt for the best big-ticket gadgets

to put under the Christmas tree



FENIX 3 SAPPHIRE IN ROSE GOLD GARMIN **** Garmin has joined the rush to release

hi-tech gadgetry in rose gold with this running-friendly watch. The Fenix 3

Sapphire offers a fashionable look but it comes with a very large watch face

that won't suit everyone's tastes or wrists. This is a true multi-sport GPS

watch with navigational functions and smart features suited to a range of

sports, from trail running to skiing. $899 / garmin.com.au



HARMONY ELITE LOGITECH **** If you live in a house where remote controls are too

remote, the Logitech Harmony Elite kit can assist. It contains a hub, extra

receiver, and controller with large touchscreen. Together they can control up to

15 devices. Setup is easy - entering a device model into its Android or Apple

app programs the control's buttons - and you can add "activities" such as "Watch

a movie" that can dim smart lights, turn your TV on and prepare your Blu-ray

player simultaneously. The kit turns phones connected to your wi-fi network into

remote controls. It is a big expense, however, for convenience.



$550 / logitech.com



NEXUS 6P GOOGLE **** 1/2 Google calls this its "most premium" phone yet, and

it's no exaggeration. The Nexus 6P, made by Huawei, is far from a mid-range

phone. It has an aluminium body, a Quad HD screen with more pixels than the

latest Apple iPhone (518ppi), a USB-C port and a powerful 2GHz octa-core chip to

run its new Android Marshmallow software. This phone introduces the Nexus

Imprint fingerprint scanner, which works reliably and turns the phone on at the

back, and its 12.3-megapixel rear camera leaps over its predecessor, thanks to

an f2.0 aperture and larger pixels for lowlight performance.



$899-$1099 / play.google.com



ALPHA 7R II SONY **** 1/2 Sony's second full-frame compact camera aimed at pros

is a 42.4-megapixel beast most would be happy to unwrap this Christmas. The

second A7R camera quickens its focus to just 0.3 second thanks to hybrid

autofocus, adds a backlit CMOS sensor for greater light sensitivity, ably

captures 4K video, and has five-axis image stabilisation to reduce motion blur.

Its body is largely unchanged, with a comfortable grip, electronic viewfinder

and tilting screen, and its wi-fi transfer feature is easy to use. On the

downside, given its high resolution it pauses for 0.7 second between shots, only

shoots five photos per second, and it also lacks a touchscreen.$4499 /

sony.com.au



LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





