
ABSTRACT

Doctor and researcher discusses how he developed visualisations to illustrate
data on the developing world

FULL TEXT

At a conference called Thinking Digital, the presentation of doctor and
researcher Hans Rosling might be called Seeing Digital. If there ever was a
statistics and visualisation rock star, Hans Rosling would be it. While
teaching, he realised that his students had a 40-year-old world view. They have
a view of the developing world that didn't take into the account the level of
development those countries had achieved in the last 40 years. "They had a
Tintin-based view of the world," he said.

Working with his son and other members of his family, he developed
visualisations that showed how China, Brazil and India had caught up with the
developed world over the last 40 years based in looking at fertility rates and
life expectancy. But this outdated view of the world wasn't just among his
students, the news media had never communicated these changes, he said.

As he looked at the data and the best way to represent it, he saw how animations
could help explain these changes, showing how health and economic conditions had
changed over time. Using Flash, they were able to clearly show these trends in
powerful ways and established the  to support their work.

Moving on from health data, he also showed how interactive graphics could drill
down from comparisons between regions in the world to countries in those
regions. They even were able to dynamically drill down to variations on a
country-basis, showing variations in health between the richest and poorest 20%
of populations in countries like Brazil and Namibia.

To develop these animations, they used an iterative process, improving the
animations step-by-stop. They used game principles, putting their hours of video
gaming to good use, he joked. Usually in developing statistical visualisations,
you have the content or stat geeks and the designers, and it's a difficult
balance to be struck. They decided instead of making beautiful icons that:

...no pixel would be there just for beauty. Every pixel had to carry
information.

Challenging governments over data

The biggest problem that they ran into during developing these statistical
visualisations was getting the data. He called on governments around the world:

Statistics are paid by for the taxpayers, compiled by people paid for taxpayers.
That data should be allowed free on the net for innovators like you to use.

The Gapminder Foundation have now sold some of its software to Google but have
retained a free licence and the ability to sub-licence the software. Hans's son
and the Swedish staff have now moved to Google. Hans said some have questioned
the decision to sell the source code to Google, but he said he had wanted to
develop a service not a product. Their main goal was to push for governments to
liberate data so that innovators could use that data to develop services. He
highlighted how  in the US beginning with unemployment data.

He showed how unemployment in California compared to US unemployment overall,
and he was even able to show unemployment in Alpine County. The data showed huge
seasonal spikes. Why the wide variation? It's a ski resort.

He was asked whether governments should create a single portal for data like
Data.gov in the US or leave it to individual agencies. He replied:

The government should take all statistics - labour, financial, education and
health in one unified block - and make it downloadable every Friday afternoon
with their watermark embedded. Allow the software industry to innovate.

