
ABSTRACT

The HTC Rezound, the Motorola Razr Maxx and the Samsung Galaxy Nexus are being
offered by the three biggest players in Androidland.

FULL TEXT

You know the old geek joke, right? If you don't like the Android phones, just
wait. There will be a new one in a moment.

Together, the iPhone and phones running the Android software by Google make up
more than 90 percent of the app-phone market. But the philosophies of these two
companies could not be more different.

Apple designs ''the whole widget,'' as Steven P. Jobs used to say: both the
software and the phone. The result is clean, reliable and consistent, but you
are limited to the features Apple wants to give you. For example, if you want a
4G phone (one that runs on the new, very fast Internet networks in big U.S.
cities), you are out of luck.

And a new iPhone, accompanied by a major software release, comes out only once a
year, or less often.

Google, on the other hand, subscribes to the old Microsoft Windows formula:
Write the software, and let other companies build the phones. There are dozens
of Android phones, and they are replaced by newer, better phones every few
months.

The result is a lot of choice, but also a lot of fragmentation. There is no one
Android phone. Some models can be updated with new Android software, some
cannot. A certain app might or might not run on your phone.

The three biggest players in Androidland are Samsung, Motorola and HTC. All
three are offering new marquee Android phones.

By iPhone standards, these phones are big; that is the trend these days. You
could almost fit an entire iPhone into just the screen area of these Androids.
Big is great for maps, movies, photos and Web sites; less good for holding up to
your head on a call.

All three phones have front and back cameras, Wi-Fi, GPS and Bluetooth. Each can
serve as a portable Wi-Fi hot spot for your laptop, for an added monthly fee
from a service provider.

The HTC Rezound ($300 with a two-year contract in the United States) comes with
a pair of in-ear headphones from Beats by Dr. Dre. Those, plus matching
software, give music playback extra clarity and bass.

This thickish phone was the first in the United States with a true
high-definition screen (1280 pixels by 720 pixels; 4.3 inches, or 11
centimeters) - sharper even than the iPhone's Retina screen. Even the
front-facing screen can film 720p high-definition video, which is a rarity. The
rest of the specs are the usual on high-end phones these days: 8-megapixel rear
camera, 10 gigabytes of built-in storage for your apps, and a   memory-card slot
if you need more room (a 16-gigabyte card comes with the phone).

Then there is the huge Motorola Razr Maxx ($300), whose claim to fame is its
beefy battery. This may be the first 4G phone that gets you through a full day,
and maybe even longer, on a single charge. Yet it is still as thin as an iPhone.

The screen is not hi-def (it is 960 pixels by 540 pixels), but the storage is
ample: 16 gigabytes inside, plus a 16-gig memory card.

Motorola continues to think outside the hardware and software boxes: you can buy
a 10-inch or 14-inch laptop for this phone, which becomes the brain and the
storage when you connect it. And the Smart Actions app is pure brilliance: it
lets you set up battery-saving rules like ''dim the screen when the battery gets
low'' or ''turn off GPS if I forget to plug you in at nighttime.'' You can also
set up convenience rules like ''set the ringer to vibrate after 10 p.m.,'' or
''display my kids' photo as the wallpaper whenever I'm at home.'' It is pretty
wonderful.

But the Samsung Galaxy Nexus ($300) might be the most interesting phone of the
batch. Not because of the phone itself, though that is fine: 32 gigabytes of
storage (no card slot), fast processor, textured removable plastic back panel to
swap out a battery or memory card easily, 1280-by-720-pixel hi-def screen, so-so
5-megapixel   camera.

No, the Nexus is significant because it is the first phone to come with Android
4.0, code-named Ice Cream Sandwich, or I.C.S. (Google names its Android versions
after sugary treats.) There is a lot of excitement in this new software.

One important change is that I.C.S. phones do not have a row of physical
navigation buttons anymore (like Home, Back and Menu); instead, they are images
on the screen. That eats away at the screen space, of course, but they disappear
when you need the room - say, when you are watching movies or taking
photographs. And they rotate with the phone now, too, so they are always
upright.

The Motorola and HTC phones reviewed here will get upgrades to I.C.S. this year.
Of course, they will then have double sets of navigation buttons.

A large part of I.C.S. is about playing iPhone catch-up. Now, for example, you
can fire up the camera directly from the Lock screen. There is a Dock at the
bottom of the screen for your most-used apps. You can now perform photo and
video edits right on the phone. The e-mail apps show the first few words of the
message bodies. There is a spelling checker that underlines questionable words.
You can create folders for your apps by dragging one icon atop another.

The new address-book app collects your friends' information from Twitter,
LinkedIn and Google Plus (though not Facebook, weirdly enough). All of their
photos and news blurbs rest in one handy place, as Microsoft has done with its
phone software.

The Web browser lets you save Web pages for reading later when you are offline,
offers a stealth mode that leaves no browsing history and lets you request the
full-blown version of a site if a subpar cellphone version is being forced on
you.

Android's speech recognition is not as accurate as that of Siri on the iPhone,
and it is still just for dictation - it does not take Siri commands like ''Set
my alarm for 8:30.'' But now the words fly onto the screen as you are saying
them; you no longer have to wait until you stop talking for the transcription to
appear.

The camera app is a marvel. It offers zero shutter lag, face recognition and
special effects like buggy eyes and background replacement. You can take a still
photo while you are recording video. Best of all, there is a Panorama mode like
the one on Sony cameras. You slowly swing the phone in an arc around you, and
the phone creates a seamless super-wide photo.

Then there is Face Unlock, which instantly unlocks the phone when the front
camera recognizes you. It is probably sufficient to thwart only the least
motivated bad guys; it is easily fooled by a photo of you, or a blood relative.

Beam lets you share an app, a video, an address-book card, map directions or a
Web address, just by holding your phone back-to-back with another I.C.S. phone
and then tapping O.K. If it catches on, Beam will be a real hero.

That is really only the tip of the ice cream sandwich. When the new software
arrives on superphones like the Motorola Razr Maxx, it will be a truly delicious
combination.

Android still feels disjointed in spots. Why do we still have to use different
apps for Gmail and all other e-mail? And there is no standard connector in a
standard spot, so there is no universe of docks, alarm clocks, car adapters and
so on, as there is with the Apple devices.

Still, Android is coming on strong; all manufacturers considered, it is
outselling the iPhone. In short, Android's latest push toward power and polish
should thrill almost everyone. The possible exception: anyone whose
three-month-old Android phone is suddenly obsolete.

