

What will this year's must-have device be? Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson reports

GADGETS just get better and more desirable every year. Who, in 2006, would have
predicted that iPods would make phone calls, cheap laptops would be the size of
books and mobile phones would be directing us through traffic?

Yet even more seemingly unfathomable technological breakthroughs will be made
this year, with a new wave of creations on the horizon.

Some of the top entertainment and technology firms have already foreshadowed big
releases, while trends will force others to think on their feet and produce
amazing gadgetry to enhance our lives.

We've peeked at their plans, extrapolated others and report below on what looks
like a promising year.

The Google phone

THOUGHT the Apple iPhone was exciting? What about a mobile phone from web giant
Google?

We don't know what it will look like yet, but Google reportedly showed a
prototype of the so-called Google phone dubbed "Dream'' to interested companies
in August last year.

Taiwanese mobile phone company HTC is collaborating with Google on the project,
and HTC chief marketing officer John Wang said the phone would be released
mid-year.

What is known is that any Google phone would feature access to Google's search
engine and web applications and make mobile web surfing second nature.

Apple iPhone in Australia

WHEN will it get here, who will sell it and why isn't it here already?

Apple single-handedly shook up the mobile phone market last year with the launch
of its iPhone handset, left. But more than six months on, the revolutionary
mobile phone is still only travelling to Australia via American relatives,
tourists and eBay. Apple even instructed Australian resellers not to support the
iPhone in an attempt to stem the grey market trade.

For those who missed the hype, the iPhone won praise for its 3.5in touch-screen
and its phone, iPod, camera, video and photo capabilities.

So when will it finally get here? An Apple spokeswoman says it is expected
``some time in 2008'' but Australia's big five mobile phone companies have yet
to announce a deal with Apple.

Apple CEO Steve Jobs said Apple was also working on a 3G version of the iPhone,
with an acceptable battery for the device due late this year, though it is
likely Australia will get the 2.5G version first.

Digital radio

RADIO fans already have their choice of listening to AM, FM or internet
stations, but what about the ability to rewind and pause live broadcasts, tune
into dedicated concert, competition and traffic stations and read song titles
from a radio's screen?

All of these things will be possible with digital radio, below, due to launch in
Australia this year.

Australian radio stations have been testing the technology since 1999, with
active trials in Sydney for some time. But with plans under way to launch the
technology in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart on January
1, 2009, experts are tipping broadcasts to begin late this year.

You will need a new radio to tune into the digital broadcasts, but it should be
worth the investment. Radio stations will be able to beam text or images such as
traffic maps to your radio screen, will be able to offer more than one channel
each, and reception will be clear.

High-definition everything

THOUGHT high-definition was big in 2007? Expect to hear that term more than ever
this year.

Television stations are broadcasting it, Foxtel is plotting to release it and
more DVDs and flat-panel television screens will boast full high-definition
resolution for less money in 2008.

High-definition simply refers to video with a greater number of pixels, making
images sharper and more lifelike.

Full high-definition video features 1080 pixels by 1920 pixels, progressively
scanned. As a guide, this means high-definition DVDs feature five times the
detail of regular DVDs.

But buying full HD technology has been confusing, with some consumers buying
products with lower specifications by accident. That should be helped this year
with the introduction of a logo (a tick) to certify a product delivers full
high-definition vision.

Education campaigns by the free-to-air channels, which all offer HD broadcasts
now, will also help, as will the campaign by Foxtel preparing for its mid-2008
launch of four HD channels.

As for high-definition DVDs, the war between the Blu-ray and HD-DVD formats is
still raging, though Blu-ray is clearly winning the battle in Australia.

If a format does not claim ultimate victory soon, we may see the emergence of
another technology to rule them all.

Warner Bros has developed a technology called Total HD, which allows a DVD to
feature Blu-ray content on one side, and HD-DVD content on the other. The
company has yet to release the technology though, perhaps as it waits to see
whether the war will end in the near future.

TiVo

IT HELPS millions of Americans skip TV commercials and find new shows to watch
daily and it's coming to Australia.

TiVo, above, is a digital video recorder launched in the US in 1999 that lets
users record TV shows to a hard drive, like a computer, so they can pause or
rewind live broadcasts or simply save shows for later.

The set-top box, popularised in shows such as Sex and The City, also lets users
record entire TV show seasons or any shows featuring a certain actor, and
suggests TV shows a user might like based on their preferences.

While Foxtel's digital video recorder, the iQ, is leading the DVR pack in
Australia, Channel 7 plans to shake things up in 2008 after doing a deal with
TiVo to bring the device to Australia and New Zealand.

It's not yet clear how the Australian TiVo will work. Its success will depend on
whether Seven can secure TV guides for Foxtel programming and that of its
free-to-air rivals, but this is a gadget with great promise.

Roaming internet

WANT to get broadband at home but don't want to pay for a phone line connection?
Mobile phone companies have recognised this problem and are making mobile
broadband a lot more attractive.

Don't think this means huddling around your mobile phone and typing emails with
a numeric keypad. All five mobile phone companies now offer internet plans that
use mobile phone networks and connect to your PC.

For example, 3 Mobile is enticing customers with a free USB modem and 1GB of
downloads for $14.50 a month, while Vodafone recently launched its offer of a
free USB modem, right, with 5GB of downloads a month for $39.

You can also use these mobile modems when travelling, making them handy gadgets.
Expect to see greater competition this year as phone companies vie for the
growing laptop-toting market, and more travellers' faces buried in laptops at
cafes, airports, hotels and everywhere in between.

eBooks

AMAZON launched its big eBook hope, the Kindle, late last year and Australian
bookseller Dymocks followed shortly afterwards with its electronic reading
device, the iLiad.

Like a portable computer, an eBook reader displays text on its screen and lets
you flip pages, make notes, save bookmarks, look up words in its dictionary and
even download new titles. However, its screen is more like a printed page than a
flickering computer screen, making it easier on the eyes and the gadget's
battery.

These eBook readers are far from mainstream at the moment, with the Kindle
launched in the US for $US399 ($455) and the iLiad, bottom right, retailing for
a whopping $899 in Dymocks, but with increased support in the form of cheap book
downloads and a growing library of titles, the eBook has the potential to find a
market this year.

PlayStation Home

SONY'S PlayStation 3, top right, is one highly capable games console, able to
entertain you with games, videos, photos, music, the web, downloads and more.
But one thing it was due to boast by now is a virtual online community.
PlayStation Home has been in development since 2005. Each user represents
themself with an avatar and, like Second Life, users can then roam virtual
environments, making virtual friends and enemies as they talk to others via text
or voice chat, and even share music.

PlayStation Home will also have places of interest such as virtual movie
theatres and shopping malls, as well as players' houses which they can decorate
as they wish.

Beta testing for this new community is due to begin in the first quarter of this
year, so PlayStation 3 users should keep their eyes peeled and controllers
poised.

GPS phones

IF YOU missed out on the GPS phone, above, trend last year, you will be given
plenty of chances to catch up in 2008.

Nokia already wowed us with the new Nokia N95 8GB in December -- a faster,
sexier version of its breakthrough navigating phone with an added 8GB memory
inside. But the company has more on the cards for this year.

Recently revealed in Finland, the N82 mobile phone is due to arrive early this
year. It is a sleek, silver candybar phone with raised buttons and a 2.4in
screen. More importantly, it also boasts a 5-megapixel camera with Carl Zeiss
lens, autofocus and Xenon flash, Assisted GPS navigation, an MP3 player, wi-fi,
Bluetooth, FM radio and HSDPA connectivity.

It won't be the only GPS-enabled mobile phone launched this year, but reports so
far indicate it might be one of the smallest and the slickest.

Green gadgets

GREEN has certainly become the new black, with everyone from celebrities to
corporations supporting the call for cleaner, more efficient and more
Earth-friendly technology and practices. Expect to see that trend affect more
gadgets this year, in many ways.

Nokia, for example, will launch 3110 Evolve, above left, a phone featuring a
cover made largely of renewable materials, and coming with an energy-efficient
charger and packing that is 60 per cent recyclable. Fujitsu will introduce a
laptop with a plastic case made from corn.

You should also expect to see many more technology recycling campaigns aimed at
reusing parts of discarded mobile phones, computers and other electronics. A
growing list of programs is available at the Planet Ark website
RecyclingNearYou.com.au.

