                              949 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                    The Woman (Al Bawaba formerly Al Mar'a)



                                 July 16, 2013



GADGETS & GIZMOS



LENGTH: 1475  words





KEEPING TABS

SOME 'SMART' TABLETS FOR THE MULTI-TASKING YOU



Acer Iconia



Acer unveiled the second generation Acer Iconia B1 with a new pure and simple

design, increased performance and additional 3G(2) data connection option,

setting a new standard for a tablet targeted at young or new users or families

looking for an additional tablet for their children. The Iconia B1 is also ideal

for busy individuals seeking a convenient mobile companion.



Google Nexus 7



For the woman on the go, here's a tablet that's a handy companion. Thin, light

and portable, the 7-inch tablet has an all-day battery life. With up to 32GB

storage and the option to add mobile date, you can take even more of your

favourite content with Google Play with you anywhere.



Samsung Galaxy Note 8.0



It is all set to 'move you'. Say hello to the new Note 8.0, your everyday

companion in the dos and don'ts of life. With well-connected nimble performance

and the natural feel of a S pen, it's perfectly sized to always be there with

you, at a moment's notice. Scribble a thought, sketch out a concept, organise

your ideas and express your creativity wherever inspiration may strike.



Ipad Mini



"There's less of it, but no less to it," goes the tagline for the new iPad Mini.

It has everything you love about the iPad - the beautiful screen, fast and fluid

performance, Face Time and iSight cameras. Plus think of the thousands of

amazing apps you can download. Another 'up' in your favour is the 10-hour

battery life. And at just 7.2 millimetres, it's pencil-thin and unbelievably

light. Got any questions to ask? Just ask Siri!



Sony Tablet P



It has a dual screen for maximum mobility while being convenient and easy to

use. Which also means more can be done on the go with two 13.9 cm (5.5") touch

screens, 1GB RAM, MicroSD card storage, ultra light and compact design, Wi-Fi

and 3G. Check it out!



SMART CHOICES

A LIST OF SMARTPHONES FOR WOMEN ON THE GO...



Samsung Galaxy S4



They are asking you to make your life richer, simpler, and more fun. Get a load

of the Airview feature that enables users to preview and scroll through e-mail,

control private photo gallery, music, or video clips and navigate the internet

hovering with fingers above the screen without the need to touch it. Moreover,

Galaxy S4 LTE employs two new features namely the smart pause and smart scroll,

the front-facing camera for eye tracking. A video can be paused by looking away

from the screen, a page can be scrolled by tilting the screen up or down while

looking at it up or down, right or left.



Nokia Lumia 925



The Nokia Lumia 925 introduces a metal design and showcases the latest PureView

camera innovation, new features and third party applications coming to the

range. The Nokia Lumia 925 includes the most advanced lens technology and next

generation imaging software to capture clearer, sharper pictures and video,

including the best low light images. It also features the new Nokia Smart Camera

mode, coming as an update to all LumiaWindows Phone 8 smartphones.



Samsung Galaxy Note II



The Samsung Galaxy Note II provides the perfect viewing experience with a large

5.5" HD Super AMOLED display. It offers better clarity and a 16:9 screen ratio -

perfecting all viewing experiences. The innovative design of the Galaxy Note II

includes a bigger screen while maintaining a slim body to fit just right in your

hand. Built with a 1.6 GHz quad-core processor and 3100mAh battery it empowers

to keep your mind at ease as you unleash your creativity.



Sony Xperia ZR



Here comes a sleek and durable smartphone with the highest level of

water-resistance for filming in Full HD underwater. The Sony Xperia ZR Android

smartphone offers leading technology and content with a 4.6" HD Reality display,

13 megapixel fast capture camera and Qualcomm® SnapdragonTM S4 Pro quad-core 1.5

GHz processor.



Google Nexus 4



With your favourite Google Apps, an amazing Photo Sphere camera, cutting edge

hardware, and access to your favourite entertainment on Google Play - Nexus 4

puts the best of Google in the palm of your hand. Nexus 4 comes with the latest

version of Google Now to bring you just the right information at just the right

time. The phone comes with a high- performance 8MP camera and takes stunning

Photo Sphere images, letting you capture every detail of the world around you.



LG Optimus G Pro



LG Optimus G Pro is your personal share machine, helping you stay in the moment

with an immersive and expansive display, camera features that capture the

essence of a memory, processing power ready to fuel unparalleled experiences,

and on-device interactions like nothing you've ever seen before. Featuring a

screen so expansive, colours so accurate, and images so dazzling on a 5.5" Full

HD IPS Screen for Optimal Viewing of 1080p Video, Optimus G Pro delivers an

on-device immersive cinematic viewing experience. When there are no words, there

is the 13 MP Full HD camera.



iPhone 5



The new iPhone 5 sports a remarkably slim design which makes room for a larger

display and a faster chip. And also ultra-fast wireless that doesn't sacrifice

battery life. The four-inch retina display is cool and so is the 8MP camera.

With the new A6 chip, just about everything you do on iPhone 5 is noticeably

faster - up to twice as fast compared with the A5 chip. And it measures a mere

7.6 millimetres thin and weighs just 112 grams. It sure is an i-World after all!



THE BEST LAPTOPS IN THE MARKET - CHOOSE THE ONE THAT DEFINES YOU!



GAME CHANGERS



Dell XPS 13 Ultrabook



Dell's first Ultrabook is definitely one of the most talked about product of the

year with its stylish ultra-thin design. It offers users the option of Intel

Core i5 2467M or Intel Core i7 2637M, and comes with other basic specifications

like 4GB RAM and a 13.3" HD display. Quite economical in cost Dell has done a

great job - creating a perfect combination of high-end features, long lasting

performance with a stylish sleek exterior.



Apple MacBook Air 13-inch



It is called the 'ultimate everyday notebook' powerful enough to carry you

through the day. With the latest Intel Core i5 and i7 processors, up to 60 per

cent faster graphics, and faster flash storage, MacBook Air packs a lot of

features into an astonishing 2.38 pounds. Since space-saving flash storage

leaves room for a bigger battery, you can devote more time to the things you

enjoy most. Things like browsing the web, editing photos, and watching videos.



Chromebook Pixel



Nothing can be more confusing than choosing a good laptop, and if you are the

one who fusses even over the colours and the smallest feature then you're on

your own! Google's new touchscreen Chromebook Pixel has the highest pixel

density (239 pixels per inch); packed with 4.3 million pixels, the display

offers sharp text, vivid colours and extra-wide viewing angles. A touchscreen

laptop running Chrome OS, The laptop is meant to be a high-end device for the

power users and is definitely a must have.



Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13



It's versatile alright! We are talking of the Lenovo IdeaPad 13 that combines

the productivity of an UltrabookTM with the intuitive touch experience of a

tablet; the 13.3-inch Yoga 13 will give you the ultimate in versatility. Convert

between four modes to make the most of Windows 8 - any way you want, any time

you want.



Acer Aspire S7 Series



The Acer Aspire S7 Series has been hailed as the thinnest and lightest

Ultrabooks. As thin as a smartphone, the S7 is an iconic combination of r and

beauty. Taking advantage of the touch benefits associated with Windows 8, the

touch-enabled screen on the 13.3"S7 can be laid back flat 80 degrees, and the

image orientation reverses for easy touch-and-show sharing. Despite its

ultra-thin design, the Aspire S7 packs powerful technologies, including 3rd

generation Intel Core i5-3317UB or i7-3517U processors and solid state drives in

a RAID 0 configuration for extremely fast read/write times and quietness.

Power-packed, we must say!



Apple MacBook Pro with Retina Display



It's the world's highest-resolution notebook display. With over four million

pixels on the 13-inch display and over five million pixels on the 15-inch

display, the Retina Display on the MacBook Pro is an incredible engineering

feat. Other top- of-the-line features? All flash architecture, the fastest

mobile processors (the OS X Mountain Lion) the MacBook Pro with Retina Display

has everything you'd ask for from a notebook. To sum it up, it's thin, light and

powerful!



Samsung Series 9



It is super-slim at .51" thin and amazingly lightweight at 2.49lbs. The Series 9

is striking to look at, but it also sets a premium performance standard. With

extremely fast start-up speeds and nearly instant resume from sleep, the Series

9 lets you get even more done. The Series 9 isn't just a laptop, it's a game

changer. From the very moment you open the Series 9 be prepared to savour the

experience of the wow factor.



LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 931





                  Copyright 2013 United Press & Publishing LLC

              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

                              All Rights Reserved





