

Film and TV award season is upon us, and if you want to watch footage and films
on a smartphone, pick one of these models...

MICROSOFT LUMIA 950 £419.99, from www.microsoftstore.com RUNNING on Windows 10,
this phone could easily double up as a PC. In fact, the Continuum feature, when
combined with a keyboard, external monitor, mouse and Microsoft Display Dock
effectively turns the device into a regular computer. However, with a 5.2-inch
WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up to a
larger monitor.

HUAWEI P8, £299.99, from www.carphonewarehouse.com THIS phone certainly looks
pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, in addition to looking sleek and
glamorous, it's packed with quality too. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display
works a charm, and if you do want to adjust the hues, you can use the phone's
Emotion UI function which lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to
warm.

IPHONE 6S PLUS, £619, www.fromapple.com LIKE an actor who walks away with an
Oscar every year, it's hard to top the appeal of an iPhone - and it'd be
impossible to not include the latest Apple model in the best screen awards. The
iPhone 6s Plus is a thing of beauty. It comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD display
and 192080 pixel resolution. Yet, when it comes to this model, it's not really
about the specs but the ease of use.

GOOGLE NEXUS 5X, £299, from www.store.google.com OH, what a phone! From the
moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the colours on the wallpaper, you
just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, this
smartphone (smart in both senses of the word) really does offer up a wonderful
display. The 5.2-inch full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are
super sharp. As for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright
lights.

MOTO X FORCE, £499, www.motorola.co.uk CLUMSY people unite! There's finally a
phone that, no matter how many times you drop it, won't have to live with the
indignity of having a cracked screen. Motorola's X Force comes with the claim
that it has 'the world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be
watching films through annoying cracks. Its display also packs a powerful punch
and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display with 540ppi.

SONY XPERIA Z5 PREMIUM, £599, www.sonymobile.com GIVEN Sony produce great TVs,
it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone focuses on ensuring its display
is of the highest quality. When you take into account its ppi is 806 (its
competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this isn't the
market leader in screen display.

¦ PRICES above detail sim-free phones.

Contracts available for all models.

