


o $688 (without contract)
o Dual-core 1GHz processor
o Google Android 2.3 operating system
o 4-inch LED-backlit LCD display
o 32GB internal storage      Name a Sony product and you will usually find
yourself enamoured with its fine design. At least, that was how I felt when I
stole a first glance at the Sony Xperia P, which is exclusively available from
SingTel from Friday.

The second Sony smartphone for this year is not that much different from its
earlier sibling, the Sony Xperia S. But once you hold the newcomer, the
differences become obvious.

At 122g, the Xperia P is 22g lighter and just as compact. The rear retains the
same curved design, which fits nicely in one's hands.

The transparent strip just below its display holds the back, home and menu
icons. In the Xperia S, the same transparent band was an indicator for the
buttons above it.

The micro-USB port is wide open, which made it easy to plug in the cable but I
mistakenly tried to force the micro-USB cable into the mini-HDMI port next to
it.

Power and volume controls are on the right side, with the volume controls oddly
positioned bang in the middle. At one point, I wanted to increase the volume and
ended up hitting the power button instead and switching off the phone.

The unibody design is definitely pleasing to the eye, but the downside is that
you cannot remove the battery. Like the Apple iPhone 4S and Nokia Lumia 800, it
uses a micro-SIM card, a growing trend among the latest smartphones. It takes
effort to pry open the plastic cover of the micro-SIM card slot.

Smartphones with quad-core processors are becoming common, but here, a modest
dual-core 1GHz processor runs the show, working in tandem with Google Android
2.3.

It served up a smooth and fluid performance with Sony's customised user
interface. However, load more apps and multiple Web pages and it may struggle to
keep up with the extra tasks.

On the surface, the Xperia P does not look very different from its larger
sibling. But right below the 4-inch screen is Sony's new WhiteMagic display
technology. Most LCDs or liquid crystal displays come with red, green and blue
subpixels that light up simultaneously to produce a white pixel. The Xperia P
has a fourth white subpixel that does the job.

Its tight screen resolution of 960 x 540 pixels give it a density of about 275
pixels per inch. I was impressed by the clarity of high-resolution movies played
from YouTube on the device. The display seemed brighter in direct sunlight. But
at maximum brightness, it may be too glaring.

In theory, lighting just one subpixel reduces the display's power consumption.
So it would be wise to choose 'power saver mode' instead of 'bright'. It seemed
to extend the battery mileage to nearly a day. This was useful since I was
stressing the device with data-hungry apps such as Twitter, Facebook and
WhatsApp.

The 8-megapixel camera is weak. In so-so lighting conditions, picture noise was
significant and images were grainy.

This phone impresses with its bright display but is marred by poor button
placements and a weak camera.

teinhee@sph.com.sg

HOT
o Attractive design
o Easy to handle
o Bright and clear display

NOT
o Micro-USB and HDMI port located too near each other
o Oddly positioned power and volume buttons
o Poor camera performance

