                              963 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)



                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

                                  1 - Edition



Apple's latest must-have



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15



LENGTH: 709  words





The latest version of the iPhone went on sale this week boasting more than 100

new applications, including video chat



APPLE unveiled a next-generation iPhone yesterday that features video chat, can

shoot and edit high-definition quality video, and has a crisper resolution

screen.



``We are going to take the biggest leap since the original iPhone,'' Apple chief

executive Steve Jobs said as he showed off the iPhone 4 at Apple's Worldwide

Developers Conference in San Francisco.



The iPhone 4 will go on sale on June 24 in Britain, France, Germany, Japan and

the United States, and will cost $242.39 for the 16-gigabyte model and $364.19

for the 32GB version.



The touchscreen smartphone, which comes in black and white versions, will be

available in 18 other countries in July and 24 more in August.



The iPhone 4 includes more than 100 new features including a front-facing video

camera to allow for video-conferencing between iPhones, a better still camera,

an improved battery and a screen with significantly higher resolution.



To demonstrate the video chat program, called FaceTime, Mr Jobs, dressed in his

trademark black turtleneck and blue jeans, called up Jonathan Ive, an Apple

product designer, and held an iPhone-to-iPhone video conversation.



The iPhone 4 can also shoot and edit HD video.



Randy Ubillos, Apple's chief architect for video applications, displayed an

iMovie for iPhone video editing program available from Apple's App Store.



Mr Jobs touted the higher-resolution screen as a major leap forward.



``There has never been a display like this on a phone,'' he said.



The 3.5-inch screen is the same size as on previous models, but features 326

pixels per square inch, four times more pixels than the earlier iPhones.



``There is a magic number, around 300 pixels per inch, that is the limit of the

human retina,'' Mr Jobs said.



``We are over that limit.



``That's going to set the standard for display for years to come.''



The improved battery life allows for 40 per cent more talk time, Mr Jobs said,

and the iPhone 4 -- at 9.3mm -- is 24 per cent thinner than the previous model,

iPhone 3GS.



The iPhone 4, which runs on Apple's A4 processor, features a five-megapixel

camera, an improvement on the previous three-megapixel camera.



Users will also have the option to use Microsoft's Bing as an internet search

engine in addition to Google and Yahoo! Google remains the default search

engine.



Mr Jobs joked that some of the attendees at the conference may have seen the

iPhone 4 previously ``because there have been a few photos around''. Technology

blog Gizmodo obtained a prototype of the iPhone in April from a 21-year-old man

who found it in a California beer garden -- where it had been lost by an Apple

software engineer -- and published details of the device.



Apple launched the iPhone in 2007 and has sold more than 50 million as it

battles Google's Android platform, the Blackberry from Canada's Research in

Motion and others for the fast-growing market.



Before displaying the latest iPhone, Mr Jobs said that more than five million

digital books have been downloaded since Apple began selling its iPad tablet

computer two months ago.



Mr Jobs, who received a standing ovation as he walked on stage to address the

more than 5200 software developers attending the conference, said the 8500

applications developed for the iPad have been downloaded more than 35 million

times from Apple's App Store. Apple has sold more than two million iPads since

it went on sale in the United States in early April and in nine other countries

late last month.



Mr Jobs said that 225,000 applications for the iPhone and the iPod Touch were

currently available and that five billion applications had been downloaded from

the App Store as of last week.



The new iPhone received positive reviews from analysts, although most of the

features were known already because of the Gizmodo leak.



Altimeter's Michael Gartenberg said Apple has ``raised the bar once again by

offering next year's technology at last year's prices''.



``They are the first ones to make video chat easy and that will drive the

sales,'' Mr Gartenberg said.



Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi said the iPhone 4 ``keeps Apple ahead of the

competition'' by ``driving software and hardware innovation hand in hand''.



LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: BUL





                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





