

By DOUG STANLEY

dstanley@tampatrib.com

Specialty search engines can be especially useful when you're looking for photos
or graphics to spruce up a multimedia project or if you merely want to take an
eclectic visual journey across the Web.

There are a number of search tools for finding photos, drawings, animations and
other images. Some are adjuncts of the major search engines and others are
independent.

Type in anything - say, the name of a city - to find matching images. Searching
for "Tampa," for example, returned shots of tourists, landmarks, aerial photos,
pictures of ships and what looked like the inside of a hotel room.

Before using an image downloaded from the Web, be sure to ask permission from
the owner, particularly for copyrighted material.

Most sites have offensive-content filters that you can turn on or off, but
filters aren't perfect, and there always is the chance you'll see something you
would rather not. Let's take a look at some useful sites:

* Google Images - images.google.com - Claiming an index of more than 425 million
images, Google says its image search is the most comprehensive on the Web.

Advanced features allow you to specify image size, file format, Web site and
color, black-and-white or gray scale.

* Picsearch - www.picsearch.com - Among the advanced features is the ability to
search for images by six categories of size, from very small (1 to 50 pixels) to
very large (800 pixels or more).

Picsearch touts itself as family friendly and doesn't provide an option for
turning off offensive-content filters. The site doesn't seem to do a
significantly better job than its competitors at screening potentially offensive
shots.

* AlltheWeb - www.alltheweb.com - Claiming it searches more than 3 billion Web
pages, AlltheWeb features many of the same types of custom search options as its
peers.

One nice feature for people who have Web sites is the ability to search only for
images with transparent backgrounds.

* DevilFinder Image Browser - images.devilfinder.com - Though the others in this
roundup display thumbnail images that double as links to Web sites where those
images appear, DevilFinder takes a decidedly different approach.

This experimental search engine displays 12 to 72 photos in full size on a
single page. Search results can be slow to load, but the mishmash of images
displayed together makes for some interesting viewing.

The Lowdown On Gas Prices

If the price at the pump is siphoning off more money than you can bear, you
might be able to save a few bucks by looking at GasBuddy.com for the cheapest
gas prices.

GasBuddy is a portal to more than 170 sites providing recent prices at stations
from coast to coast and Canada. The information is gathered by volunteers and
posted on the Web.

Anyone can look up or submit gas prices. The site also offers a free membership
that includes access to an online fuel log for calculating and graphing personal
gas expenses.

E-mail Connection Errors

Having trouble accessing your e-mail after installing a firewall? Usually,
tweaking a setting does the trick.

Software firewalls sometimes need to be told which programs can have full access
to the Internet.

Finding the setting to tweak will vary with the firewall you use. For McAfee
Personal Firewall Plus, right-click on the McAfee icon by your system clock,
then click Personal Firewall. Click Internet Applications and verify that your
e-mail program has full access to the Net. If it doesn't, right-click on the
program's name and click "Allow Full Access."

For past columns by Doug Stanley, go to tech.tbo.com

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

