                              96 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday



Google Pixel smartphones to arrive on October 4, confirms company



BYLINE: dna Web Team



LENGTH: 266  words





Google has officially confirmed that it will host a smartphone launch event on

October 4!



Google has sent out invites for an event on October 4 in San Francisco, where it

is expected to unveil its new phone line - Pixel. The devices will most likely

run Android Nougat. Additionally, Google may unveil Google Home, Daydream VR and

a Chromecast capable of 4K playback.



Google has unveiled a teaser page which offers a "Keep me updated about devices

from Google" along with a video posted to its YouTube channel.



While we've seen a few leaks regarding both phones' specifications, this time

around, the rumours talk about the OS inside. A leaked benchmark test on

Geekbench indicates both the upcoming PIxel and Pixel XL smartphones will ship

with Android 7.1 Nougat. In addition, the Google Pixel will feature a 1.6GHz

quad-core Snapdragon processor (likely the Snapdragon 820) with 4GB RAM.



In other leaks, Phone Arena spotted possible renders for the Pixel and Pixel XL,

while Android Headlines, came across TPU cases available on AliExpress. Assuming

the designs on both are correct, it appears the Pixel XL will sport a

fingerprint scanner on the rear panel, similar to the Nexus 5X and 6P, The Pixel

will sport a 5-inch display, while the Pixel XL has a 5.5-inch display.



Also set for the event are Google Home, a voice-controlled smart home assistant

which debuted at Google I/O in May, a Chromecast media streaming device that

will support 4K ultra HD resolution, and a personal viewer device for its

Daydream VR program (also announced at Google I/O.)



LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





