

TOP OF THE NEWS

Economy grows 1.3%

SINGAPORE'S economy grew by a slightly better than expected 1.3 per cent last
year, up from an earlier 1.2 per cent estimate, led by sectors such as
biomedical manufacturing and construction.

Ex-drivers to plead guilty

THE four former SMRT bus drivers from China charged with instigating last
November's illegal strike will plead guilty, just a fortnight after claiming
trial.

Lawyers said they changed their minds after prosecutors indicated the sentence
they will seek from the judge.

WORLD

Mystery hotel death

THE gruesome discovery of a young Canadian tourist's body in the water tank of a
Los Angeles hotel has cast the spotlight on the seedy history of the 86-year-old
establishment, which has hosted a few serial killers.

Xi's first overseas visits

FOR his first foreign visit since becoming President, Mr Xi Jinping has chosen
to go to Russia, followed swiftly by a trip to South Africa. The choice of
destinations hints at the Chinese leader's desire to firm relations with
emerging market economies in a bid to counter the US pivot to Asia.

Peace talks gather pace

PEACE talks between the government and ethnic groups in Myanmar have been
gathering momentum. The delicate process has been spurred on by a change in
attitude within the government, which increasingly sees ethnic groups as
partners instead of enemies, experts say.

Google's senior vice-president of Chrome and apps Sundar Pichai with the
Chromebook Pixel, which boasts Intel chips and screens  tailored for rich
graphics, in San Francisco on Thursday. -- PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS

Google unveils laptop

IN A direct challenge to Apple's MacBook, Google has launched a touchscreen
notebook computer targeted at high-end PC users.

The Chromebook Pixel computer, which combines tablet and laptop technology, has
been released in the United States and Britain at prices starting at US$1,299
(S$1,600).

OPINION

Go slow on defence tax

SINGAPOREANS should remain at the core of government policy, but measures such
as the proposed defence tax on foreigners and permanent residents could come
across as being against foreigners.

HOME

Changi charter flights

CHANGI Airport is planning to team up with travel agents to offer charter
flights. The goal is to launch new routes with six to 12 charter flights per
destination a year. Destinations could include Sapporo and Okinawa in Japan.

Safety lapses at 27 sites

SAFETY inspectors imposed stop-work orders at 27 sites after stepping up checks
late last year.

Firms were also given fines totalling more than $350,000 by the Ministry of
Manpower.

Fewer shops selling ivory

FAR fewer shops are selling ivory in Singapore than a decade ago, research from
two wildlife groups suggests. Experts say the country could be bucking a global
trend that is seeing a rising demand for elephant tusks - but warned that their
trade may be moving underground or online.

MONEY

Languishing home sales

THE anaemic high-end property market is still languishing as foreign buyers flee
the market in the wake of the string of cooling measures. New analysis by R'ST
Research has identified almost 500 completed but unsold homes in districts 9, 10
and 11.

SPORT

Match-fixer's double life

FOR the last 18 months in Singapore, Slovenian Admir Suljic, whose arrest in
Italy was hailed as a breakthrough in the fight against match-fixing, was an
expatriate with a lucrative job and a luxurious apartment in the heart of the
city.

His other job was to act as a "broker" between match-fixing syndicates in Asia
and Europe.

SATURDAY

Showcase S'pore's virtues

SINGAPORE'S best kept secrets are its virtues. The city-state should showcase
them to reboot its brand, says our By Invitation writer Parag Khanna.

Housewife Krisbelle Anand grooming her dog Poppy at Art Of Pets Grooming School
where she attended a seven-month course. She  has invested $6,000 in grooming
tools, courses and a certification exam. -- ST PHOTO: CHEW SENG KIM

LIFE!

More D-I-Y groomers

MORE Singapore dog owners are picking up grooming techniques from professionals.
Last year, over 300 signed up for a one-day class at Prestige Grooming Academy,
a 50 per cent increase since 2006. Art Of Pets had about 40 sign up, up from
about 20 in 2009.

Observers foresee more local indie acts following in the Great Spy Experiment's
footsteps and topping the online music chart. -- PHOTO: MUHAMMAD FIRDAUS MOHD
NOOR

Great Spy tops iTunes

THE Great Spy Experiment made history this week, when their new English-language
album became the first by a home-grown band to top an iTunes Store download
chart. Litmus was released on Monday and peaked at No. 1 on the album download
charts of the Singapore version of iTunes.

