                              973 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)



                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

                             Print & First Editions



Phones in the frame;

IMAGING | The expert view



BYLINE: Terry Lane



SECTION: GREEN GUIDE; Livewire; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 605 words





REVIEW



OLYMPUS PEN E-PL8



Price: $882 street price with 14-42mm lens



THE LOWDOWN



This micro four-thirds camera from Olympus has a 16-megapixel sensor in a

compact and pretty body. Inside it has the workings of the Olympus E-M10 MkII.

It is a cosmetic upgrade of the E-PL7 with an emphasis on style aesthetics and

self-portraiture. The LCD can tilt down under the camera and point forward. In

this orientation the camera displays touch controls for focus, shutter and movie

start/stop. The tiny kit lens is brilliant, keeping the unit compact without any

mechanical or optical compromise. The 28-84mm focal length (film equivalent)

provides a decent wide angle and short telephoto ideal for portraiture.



LIKE



The image quality is as we expect from Olympus - good white balance and

exposure. The camera is nicely made and feels substantial in the hand. Images up

to ISO2500 are usable with noise obvious at only high ISO speeds.



DISLIKE



The absence of an electronic viewfinder is perplexing at this price.



VERDICT



The E-PL8 is apparently aimed at the fashion-conscious smartphone users who are

impressed with the choice of various colours of faux leather skins and straps

and who think they might like the better quality to be had from an

interchangeable lens camera with a bigger sensor and better image stabilisation.

And because phones are selfie devices then the camera has to conform. The E-PL8

is a fully featured camera, and to use all its functions it is essential to copy

the full user manual from the supplied disc. Also consider the Olympus E-M10

MkII, a seriously superb camera with a proper viewfinder that costs only $40

more.



Google launched the new Pixel phones this month and they went straight to the

top of the DxOMark rankings of best smartphone cameras that money can buy. And

in this case it is a lot of money.



The Aussie dollar has pushed the least expensive flagship phones over $1000, but

do not despair. Have a look at the DxO ranking table on its website. If you

don't need the latest and best for bragging rights, there are bargains to be

had.



Google's Pixels start at over $1000 but the superseded Google Nexus 5X phones

can be had for about $400. DxO rates the Nexus 5X and 6P (which have the same

camera) the same as the iPhone 6s Plus and above the iPhone 6s.



The still-available Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge gets the same camera rating as the

new iPhone 7, but is half the price. And the Sony Xperia Z5 also rates with the

iPhone at half the price. (The prices here are for outright purchase from online

discounters, not from telco shops or on plans.)



Many phone makers use Sony camera components so the differences in performance

will be the result of internal processing.



Right now we have a Google Nexus 5P and an iPhone 6s side by side, and both

produce fine photographs and videos. They both shoot 4K ultra-high-definition

video, but have different default camera apps and the iPhone's is better because

it has exposure compensation adjustment with the slide of a finger. There are

third-party camera apps for Android, but none is as elegant as the iPhone

default. On such small differences the deal may be done or broken.



You may have noticed an Apple TV advert called The Human Family, which is a

montage of photos and videos taken with an iPhone 6s, but you might have missed

the disclaimer at the bottom of the screen: "Additional software and equipment

used." They don't say what. But it is a warning that the advertisements are as

much about the skill of the professionals who take the photos as about the

qualities of the cameras. That is where DxOMark, the industry reference, is so

helpful in making a choice.



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 The Age Company Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





