

For a moment on Sunday, rescuers in Nevada searching for the aviator Steve
Fossett thought they might have found what they were looking for. Reporters were
summoned to Minden-Tahoe airport and a helicopter was scrambled to check out a
possible sighting of the wreckage of a single-engine aircraft.

But 30 minutes later the helicopter crew reported back that the wreck was not Mr
Fossett's plane but the debris from an old US navy crash.

"Once again you had your hopes raised and dashed just as we have," civil air
patrol major Cynthia Ryan told reporters. "This search is big, it is frustrating
and it is exhausting, physically and mentally."

But as the search for the 63-year-old enters its second week, rescuers have
received help from an unlikely source: Google Earth. The satellite imaging
program has released new, up-to-date images of Nevada which, through a
collaborative system run by Amazon called Mechanical Turk, enables individual
users to search from their homes and notify rescuers in Nevada of potential
leads. The system's creators say the plane Mr Fossett was flying would appear as
an object about "21 pixels long and 30 pixels in wingspan".

But rescuers assembled in the western Nevada desert close to the California
border are becoming increasingly frustrated. A second wreck was found on Sunday,
but again it was not Mr Fossett's plane.

"We're finding them left and right. Nevada is a graveyard," Kim Toulouse, a
spokesman for the Nevada department of wildlife, told the Associated Press.

There are 129 known crash sites in Nevada, but officials estimate that over the
last 50 years more than 300 small planes have disappeared in the state.

The false alarms highlight some of the difficulties facing rescuers as they comb
17,000 square miles of wilderness.

At least six old crash sites have been discovered since Mr Fossett went missing
on September 3. He set off in a two-seat Bellanca Citabria Super Decathlon from
the private airfield of hotel magnate Barron Hilton for a three-hour trip. The
plane was one of a selection at the ranch owned by the grandfather of Paris. Mr
Fossett and his wife, Peggy, were due to leave the ranch after his flight.

An experienced survivalist who was the first person to circle the globe in a
balloon, Mr Fossett left no flight plan, instead departing with the words: "I
head for the south." It is believed that he took the flight to scout for
locations for an attempt on the land-speed record.

On Sunday, rescuers changed tactics, focusing the search on a 50-mile area
around the ranch's airstrip because most crashes occur within that radius.
"We've got close to 100% covered, at least in some cursory fashion," Mr Ryan
said.

Ms Fossett remained at the ranch, waiting for news of her husband. "The mood is
very sombre, but very focused," county sheriff Joe Sanford said. "These are the
best search and rescue people we have. We are going to find Mr Fossett and we
are going to bring him home."

Later, Tim Evinger, Ms Fossett's spokesman, said: "The outpouring of help from
around the world has been extraordinary. More than anything else, Steve Fossett
believes in achieving success through calculated, meticulous planning and
organisation. And it is that spirit which permeates his team. Our hopes are high
and I am confident of a successful resolution to the search."

