                              976 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                           The Sunday Times (London)



                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



THESE ARE THE 'DROIDS YOU ARE LOOKING FOR;

Why spend £400 on a mobile when you can buy a gorgeous, powerful Android phone

for much less? Matt Bingham taps away at fiveTEST BENCH Mid-budget Android

phones



SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 18,19



LENGTH: 967 words





BEST FOR WANNABES



SAMSUNG GALAXY S III MINI



£299



The Mini is a 4in version of the Galaxy S III that preserves the look and feel

of the 4.8in original. It has a similar display, though the resolution is lower

at 480 x 800 pixels. You get much of the tech found in its big brother: the

Android 4.1 operating system, known as Jelly Bean (see panel, below right), S

Voice voice control and an FM radio. The Mini has a 5Mp camera and 8GB of

memory, with support for SD cards up to 32GB. The 1GHz chip is slower than the

quad-core chip in the full-fat S III, and the phone feels far less snappy to

use. There are preset home screens and apps for smartphone newbies - one for

social networkers, another for avid emailers and so on. The Mini doesn't feel

like a bargain, though, as you can now buy the real deal, the S III, for £399.



Verdict Good, but overpriced in this company. *** samsung.co.uk



BEST FOR BUILD QUALITY



MOTOROLA RAZR i £320



For a quality feel in the hand, pick up the RAZR i. Not only is it almost

exactly the size of an iPhone 5 (the screen is a little larger at 4.3in), it

looks and handles much like Apple's pricier device, thanks to its Kevlar and

aluminium casing. The display is not the highest definition at 540 x 960 pixels

but it is bright and colourful, while its widescreen aspect ratio works well for

viewing films. It has 8GB of memory and supports cards up to 32GB.This is one of

only two phones in Britain to employ an Intel chip (the other is the San Diego):

it runs Android 4.0, known as Ice Cream Sandwich, as fast as any top-end

handset. Android phones can be "skinned" - the basic software adapted and apps

pre-loaded by makers. Motorola has added some improvements, such as home screen

"bubbles" that you tap to display extra information.



Verdict The best mid-size Android phone. **** motorola.co.uk



BEST FOR SCREEN



GOOGLE/LG NEXUS 4 £239



Just a year ago, cheap smartphones were really cheap. Not just in price but in

quality and appearance too. Compared with top-end mobiles, the displays were

small and of low resolution, software ran slowly and cameras were generally

poor. But new Android handsets have almost closed the gap. Take the Nexus 4,

made for Google by LG, which has a 4.7in screen with a resolution of 768 x 1,280

pixels. That's only a fraction smaller than the class-leading Android phone, the

Galaxy S III. The display looks great too: sharp and bright with good contrast.

Nexus products are showcases for Google's software and the Nexus 4 comes with

the latest, 4.2 version of Android Jelly Bean. Its fast Snapdragon processor

loaded web pages, apps and games in a trice - there really is little missing

when you compare the handset with more expensive phones. The Nexus 4 has

near-field communication and wireless recharging built in too. The sacrifices

you make for the price are in the 8Mp camera, which is nothing special, and the

low-ish 8GB memory (with no card slot to upgrade it). The phone also feels light

compared with metal-bodied handsets. Don't let your friends hold it, though -

you won't get it back.



Verdict A big-screen, high-tech bargain. ***** play.google.com/store



BEST FOR LOOKS



SONY XPERIA J £189



Sony supplied this year's Bond phone, the Xperia T seen in Skyfall, and will be

hoping some of the magic rubs off on the T's baby brother. The Xperia J looks

great, with a curved back, solid build and shiny metal highlights. The 4in, 480

x 854-pixel display is bright and high contrast. But in use this Android 4.0

handset feels slow and stuttery, with button presses on the virtual keyboard

taking ages to register, apps sluggish to load and the 5Mp camera frustratingly

slow to launch. It also has just 4GB of memory, half of which is taken up by the

operating system (although it does support memory cards up to 32GB). On the

upside, Sony's Walkman music app is a great improvement on the standard Android

player, adding a graphic equaliser and other sonic tweaks.



Verdict Send this one back to Q, Bond. ** sonymobile.com/gb



BEST FOR VALUE



ORANGE SAN DIEGO £180



Aside from the Motorola RAZRi, Britain's only other Intel phone is an exclusive

for the Orange network. The San Diego runs Android 4.0 on an excellent 4in

display that packs an impressive 600 x 1,024 pixels. It has the most built-in

memory on test at 16GB, but has no card slot to add extra. The camera is 8Mp.

Taking photos, browsing the web and opening apps were all accomplished without

noticeable lag. So how can Orange keep the price so low? The San Diego looks

like an iPhone 4 or 4S but feels nothing like it. It's light in the hand and

made entirely from plastics. There's not much on the phone's skin - just a few

Orange apps, such as one for the company's two-for-one cinema ticket promotion.

Still, as long as you can live with the build and are happy to be on the Orange

network, this is a bargain.



Verdict A neat phone. Just don't drop it.  **** orange.co.uk



KNOW YOUR ANDROIDS



ICE CREAM SANDWICH



The RAZRi, Xperia J and San Diego all run versions of Android 4.0, also known as

Ice Cream Sandwich. Unveiled more than a year ago, it improved on earlier

systems by allowing you to place apps in folders and resize them, and to use

shortcuts to take photos, respond to calls and other tasks. Sony promises to

upgrade the Xperia J to Jelly Bean; Motorola says an upgrade is in the works but

has not set a date; Orange has not announced one.



JELLY BEAN



Android 4.1 and 4.2 are both known as Jelly Bean. The S III Mini runs 4.1, which

revised the Ice Cream Sandwich version of notifications and added more powerful

camera software. Android 4.1 also has Google Now, which claims to anticipate a

user's search and calendar needs by monitoring their past behaviour. Android 4.2

has a better keyboard and a panoramic camera function. There is no timetable yet

for the Mini to upgrade to 4.2.



LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STS





                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





