                              977 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

                               Australian Edition



GOOGLE THE UNSTOPPABLE



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 16



LENGTH: 1023  words





TECH Despite security concerns about Android, the company that became a verb has

just showcased a bevy of new products



Google Android has been under attack. Concern about security, malware and a lack

of privacy for users of the operating system has sullied its regard. But that

hasn't stopped the Mountain View, California, giant. It has carried on. There

are now 1.4 billion Android devices around the world, Sundar -Pichai, Google's

surprise choice as chief executive, boasted this week at a launch event in San

Francisco.



And by year's end there will be more Chromebooks in US schools than all other

types of devices combined, Pichai says. More than 10,000 US companies use

-Android, as does the US Army, he adds, and Google Play Music has more than one

billion users.



This week Google had much to share. Two months ago founders Larry Page and

Sergey Brin reorganised the tech giant, creating a new parent company called

-Alphabet and appointing Pichai, born in India in 1972, to the top job at Google

, throwing in a redesigned logo for good measure.



This week Google showcased a bevy of new products, including two Nexus phones,

two Chromecast streaming devices and a Pixel C tablet with a magnetically

-attached keyboard.



And that was before we got to Marshmallow, and Google's plans to reach further

into our homes via its Chromecast device.



Google contracts other firms to make Nexus-branded phones on its behalf. Thus LG

produced a 5.2-inch Nexus 5x device while China's Huawei produced a

phablet-sized 5.7-inch phone. Both Nexus phones use the pure form of Google's

new Marshmallow operating system, unadulterated by manufacturers' own apps and

tailoring of code.



Many people like the pure form of Android. It is always the latest version of

the operating system, with Google regularly pumping out updates. Both phones

feature the new USB Type-C ports we saw early this year on Apple's 12-inch

MacBook. These ports allow for fast data transfers and fast-charging devices.

You can buy adaptors to connect other devices such as external hard drives.



Both Nexus phones have fingerprint readers that Google calls Nexus Imprint.

They're installed on the back of the phones and, from experience, I can attest

to the speed at which they can grant access to a locked smartphone. Google says

the software can recognise a fingerprint in less than 600 milliseconds. However,

you'll have to get used to picking up your phone holding it on its sides and

supporting it with your index finger.



Also this week, Motorola, Huawei and Asus launched watches with Google's

watch-oriented operating system, Android Wear.



Much attention was given to Google's new tablet, the Pixel C, with its 10.2-inch

display. Its keyboard magnetically attaches to the tablet and charges

inductively from it, but can achieve two months of use without charging.



The Pixel C runs the new operating system Marshmallow and Google's biggest

announcements were software-related. While Google Marshmallow, also known as

Android 6.0, is an incremental update, in addition to fingerprint recognition it

adds a different way of granting apps permission to access data. Typically we

give apps carte blanche permission to access our data when we install them. Now

you have a choice about whether you really want a particular app to access all

your contacts. Hopefully users will make a more deliberative choice.



Among the new announcements was a power-saving feature called Doze that can put

your device into a sleep state when not in use. A motion detector decides this.

And App Standby helps -conserve battery life.



Now Tags, an extension of Google Now, automatically offers context-specific

prompts to assist your search for products. So if you find a restaurant using

the Yelp app, Now Tags prompts you to make a restaurant booking using the

OpenTable app or asks if you want to use your -favourite taxi app.



The Android app drawer remembers when and where you use apps, placing them at

the top of the app drawer when you return to the same time and same place. So if

you regularly use a transport app in the morning, it reappears at the top of

your app drawer when you are nearby.



Marshmallow comes installed on the new Nexus phones and rolls out on other Nexus

devices next week. Users of other phones have to wait until manufacturers

incorporate Marshmallow in their operating systems, probably next year.



Then there is Chromecast, the dongle some describe as Google's "Trojan Horse",

designed to allow the tech giant to penetrate deeper into your home. Chromecast

-allows you to attach entertainment devices and run programs on them, such as

Spotify on your TV.



Google aims to disrupt the connected audio speaker industry with a new device

called Chromecast Audio. It announced a family music plan that lets six people

use Google Music in the US for $US14.99 ($21.30) a month. That's due to be

available later this year.



You can get out an old speaker and attach it to Chromecast Audio's 3.5mm stereo

plug, and Chromecast can stream music to it from apps such as Spotify and Google

Music. If you have a series of speakers you can pump synchronised music through

each speaker in your home.



Chromecast Audio and a new version of Chromecast for TV are disk-shaped. They

work basically the same way. There's a port for a microUSB connection that

powers the device and, in the case of Chromecast, an HDMI connection out or for

Chromecast Audio, a stereo plug connection.



Google says the new shape will make it easy for Chromecast to dangle at the back

of a TV set and fit snugly behind a mounted TV. The new Chromecast devices

support dual Wi-Fi for faster streaming. But you won't see this in Australia any

time soon. We're not even among the top 17 countries listed by Google to receive

them. Maybe later this year. Given the US cost is $US35, we can expect

Chromecast to stay at about $50.



Marshmallow may be a soft -upgrade, but you get the impression Android is

getting much more sophisticated as we head towards the second half of this

-decade. But privacy and malware are still issues about which Google needs to

allay public concern.Chris Griffith travelled to San Francisco courtesy of

Huawei.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





