                              978 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                             The New Zealand Herald



                             March 11, 2016 Friday



Gear Friday: An almost gr8 Mate by Huawei



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General



LENGTH: 634 words





Chinese tech mega vendor Huawei has pulled out all stops to compete with Samsung

and others in the Android market, and its latest Mate 8 smartphone is a great

leap forward compared to earlier models.



The Ascend moniker gone from the name, the Mate 8 packs new and much improved

hardware, including a very fast Kirin (no relation to the Japanese beer brand)

950 four by four core chip set made by Huawei subsidiary HiSilicon.



READ MORE:



bull Juha Saarinen: Keeping your phone secure, the Google way



bull Samsung"s Gear S2 is sleeker, simpler



bull Juha Saarinen: Nexus 6P offers welcome step up



One set of four cores run at up to 2.3 GigaHertz, the other at up to 1.8GHz. My

review unit came with 32 Gigabytes of storage and 3GB of RAM. The NZ retail

device will have 64GB of storage and 4GB of memory inside, oddly enough.



You can also slot in two SIM cards for the Mate 8, which could be handy for

roaming.



There"s also faster graphics, and while the Mate 8 on a per-core basis isn"t as

quick as say an iPhone 6s in benchmarks, working together, the processors make

for a very snappy and responsive device indeed.



This is a big phone, with a six-inch diagonal screen, measuring 157.1 by 80.6

millimetres, but it"s fairly slim at 7.9mm and not too heavy, tipping the scales

at 185 gram. It feels very well put together, as it should, being a pricey

premium device.



As with the Google Nexus P6, also made by Huawei, the responsive fingerprint

reader is at the back of the device, which takes a bit of time to get used to.



Huawei decided to keep the screen resolution at a relatively modest 1080 by 1920

unlike competitors that are at 1440 by 2560 pixels - and the Google Nexus 6P.



This matters less than the numbers suggest: the full HD screen looks good, has

the same resolution as Apple"s iPhone 6s Plus and fewer pixels to push means the

Mate 8 uses less power. Despite heavy use, the Mate 8 would often go a day and a

half between charges; the battery has a big, 4,000mAh capacity and charges in

just two hours with the beefy Huawei wallwart - and reaches 75 per cent charge

in just one hour, which is fantastic.



Mate 8 runs the latest Android 6.0 with bunch of customisations like motion

control to drive the phone. And, uh, knuckle control. You can swipe with your

knuckles to multitask two apps, draw an S to start video recording, but I found

the whole thing awkward and gimmicky.



The Mate 8 camera is strange: the specifications for the 16 megapixel unit with

a Sony sensor, phase and contrast autofocus, fast f/2.0 lens and optical image

stabilisation, manual exposure control and lots of other features suggest it

should deliver very good pictures and video.



Sony makes arguably the best digital camera sensors currently, and I"m not sure

what Huawei did in the Mate 8, because the pictures from the phone are on the

dull side, with slightly muted colours.



The autofocus was hit and miss, and the video quality isn"t amazing either - the

Mate 8"s camera struggles in the bright New Zealand sun, and blows highlights

quite badly. Maybe this can be fixed in a future firmware update, but for now

the Mate 8 camera lets the phone down - I actually preferred the

lower-resolution camera in the Nexus 6P in comparison.



Also odd: there"s no 4K video like on competitor devices, only 1080p at 60

frames per second.



Checking with Huawei revealed that the review units have older system software

and the company confirmed that an update is in the works that"ll improve picture

quality.



It"ll be interesting to see if the new software fixes the camera image quality -

and I will provide an update on this - and until then I"ll hold off on a final

verdict on the Mate 8.



The phone will cost $1,099 RRP once it hits the shops, which isn"t too bad, but

I"d want the camera to be up to scratch before forking out that much money.



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 The New Zealand Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





