                              97 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

                             Print & First Editions



Google's Pixel phone has plenty of answers;

Review



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 618 words





Ask Google's new phone, the Pixel, how old Nick Cave is, and it will come back

to you with the answer: he's 59.



That much, any Android phone can do. But make the next question "What are his

best songs", and that's when it starts to get interesting. That's when the

Pixel's most interesting new feature, the artificial intelligence engine known

as Google Assistant, starts to show you how it's different from the voice

queries in other phones.



Google Assistant figures out you're still talking about Nick Cave, so it comes

back to you with a list of the first few songs from his "Best of" album. OK, so

that wasn't exactly the question, but at least it means you can string multiple

queries together, the way humans do all the time when they're conversing with

other humans.



The next question works too: "When did his son die?" brings up an article about

the tragic death of his son, Arthur. But it's not a properly internalised

response from Google Assistant: it's just a web clipping, undigested by the

artificial intelligence engine, which means the conversation has gone down a

blind alley.



Make your next question "And how old was he?", and the answer comes back as if

you were still talking about Nick: he's 59.



Google might have 70 billion facts at it fingertips courtesy of its search

engine, powering the artificial intelligence behind the Pixel phone, but it

doesn't use all of them with the same level of intelligence. You don't have to

use Google Assistant very long before you fall out of the AI and into something

more akin to traditional voice search.



But, still, it's impressive, and it will be very handy. You can ask the Pixel

"What is the best cafe near me?", look at the answer that comes up on the

screen, and then ask the Pixel "How do I get there?" to bring up directions.



Or you can tell it (as I did) "My name is John", it will tell you that it has

noted that fact, and then later you can ask it "Who am I?" and it will tell you

that you are John. Or whatever your name is.



Which means, the Pixel can learn, which means it will get better at doing things

for you over time.



Though, it doesn't learn everything. After asking four or five questions about

Nick Cave, I asked the Pixel "What musicians am I interested in?" and it didn't

make the connection back to Mr Cave. I told it "I live at the Sydney Opera

House" and then later I asked it "Where do I live?" and it came back to me with

the address that was listed in Google Maps as the owner's home location.



In the 20 or so minutes I had previewing the Pixel at its launch event in

Sydney, I also got the chance to briefly test the camera, which Google claims is

the best camera ever to appear in a smartphone. To support that claim it's using

a rating system that isn't always a reliable indicator of camera greatness

(other cameras that have topped the ratings have turned out to be far from the

best cameras on the market) so it very much remains to be seen just how good the

camera on the Pixel actually is.



But I did manage to take a handful of shots of foliage with the Pixel, as well

as four similar shots with an iPhone 7 (which I rate as having the second best

camera on the market, behind the camera Samsung uses in its Galaxy Note7 and

Galaxy S7). And I have to say that the Pixel might yet live up to Google's

claim.



Getting Google Assistant to converse just like a human is not going to be easy,

and it's not something Google will pull off in the life of the Pixel, its first

phone. As Google itself admits, perfecting artificial intelligence on a phone is

going to be a long, long journey.



Much farther than my trip home to the Opera House. Or wherever I live.



The Pixel can learn - it will get better at doing things for you over time.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





