                              983 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                    The Orange County Register (California)



                            August 24, 2006 Thursday

                                   1 Edition



PIXEL-PACKING MAN;

New 111-million pixel chip will map the night sky.



BYLINE: By TAMARA CHUANG; DANA POINT NEWS



SECTION: DANAPOINT; Pg. Cover



LENGTH: 497 words



ABSTRACT



Richard Bredthauer's new 111-million pixel will map the night sky.



FULL TEXT



If you want the world's highest-resolution digital camera, you'd better get to

know Richard "Dr. Dick" Bredthauer.



The Dana Point resident put 111 million pixels on a 4-by-4-inch chip, the most

ever on a single chip. That's like stitching together 20 photos taken with a 5.5

megapixel camera to create a huge image -- sans the grid lines.



While the chips won't find their way into a consumer camera anytime soon, such

high-resolution chips will let astronomers photograph wider swaths of the night

sky, allow scientists to take detailed shots of protein structures and encourage

Google to improve its map services.



"This is one of a progression of projects that really push the limits of

technology," said Patrick Myles, director of communications for  Dalsa

Semiconductor, the Canadian firm that built Bredthauer's chip. "When it comes to

this type of high performance, there's a really short list of who can actually

do it."



Most consumer cameras are in the 5-to-8 MP range. Professional cameras are up to

39 MP. Other high-resolution cameras, such as the 340-MP Megacam in Hawaii, are

made of several smaller chips stitched together. Stitching chips or images

together, however, is less accurate if the target is moving.



"The one place that can really use big images is astronomy," said Bredthauer,

59, whose resume includes making chips for a list of big-name cameras that snap

pictures in space -- the Hubble telescope, the Cassini Mission, the Mars

Pathfinder. "Astronomers know what they can do with it."



The new chip, which uses charge couple devices, is headed to the U.S. Naval

Observatory in Flagstaff, Ariz., and should be installed by year's end. It will

be used to take pictures of the night sky for an astrometry project to measure

the position and movement of stars, planets and other celestial bodies. Knowing

the position of celestial objects is an alternative to GPS navigation.



Charge couple devices (CCD) have long been Bredthauer's passion. He's worked in

the field since the 1970s when he was in graduate school and studied with the

man who set up Kodak's CCD lab. CCDs are a type of image sensor that converts

light into electrons. Compared to other camera chips, CCDs use more power but

have better light sensitivity. CCDs tend to be used in higher-quality cameras

and telescopes.



After 25 years of working for other people and watching his varied aerospace

employers move out of Orange County, Bredthauer started  Semiconductor

Technology Associates seven years ago in San Juan. He works with 7 employees,

including wife, Ginny, the chief executive, and two sons and a daughter.



BIG CHIP: Dr. Richard Bredthauer, Dana Point resident and president of the San

Juan Capistrano company Semiconductor Technology Associates, Inc. has designed

the world's highest resolution, 111 megapixal, CCD imaging chip. The 4-inch

square chip sells for $80,000, and was developed for the U.S. Navy.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2006



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2006 The Orange County Register (California)

                              All Rights Reserved





