                              987 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                                 Guardian.com.



                            February 25, 2013 Monday



Boot up: Google hits florist, HTC's FTC charge, Samsung takes on disability, and

more



BYLINE: Charles Arthurguardian.co.uk



LENGTH: 1469 words



ABSTRACT



Charles Arthur and Josh Halliday: Plus what removing Captchas gets you, Android

reborn for hacking, Chromebook Pixel, and more



FULL TEXT



A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team



Interflora SEO Penalty Analysis 2013 && Martin MacDonald



[On Wednesday] evening, well known florist brand Interflora was wiped off the

face of the internet.  Well, in search marketing terms anyway...



Searching for the terms [Flowers], [florist], [flower delivery], [flowers

online] and hundreds of other related search terms yielded the interflora.co.uk

domain in first place - until yesterday afternoon.  Now the website does not

even appear for its own brand name.



Reflecting on Google's power: a case for regulation? && Tim Anderson's ITWriting



He's written a sort of list, prompted by Interflora's downranking:



9. Users of Google will be grateful that it attempts to improve the value of its

search results by reducing the influence of meaningless incoming links. On the

other hand, I find it difficult to understand why a user who typed "interflora"

into Google would not want to see the official site at the top of the list,

since it is a legitimate business and not in any sense malicious. Of course they

do in fact see this, judging from my own experiment minutes ago, but it is an

advertisement and not an organic link. The top organic link is not Interflora's

own site.



10. Pause for thought: what would be the effect on Google's business if it put

ads below organic search results rather than above?



11. The only rationale for (9) above is that Google considers it worth

inconveniencing its users (presuming you do not accept that it simply wants to

sell more ads) for the sake of the higher objective of penalising sites which,

in its view, breach its guidelines.



12. We all have a choice whether to use Google or not; but this choice is not

one that fixes the problem. The problem, rather, is the choice which our

customers or potential customers make, over which we have no control.



No. 10 is quite a poser.



Guardian launches new reader profile pages && Guardian Help



[This] week we'll be launching a new look for reader profile pages.



The changes will bring all your website activity and site preferences into one

place, which we hope will make it easier for you to find and to manage them.



Where "you" actually means "everyone else".



HTC America settles FTC charges it failed to secure millions of mobile devices

shipped to consumers && FTC



Mobile device manufacturer HTC America has agreed to settle Federal Trade

Commission charges that the company failed to take reasonable steps to secure

the software it developed for its smartphones and tablet computers, introducing

security flaws that placed sensitive information about millions of consumers at

risk.



The settlement requires HTC America to develop and release software patches to

fix vulnerabilities found in millions of HTC devices. In addition, the

settlement requires HTC America to establish a comprehensive security program

designed to address security risks during the development of HTC devices and to

undergo independent security assessments every other year for the next 20 years.



...the FTC's complaint details several vulnerabilities found on HTC's devices,

including the insecure implementation of two logging applications - Carrier IQ

and HTC Loggers - as well as programming flaws that would allow third-party

applications to bypass Android's permission-based security model.



Tweaking Android makes it buggy, it seems.



Samsung's Iill-conceived Apple VoiceOver suit stayed in Germany && AllThingsD



A Mannheim Regional Court on Friday ordered a stay of a Samsung suit against

Apple that alleges the iPhone maker's VoiceOver screen-access technology

violated its patent on display into speech data.



The mechanics of this particular spat and the court's ruling on it are bit too

byzantine to dive into here, but it's worth a look in broad strokes simply as an

example of just how low players are willing to stoop in IP battles like the one

between Apple and Samsung. So, in short: Samsung holds a patent on a feature

that allows devices to read aloud text to their users with the press of a

button. The company asserted that patent against Apple's accessibility features,

specifically VoiceOver which is specifically designed for anyone with impaired

vision. Caught in the middle: The blind, low-vision users, folks with dyslexia

and anyone else who might benefit from having what appears on their computer

screen described to them out loud.



Yes, this move by Samsung against Apple was a tactical one in a nasty battle in

which billions of dollars are at stake. Yes, it's just business. But it's

ill-conceived. Even leaving aside the ethics of asserting a patent against a

feature designed to help the blind, this is unwise. It's the PR equivalent of

punching yourself in the face. Samsung has now identified itself as a company

willing to accept the loss of accessibility for the vision-impaired as

collateral damage in its battle with Apple.



Bits v. Bytes: Follow the money && asymco



Horace Dediu:



the Pixel is a high-end product. It's priced at the top of the range of what a

laptop computer might cost (given the dimensions).  Perhaps it's part of a

pattern where Google will hone its hardware skills toward releasing a phone or

tablet it can call its own. Starting with a more traditional computer is

"easier" than trying to deliver on the more demanding smaller form factors.



And yet, the more obvious question is why would Google want to be in the

hardware business? Isn't being a web-focused company implicitly suggesting that

hardware is a commodity to be farmed off to perpetually impoverished and

violently abused OEMs?



The truth is quite different from this. Samsung currently makes far more

operating profit from Android phones than Google does from all its operations.



Oh, you knew that already?



F**K CAPTCHA && Harry Brignull



Brignull is a user experience designer and consultant:



Users were directed to the sign-up form direct from the homepage before they

could interact with the product. As you can see, there was a CAPTCHA at the

bottom of the form (powered by reCAPTCHA). With this design, they had a

conversion rate of roughly 48%. They then removed the CAPTCHA, and it boosted

the conversion rate up to 64%. In conversion rate lingo, that's an uplift of

33.3%! They replaced the CAPTCHA with honeypot fields and timestamp analysis,

which has apparently proven to be very effective at preventing spam while being

completely invisible to the end user.



Google's Android reborn as network-hacking kit && Wired.com



The folks at security tools company Pwnie Express have built a tablet that can

bash the heck out of corporate networks. Called the Pwn Pad, it's a full-fledged

hacking toolkit built atop Google's Android operating system.



Pwnie Express will be selling the cool-looking hack machines - based on Google's

Nexus 7 tablets - for $795. They'll be introduced at the RSA security conference

in San Francisco next week, but Pwnie Express is also releasing the Pwn Pad

source code, meaning that hackers can download the software and get it up and

running on other types of Android phones and tablets.



Very neat.



Google announces Chromebook Pixel: a premium Chrome OS laptop shipping next week

for $1,299 && The Verge



Google repeatedly told us how smooth and fluid it is to swipe through webpages

on the touchscreen on the Pixel, and how it would enable developers to target a

broader ecosystem for their apps by allowing their tablet and smartphone

creations to have the same experience on the web. If only it were true: the

touchscreen response is far from fluid, if Google's on-stage demos and our own

hands-on impressions are any indication.



Specifications v experience.



The agony of the fanboy && TechCrunch



John Biggs:



When you fail, fail gracefully. When WebOS died, fanboys were forced to concede

to the fact that their favorite thing in the world was a dud. A group of fans

rallied around the open-source version of WebOS and are still futzing around

with it, but like a legion of Betamax fanatics, they're worshipping at the feet

of a dead god. Move on. Be nimble and mentally malleable. Learn something new.

Still defending PHP to your dying breath? Go learn Python. Think iOS is a blast?

Swap your iPad mini for a Nexus 7. I do this quite often and it's very

refreshing. I learned that I loved Windows 8, for example, and that the Surface

Pro is great. I learned these things because I'm in a very special position, but

you (meaning MG [Siegler]), too, can at least go into the Microsoft store with

an open mind and come out potentially changed.



Here's hoping. A wise piece.



You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard



To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free

Delicious service.



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies

                              All Rights Reserved

                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396

   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP





