                              98 of 997 DOCUMENTS







                              liverpoolecho.co.uk



                    September 21, 2016 Wednesday 9:35 AM GMT



Google Pixel and Pixel XL: All the latest news and rumours about the new Andriod

smartphones;

Everyth8ing you need to know about the iPhone 7 rivals ahead of the official

launch



BYLINE: By Rebecca Koncienzcy



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 890 words





Looking for an alternative to Apple's iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus ? Well, Google

may have the answer for you as they prepare to unveil two new phones over the

next few weeks.



The tech team behind Google's venture into smartphones seems to be planning to

ditch the Nexus brand that they have currently been working under in favour of '

Pixel', a name they have used on laptops and tablets in the past.



According to the latest rumours, the search giant is set to launch the new

Andriod-based phones in early October with the company overseeing the design

process and latest software.



So, with the iPhone 7 hype calming down, all eyes are firmly on Google for the

next big gadget announcment.



The unveiling for Google's new phones seems pretty clear cut - the company

itself has just revealed a teaser video for an event on October 4th.



The video is a simple one: A standard horizontal search box slowly morphs

inwards and upwards until it resembles the outline of a typical smartphone.

Finally the date October 4 appears alongside Google's logo.



The caption to the video, posted on YouTube, simply reads "Something new to love

on Oct 4."



As for the release date, things are a little murkier. Google will want to have

the phones in store as soon as possible to compete with Apple's iPhone 7.

Therefore it's reasonable to expect the new Pixel phones to land towards the end

of October. If not, expect to see them around the first week of November.



Like the unveiling date, the name of the two new phones seem certain to be the

Pixel and the Pixel XL. The Pixel will have 5-inch display, and the Pixel XL

will come in at 5.5 inches.



"Speaking to two independent sources, we now strongly believe that Google's

formerly-maybe-Nexus-phones, Marlin and Sailfish, will be marketed as the Pixel

and the Pixel XL," wrote David Ruddock from Android Police .



While it's not yet confirmed who will be making the handsets, Android Police

have suggested that HTC will behind both of the handsets, while other rumours

have suggested it will be split between HTC and LG.



The only things to distinguish the Pixel from the Pixel XL will be screen and

battery size, with both models boasting quad-core Qualcomm processors, 4GB of

RAM, and 12-megapixel cameras.



By ditching the Nexus name, Google is no doubt trying to put more of its own

stamp onto its smartphones.



There have even been suggestions that Google follow Apple's lead and take

manufacturing completely in-house - so that it has complete control over the

over the design and engineering of its devices, as well as the software.



New iPhone 7 user could not resist giving it a quick bath



So far it seems unlikely that Google will follow Apple's lead and ditch the

headphone jack on the bottom of its new phones.



In fact, leaked images supposedly showing the upcoming Pixel phones give us an

idea of what to expect.



Both have a similar design to last year's well-received Nexus 6P albeit with a

thinner bezel that means a near edge-to-edge display.



The images appeared on German site WinFuture and are believed to have come from

a Hong Kong-based parts dealer.



Interestingly, some tech commentators are saying the phones will have a

dual-lens camera similar to the iPhone 7 Plus.



There are two schools of thought when it comes to the pricing for Google's next

fleet of phones.



Firstly, it may follow Apple's model of simply swapping the new phones in to the

existing prices. That would mean the Pixel would launch at £299 for the 16GB

version and £339 for the 32GB model.



The Pixel XL meanwhile would take the place of the Nexus 6P at £449 for 16GB,

£499 for 64GB and £579 for 128GB.



The second school of thought is that Google will up the premium-ness of its

phones (as it did with the Pixel brand of Chromebook) and therefore raise

prices. We're not sure what kind of prices that means, but it probably won't be

cheap.



Crafty new Whatsapp feature now means people can't ignore you



One thing we do know about the new Pixel phones is they will ship with Google's

latest version of Android. That means improved efficiency and (hopefully) better

battery life.



Our friends at Alphr have an idea of what kind of power the new blowers will be

packing.



"The Pixel XL will have a 5.5in 2,560 x 1,440 AMOLED display with a quad-core

Qualcomm processor, 4GB of RAM, USB Type-C, rear-facing fingerprint reader,

12-megapixel rear camera and a 8-megapixel front-facing one. It will also have a

beefy 3,450mAh battery and standard 32GB of storage, with the option to upgrade

to a 128GB if needed," the site claims.



Pre-ordered iPhone 7s are not being delivered today and people FUMING



"The Pixel has similar specs, but it's clearly the lower-end of the two

flagships. It will sport a 5in Full HD AMOLED display, quad-core 2.0GHz 64-bit

processor, 4GB of RAM, the same cameras as the XL and a smaller 2,770mAh

battery. As expected, it will also come with a rear-mounted fingerprint reader

and a USB Type-C port."



If you don't like the idea of an iPhone 7 there's a lot to suggest Google's

phones will offer a decent alternative. These phones will be developed to

Google's spec so should have the best integration with Android on the market.



What's more, they're going to be entirely free of the third-party bloatware

commonly loaded onto Android phones by other manufacturers.



We'll have to wait until October 4 to really find out what Google has planned.



LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV





                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





