

Forget about the Google Nexus 4. Its more powerful sibling, the LG Optimus G,
has a much healthier stock level and is on sale here.

LG's newest flagship device has a more angular design, resembling a black glass
slab with a less rounded corner, looking somewhat like the blocky iPhone 5.
Packed densely into a compact chassis that measures 131.9 x 68.9 x 8.45mm, the
phone feels solid and sturdy. Its front and rear glass panels add to the weight
of the device at 145g.

The upside to this is that both panels are made with the sturdier and more
scratch-resistant Gorilla Glass 2, compared with the plastic back cover on
Samsung's Galaxy phones, and the scratch magnet on the rear of the iPhone 5.

Handling the Optimus G was a piece of cake, though the placement of its power
button on the right side of the phone, with the volume buttons on the left, took
some getting used to. At the bottom of the device is an easily accessible micro
USB port.

The 4.7-inch display does not waste any real estate space, with only a thin
black bezel on its side. Unlike the Nexus 4, which integrates the back, home and
recent applications short cuts into the screen, the Optimus G places them just
below the screen as three touch-sensitive buttons backed by LED lights.

Its True HD IPS+ panel handled the display job well, delivering clear and sharp
images with a screen resolution of 768 x 1,280 pixels and screen density of 320
pixels per inch. I was able to read fine text and view images perfectly clearly
under strong daylight, and its IPS panel also had a larger viewing angle that
allowed others to view the screen at a slight angle.

Its clean, unassuming Optimus 3.0 UI (user interface) complements the latest
Google Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system, with a dash of LG's own
customisation tossed in.

What really amazed me was the performance of the phone. Aside from some
innovative LG-only features (see other story), there were no visible lags when I
was using the device. Temple Run 2 was loaded in less than 6 seconds, and during
my playthrough, the fast and furious game reacted swiftly to my controls.
Webpages were also rendered quickly, aided in part by the Qualcomm Snapdragon
quad-core processor and the fast LTE speeds on the phone.

In the Quadrant and Geekbench 2 benchmark apps that measure overall performance,
the LG phone performed very well.

In the battery mileage department, however, Samsung phones still came up ahead.
When the Optimus G played a 720p video under intensive conditions, including
full brightness and volume along with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth activated, the phone
lasted slightly under six hours. Under a normal scenario, which involves the use
of WhatsApp, e-mail and social network apps, a full charge lasted for 15 hours
before a recharge was necessary.


o The LG Optimus G can be described as good, great and gorgeous. It is pretty
generous with its high-end hardware at an affordable price.  teinhee@sph.com.sg

