                              991 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                              Electronics For You



                                October 1, 2016



Buyers' Guide - Estyle: How to Select the Smartest Smart TV in the Market



LENGTH: 1292  words





Ahalya Mandana is working as a freelance writer with EFY



After a long day's work, the best way to relax is probably to watch the latest

blockbuster, at home. Yes, the movie-watching experience at home has transformed

with TVs having gigantic screens, crystal-clear displays and terrific sound

quality. With smart TVs, you can connect your TV to a Wi-Fi network, download

the latest episodes of your favourite show and watch content that is stored on

your mobile phone, on the big screen. But how do you decide which smart TV to

invest in? This guide will help you choose the right one for your home.







Features to watch out for



Before we go ahead and show you our list of recommended smart TVs, let us

understand the important features of these devices and how these play out as you

begin to use these. This will enable you to compare and review TVs even outside

our recommendations list, and help you make the right choice.



One of the main features of smart TVs is that these have software platforms,

just like PCs and mobile phones. Let us take a look at each of these.



Android TV. This is one of the most popular platforms and gives you the freedom

to access Google Play store from your TV, to purchase apps and games. Different

manufacturers tie up with different platforms but Sony Android TVs are popular.

You can also control these TVs using TV SideView app that features voice search.

Google Cast allows media to be streamed to the TV, while gaming controllers from

Logitech and Razer let you have fun with console-less gaming. The best thing

about this one is the collection of apps.



Firefox OS. This is the one you will see with most Panasonic TVs. It has been

refreshed for 2016 with a new design that looks much better than the previous

version. It also comes with a barebones version of Firefox browser. The lack of

Google's Play store means it does not have as much content but it still wins on

the interface design side. The simple design is the winner for this one.



Smart hub (Tizen). This comes with Samsung TVs and is based on their Tizen

operating system (OS). It is decently customisable and does not clutter up much.

However, there are too many notifications as it tries to suggest apps for you to

use among other things. That said, it does have a decent app ecosystem and

features Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, Hulu, HBO Go/HBO Now, YouTube, Spotify

and Vudu depending on region. While not as good as the previous two, this OS

also offers split-screen view of watching TV while browsing, which now comes

with Android Nougat.



LG webOS. LG TVs feature this OS, and offer almost the same apps like Netflix,

Amazon and others. The user interface is jiggly and fast to the point that it

may be dizzying to some. But that should not be a problem once you get used to

it. It looks decent and is fast, but not as good as the previous three though.



Smart TVs to check out



Now that you know what to look out for, here is our recommended collection of

smart TVs.



Most affordable smart TV: Noble Skiodo 32SM32N01. This 81cm (32-inch) LED TV

comes with Wi-Fi/LAN connectivity. It allows you to stream videos from YouTube

and download shows from Netflix. It has a screen resolution of 1366768 pixels

and an impressive 178 viewing angle. It has three USB ports, so you can connect

a flash drive to the TV to watch movies with ease. It is available on Amazon.in

for Rs 15,199, which makes it one of the most reasonably- priced smart TVs in

the market.



Excellent screen resolution: TCL L43P1US 4K UHD smart LED TV. This 109.2cm

(43-inch) TV from TCL has a resolution of 38402160 pixels, which provides

extremely clear images. The 4K UHD screen resolution has four times the number

of pixels as other full-HD TVs. With Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, you can

easily connect your phone to your TV. It provides access to Android apps since

it runs on Android 5.1 OS. It is available on Amazon.in for Rs 31,990.



Great sound quality: Micromax 40 Canvas-S full-HD smart LED TV. This TV from

Micromax has 24W speaker output with dynamic sound reproduction. It has Wi-Fi

Direct connectivity, three HDMI ports and two USB ports. The 102cm (40.1-inch)

screen is a full-HD one, with a resolution of 19201080 pixels. Viewing angle is

178. It is available on Flipkart.com for Rs 29,989.



3D smart TV: LG 42LF6500 full-HD 3D smart LED TV. This is one of the more

affordable 3D smart TVs. LED screen size is 106.6cm (42-inch) and resolution is

19201080 pixels. It uses webOS 2.0 as its OS. With Smart-share feature, you can

share content wirelessly from other smart-devices, very easily. It also comes

with 3D conversion technology that promises to convert 2D content into 3D

content. However, do keep in mind that you will have to purchase good-quality 3D

glasses to be able to watch 3D content. The TV is available on Flipkart.com for

Rs 49,700.



Wide range of apps: Samsung UA40K6300AKLXL full-HD smart, curved LED. This smart

TV has a 101.6cm (40-inch) curved LED screen. Screen resolution is 19201080

pixels. Samsung TVs use Tizen OS. There are a wide range of apps available for

this OS. It has Wi-Fi connectivity, three HDMI ports and two USB ports, along

with a 3G dongle plug-and-play feature. It uses Dolby Digital Plus sound

technology with 20W speaker output. It is available on Flipkart.com for Rs

62,900.



There are so many TVs available in the market at the moment. But some of these

may have features that you find unnecessary. So, while selecting a TV, make sure

that it has the right kind of features as per your individual requirements.



Other features



Connectivity. Smart TVs usually connect to the Internet using a Wi-Fi network.

Sometimes, these may also have an Ethernet port for wired Internet connectivity.

Check which mode of connectivity the TV is equipped with to ensure that it is

suitable for your home.



The 3D experience. Many TV companies have advertised this feature in the past

few years. Coupled with 3D glasses, it promises to change your viewing

experience completely. However, movies and TV shows first need to be modified to

make these suitable for 3D TVs. Do keep in mind the fact that 3D content for TVs

is limited.



Screen size. TV screen sizes are measured using the diagonal length of the

screen. However, depending on the screen aspect ratio (for example, 4:3 or

16:9), the same diagonal length will refer to different screen areas. Most TVs

in the market have 16:9 aspect ratio, which refers to the ratio between the

width and height of the screen. Choose the right screen size according to where

you plan to install your TV, and how far you will be seated from it. This will

ensure a comfortable viewing experience.



Resolution. This is probably the most important feature of a television, as it

ensures that images displayed on the screen are clear. It is important to ensure

that the screen resolution is good, otherwise you may have a TV with a giant

screen but poor image quality. One of the best screen resolutions currently

available is 4K or ultra high-definition (UHD), which refers to a resolution of

3840x2160 pixels. Other resolutions include 1080p (1920x1080 pixels) and WUXGA

(1920x1200 pixels).



Viewing angle. This refers to the angle up to which you can view images clearly

on the TV before image quality drops. A higher value of viewing angle would be

preferable because it ensures that image colour quality does not get altered

when viewed from the side.



Speakers. Sound quality is also an important characteristic of a TV. To ensure

that your overall TV watching experience is of high quality, opt for a TV with a

good sound system. Speaker sound is expressed in watts (W). This corresponds to

a specific decibel (dB) value. 16W corresponds to 102dB and 32W corresponds to

105dB. Most TVs have a speaker output of 14W to 20W.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





