                              996 of 997 DOCUMENTS





                               Right Vision News



                           December 30, 2010 Thursday



Pakistan: Samsung Google Nexus S [Preview]



LENGTH: 654  words



DATELINE: KARACHI





KARACHI, Dec. 30 -- Samsung, which endow with low cost relatively comparable

phones with other companies, will now launch Samsung Google Nexus S Smartphone

in Pakistan soon, with pricing around Rs. 73,000. That's high - we agree, due to

a fact that same phone is going to see a launch in India for just Rs. 24,000.



The last Nexus version of Google Phone came from HTC but this time they have

trusted Samsung with hardware and the new Google Nexus S looks just as other

Samsung Phones.



The reason for Google to give their phone manufacturing task to Samsung would

probably be that Samsung has sold the most number of Android Phones which were

operated by Google. This device is set to be the next flagship phone sporting a

pure Google experience.



Running on Android 2.3 / Gingerbread sporting a subtly reworked user interface

design, and touting some potentially powerful new features, like near-field

communication compatibility.



Nexus S is boasting all the design leanings of Samsung's wildly popular Galaxy S

line, but packing them into a tighter, sleeker and faster package. Let's have a

preview to make you clear for Nexus S



Hardware configuration



It has the core hardware and software combination and this phone is blazingly

fast considering the animations, touch response and general frame rate on

everything seems to be cranked closer to the environs of the IPhone 4.



This phone consists of ARM Cortex A8 1GHz (Humming-Bird) processor core by which

you will experience zipping around on the handset with fluid and natural

feeling. 512 MB RAM adds the swiftness to Samsung Google Nexus S.



Display and User Interface



Nexus S has a Super AMOLED capacitive touchscreen of 16M colors measuring screen

4 inches with a resolution of 480 x 800 pixels. The touch input supports

multiple touch and its screen oleo-phobic which means that your fingerprints

embedded on the screen during typing would be wiped off within a second.



The UI has also been nipped and tucked all over the place, with icons and

navigational elements taking on more of a buffed glass feel. With proximity

sensor for auto turn-off and Three-axis gyro sensor makes this gadget good

choice for its display properties. When the phone goes to sleep, there's an

effect of an old cathode ray TV being switched off, and even something as

innocuous as the phone dialer has been refined.



Camera



Samsung Google Nexus S is equipped with an autofocus 5 MP camera that allows you

to take pictures in 2560 x 1920 pixels; it is also embedded with LED flash for

poor lighting conditions.



It supports geo-tagging and automated social network content posting. It is

capable of recording WVGA videos with a frame rate of 720p@30fps. There is also

a secondary VGA camera for video calling. Switching from the front camera to the

rear camera takes minimal hunting and pecking.



Memory



This phone has an internal storage capacity of 16 GB, but unfortunately there is

no support for additional expansion of memory though it doesn't have a slot for

an external memory card (Micro SD). However, it has a dedicated 512 MB for those

who like to multitask or play a lot games from Android Market.



Entertainment



Samsung Google Nexus S has integrated social networking, which will never let

you left alone and will always make you hang-out with your friends. It also

supports MP3/WAV/eAAC+/AC3/FLAC for audio and MP4/DivX/WMV/H.264/H.263 formats

for video entertainment. 3.5 mm audio jack is also built-in.



Connectivity and Battery life



It supports Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n; DLNA, 3G networks with HSDPA 2100 / HSDPA 900,

Bluetooth 2.1 with A2DP and many more other connectivity preferences. It works

on a Li-Ion 1500 mAh which can support GSM: 14h / 3G: 7h of talktime and GSM:

713h / 3G: 428h of stand-by time Published by HT Syndication with permission

from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other

content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News

                              All Rights Reserved





