

From today, YouTube will start supporting 360-degree live streaming on its video
sharing service. Also, YouTube will support spatial audio for on-demand YouTube
videos. With this, YouTube has become the first video sharing website to launch
360-degree live streaming and spatial audio at scale.

Among the first videos to be shown in the more immersive format is this year's
live stream from music event Coachella. Selected performances from the festival
will be live streamed in 360 degrees. During the starting, spatial audio will be
available for on-demand videos and not live videos.

The feature is limited to Android smartphones used with headphones. Spatial
audio means playing the sounds the same way people actually hear. You Tube
explained that it is about letting you listen as you do in real life. In it,
depth, distance and intensity also play a role, said Neal Mohan, Chief Product
Officer for YouTube.

Google is already rolling out support for spatial audio elsewhere in its product
line, including for its VR platform, Google Cardboard. You Tube creators said
that all it takes to derive the benefit of the new feature is a camera that
supports the technology.

You Tube has also announced the support of 1440p 60fps resolution for live
stream on its service. Live streams at 1440p have 70% more pixels than the
standard HD resolution of 1080p. It will not only offer you a great experience
for the live 360 streams, but also benefit video game streams as well. The
second aspect will also benefit You Tube's Twitch competitor, You Tube Gaming.

No extra technology or headset is required to watch 360-degree live streams, as
they are available on any device, including desktop, tablet, iOS or Android.
This feature makes them more accessible than higher-end VR technologies
currently in development.

You Tube has been working with camera and software vendors to make support
possible for both 360 live streams and spatial audio.

According to a report from the TechCrunch, "Google had already been rolling out
support for spatial audio elsewhere in its product line, including most
importantly, for its VR platform, Google Cardboard. In January, it made it
possible for developers to support this option in their own apps, with updates
for the Cardboard SDKs for Unity and Android, for example. So it's not
surprising to see the technology being expanded on YouTube."

YouTube additionally announced today the support of 1440p 60fps resolution for
live streams on its service. Live streams at 1440p have 70 percent more pixels
than the standard HD resolution of 1080p, to give you an idea of the nature of
this improvement. This not only offers a great experience for the new live 360
streams, which are best enjoyed at high resolutions and high frame rates, but
will benefit video game streams, too. The latter will benefit YouTube's Twitch
competitor, YouTube Gaming.

In other news TheVerge reported, "Mohan's announcement arrives just one week
after Facebook unveiled its plans for expanding live-streaming and its own
design for a 360-degree camera, although it can't yet support the combination of
live and 360. The two biggest players in online video are racing toward the same
goal: completely immersive entertainment that transports the viewer to another
world. But they are taking strikingly different paths to get there."

For YouTube, Live 360 content is the gateway drug between what most people watch
today and the immersive era of virtual reality that is just getting underway.
"As a user, you don't need to do anything," says Mohan. Open the YouTube app on
your mobile device or launch it on the web and you're ready to go. "There is no
fancy technology to purchase or integrate." That's a not so subtle jab at
Facebook's Oculus Rift, which offers cutting edge virtual reality, but retails
for $599, not counting the $1,000 gaming PC that powers it.

In a statement provided to Techspective News, "YouTube announced that it now
supports 360-degree video for live streams, and spatial audio. Both of these
technologies have the potential to fundamentally change the video streaming
experience, and put you in control of experiencing the scene as if you were
physically there."

"What excites me most about 360-degree storytelling is that it lets us open up
the world's experiences to everyone. Students can now experience news events in
the classroom as they unfold. Travelers can experience faraway sites and
explorers can deep-sea dive, all without the physical constraints of the real
world," proclaimed Neal Mohan, Chief Product Officer for YouTube in a blog post.
"And today's kids dreaming of going to a basketball game or a concert can access
those experiences firsthand, even if they're far away from the court. What were
once limited experiences are now available to anyone, anywhere, at any time."

