

Google's new Pixel phones should be on a smartphone shopper's short list -- and
not just for those disheartened by Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 recall.

Pixel is a winner for anyone looking for an excellent phone. Start with cameras
that are at the very least on par with the terrific cameras on the Samsung
Galaxy S7 and iPhone 7. Add the baked-in voice-enabled Google Assistant,
Google's answer to Apple's Siri, Microsoft's Cortana and Amazon's Alexa, where
another battleground is poised to take place. Google's voice brings a high IQ
and a world of potential.

Over  several days, I've been testing the larger of the two Pixel models, the
Pixel XL, which boasts a lovely Quad HD 5.5-inch display and costs $769 for 32
gigabytes of storage or $869 for 128 GB. The smaller Pixel has a full HD 5-inch
screen and costs $649 or $749, respectively.

The phones are already on back order and will be available through Verizon
(exclusive U.S. carrier), at Best Buy, via Google's Project Fi or Google's own
Play Store. You can get an unlocked version that will work with any of the other
major U.S. carriers. Key takeaways:

Design: Pixels are crafted out of an aerospace-grade aluminum slab and glass.
The XL model is a tad shorter than the iPhone 7 Plus. The relatively wide bezels
on the front appear to be mostly wasted real estate, as there are no physical
buttons. On the upper third of the back, Pixel has a Gorilla Glass-covered glass
shade that reveals smudges.

What I do like is that there's no camera bump -- the rear lens and flash lie
flat. The fingerprint sensor you can use to unlock the phone is also on the
rear.

Pixels run the latest version of Android called Nougat and with Google in
charge, you ought to get software updates as soon as they are ready. The phone
has a robust Qualcomm processor.

And score one for Google against the iPhone 7: Pixel has the same standard
3.55mm headphone connector that the iPhone 7 got rid of and that every other
smartphone I know has.

Alas, there's only a single speaker on Pixel; Apple added stereo speakers to the
iPhone 7 and other smartphones also have them. And unlike the iPhone 7 or
ill-fated Galaxy Note 7, Pixel is not fully water-resistant.

Camera. I detected only subtle differences between the pictures and videos I
shot here (under all sorts of lighting conditions) and those I've captured on a
Galaxy or the iPhone. Consider that high praise. I was impressed with the color
and fine detail on most shots. By double-twisting the phone, you can switch from
the rear camera to the front 8-megapixel selfie camera or back, a trick that
usually worked.

Maybe as important as the picture quality is what you can do with your images.
Google is giving Pixel owners unlimited free cloud storage at full resolution
for all the pictures and videos shot with the phone, including 4K video. That's
a big deal.

Google Assistant:  Google is pushing the conversational aspects of its AI-based
Assistant further than its rivals'.

I asked Assistant to "tell me about my day" and it reported weather, told me
what appointments I had coming and how long my commute would take. Without
prompting, it then played radio broadcasts from NPR, Fox, News, Bloomberg and
BBC.

When I asked it to show me pictures of Sydney with horses, it correctly surmised
that I meant my daughter, Sydney, rather than Sydney, Australia, and found
pictures I'd taken of her with horses. When I instead asked the Assistant to
"show me pictures of Sydney with bridges" it pulled pictures of the Sydney
Harbour Bridge off the Web.

It even identified songs where I knew only a few of the lyrics and played them.

Most promising is the idea you can continue a conversation without repeating
search parameters at each step. I asked Google to show me pictures of dogs and
it did so off the Web. Without mentioning dogs, I followed up with "how about by
the beach?" It surfaced Web images of canines by the beach. Impressive.

Battery. The phone kept a charge well into the evenings during mixed use; since
I never ran it down, I didn't get to test a fast-charging feature that Google
claims can get you up to seven hours of juice in just 15 minutes.

Pixel will be the first phone to support Google Daydream, but the mobile
virtual-reality headset wasn't yet available for testing.

The phones are powerful and darn intelligent and demonstrate Google's commitment
to be a major player in the space.

BOTTOM LINE

Pixel by Google

$649 on up;

store.google.com

Pro. Google

Assistant, excellent camera, free cloud photo storage, free support,
Daydream-ready, fast USB-C charging

Con. Not water-resistant, only a single speaker

