                              101 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 22, 2014 Monday



Apple sold 10 million iPhones in first weekend



BYLINE: Julia Love



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 282 words





Apple sold more than 10 million units of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus as the gadgets

debuted this past weekend, the company said Monday.



The sales figures, which mark a new record for Apple, came as little surprise

after a weekend in which legions of people around the Bay Area and many

countries around the globe lined up for hours to buy the new phones. The

Cupertino-based company bested the 9 million phones it sold last year when the

iPhone 5s and 5c debuted.







"Sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus exceeded our expectations for the launch

weekend, and we couldn't be happier," Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement.

"We would like to thank all of our customers for making this our best launch

ever, shattering all previous sell-through records by a large margin."



Though Apple still managed to log plenty of sales, supplies of the new iPhones

appeared to be straining under demand. The iPhone 6 Plus, in particular, sold

out quickly in Bay Area stores.



"While our team managed the manufacturing ramp better than ever before, we could

have sold many more iPhones with greater supply and we are working hard to fill

orders as quickly as possible."



Analysts expected that Apple would enjoy a gusher of sales when it finally

responded to consumers' cries for phones with larger screen. The iPhone 6, which

starts at $199 with a two-year contract, measures 4.7 inches diagonally, and the

$299 6 Plus has a screen of 5.5 inches.



Apple has also said the phones have sharper displays, better cameras and

extended battery life. In addition, people who purchase the new gadgets will

gain access to Apple Pay, a mobile payments service that lets customers make

purchases in stores with a wave of their phones.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: A man wearing a child on his chest (who declined to be identified)

checks out the new iPhone 6 at the Apple Store on Chestnut St. in San Francisco,

Calif., on Friday, Sept. 19, 2014. The newest iPhone, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus went on sale today to long lines of eager customers. (Dan Honda/Bay Area

News Group)

Elaine Strauss, of San Francisco, is one of the first customers to leave with a

new iPhone 6 from the Apple Store on Chestnut Street in San Francisco, Calif.,

on Friday, Sept. 19, 2014. The newest iPhone, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus,

went on sale today to long lines of eager customers. (Dan Honda/Bay Area News

Group)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





