                              104 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday



License trips iPhone retailers in China



LENGTH: 228  words





China's largest carriers have been ready to roll out iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus,

the cell phones are now reportedly waiting for China's network access license.



Screenshot of China Mobile's pre-order webpage of iPhone 6. This webpage has now

been removed. [Photo/Nipic.com]



Although China's largest carriers have been ready to roll out iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus, the cell phones are now reportedly waiting for China's network

access license from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.



The ministry usually distributes licenses twice a month. But as the new iPhone

had missed the deadline earlier this month, another chance might come near the

end of this month, China Business News reported Thursday.



Chinese largest carriers China Mobile Communications Corporation, China Unicom

and China Telecom all have removed the web pages for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

pre-order service, which was launched earlier this month.



By Wednesday, China Mobile had received 72,000 pre-orders, China Unicom 15,000

and China Telecom 18,000.



Besides the three carriers, other retailers in China are also ready for iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus sales.



On Wednesday, Chinese large online shopping sites Taobao.com and Paipai.com

launched special sections to accept iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus pre-orders.



Five predictions for Apple's September 9 event

iPhone 6 may boost China's export growth



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





