                              107 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  Nepali Times



                            October 10, 2014 Friday



i-Pleasing



LENGTH: 473  words



DATELINE: Kathmandu





Kathmandu, Oct. 10 -- Give it to Apple for continuing to remain the company

whose product launches are nothing short of a world event. As with its

predecessors, millions tuned in to watch Apple CEO Tim Cook reveal the latest

iPhone models- iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, last month.



Cook called the products "the biggest advancement in the history of iPhone." A

verdict on that statement will be delivered in the future. But, are these better

than the previous 5C and 5S which were nothing more than stop gaps in the way of

a full-blown new iPhone model? Yes. The iPhone 6 is the more pocket-friendly of

the two, both in terms of size and affordability.



Apple has traditionally stuck with iPhone screen sizes near the 4-inch mark, but

the iPhone 6 breaks the mold with a 4.7-inch display. iPhones have always

boasted phenomenal displays, both in terms of brightness and color quality. The

trend continues with the iPhone 6, which sports a Retina HD screen with a

resolution of 1344x750 pixels which equates to screen density of 326PPI.

Design-wise too, the iPhone 6 is distinguishable from earlier iPhones. At a

third of an inch thick, and at a feather-light 128 grams, the iPhone 6 is a

delight to hold. Its curved design and the metal back give it a nice, solid

feel. The Touch ID home button remains at the bottom, and works the same as on

the iPhone 5S.



The iPhone 6 ships with Apples latest iOS 8 pre-installed, with new deeper focus

on extended functions like third-party keyboards, plug-ins, expanded

notifications, and a new Health app, among others. Powered by a spanking new A8

processor, the iPhone 6 boasts a 25 per cent boost in speed and 50 per cent

graphics boost over the iPhone 5S, which is ably backed up by 1GB of RAM.

On-board storage has always been a source of discontent in past iPhones, but

while there is still no expandable memory slot, Apple has bumped up maximum

storage to 128GB.



The megapixel count on both front and rear cameras remains the same as on the

iPhone 5S (8 on the back, 1.2 on the front). A new 'Auto Focus' feature on

camera allows for quicker and clearer snaps, and is especially useful for

videos.



The App Store experience that Apple offers is still unrivalled in terms of the

quality and quantity of applications, which the iPhone 6 takes full advantage

of. The trade-off of a thinner, lighter phone is of course a smaller battery,

which means if you are buying this phone, you might as well get a portable

charger too.



Yantrick's Verdict: At Rs 95,000 for the base 16GB model, iPhone 6 is definitely

not cheap. But if you are an Apple-maniac, you probably wouldn't mind buring a

deep hole in your pocket.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Nepali Times. For any query

with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact

Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 Himal Media Pvt. Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





