

CUPERTINO -- Across the Bay Area and beyond, the Apple faithful will rise before
dawn Friday, line up on the cold, hard concrete and then fork over hundreds of
dollars -- all so they can be first to own the iPhone 6.

What they might not realize is that Apple needs them just as much as they feel
they need the latest versions of its iconic phone.

Seven years after its debut, the iPhone has become the lifeblood of Apple. The
pocket-size powerhouse already drives more than half of the company's sales, and
that figure is likely heading north. Outfitted with the larger screens that
consumers crave, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus sparked record pre-orders last week and
are expected to fly off the shelves when they hit stores Friday. With sales for
the rest of Apple's gadgets largely flat, the company's fortunes will rise and
fall with the iPhone, analysts say.

As Colin Gillis of BGC Financial put it: "Apple is the iPhone company."

It's an ironic turn for a company that began as a computer maker determined to
be known for more than its flagship Mac. Apple dropped "Computer" from its name
in 2007, the year the original iPhone was released, to cement the shift to a
broader array of personal electronics.

To be sure, the iPhone is a great device to lean on -- it yields huge profits
for Apple, and the global smartphone market is red hot. Nevertheless, analysts
say, companies generally try to draw their sales from various products to hedge
against risk.

"It's dangerous to have all your eggs in one basket," said Roger May of Endpoint
Technologies Associates.

What's more, growth in the smartphone market is increasingly coming from the
lower end, but the iPhone is getting pricier. The iPhone 6 Plus starts at $299
with a two-year contract -- $100 more than Apple's marquee device last year.

"If the premium space slows down, that would be negative for Apple because they
are so dependent on the iPhone," Gillis said.

Yet for some consumers, Apple must simply name its price. The company announced
that it received a record 4 million pre-orders for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus on
the first day they were available, twice the volume it reported for the iPhone
5.

Some of those sales may be coming at the iPad's expense. As smartphones expand
and tablets shrink, analysts suspect that many consumers will not see the need
to lug both devices around. The iPad Mini seems particularly vulnerable,
measuring 7.9 inches diagonally, compared with the 5.5-inch display of the
iPhone 6 Plus.

Yet Apple probably isn't afraid of cannibalizing sales of the Mini, said analyst
Gene Munster, noting that the company gleans much more profit from sales of its
premium iPhone.

"They would rather sell you one iPhone 6 Plus than an iPhone and an iPad," said
Munster, who is a managing director at research firm Piper Jaffray.

And strong iPhone sales could bode well for other gadgets in Apple's portfolio.
The iPhone is designed to work best with other Apple devices, perhaps enticing
consumers who start with the smartphone to rack up more products.

After introducing the latest iPhones last week at a flashy event in Cupertino,
Apple executives rolled out Apple Pay, a mobile payments service, and the Apple
Watch, a timepiece that tracks users' fitness.

Yet despite the new offerings, the iPhone's dominance doesn't seem to be letting
up anytime soon. The Apple Pay service is built into the latest iPhones as well
as the smartwatch. And Apple Watch users must have an iPhone on their person to
take advantage of most of the timepiece's features.

"You can't have either of them without the iPhone, plain and simple," said Ramon
Llamas, an analyst at technology research firm IDC.

Contact Julia Love at 408-920-5536; follow her at Twitter.com/byJuliaLove .

