

Apple usually launches its new iPhones in September every year. This time we
could however see it hurry a bit, launching the iPhone 6 sooner.

According to Taiwanese media reported on Friday citing unidentified supply-chain
sources (as reported by Reuters) the iPhone 6 with 4.7 inch display screen could
see a launch in August (at least a month earlier than its usual launch time
every year) while the a 5.5 inch or 5.6 inch display screen model could launch
in September.

With the news it is now confirmed that this year we will get two iPhone 6.

In another news today Economic Daily News (vie Reuters) said that about 80
million iPhone 6 handsets would be produced this year.

Now it seems the decision to withdraw the iPhone 4 from Indian market and
increased push for the iPhone 5S and 5C (to finish the existing stock), as the
company prepares to launch a new one.

Rumour round-up:

It's time today to look back at the iPhone 6 rumours and its expected specs.

A post by the Commercial Times (Via 9to5Mac) reported new iPhone will use a 2mm
battery instead of a 3mm one, which will make the phone thinner than its
predecessor.

Purported iPhone 6 silicone case that appeared on the web recently pointed to a
4.7 inches display screen, buttons placed on both left and right side, instead
of left side as in iPhone 5S.  In the iPhone 5S it was located on the left side
as a rectangular button. The volume rocker seems to have taken a seating on the
left side. (There are not circular buttons like the iPhone 5S). These is a space
above the volume rocker, probably for a USB/lightening connector.

The camera will take a position on the left side of the phone as in the iPhone
5S, and the Apple logo will adorn the phone right at the centre on the upper
side of the phone.

Another pic of the iPhone 6 that leaked via Chinese equivalent of Twitter Sina
Weibo showed off the front panel of Apple's next generation iPhone 6. This
indicated a bigger than 4-inch display in the upcoming phone.

Also expected is the Healthbook app which might launch with the iOS 8 this year.
According to a news published by 9to5Mac this year "The application will be able
to track a person's blood pressure, hydration levels, heart rate, and
potentially several other blood-related data points, such as glucose levels,
according to our sources. The software is also programmed to allow users to
enter details about their medications so that they could be reminded to take
pills at scheduled times. This will likely integrate with iOS's existing
Reminders application."

In the meanwhile lot of new videos and pictures about the concept iPhone 6 have
been posted online. A video made by Set Solutions in March this year for the new
iPhone 6 images the iPhone 6 with a sports a wider (almost edge-to-edge display)
and a fingerprint scanner. There is a 10 megapixel camera on the back and a 64
bit quad-core processor to power the phone in the 6.0 mm thin iPhone 6 concept.
This concept phone also looks at a superstronmg sapphire crystal display screen
in the phone.

Whether these specs will come in the new iPhone 6 or not will be revealed in
August when it launches.

