                              10 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday

                                  EAST EDITION



IPhone Sales Beat Opening Weekend,But Near Flat Vs. '14 Analysts Mixed; Stock

Falls Apple says 13 million units sold in first 3 days, but China included this

year



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ . "Customers' feedback is incredible and they are loving

3D Touch and Live Photos, and we can't wait to bring iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S

Plus to customers in even more countries on Oct. 9." Apple beat Wall Street's +

target of 12 million iPhone 6S unit sales for the opening weekend, FBR analyst

Daniel Ives said in a research report Monday. Ives rates Apple stock outperform.

We view 13 million as a "bull case' number from the weekend as bears were saying

10.5 million+ to 11 million w



SECTION: A; Pg. A04



LENGTH: 617 words





For Apple, iPhone 6 S sounds like success.



The Cupertino, Calif.-based company Monday announced that it sold more than 13

million iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus models in their first three days of retail

availability starting Friday. That beats the previous record of 10 million

units, set last year during the opening weekend of iPhone 6 sales.



"Sales for iPhone 6 S and iPhone 6 S Plus have been phenomenal, blowing past any

previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history," Apple CEO Tim Cook

said in a statementlaunched the iPhone 6 S40 More Countries Soon



On Oct. 9 and 10, Apple will roll out the new iPhones to more than 40 additional

countries and territories, including Italy, Mexico, Russia and Spain. It will

add India, Malaysia and Turkey on Oct. 16, bringing its total to 57 markets.



Apple expects to be selling the  iPhone 6 S series in over 130 counties by

year-end.



The iPhone 6 S series phones feature a pressure-sensitive display, a faster

processor, improved cameras and the Live Photos feature, which adds motion to

still pictures. The phones come in four colors (silver, gold, space gray and

rose gold) and three data-storage configurations (16 gigabytes, 64 GB and 128

GB).



The iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus start at $649 and $749, respectively, when paid in

full. Apple and wireless carriers also are offering monthly installment billing

plans.



Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said early iPhone 6 S sales are promising.



"We see opening weekend results, coupled with our read on sell-through, as a

sign that the iPhone 6 S cycle is off to a good start and continue to be

comfortable with our 3% iPhone 6 S cycle unit growth compared to the Street at

flat," Munster said in a note Monday.



The 4.7-inch iPhone 6 S appears to be generally available, while the 5.5-inch

iPhone 6 S Plus is on back-order, Munster said.



Munster rates Apple stock overweight, with a price target of 172.



The iPhone 6 S appears to be off to a "healthy start," though the inclusion of

China this year clouds the comparisons to last year's  iPhone 6 launch, Nomura

analyst Jeffrey Kvaal said in a note Monday. He rates Apple stock a buy, with a

price target of 145.



BMO Capital Markets analyst Keith Bachman said iPhone 6 S sales also benefited

from a longer period of pre-orders. Days from pre-orders to availability for the

iPhone 6 S were 13 days, compared with seven days for the prior three iPhone

launches, he said in a note Monday.



Faster Distribution Schedule



Bachman rates Apple stock as outperform, with a price target of 145.



Mizuho Securities analyst Abhey Lamba was unmoved by Apple's first-weekend

iPhone sales number.



The sales figure "does not seem overwhelmingly positive" when you factor out

China sales, he said in a note Monday.



Lamba reiterated his neutral rating on Apple stock and price target of 125.



Apple looks to fight difficult comparisons to last year's wildly successful

iPhone 6 launch by expanding distribution more rapidly this year, Lamba said.



Apple intends to ship the new phones to over 130 countries by year's end vs. 115

by the end of 2014 for the iPhone 6, he said.



Cowen analyst Timothy Arcuri concurred, saying iPhone 6 S unit sales are flat to

up slightly year-over-year on a pro-forma basis.



He rates Apple stock as market perform with a price target of 130.



A teardown analysis of a midrange iPhone 6 S by TechInsights revealed the

components cost $245, up 7% over the iPhone 6.



Apple's move to 2 gigabytes of memory for the iPhone 6 S, from 1 GB for the

iPhone 6, is one example of higher component costs.



The addition of a pressure-sensitive touchscreen, branded 3 D Touch; better

cameras; and a redesigned 7000 series aluminum case also boosted the cost of the

device, TechInsights said.



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





