

High-quality camera filmmakers would love to keep iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in
their pockets because of their excellent camera features.

Friday, September 12, 2014: The new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus from Apple have
created a lot of flutter across the world. Their motion processors, faster CPUs
and larger screens are the main reasons behind all the hoopla. But one of the
greatest features of these smartphones is their camera. High-quality camera
filmmakers would love to keep these devices in their pockets.

Earlier, iPhones have been used to make short films several times. There have
been several iPhone film festivals too but now with iPhone 6 coming up,
expectations are higher as Phil Schiller said "technology used by high-end
DSLRs". The iPhone 6 camera can grab 1080p high-definition clips at 60 frames
per second, take 240-fps slow-motion shots, provide cinematic video
stabilization and offer up to 128 gigabytes of storage. So film-making
technology will surely benefit from this device.

According to WIRED, director Ricky Fosheim says, "The iPhone has been here for a
while, but in 2015 I think there's going to be dozens, hundreds, of movies shot
on the iPhone 6. I hope, at least, people find it a useful tool." iPhone 6 can
click cleaner images than its predecessors and as the director says about the
newest iPhone, "It's adding video stabilisation, it's increasing resolution,
it's making it less grain-y, and hopefully with the new sensor it's increasing
the dynamic range. But you don't need to go through elaborate training to use
this thing, it's literally just that you can take it out of your pocket and
start filming and you can come up with something amazing."

So how can you shoot a film with iPhone 6? It's pretty easy. Get add-on lenses,
like the Olloclip 4-in-1 and high-quality audio can be captured with an add-on
mike. Film-making apps like FiLMiC Pro can also be used, which gives the iPhone
better zoom and control over frame rates and stereo recording support. So just
get ready to become a pro-filmmaker with iPhone 6 in your pocket soon.

