

REVIEW The first thing you notice about the Apple Watch is that there isn't much
watch to notice. The Watch comes in two sizes, a 38mm and a 42mm, and three
models.

Those three models mean that the same basic watch dressed up in three ways means
it is an attractive to more than one market, and more than the just tech heads.

I tried on the Watch and it was noticeably lighter than the Garmin 220 runner's
watch that is usually on my wrist. The Watch Sport, with an alloy case, is even
lighter.

Just like the home button on your iPhone lets you control everything, the
digital crown on the side of the Watch is your first port of call.

Roll it and apps slide up or down, touch it to select what you want. The obvious
question about the Apple Watch is "do you need to wear it as a companion to your
iPhone".

The answer is yes, no and maybe.

Let's say you want to go out for a run. If you have your iPhone with you, the
Watch pairs to the smartphone and uses the GPS in the phone to give you pace and
distance information.

If you don't want to carry a iPhone on your run, the Watch will still measure
your pace and distance using a built-in accelerometer.

You can pair your Watch with a iPhone 5 or higher, and the Watch lets you use
Apple Pay.

So, while you will only be able to use the Apple Pay tap-and-touch with a iPhone
6 or iPhone 6 Plus, if you have a iPhone 5, 5S or 5C and an Apple Watch you can
still tap-and-touch to pay.

The watch has 11 faces to choose from, with each face being customisable. For
instance, you can choose to have a display that shows time and sunset and
sunrise time with space on the edge to indicate how you're going with your
fitness goals.

While many people are likely to see the Watch as a better option than the
fitness activity tracker they bought but don't bother wearing, the watch also
has appeal to those a bit more serious about their fitness.

While the Apple Watch stole the show, two new iPhones are nothing to scoff at.
The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus were just as expected - except for the name.
That Plus was a bit out of left field. Yes, they are thin. Yes, they are big.

The iPhone 6 Plus, like all phablets, presents a challenge for some small hands.
With the iPhone 6 Plus, I had trouble reaching the top of the screen when
holding it with one hand - but the new double tap gesture helps there.

Just tap twice (not press) on the home button and the app drops down so that it
only takes up the bottom half of the screen, putting even the top row of icons
within easy reach.

The S5 is waterproof, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are not.

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus have the look of a shrunk iPad Air. They're thinner than
the iPhone 5S and have a rounded, modern look.

One weakness of the iPhone has always been its battery.

The iPhone 6 Plus is said to give 12 hours of Wi-Fi browsing (compared to 10
hours for the 5S) and 80 hours of audio (40 hours on the iPhone 5S).The only
thing that certain is that now, with Apple and Samsung both in the phablet
market, you no longer have to compare Apples with oranges.

