

The new iPhone is here. And this time, using its US strategy, Apple unveiled the
iPhone 6 and its big brother iPhone 6 Plus at the stroke of midnight. Granted
that the queues outside stores were not as long as those usually seen abroad,
but scores of Amdavadis bought enough handsets to make the new launch strategy a
success. Unicorn Infosolutions, an Apple premium reseller at Himalaya Mall, got
special permission to keep his store open beyond midnight. Hordes of Apple
fanboys lined up outside the outlet which stayed open till 2 am.

"People had queued up again by the time we re-opened the store at 10 am to check
out the new arrival," said a store employee. SLEEPLESS NIGHT Pavan Dugar, a
38-year-old businessman, was one of the first to receive the iPhone 6. "My
family members and I were so excited that we could not sleep a wink. I had
pre-ordered the phone online 7-8 days ago. I used to use the iPhone 5. When I
heard the new phone was coming to India, my wife and I ordered it," said Dugar.

At the stroke of midnight, Infibeam -- a city-based shopping portal and
authorized iPhone 6 retailer -- delivered 40 phones to customers who had
requested immediate delivery. "We sent our deliverymen to their homes. When the
clock struck 12, they knocked on the door and handed over the phone to the
customer," said Shekhar Singh from the portal. Not just web portals, several
retailers too made arrangements to deliver the smartphone to their customers at
midnight.

Apple N Berry, one such supplier in Paldi, delivered around 50 phones on
Thursday night. Despite the hefty price of the phone, buyers included many young
customers. One of them was Maulik Patel who received the first iPhone from Apple
N Berry. He is a 23-yearold who is studying interior designing and handling a
business. He bought an iPhone3 and fell in love with the product. He has bought
all versions of the phone released since then. Maulik told Mirror, "A friend of
mine in the US bought the iPhone 6. I got really excited on seeing it. I
prebooked it and asked the phone to be delivered home. When I received it at
midnight, I felt on top of the world."

SIZE MATTERS

The iPhone 6 is a 4.7-inch gadget while the iPhone 6 Plus is 5.5-inch tall.
"Their configuration is the same but Amdavadis seem to prefer iPhone 6.
Customers find iPhone 6 more comfortable to use due to its smaller size," said
Bhavin Patel, owner of Mobile Store on Science City Road. Both online and
physical retailers have seen a surge of 10 per cent in the demand of iPhone 6
than iPhone 5S. "The demand for iPhone is rising as more and more people can
afford it. In the past two hours, I have sold 10 iPhone 6 today," said Akshat
Bawisi, head of Apple N Berry. According to retailers, Amdavadis are loving
iPhones in gold and grey. Interestingly, the craze of iPhone is not limited to
urban areas. Singh said, "We received bookings from semi-rural and rural areas
like Himmatnagar, Deesa, Anand and other areas."

NO SHORTAGE

Apple has received over 21,000 pre-orders since October 8. The 4.7- inch iPhone
6 is available for Rs 53,500 for the 16GB version, Rs 62,500 for the 64GB
version, and Rs 71,500 for the 128GB version. The 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus is
priced at Rs 62,500 for the 16GB version, Rs 71,500 for the 64GB version, and Rs
80,500 for the 128GB version. Apple is said to have shipped 50,000-55,000 units
of the iPhone 6 to make sure there's no shortage of phones during shopping
weekend. Both the devices are available in silver, gold and grey colour options.

