

Just in time for Valentine's Day, blurry photos of the iPhone 6 appeared online
and went viral thanks to social mediaand Apple Obsession Syndrome. It didn't
even matter that they were fakes.

Also this week, Apple is changing to 0.4t side-view type LEDs in iPhone 6 and
that just has to be a Good Thing. A new "report" affirms the long-held rumor
that Apple will release two iPhone 6 models, each with a bigger-than-four-inch
display. And there were dueling rumors about whether or not sapphire would
bejewel iPhone 6 in a big way.

You read it here second.

This leak turns out to be a complicated tale as is the social media tail that
revealed it. It's rife with deception, betrayal, visual manipulation,
self-serving promotion, solemn pronouncements.

+More on network World: 8 Productivity Gadgets You Didn't Know You Needed |
Eye-popping Presidents' Day weekend tech bargain + In any case, according to one
account, it began with an anonymous Twitter account posting photographs of a
larger, thinner iPhone. The iOSphere's leading Professional Leaker, Sonny
Dickson, helpfully tweeted attention: "Could this be Apple's next iPhone? The
iPhone 6?" The iOSphere went into spasms of pleasure.

(Dickson posted the photos at his own website, claiming to have "gotten our
hands on some great photos of the iPhone's rear casing in Space Grey...."
Several commenters quickly labeled them "fake" largely because the all-metal
back casing would effectively block cellular antenna signals. That led to a
further discussion about using the Wondrous Liquidmetal as the casing material,
but that's another continuing rumor....) "In the full photos, a new design is
clearly shown with a larger display and no bezel on the side," according to the
detailed analysis by Jacob Kastrenakes, at The Verge. "Bezel on the top and
bottom has narrowed significantly as well. The design wouldn't be out of line
for Apple and it aligns with what early reports of the new device have
described."

Not out of line a bit with all those early "reports." This is the well-known
"hall of mirrors effect" - an unsubstantiated rumor, including a "leaked"
photograph - is validated because it's just like all the previous
unsubstantiated rumors. Conversely, if the new rumor is different, it's
validated precisely because it's different.

But then some iOSpherians began raising questions, pointing out that some parts
of the photographs seemed identical to images created by one Martin Hajek, who
specializes, according to his website, in "visualizing the future in 3D one
render at a time" especially with regard to future Apple products.

What's really interesting is the reaction to the fake, namely the conclusion
that it doesn't matter.

At the Motley Fool, Ashraf Eassa raised the question twice. "[T]he question that
investors and phone enthusiasts must ask themselves is this: Is this image real
or just a very clever render?"

But after his own analysis that claimed to have found all kinds of flaws, thus
revealing it is, in fact, a fake, he adds a subhed to his post - "Is it fake?" -
and then concludes, "At the end of the day, the iPhone 6 may very well look like
the leak above, and the leak itself may prove legitimate. There really are only
so many ways to make a larger, thinner iPhone, and the leaked image does look
plausible."

So even though the image, because it's a fake, is completely useless in helping
us learn about iPhone 6, nevertheless the image, because it's a fake, helps us
learn about the iPhone 6 because it looks plausible.

Kastrenakes updated his post with among other additions this "Correction: This
story has been updated with evidence that the iPhone 6 images are fakes." But,
you know, useful fakes.

If it's new, it must be right.

In a post that mainly echoed the Dickson/Hajek revelations, Mashable's Adario
Strange went for, you know, context. In iOSpherian terms that means using
another set of rumors to give a new perspective on the rumors you're repeating.

"Earlier on Wednesday, the South China Morning Post released a report that
described Apple's next iPhone in similar fashion [i.e., with a larger screen],"
Strange wrote. "Citing industry insiders, the newspaper reported that the iPhone
will come in two sizes: 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches, respectively, and will hit
stores in September."

You can find the entirety of this ground-breaking, earth-shattering "report"
here.  "The tech giant will roll out the iPhone 6 in two sizes - 4.7 inch and
5.5 inch - in September, according to industry insiders who have seen the
prototypes," according to the SCMP post.

And there's more. So much more. "The new iPhone screen will be made entirely
from scratch-resistant sapphire crystal glass, they said. Sapphire crystal,
second to diamond as the hardest material, is now used by Apple for its iPhone
camera lens cover and touch identification. It will also sport a new display at
441 pixels per inch (ppi), the same as the Samsung Galaxy S4.

The highest definition Apple now offers has only 326 ppi."

On and on it goes, an overflowing abundance of nearly every major iPhone rumor
for the past 12 to 18 months at least.

But this time there are industry insiders who have seen prototypes of these
big-screen iPhone 6 models.

There are probably a lot of iPhone prototypes gathering dust on shelves
throughout the Apple supply chain. Because doing prototypes is part of what's
called the Design Process. And as others have pointed out for several years,
it's almost certainly true that Apple routinely has been testing out different
screen sizes for both its phone and tablet products. But there is no indication
that the prototypes mentioned in the SCMP post are prototypes of the 2014 iPhone
models.

So is Apple testing out different sizes for iPhone screens? Sure. Will the 2014
iPhone model or models have bigger-than-four-inch screens? Not so sure.

Finally, Strange repeats another claim in the SCMP post, that "Apple will
discontinue its cheaper iPhone 5C, but will keep the iPhone 5S in production
using cheaper materials."

This shocks, awes, and astounds him. "If that portion of the report turns out to
be accurate, it would represent the first and biggest mobile-device misstep on
Apple's part in the entire history of the iPhone," he assures readers, with
"Apple admitting that it made a huge mistake...."

The iPhone 5C is essentially a slightly improved iPhone 5, with a plastic case.
As such, it fills the traditional role that the iPhone 5 would have filled after
the release of the iPhone 5S - of the lower-priced, slightly older model. The
meme that the iPhone 5C has "failed" is as widespread as it is - at least for
now -- unfounded. What would be interesting to know is the unit sales of iPhone
5C since its release, compared to unit sales of the iPhone 4S after the release
of the iPhone 5.

But Apple doesn't segment its phone sales, at least for public consumption.

So that would mean that once the iPhone 6 is released, Apple indeed will
"discontinue its cheaper iPhone 5C, but will keep the iPhone 5S in production
using cheaper materials." Like...a plastic case.

The Rollup doesn't know what that means, except that Apple is supposedly
changing the specifications for the iPhone 6 backlight LED. And it's doing that,
according to LEDInside, because iPhone 6 will have a larger display, at 4.7
inches diagonal, and a "much lighter" frame," which apparently means being a
"slimmer" phone overall.

And another thing: it's going to be released in June 2014.

All of this is based on "industry insiders" and/or "sources from Apple supply
chain" and/or "industry rumors." They may be one and the same: the post doesn't
go into details about from whence the details come.

LEDInside is a market researcher that "covers the technology development, market
trend, and financial information of the LED industry." It's a subsidiary of
TrendForce, a market intelligence company based in Taipei, Taiwan.

"In the previous generation, the iPhone used 0.6t side-view type LED, in
contrast the new iPhone will probably be adopting 0.4t side-view type LED,"
according to the LEDInside post.

The advent of the 0.4t side view LED is exciting news no doubt (and would have
been positively thrilling but for the use of "probably") if you believe the
industry insiders, sources from the Apple supply chain and industry rumors.

TechRadar's J. Rogerson puts this revelation in terms that even we can
understand. "While we've never been one to call the current crop of iPhones or
iPads chunky little things, apparently the LEDS used to light the screen are
just too big," he writes.  Too big LEDs. What was Apple thinking?

A contrarian post at a Chinese website called MyDrives.com sparked a blizzard of
iOSphere repetitions. The original post, found here in Google Translate,
asserted, kind of, that Apple will not be introducing a sapphire screen on the
iPhone 6.

If you're interested in background on MyDrives, you can check Alexa.com's
traffic and related data. Most of the visitors are Chinese and male and young.
The second largest source of visitors: the United States. The top keyword search
sending visitors to the site: iPhone. MyDrivers "provides drivers download and
introduction, providing the latest industry news, the latest IT hardware
evaluation and presentation."

The website claims there is a beta iPhone 6 with a sapphire screen but also
claims it is unlikely to go into production.

"Earlier today, given the news that Taiwan's industrial chain, currently there
is indeed a beta of iPhone 6 with sapphire screen version, but from the current
situation, it seems that Apple intends to launch it, but the reality is not very
optimistic," according to the post.

Why, you ask. Because sapphire screens are worth their weight in, well,
sapphires to manufacture and the yields are limited.

At least that's how The Rollup interprets the following: "Chain sources, the
current constraints iPhone 6 screen, there are two main sapphire, the first is
the manufacturing cost increase, the second is the limited production capacity,
meanwhile, is about to meet with you iWatch will adopt sapphire glass, of
course, for production supply, Apple is very hard."

The website arrives a distinctly downbeat conclusion. "As to whether the news
finally come true, but also Apple's face, hoping that they will bring us
pleasant surprise."

Hope is what the iOSphere is all about. With all the rumors about the virtues of
sapphire, the deal between Apple and GTAT to run a massive sapphire foundry in
Mesa, Arizona, hope bloomed like Valentine roses. "[E]veryone began to hope that
the next iPhone flagship will indeed pack a sapphire screen," writes Mihai
Matei, at GforGames.com.

Of course this contradicts another post, the aforementioned one at South China
Morning Post, which declares that both the new larger-screened iPhone 6 models
will have sapphire screens.

MacRumors is taking an agnostic approach to the contradiction, dutifully noting
on Feb. 11 that there won't be any sapphire screens, except for the mythical
iWatch and the next day, dutifully noting that there will be.  GforGames' Matei
seems resigned to a cruelly disappointed hope. "As always, it's difficult know
for sure (or t0 accurately predict) what will happen in the second half of the
year, and the next iPhone is still quite a mystery, despite the numerous rumors
surrounding it," he writes, perfectly summing up the epistemic dilemma of the
iOSphere. "Whether or not we'll get to see a sapphire screen on the iPhone 6
remains to be seen, but chances are slim."

At 9to5Mac, Mark Gurman has been working with an investor, Mark Margolis, to
track down documents about Apple's deal with GTAT. The most recent post, from
Feb. 6, links to a redacted SEC filing by GTAT that goes into detail about the
agreement.

You can find the document online.  The Rollup doesn't agree with some of
Gurman's specific deductions, but the SEC filing makes clear this is a massive
Apple investment, apparently similar to the kinds of capital spending
arrangements it has with its Asian suppliers and that it appears to commit GTAT
to an exclusive relationship with Apple with regard to sapphire production in
very large quantities. A reasonable conclusion is that Apple seems to be
preparing to create sapphire displays for larger devices.

Margolis this week disagreed with the GforGames conclusion that sapphire is
still too expensive for Apple to use on the iPhone.

He argues that given the dramatic cost reductions in sapphire manufacturing and
Apple's gigantic share of smartphone profits, there is "wiggle room in their
margin to add sapphire displays."

The question remains as to when they'll be added.

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network
World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com



