                              14 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)



                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday

                                 Early Edition



Bigger is better when it comes to the new iPhones



BYLINE: Gadjo Cardenas Sevilla, Calgary Herald



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C9



LENGTH: 446 words





The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which started selling in Canada last Friday,

feature an all-new seamless unibody design, second generation 64-bit Apple A8

processors, a new camera sensor, a Near Field Communications (NFC) chip for

payments, as well as the most LTE bands (20) on any smartphones in the market.



The most noticeable features are the larger screens. For the iPhone 6, the

4.7-Retina HD display is a big move up from the iPhone 5s and its 4-inch

display. Despite a larger size, iPhone 6 retains a thin and light profile at 6.9

millimetres.



The iPhone 6 Plus, which has an even larger 5.5-inch display, is Apple's largest

smartphone yet and seems to be the more popular model, selling out in stores

within minutes. The carrier-unlocked versions of the iPhone 6 aren't cheap,

starting at $749 for the 16GB version, while the iPhone 6



Plus begins at $859. Here is what the new iPhones have to offer.



iPhone 6



The iPhone 6, at 4.7-inches, now goes head-to-head with many flagship devices

running on An droid and Windows Phone in terms of display size, but is still

thinner and lighter than many of its competitors.



The 4.7-inch new generation Retina HD Display features a 1133 x 750 pixel

resolution with the same 326 pixel per inch pixel density from the iPhone 5s.

This gives a larger canvas for apps and content. It has 38 per cent more viewing

area than the iPhone 5/5s while only being 13 per cent larger in volume.



Even the protective glass on the screen tapers to give the new iPhone 6 a

continuous flow and feel. The iPhone 6 looks and performs like a flagship

smartphone and will be a worthy upgrade to anyone coming from a smaller iPhone

or rival smartphone.



Improved camera quality as well as the potential for future mobile payments

using Apple Pay system plus the built-in Touch ID fingerprint scanner, sets the

iPhone 6 apart.



iPhone 6 Plus



The larger iPhone 6 presents the biggest departure in size for Apple's flagship

phone.



It shares nearly all the specs and features of the iPhone 6, with a 5.5-inch

display. This has a 1920-by-1080 resolution, providing 88 per cent more viewing

area and nearly three times the pixels of iPhone 5s, with 55 per cent larger

volume. Larger screens are better for videos, photos, reading websites and

eBooks.



Ideal for users looking for a 'tweener device between large smartphones and

small tablets, the iPhone 6 Plus excels at battery life giving up to a day and a

half use on a single charge.



Making use of the larger screen, apps automatically reorient themselves when in

horizontal mode and show more information and control options. iPhone 6 Plus

also has an optical image stabilization feature for shake free photos and

videos.



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: For The Calgary Herald; By offering iPhones with bigger screens, Apple

hopes to entice users of larger devices from its rivals.;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 Calgary Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





