                              154 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Complete coverage: Apple launches iPhone 6, iPhone 6 plus, Watch and ApplePay



BYLINE: Vishal Manve



LENGTH: 2161  words





Pricing points for various models of smartphone is between $199 to $499 USD



Apple's mega iPhone 6 and iWatch launch has started as the company under tim

cook's leadership has created bigger and better products.



Apple's senior vice president of marketing Phil Schiller explained at the much

anticipated event today that the glass front curves around the side of the

phones, meeting the anodized aluminum backing.



The iPhone 6 Plus is 5.5 inches diagonally and the iPhone 6 is 4.7 inches,

compared to the iPhone 5S size of 4 inches. The phones are thinner than ever:

6.9 mm for the iPhone 6 and 7.1 mm for the larger iPhone 6 Plus.



Cook said on-stage that the company is "launching the biggest advancement in the

history of iPhone."



Apple fans have been waiting for weeks for the company to make its major

announcement in Cupertino, California. Much of the speculation has centered on

the possible release of the next iPhone and a wearable device, however Apple has

kept the big news under wraps



Apple launched Apple watches as well: Here's how you use them



*Apple Watch requires iPhone. It works with iPhone 5, 5c, 5s, 6, and 6 Plus.



*We've curated Apple Watch into three collections that consider personal style

and taste.



*You can track your progress over time in more detail with the Fitness app on

iPhone.



*The Workout app shows real-time stats such as calories, time, distance, and

pace for your workouts.



*Set goals, chart your progress, and earn awards as you track specific workouts,

such as running, walking, and cycling.



Apple Watch measures three aspects of movement.



The Activity app shows three rings: one for Move, one for Exercise, and one for

Stand.Apple Watch uses the GPS and Wi-Fi in your iPhone to help track your

distance.



*Any photos you Favorite on your iPhone or Mac will automatically appear on your

Apple Watch.



*Apple Watch comes with the Photos app. Zoom in on a picture with a turn of the

Digital Crown.



*Dictate a message, check your calendar, find the nearest coffee shop, and more.

Siri is at your service.



*Receive and send messages in amazing ways - from your wrist.



*Send preset phrases, smart responses based on your conversation, audio

messages, your location - even interactive emojis.



*Apple Watch has Siri. Press and hold the Digital Crown to activate.



*Dictate a message, check your calendar, find the nearest coffee shop, and more.

Siri is at your service.



*You always have complete control of what information reaches your Apple Watch



*Swipe up on the watch face for Glances - condensed, easily scannable views of

the apps you use most.



*To switch between watch face designs, just use Force Touch and swipe. To choose

a watch face, tap it.



*To get to the clock, tap the Clock app icon.



*Tim Cook back on stage. "We've been working on the watch for a long time. We've

assembled an amazing team to do so, that covers every discipline at Apple."



*There's also a smaller-sized watch for people who prefer concise versions.



*The first is made of stainless steel; the Sport comes with a aluminum casing;

and the Apple Edition is made of 18k gold.



* There are multiple versions of the AppleWatch.



* There's leather, polymer, metal mesh and stainless steel strap options.



*There are six different straps and a mechanism that makes those straps

interchangeable.



* You can personalize the appearance and capability of these faces.



*Uses a magsafe inductive charger.



*There are four LED lenses. It detects your pulse rate. There's also a gyroscope

and accelerometer.



*There's a custom-designed S1 chip that integrates many systems into one

chipset.



*It has a flexible Retina Display. Machine-polished sapphire screen.



*You can send sketches or even something as personal as your own heartbeat to

another person. "This is something technology usually inhibits, rather than

enables."



*We've designed a range of products so personal, you don't put them in your

pocket, you put them on your wrist. We've developed the Watch as a singular

product. You can't see a boundary between the materials and its software."



*Jony Ive is on screen now, talking about the watch.The watch's crown is the

control interface.



*Scroll, zoom, and getting back to the home screen - the crown does all this and

more



* The crown is digital now.



*"What we DIDN'T do is shrink down the iPhone interface and put it on your

wrist. That'd be a horrible experience!"



*The designs are very sharp and crisp while the crown is well-synced and

thoughful. The touch screen is smarter and the sensors on the back are preferred

standard ones. The Apple Watch does not look thinner than the others.



So, now lets check the features of these new smartphones:



So, Apple CEO Tim Cook is at the event and says, "These iPhones obviously have

bigger displays, but more importantly, they're amazing products in every single

way."



Below are the features:



*Justin Timberlake and Jimmy Fallon will be starring in Apple smartphone

advertisements.



One Twitter user tweeted her excitement as follows: Exciting to see @jimmyfallon

and @jtimberlake starring in the new iPhone ads.



*Apple plans to make wireless payments possible with ApplePay.



*iPhone has replaced the point-and-shoot camera. Next up, the video camera.



*New iPhone 6 has capture slo-mo video at 120 fps or 240 fps.



*iPhone 6 has incredible advances in video. Starting with a new Apple-designed

video encoder.



We've made incredible advances in video. Starting with a new Apple-designed

video encoder.



*Burst mode detects smiles and blinks, then recommends the best picture.



*iPhone 6 is better at detecting faces near and far.The new ISP helps with both

shaky hands and low light.



*The A8 chip includes a powerful Apple-designed image signal processor.



*New software improvements help you take better pictures.



Faster autofocus, next-generation local tone mapping, and advanced noise

reduction. It's a mouthful that gives you a real eyeful.



*The iPhone 6 can judge distance and elevation, so you can get credit for

flights of stairs in all those fitness apps



*Focus Pixels are a technology previously found only in professional DSLR

cameras.



*With 802.11ac, iPhone 6 Wi-Fi speeds are up to three times faster than iPhone

5s.



*VoLTE for iPhone 6 is supported by some of the world's top carriers. And will

continue grow.



*iPhone 6 supports over 200 LTE carriers around the world. Including all three

in China.



*iPhone 6 has faster LTE than iPhone 5s. It also has more LTE bands than any

other smartphone for better roaming.



*iPhone 6 has a barometer that senses air pressure to measure relative

elevation.



*The M8 coprocessor continuously measures motion data from the accelerometer,

gyroscope, and compass.



*The barometer is great for fitness apps. iPhone can now tell if you're going up

molehills, mountains, and everything in between.



Other upgradations include 13-megapixel rear camera, bigger batteries - 1,810mAh

and 2,915mAh - and a new 128GB storage variant too. A complete list of expected

features can be viewed here. In addition to the iPhone 6, Apple is also rumored

to be unveiling the iWatch as well as the next-generation iPad Air. The event

kicks off at 10:30PM tonight.



Who's going to be there? Apple has invited top fashion editors and bloggers in

unprecedented numbers to its launch gala as it tries to forge closer ties to the

fashion world that may prove crucial to the success of a wearable device.



According to CompareMyMobile, today has seen a 97.12% spike in iPhone 4 16GB

trade-ins as owners rush to get the maximum money possible for the older model.

Trade-ins of the iPhone 5 16GB model has risen by 57.14 %, compared with a 35.29

% spike in 4S 16GB trade-ins.



The specifications of the iPhone 6, to be launched today, have reportedly been

leaked. The specification sheet reportedly leaked from Apple's supply chain from

product packaging confirms rumours that the 4.7 inch iPhone 6 will get 1,810m Ah

battery while the 5.5 inch model will come with 2GB RAM. The leaked

specification sheet says that the new iPhones will be available in three

colours: white, gold and space gray. It is also says that the sapphire glass

screen of the phone will not just be scratch resistant but also waterproof and

shatterproof.



\Apple is expected to release the new iPhone at a mystery event set to take

place at 10:30PM IST on Tuesday and will be live streamed on Apple's website. As

per Apple tradition, the event is shrouded in secrecy and speculations are rife

on what to expect. Rumours include the possible unveiling of  the iWatch and the

next generation model of the iPad Air. Apple may also release its latest

operating system, the iOS 8, on its new phone.



Japanese website Macotakara says the two models that Apple will launch today are

a 4.7 inch  iPhone 6 and a 5.5 inch iPhone 6 Plus. Last year, the website's

prediction of the models iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C had been accurate.



Tech website BGR has rounded up of the speculations and rumours regarding the

iPhone 6. Among the features expected is an upgraded processor, the A8

quad-core. Currently, the iPhone 5S has 1.3 GHz A7 dual-core processor. BGR

reports that the iPhone 6's A8 processor may also be accompanied by an M8

coprocessor codenamed 'Phosphorus'.



Watch the report here:



Leaked photos of the phones suggest that the new iPhone will have a have curved

edges and a thinner body, unlike the iPhones so far. The power button which is

usually on the top may be shifted to the right of the phone for easier access.



Rumours suggest that iPhone 6 will sport a 13 megapixel camera compared to the 8

megapixel that the current model has. Alternately, the camera may remain the

same with the added feature of "Super Resolution Mode", an optical image

stabilisation technology that captures multiple image samples to create a

high-density end photograph.



It is expected that a bigger phone will mean bigger batteries and longer battery

life that will last for more than a day. Reports suggest that the 4.7-inch

iPhone 6 may get a 1,810mAh battery, with the 5.5-inch model getting a 2,915mAh

battery. Currently, the iPhone 5S has a 1,560mAh battery.



A much talked about feature that is expected is the mobile wallet for which

Apple is said to have partnered with Master Card, Visa and American Express. An

alternative to using your credit card for making purchases, the feature will use

NFC with a TouchID sensor being used for the verification process.



The 4.7 inch model is expected to be available in markets by September 29.



Here's the full list of specifications for iPhone 6 as given by 9to5Mac:



4G LTE: all models



Sim: Nano-SIM



Announcement: Sept 9th



Release: Sept 19th



Dimensions: 137.5 x 67 x 7 mm (5.41 x 2.64 x 0.28 in)



Weight: 113 g (3.99 oz)



TouchID: 500 dpi pixel density fingerprint sensor (Touch ID on all models)



Display: LED-backlit IPS LCD, capacitive touchscreen, 16M colors



Size: 960 x 1704 pixels, 4.70 inches / 5.5 inches (~416 ppi pixel density)



Multitouch: Yes



Protection: Shatter proof sapphire crystal glass, oleophobic coating - water

resistant



Sound: Alert types Vibration, proprietary ringtones



Loudspeaker: Yes



3.5mm jack: Yes



Memory Card slot: No



Internal: 16/32/64/128 GB, 2 GB RAM



Data GPRS: Yes



EDGE: Yes



Speed: DC-HSDPA, 42 Mbps; HSDPA, 21 Mbps; HSUPA, 5.76 Mbps; LTE, Cat6, 300 Mbps

DL; EV-DO Rev. A, up to 3.1 Mbps



WLAN: Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac, dual-band, Wi-Fi hotspot



Bluetooth: v4.0, A2DP



NFC: Yes



USB: v2.0



Camera: Primary 8 MP, 3264 x 2448 pixels, autofocus, dual-LED (dual tone) flash.

Features Simultaneous video and image recording, touch focus, geo-tagging, face

detection, HDR panorama, HDR photo



Video: 1080p@60fps (mailto:1080p@60fps)



Secondary: Yes



OS: iOS 8



Chipset: Apple A8



CPU: Dual-core 2 GHz



Sensors: Accelerometer, gyro, proximity, compass



Messaging: iMessage, SMS (threaded view), MMS, Email, Push Email



Browser: HTML (Safari)



Radio: No



GPS: Yes, with A-GPS, GLONASS



Java: No



Colors: Space Gray, White/Silver, Gold



- Active noise cancellation with dedicated mic



- AirDrop file sharing



- Siri natural language commands and dictation



- iCloud cloud service



- iCloud Keychain



- Twitter and Facebook integration



- TV-out



- Maps



- iBooks PDF reader



- Audio/video player/editor



- Organizer



- Document viewer/editor



- Photo viewer/editor



- Voice memo/dial/command



- Predictive text input



Battery: Non-removable Li-Po 1,810mAh battery (6.91 Wh)



So, is it profitable to invest in Apple's stocks?



As the time for Apple's launch nears, the company is heading in a new direction

with a tech wearable and new iPhones may also make their debut.



As per statistics, three out of four times it's been profitable to invest in

Apple stock just before the company has made a product announcement, according

to a new chart from the folks at Statista.



Bernstein Research analyst Toni Sacconaghi estimated that, if Apple were to sell

30 million iWatches at $250 each, it would add about $7.5 billion to the

company's revenue.



Rival electronics giants such as Sony Corp (6758.T), Samsung Electronics Co Ltd

(005930.KS), LG Electronics Inc (066570.KS) and Qualcomm Inc (QCOM.O) have

already launched smartwatches, albeit without much success.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





