

Co to debut marquee models tomorrow in India as retailers entice buyers with
offers of down payment as low as Rs2,000

New Delhi: 'i'Fans can finally rejoice - the iPhone 6, Apple's bigger, better,
thinner new offering, will hit the shops in India tomorrow - a little more than
a month after it was unveiled at the Apple headquarters in Cupertino, US on
September 9.

Pre-orders, say distributors and retailers, have been unprecedented, numbering
more than 25,000 pieces. Apple, which has stepped up its retail distribution in
India this year, has offered pre-booking of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus through
its network of stores and multi-brand chains such as Reliance Digital and Croma,
and online on Infibeam. Buyers are also being enticed with EMIs as low as Rs
2,000. In China, in contrast, pre-orders reached 1 million in the first six
hours.

This is also the first time that Apple will have midnight sales of its new
launch, a global practice and retailers are pulling out all stops to ensure it
goes off smoothly and everyone who pre-booked an iPhone 6/iPhone 6 Plus gets
their hand on it on day one itself.

At Infibeam, for instance, all the senior managers and even the company CEO have
been drafted to deliver the new phones which have been ordered from tier II
towns like Gorakhpur, Patna and even Hudhud-hit Vishakhapatnam, says Shekhar
Singh, manager corporate communications.

"There is huge anticipation about the new iPhone," says Manish Bhandari, manager
at the Imagine store, a premium Apple retailer, at New Delhi's Select Citywalk
mall.

"Many of our customers have booked the phone with us by paying Rs 10,000 and a
few other stores just to ensure that they get the iPhone 6 on the first day
itself." The store, says Bhandari, is asking the mall management to permit it to
remain open until 2 in the morning.

Globally, iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, which went on sale on September 19, sold 10
million units within three days - better than the 9 million iPhone 5s/5c phones
the company sold on the first weekend of their launch, says Neil Shah, analyst
at technology market research firm Counterpoint. However, Shah believes that the
iPhone hype is greater among the business and media than with customers where it
remains concentrated in urban pockets.

Interestingly, says Shah, Apple is launching the iPhone 6/6 Plus in September to
ride the Diwali festive season where Indians are more inclined to make big
purchases. The last launch of the iPhone 5 came in December. However, the iPhone
6 and 6 plus come at a higher premium in India than they do in the US.

Compared to the Rs 53,500-Rs 80,500 price range for the iPhone 6/6 Plus in
India, in the US, it is available for much less at between $199 (when bundled
with a carrier) and $949. Apple has sold 1 million iPhones in India in the last
fiscal year.

