

As the fall crawls closer, the iOSphere is obsessed with pinning down the exact
date of the iPhone 6 announcement, whichis a problem akin to knowing the exact
location of an electron at any given instance.

The quality of date speculation varies widely, most of it no more than a cursory
gloss on Apple CEO Tim Cook's statement that new products would be announced
"beginning in the fall." So stock analysts solemnly assured us that mass
production of the Next iPhone will start, like, soon. And one blogger has
through the exercise of naked reason deduced that iPhone 6 will be announced on
one of two days in September.

Also this week: Production of the iPhone cheap has already begun though it
appears to lack any rational basis for its existence; and Apple prevented a
delay in releasing the iPhone 6 by buying a chip plant, even though there's no
evidence that iPhone 6 is or might be delayed.

You read it here second.

__________ "The iPhone 6 release date delay has been prevented as Apple bought
its own chip maker to produce parts for the device."

~ Tony Crammond, TheFullSignal.com, revealing the heretofore unknown threatened
"delay" of the iPhone 6, without bothering to explain how the
as-yet-unsubstantiated purchase would un-delay it.__________ iPhone 5S starts
mass production at end of July, for autumn unveiling The obsession with knowing
the precise moment when a klaxon blares at a gigantic Foxconn assembly plant in
Taiwan, signaling the start of mass production for the Next iPhone, continues.

In part, because it feeds the obsession with the precise date on which the Next
iPhone will be announced.

This week's contribution is from Jeffries Group stock analyst Peter Misek, whose
most recent Note To Investors says the klaxon will sound at the end of July,
according to Jay Yarrow's post at BusinessInsider.  "[Misek] says the new iPhone
is likely to be released in either late September or early October," Yarrow
writes.

In other words ... sometime during an almost five-week period in, yes, the fall.

But Misek doesn't seem too certain, because according to Yarrow, he only
"believes" mass production will start by month's end; and that the Next iPhone
is only "likely"  to be announced in September or October.

This doesn't exactly Advance the Field of iPhoneology. We actually know no more
today about the announcement date than a reasonably intelligent person could
have surmised about it the day after Apple announced iPhone 5S in September 2012

 - that it is indeed likely that the Next iPhone will be announced in September
or October 2013, and that therefore large-scale manufacturing will start
sometime in the summer of 2013.

iPhone cheap has already started production....though why it has is another
matter In the same BusinessInsider post, analyst Misek also claims, according to
Yarrow, that "Apple has already begun production of its lower-cost iPhone."

Yarrow writes that Misek "believes [it] will sell for $300-$400, without a
subsidy."

Here's the key point: "At that price, it's more a mid-tier phone, and 'it will
not be competitive in emerging markets,' according to Misek."

Which is a remarkable statement. The iOSphere's Rumor Consensus has been, for
months if not years, that Apple should or must create a cheap iPhone model.
Because it must compete with the flood of cheap Android phones, especially in
emerging markets such as China and India and Brazil, where there is the
potential for huge unit sales.

So what is the point of Apple introducing a cheap iPhone to compete with cheap
Android phones, if it won't actually, you know, compete with them?

Apple doesn't break out sales of the older, discounted iPhone models. But they
offer an extremely viable lower-cost alternative to the flagship iPhone 5, which
itself is such a good product that there's no reason why it shouldn't continue
to sell well in the mid-tier market after the release of the Next iPhone.

Neither Misek nor Yarrow actually make a case for how Apple would benefit by
introducing a cheaper iPhone model - segmenting different classes of buyers for
different products -- since the lower-end of any market has not been a focus for
Apple. Apple partially segmented the tablet space with the iPad mini, but it
markets the mini (and it's apparently bought) not as a "lower-cost iPad," but as
a "smaller iPad" that happens to have a lower price tag.

The iPhone is a handheld computer that also makes phone calls. So far, Apple
hasn't seen any compelling need to change the physical design or character of
the phone, its capabilities, or the user experience for buyers whose primary
purchase criteria is paying a minimum price for such a device.

iPhone 6 will be announced on September 6...no, wait! September 10!

Who says? Apple, apparently.

"Apple is strongly hinting that the release date for the iPad 5, iPad mini 2 and
iPhone 6 is coming on or shortly after September 6th," according to Phil Moore,
in a post at StableyTimes ("a new kind of news").  Doubtless this will come as a
surprise to many. But Moore has discerned Apple's strong hinting behind various
actions that remain otherwise opaque to those of lesser insight.

The first strong hint is that Apple is "offering a promo to college students
which gives them a fifty dollar iTunes gift card with the purchase of an iPad or
iPhone until that date." (Details of the back-to-school offer, which is focused
as much or more on the Mac as on iOS devices, are on Apple's website.)
According to Moore, similar Apple promotions in the past have "typically ended
up coinciding with the launch of new generations of whichever of its mobile
products were included in the deal. The offer is a way of blowing out remaining
inventory of the new models in the interim."

The surface plausibility of this reasoning just doesn't bear up. You would have
to place an inordinate value on a $50 gift certificate for music or videos to
consider it worthwhile to invest, at Apple's website, a minimum of $199 for the
16GB iPhone 5 model with a two-year contract, and then factoring in the cost of
the contract itself. Spending $200+ to get $50 isn't usually considered a
bargain, especially when you can't use the $50 as a discount for the $200. This
promotion isn't, by itself, going to "blow out" the current inventory of iPhone
5 units.

It makes more sense as one part of an overall move by Apple and its retail
partners to make iPhone 5 a more compelling value for buyers during the
June-August quarter, which has traditionally been softer for iPhone sales as at
least some buyers hold off on a purchase in anticipation of the Next iPhone
sometime in the autumn. And with this back-to-school offer, Apple offers its
special "education pricing" for products, for qualified buyers.

But Moore doesn't stop there. "The week of September 6th starts off with the
Labor Day holiday, making it unlikely Apple will unveil the new iPad 5, iPad
mini 2 and iPhone 6 during that week, but will instead allow the college offer
to expire on the 6th and then introduce the new models the following Tuesday,
September 10th," he says, contradicting his initial assertion, and headline,
that Apple would announce the iPhone 6 "on Sept 6th."

The phony precision is a hallmark of the pseudo-reasoning prevalent in the
iOSphere. Moore makes it sound as if some Deep Truth has been revealed when he
observers that it's unlikely Apple will announce the iPhone on a major holiday
weekend. But what company ever makes major product introductions on a major
holiday weekend?

Moore's speculation, and it's nothing more than that, is completely unfounded,
as is so much other speculation about The Date.

It's likely that Apple will announce the Next iPhone in September simply because
it usually announces new products about a year after the current model. Whether
that happens on September 6 or 10 or 17 or 24 or some other date is pretty much
irrelevant.

"iPhone 6 release date delay prevented" That's the astonishing headline for a
post by Tony Crammond at a Website called TheFullSignal.

He gets right to the point.

"The iPhone 6 release date delay has been prevented as Apple bought its own chip
maker to produce parts for the device," he declares.

Late last week, a technology news website called SemiAccurate, claimed in an
"exclusive" that "Apple has just done something that SemiAccurate has been
expecting for months and entered the fab industry. No we are not joking, Apple
just bought into a fab, and not in a trivial way either." The rest of the
account is available only to the site's subscribers.

No one seems to know exactly what this alleged action really means. Except for
Tony Crammond. First, there is no evidence whatever that the "iPhone 6" has been
"delayed" or was in danger of being delayed. And there's nothing in what's been
publicly posted about this alleged deal that shows this semiconductor
manufacturer, whoever it may be, is or will be producing chips for the iPhone 6.

"This is undoubtedly a move by the Cupertino, Calif.-based company to become
more autonomous in its handset production, cutting out manufacturing partners
such as Samsung, Foxconn and Pegatron, with whom it has worked in the past,"
Crammond explains.

Samsung has been the principal maker of the processors used in Apple's iOS
devices. But Foxconn and Pegatron are assemblers.

If Apple cuts them out, it will end up building iPhones by hand.

"Apple's previous devices have been plagued by production issues, with third
parties unable to keep up with demand and producing components that are below
Apple's exacting standards," according to Crammond. This statement is simply a
canard. Supply chain management is a blend of art and science. There are always
"issues," and the goal of SCM is to resolve the issues. The suggestion that
Apple's iOS products are "plagued" by low-quality components is simply false.

AppleInsider searched the HTML tags with the SemiAccurate webpost and concluded
they "may reveal Apple's rumored mystery partner: United Microelectronics
Corporation." UMC is based in Taiwan, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol UMC.

Its market capitalization is about $5 billion, in part due to an overall decline
in its stock price since early 2010, according to data from Google Finance.  Its
52-week stock price range is $1.75-2.44, and as of July 19 is trading at just
above $2 per share.

But Brook Crothers at CNET says a "semiconductor industry source" says that the
deal - which is far from finalized - may involve Globalfoundries, of Milpitas,
Calif. The foundry and Apple are "kicking the tires" but " 'by no means' is any
firm deal imminent...," writes Crothers.

"The source continued: 'Globalfoundries and Samsung have the same technology
foundation based on an IBM joint development agreement. So that gives [a
possible deal] a little less risk if they're looking at a secondary option to
offset [the current chip manufacturing] with Samsung.'" But Apple has several
options for "investing" in a chip plant (Globalfoundries has a relatively new
plant in New York with "a lot of idle capacity," according to CNET's source).
Here's Crothers:  "Linley Gwennap, principal analyst of The Linley Group,
doesn't see Apple owning capacity, however. 'I don't see why Apple would buy a
fab, but they might front some money to Globalfoundries to guarantee access,' he
told CNET."

Another option is for Apple to invest in chip processes rather than physical
manufacturing assets. "Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster thinks it makes more
sense for the company to focus its efforts on developing chip processes instead
of owning and operating a full-fledged factory," writes Evan Niu, a contributor
at TheFool.com.  (Niu owns Apple stock.) His post is headlined "Did Apple Buy
Its Own Chip Plant or Not? The answer, apparently, is "no one knows."

Longstanding rumors have pegged Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. as
Apple's most likely chipmaking partner. Just last month, The Wall Street Journal
reported that after years of talks, Apple had finally inked a deal with TSMC to
build mobile chips beginning in 2014.

Apple is spending yearly about as much if not more than Intel on capital, or
almost as much as Microsoft, Amazon and Google combined. For Fiscal Year 2013
alone, Apple will spend just over $10 billion. Much of this spending is to buy
equipment that is placed in the manufacturing and assembly plants of its supply
chain partners. But apart from Asymoc's Horace Dediu, this whole area of
spending and intent is getting almost no attention from analysts and media.

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network
World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com



