                              171 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday



Video shows claimed iPhone 6 days before Apple s official unveiling



BYLINE: Troy Wolverton



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 454 words





Applecs is widely expected to unveil theciPhone 6 next week at a press event in

Cupertino. But if you want a sneak peek one week early at what sure looks like

the rumored device, you donct have to go any further than YouTube.



Earlier this week, a Russian-based tech product review group called Rozetked

posted on the streaming site a video of purported iPhone 6. The video shows both

the sleek and thin outside of the device as well as its innards.



The device shown in the video resembles those shown in pictures that have shown

up on the Web in recent months. As rumored , this purported iPhone 6 has a

significantly larger screen than last yearcs iPhone 5s. It also has a case that

has rounded edges, unlike the flat edges of recent iPhone models.



The claimed iPhone 6 also has a thinner case than its predecessor. One of the

apparent results of that is that its camera module sticks out from its back,

rather than lying flush with it as in previous iPhones.



One other significant design change: The power button on the new device is on

the right-hand side, rather than on top. The device retains the iPhonecs

signature round home button, though.



According to the video, the purported iPhone 6's case is made of aluminum, with

an Apple logo in the back thatcs made of Liquidmetal . Liquidmetal is a a

strong, durable and lightweight metallic alloy for which Apple has an exclusive

licensectocuse in consumer electronicscdevices. Apple has previously used the

material in acSIM card remover incsome of its early iPhones.



Surprisingly, the claimed iPhone 6 doesnct have a sapphire-based screen,

according to the video. Apple has invested in sapphire manufacturing plants and

has been   at least until very recently   widely expected to use sapphire

crystalcfor the displays in upcoming iPhone models. The company already has used

sapphire crystalcin the fingerprint sensor on the iPhone 5s and the camera

lenscon that and theciPhone 5.



On the inside, the purported iPhone 6 has an A8 chip, the apparent successor to

the A7 chip thatcs in the iPhone 5s. It also has an NFC (or near-field

communications) antenna.cNFC is commonly used for wireless payment systems and

is already included in many other smartphones and in some csmartc credit and

payment cards such as the Clipper card accepted by Bay Area transit operators.

Apple has been rumored to be working on its own mobile wallet system that would

allow iPhone owners to use their phone to make wireless payments.



One thing to note about the claimed iPhone 6, the reviewers never turn on the

device during the video. Some observers have argued that this is not a final

iPhone 6, but instead one that has been assembled with leaked parts .



Photo from screen shot of Rozetked video.



LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





