

Steve Jobs gave people what they wanted before they knew they wanted it. Apple
now gives all the options or them to choose from, Krishna Bahirwani explores
what one can expect from Apple's new offerings.

Get ready for  iPhone 6, iPhone 6 plus and Apple Watch

For the first time since its invention Apple has decided to adopt a different
strategy with the new, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. I'm not talking about the
Apple-designed A8 chip with second generation 64-bit desktop-class architecture
and advanced iSight and FaceTime HD cameras or even the "ultrafast" wireless
technologies or even Apple Pay , an easier way to simply and securely make
payments with just the touch with iOS 8, the latest version of Apple's operating
system.I'm talking about the design and concept, ever since its inception the
iPhone has always been one phone for each  generation with an exception of
different storage capacities but this time there are two different phones which
takes away from the singularity of the "iPhone".

"iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are the biggest advancements in iPhone history,"
said Tim Cook, Apple's CEO. "The iPhone is the most loved smartphone in the
world with the highest customer satisfaction in the industry and we are making
it much better in every way. Only Apple can combine the best hardware, software
and services at this unprecedented level and we think customers are going to
love it."

The iPhone 6 features a 4.7-inch Retina HD display with 1334 x 750 resolution,
which is designed to provide a 38 percent more viewing area than iPhone 5s. The
iPhone 6 Plus features an even bigger 5.5-inch Retina HD display with 1920 x
1080 resolution, providing 88 percent more viewing area and nearly three times
the pixels than iPhone 5s.

Although both the phones have cameras with the new sensor featuring Focus Pixels
, iPhone 6 Plus get optical image stabilization technology that compensates for
shaky hands. The iPhone 6 Plus also has a higher battery capacity ,because of
the larger screen size which possibly consumes more power it cannot be said if
the increased battery capacity will benifit its users in terms of time to surf
the web or watching videos.The iPhone 6 Plus also features a landscape mode
similar to the iPad where apps can work when the phone is held horizontally .

Having two phones has created a divide within the iPhone users having to make a
choice which they never had to today. As of today iPhone 6 Plus is sold out with
Apple and carrier online stores, much before the the 4.7-inch iPhone 6. The
exact quanitity of the number of iPhone 6 Plus sold or even the iPhone 6 is
unknown and therefore it is difficult to accertain  if there were lesser
quanitites of iPhone 6 Plus made.

It cannot be said if this strategy will help them get more of a market share or
if it will make Apple bend towards the "phablet" market or if making two
different models was a bad move.

Hot features

Dramatically thin design

Powerful A8 chip

Stunning Retina HD display

Advanced camera

Apple Pay

Apple has officially made its entry into the smartwatch industry with the Apple
Watch which they are dubbing as their most personal device ever Apple Watch
features the digital crown, a new way of interaction following on the footsteps
of the iPod Click Wheel and iPhone Multi-Touch. The Digital Crown provides an
innovative way to scroll, zoom and navigate. Apple Watch makes your wrist the
center of your communication by sending and receiving messages, answering calls
to your iPhone, and with Digital Touch, sending something as personal as your
own heartbeat all from your wrist. Apple Watch also wants you to be healthy with
a whole new set of health and fitness apps. Apple Watch has three versions,
Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport and Apple Watch Edition.

"Apple introduced the world to several category-defining products, the Mac,
iPod, iPhone and iPad," said Tim Cook, Apple's CEO. "And once again Apple is
poised to captivate the world with a revolutionary product that can enrich
people's lives. It's the most personal product we've ever made."

"With Apple Watch, we've developed multiple technologies and an entirely new
user interface specifically for a device that's designed to be worn. It blurs
the boundary between physical object and user interface," said Jony Ive, Apple's
senior vice president of Design. "We've created an entire range of products that
enable unparalleled personalisation."

Apple Watch has an iOS-based user interface created specifically for a smaller
device with the digital crown serving as the home button and a convenient way to
access Siri. Apple Watch comes in three  versions, Apple Watch, Apple Watch
Sport and Apple Watch Edition and is available in two sizes, 38 mm and 42 mm.

Apple is giving you all the choice you need with the Apple Watch with enclosures
of the made from custom alloys of polished or space black stainless steel, space
gray or silver anodised aluminium and 18-karat rose or yellow gold. When it
comes to watch straps you get everything from stainless steel to leather as an
option. The customization doesn't stop there with 11 watch faces ranging from
traditional analog faces to new faces like the dynamic Timelapse face which can
also be further personalized allowing the Apple Watch to become an extension of
your personality.

Taking advantage of its location on your wrist, Apple Watch gives you all the
information you need like directions or current locations at a glance which you
can interact with using your hand or your voice.  Apple Watch also includes a
groundbreaking Activity app which offers calories burned, brisk activity and how
often you stand up during the day and another Workout provides goal-setting and
pacing during popular session-based workouts, such as running and cycling. The
companion Fitness app on iPhone collects your activity data so you can see your
activity history in greater detail. Apple Watch uses this history to suggest
personal, realistic goals, reward fitness milestones and keep you
motivated.Available at 350$ in the US, the device definitely packs bang for the
buck.

Hot features

Heart Rate Meter

Wireless charging

A lot of customisation

with straps

Retina HD screen

Fitness tracking

