

New Trent's Trentium and Alixo cases for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are dirt-and
water-resistant. MCT

The PowerArmour from BuQu Tech has a 2,500mAh battery in a unibody shell
exterior to protect the iPhone 6 from drops. MCT

Getting the new iPhone is one thing, getting it dressed up is another. Recently
my email box has been flooded with new cases to dress up your naked iPhone 6 or
6 Plus, and here are some highlights.

? The PowerArmour from BuQu Tech has a 2,500mAh battery in a uni-body shell
exterior to protect the iPhone 6 from drops.

BuQu states that the internal battery doesn't add any unnecessary bulk to the
smartphone, slides in and out of the case with its patented slide-lock
mechanism.

There's also a built-in LED gauge showing available battery power and a
power-saving on/off switch.

www.buqutech.com, $79.99, expected out in November

? One of my favorites, the Q Card Case from CM4, is now available for the iPhone

6. The Q Card Case's one-piece design combines a wallet on the back side of the
protective case.

A few credit cards, ID and cash can be stored in the wallet, which is built into
the case constructed of a patented soft-touch rubber and premium fabric design.

www.CM4.com, $39.99, available in black onyx, pacific green and champagne gold

? New Trent has announced the Trentium and Alixo cases, a new line of protective
cases for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.

The Trentium has an ultra-thin and rugged design, making it dirt- and
water-resistant for both new phones in black, gold or silver. The Alixo has the
same protection as the Trentium but adds a scratch-resistant screen case, along
with an interchangeable front cover in choices of black or white.

www.newtrent.com, $31.95 each, the cases will be available October 31

?ENERGI's sliding power case for iPhone 6 ($99.99) has a built-in 3,200mAh
rechargeable and battery. Once it's taken off you'll have a protective TPUlined
inner case for enhanced drop protection.

The ALIN glass screen protector ($34.99) keeps your new iPhone 6 clean and
scratch-free. It attaches with the included snap-on alignment tool for easy
positioning to make the installation simple.

www.tylt.com

? X-Doria's fashion-forward accessories now include a full line of iPhone 6 and
6 Plus cases including the Defense 720? and the Engage Folio.

The Defense 720? ($29.99) features a full-screen, hard-plastic protective front
shield, which completely covers the screen but still allows full control of the
touchscreen.

Rear armor is built into the back for a grippy, protective bumper with a sturdy
shield. The two-piece construction snaps together with each for full protection
and is available in black, blue and pink for the iPhone 6.

The Engage Folio is a clear, hard polycarbonate back to protect the smartphone
without hiding it and an anti-scratch coating helps keep the view crystal clear.

A leather-like front cover protects the screen and has card slots on the inside
to store credit cards or a license. The Engage Folio is available for both the
iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus for $29.99.

? Urban Armor Gear's collection of protective solutions for the new 4.7- and
5.5-inch iPhone 6 meet military standards for drop and shock (MIL-STD
810G-516.6).

They are constructed with a hard armor shell, soft rubber core and bumpers in a
rugged one-piece design.

Urban Armor Gear iPhone 6 cases are available for pre-order in black, white,
rust (orange), plasma (pink), slate (blue) and ice (clear) for $34.95 each for
the 4.7-inch device and $39.95 for the 5.5-inch device.

www.urbanarmorgear.com

