                              184 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



iPhone resellers lose big as HK supplies flood in



BYLINE: He Huifeng and Nectar Gan



SECTION: NEWS; National China News; Technology; Pg.8



LENGTH: 553 words





Dealers in the mainland's smartphone grey market say they have lost big by

betting on Apple's new iPhone 6, blaming an abundant supply from Hong Kong and

other overseas sources for bringing down prices.



In Beijing's Zhongguancun  district, a 16GB iPhone 6 sold for between 6,000 yuan

(HK$7,570) and 6,500 yuan yesterday, while the bigger iPhone 6 Plus model was

selling for around 9,000 yuan, according to vendors.



The iPhone models hit shop shelves in Hong Kong last week but a date is still to

be set for sales on the mainland.



A worker at a shop in Zhongguancun said her store bought more than 100 iPhone 6'

s and iPhone 6 Plus's from Hong Kong only to lose thousands of yuan on the deal.



"In the [Zhongguancun] market, if you have stocked the [iPhone 6], you are

losing money,"  she told the                South China Morning Post.



"The prices are dropping way too fast. Some sellers lost money while their

phones were on the plane [to Beijing]."



She said the price of an iPhone 6 Plus fell 2,000 yuan on Saturday.



The grey market price for a 16GB iPhone 6 also dropped from more than 8,000 yuan

on Monday to over 7,000 yuan on Tuesday, and to above 6,000 yuan on Wednesday,

she said.



But another Beijing vendor said there were also scalpers who had made big money

from reselling iPhone 6 models.



"Some of the ones who sold their goods quickly earned more than a million yuan,"

the vendor said.



Another vendor said: "These days, making or losing money all depends on the time

[of the handsets' arrival]. [We are] running against time."



Sellers said that supplies of the iPhone 6 were much greater than releases in

previous years, a factor that led to the rapid drop in prices.



In Shenzhen, vendors at the Huaqiangbei  commercial area said an influx of

individual sellers from Hong Kong exacerbated the price drop.



"Many mainland speculators at Huaqiangbei bought up large stocks of the phones

at high prices on Friday  and Saturday from Hong Kong. We were all shocked and

collapsed on Sunday night when we saw a number of Hong Kong people come to sell

the phones as a vendor, just in the streets in front of our shops," said Chen

Chouquan, a trader in Nokia and Apple products at Manha Digital City. "We all

lost big money because of these Hong Kong people.



"Many of them came on their own with only one or two phones and hawked them on

the street. The prices they asked are actually more competitive than most shops

here because our costs are higher."



Chen said many phones were being smuggled from other offshore markets as well,

which had also driven the  grey market prices down.



Another trader at Mingtong Digital City said: "A regular customer of mine from

Guangzhou just cancelled a deal. He wanted a 128GB iPhone 6 Plus. I told him

it's about 10,500 yuan today. He said no because he just saw a Hong Kong man ...

put a post online at [popular iPhone trading website] 51apple.com  asking only

8,500 yuan for it."



The price of a 64GB iPhone 6 in Huaqiangbei was close to 10,000 yuan on Saturday

but dropped to 7,000 on Sunday and 6,600 yuan on Tuesday at the shops there.

Chen said the grey market prices of iPhone 6s would continue to drop if more

customers in the delta and Hong Kong residents decided to trade with each other

on the streets in Huaqiangbei rather than through  a grey market agent.



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:                  The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models hit shop shelves

in Hong Kong last week.                    Photo: Sam Tsang



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





