                              187 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                The New York Post



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday



Eyeing an iPhone 6? Put away your wallet



BYLINE: Kaja Whitehouse



SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29



LENGTH: 385 words





Pssst! Want to know how to get a free iPhone?



Thanks to the relentless wireless wars, consumers are being bombarded with

offers to grab Apple's iPhone 6 free of charge or at deeply discounted prices.



Wireless carriers - seeking to lure and retain the flood of customers expected

to upgrade their smartphones over the next few weeks - are falling over each

other to offer the best deal on the gadget before it hits store shelves on Sept.

19.



Sprint will give customers a free 16 GB iPhone 6 (worth $199) when they trade in

any used iPhone "in good working condition" and sign a two-year service

agreement.



That is "a significant enhancement" to the company's existing buyback program,

which promises up to a $300 store credit for older phones, Sprint spokeswoman

Michelle Boyd told The Post.



Verizon Wireless is also dangling a free 16GB iPhone 6 with a trade-in and

two-year contract renewal - but it applies to only the iPhone 4, 4s, 5, 5c and

5s.



T-Mobile is upping the ante by super-charging its smartphone trade-in program.

The company on Monday promised to top any trade-in offer from a competitor.

Starting Sept. 17, it will give $50 to any customer who can find a better deal

elsewhere.



Meanwhile, retailers are also offering generous trade-in deals to grab consumers

during the upgrade frenzy.



Amazon is offering $202 for people with a 16 GB black iPhone 5 in "good"

condition. That's enough to buy the 16 GB iPhone 6 (with a two-year service

contract) when it comes out next week.



It's also more than Sprint's $145 trade-in offer for the same phone, or Target's

$143.



A better phone will give you more trade-in bang for your buck. For instance, a

64 GB iPhone 5s with a Sprint contract will bring in $300 at Wednesday's prices.



That's enough to buy the 16G iPhone 6 Plus, which comes with a larger, 5.5-inch

screen, or the regular-size 64 GB iPhone 6.



Prices for old iPhones are expected to decline, however, as the iPhone 6 release

date draws near.



---



Swap-stakes



Here are three ways to ditch your current smartphone for a free iPhone 6:*



* Sprint will take any "working" iPhone.



* Verizon Wireless will swap iPhone 4 and up.



* T-Mobile to offer $50 to customers who find better deal.



* Doesn't include service agreements



kwhitehouse@nypost.com



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: iPhone and popping a champagne bottle. [Post photo composite]



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





