

Here is yet another leak around Iphone 6, which has surfaced just about a couple
of hours ahead of the Iphone 6 launch. A Weibo user in China has posted a photo
which shows iphone 6 placed alongside the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5 to give an idea
about the difference between these devices. This leakster had eralier also
posted a 7-minute first ever iPhone 6 review.

Just to recap, Apple has pulled down its online store to put it offline till it
launches the new Iphone 6 and other new products. The company has taken the
store down in order to update it with new products that it would be launching
today at its event.

Earlier today,  the Iphone 6 benchmark were leaked online by GForGames, who
claims to have put the Iphone 6 on the Geekbench app. The leaked data reveal
that the iPhone 4.7-inch will come with 1GB of RAM, instead of the rumored 2GB
RAM on board.

It also says that the phone will run on an A8 ARM processor ticking at 1.4GHz.
The report also highlights 2GB of RAM on the 5.5-inch Iphone 6. The New Iphone
scored 1633 for single-core, and 2,920 for multi-core.

Apple is all set to finally take the wraps off its much anticipated Iphone 6
variants and much awaited iWatch at its event which will Kick off in a few
hours. Though the company has been dicreet about its products, plenty of
information in terms of specifications and other features has alreay leaked
online to give us a fair idea of what the Iphone 6 could bring on table for us.

The company is expected to unveil two iPhones variants rumored to be named as
the Iphone 6 Air with a 4.7 inch display, and the Iphone 6 Pro with a 5.5 inch
display. The company is also likley to roll out its next software update, which
is iOS 8, for iPhone. The year, rumors are rife that the company will debut its
iWatch wearable to put it forth against the likes of Samsung Gear series, Sony
smart watches and LG smart watch among others.

And if that is not enough, it might as well introduce the next generation iPad
model which will succeed the iPad Air.

We are getting you the latest from launch ground today. Do tune into Bhaskar
Live Blog today. Live Blog: In 5 hours Apple to launch iPhone 6 & iWatch

Here is the earlier leaked information about these device:

One of the major telecom operator China Telecom has posted specs details of the
iPhone 4.7-inch model, confirming that the phone will be powered by an Apple A8
SoC with quad-core chipset and flaunt an 8-megapixel rear camera. The phone is
expected to come in four memory variants: 16/32/64/128GB. It will support a
screen resolution of 750x1134 pixels, and come with sapphire glass.

Alleged screenshots leaked about Iphone 6 5.5-inch model also suggested the
phone will allow apps to runs in landscape mode with dual-pane interface like we
have seen on Apple's iPads.

One day prior to the Apple launch event and its debut in stores (for
pre-orders), two of its new iPhones were spotted selling online. You can read
more about it on our post.

A couple of days back, four videos surfaced online to explain the features of
the upcoming iPhone 6 models

As far as rumors around iWatch are concerned, leaked information about the
iWtach hinted towards two iWatch models in the making.

To read all the leaked information about the iPhone 6 at one place, go through
our story on everything we know so far about the Iphone 6.

