                              190 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                             October 2, 2015 Friday



Sprint option offers upgrade anytime - for a price;

iPhone Forever plan charges users a monthly fee.;

CELLPHONES



BYLINE: ByAmina Elahi



SECTION: ; Pg. SA3



LENGTH: 624 words





Sprint customers who pay a monthly fee for 22 months can now upgrade their

iPhones as often as they become available.



Will you be eligible for an upgrade when Apple announces a new iPhone or two or

- gasp! - willing to pay full price?



Compared with other smartphones, iPhones are known for their high price tags,

which fans would tell you are justified and critics would say are unreasonable.

Recently, Sprint introduced iPhone Forever, a new plan that will allow customers

to upgrade to the latest iPhones at any time by paying a monthly fee.



iPhone Forever is a 22-month leasing plan that costs $15 a month for a

16-gigabyte iPhone 6 on top of a customer's wireless and data plan if you

upgrade before Dec. 31, and it aims to eliminate waiting for the "upgrade"

opportunity that is often tied to contract renewals.



It's a followup to the iPhone for Life plan Sprint introduced in late 2014. With

that, customers could sign up for a leasing plan that would allow upgrades as

often as every 12 months.



Those who trade in a smartphone or use an existing upgrade before Dec. 31 will

see the iPhone Forever rate drop to $15 a month for the 16 gigabyte iPhone 6.

Any subsequent upgrades after that date will return the rate to the original

rate of $22 a month.



A Sprint spokeswoman said the service targets customers interested in always

having the latest iPhone. Ramon Llamas, research manager for mobile phones and

smart-phones at Framingham, Mass.-based market intelligence firm IDC, said the

plan would not benefit consumers who hold on to their iPhones for more than a

year.



"The leasing type plans, at first people hailed it as 'Here's a great new way to

pay for your smartphone,'" Llamas said. But customers sometimes don't realize

they might be paying more than what they would be for a traditional,

contract-based subsidized phone. "What it's really resulted in is some more

confusion or frustration."



Currently, customers can use iPhone Forever to get a new iPhone through Sprint

stores, its website and phone, as well as Target and Best Buy. The monthly rates

vary by model and memory.



The rates until Dec. 31, are:



? iPhone 6 (16 GB): $15.00



? iPhone 6 (64 GB): $19.77



? iPhone 6 (128 GB): $24.53



? iPhone 6 Plus (16 GB): $19.00



? iPhone 6 Plus (64 GB): $23.77



? iPhone 6 Plus (128 GB): $28.53



"We asked ourselves, 'What could we do that would move our customers forward

with the latest and greatest technology every day?'" Sprint CEO Marcelo Claure

said in a statement. "We decided: How awesome would it be if anytime customers

don't have the latest iPhone, they are eligible to upgrade, and have it be as

simple as handing us your existing iPhone and picking up a new one - all

included in your monthly rate."



But don't forget to read the fine print: Customers who want to get out of the

iPhone Forever plan before their 22 months are up will be on the hook for the

remaining lease payments. "If service or lease is cancelled early, the remaining

lease payments become due immediately and customer must return the device or pay

the purchase option," the company said.



Sprint recently fell to fourth place in national rankings based on total users,

behind T-Mobile. Llamas said the iPhone Forever plan is an attempt to "stop the

bleeding."



"This is yet another take on how a lot of other folks are coming out to retain

their customers and to attain new ones," Llamas said.



He said the Sprint plan resembles offerings from the other major carriers that

are increasingly turning to leasing as they move away from subsidizing the cost

of phones with high-cost rate plans. AT&T Next allows customers to make monthly

payments on a new smart-phone.



Verizon, the nation's biggest wireless company, recently became the latest to

end phone discounts tied to contracts.



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





