

It's hard to come up with a metaphor, or even a simile for that matter, for what
it's like to use the iPhone 6 when three of its best five or so new features are
missing.

I'd tell you it's like trying to drive a car without brakes or a steering wheel,
only that's not right. The iPhone 6 has brakes and a steering wheel, and
luscious leather seats and cupholders and kiddie locks on the doors. As a phone
wrapped in a car metaphor, it wants for almost nothing.

I'd tell you it's like trying to fly in a plane with only two of its five
engines running, only that's not right either. As our benchmark tests of the
iPhone 6 revealed, there's absolutely nothing wrong with its engines. (Though,
sticking to aviation similes, the iPhone 6 is a little like a Qantas flight I
took coming home from Berlin last week, on which the entire right side of the
Airbus had no electrical power and I had to eat breakfast in near total
darkness. I'm still wondering if it was spinach on the side of my plate. But
more on the electrical issues anon.)

No, the only metaphor or simile I can come up with is this: reviewing the iPhone
6 is like trying to review an iPhone 6 when its promising new payments and
health systems aren't yet available, and when its Apple Watch integration is
missing a key ingredient: the watch itself. As far as similes goes, it's rather
literal.

Still, it's worth pointing out the missing features at the outset. The payments
system in particular, which will let you purchase goods just by wafting your
iPhone 6 past a cash register while holding your finger over the phone's
fingerprint scanner, could prove to be the number one reason people come back to
the iPhone. Apple Pay is the one thing that could convince me to choose an
iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus over Samsung's oh-so-appealing Note 4, but Apple Pay
is not even available in the US yet and Apple has sensibly made no promises that
it will ever make it to Australia.

So, when you read the rest of this review, keep in mind it doesn't include the
phone's best new features. And so it's saying something to describe the iPhone 6
as brilliant, and one of the best phones on the market. Screen is dazzling

The main new feature that it couldn't possibly have shipped without, its bigger,
4.7 inch screen, is dazzling. Sure, it's by no means the sharpest screen on the
market, which it probably should be, given the price of the phone, and sure it
could probably do with being a tiny bit bigger, but there's something about it
that's very appealing, something to do with the way it integrates into the body
of the phone in that elegant, almost floating way that Nokia pioneered a few
years back.

That elegant integration is probably the best overall feature of the iPhone 6,
in fact. Everything, from the ultra-slim design to the software, works together
harmoniously in a way that seems to escape other manufacturers.

Simple things - such as the way you can double tap the home button to lower the
hard-to-reach top half of the screen (so much better than the ungainly Android
counterparts) - demonstrate an attention to detail that others could learn from,
even now. The camera is still the most usable on the market.

The improved email app (technically an iOS 8 feature, rather than iPhone 6
feature) is very nice, too, and reminds me of the terrific stuff BlackBerry was
doing with email before people stopped paying attention. Though I must say, I
like email better on the iPhone 6 Plus, which has a tablet-like landscape mode
that makes better use of the iPhone's new, larger screen format.

However, I'm troubled by the battery on the iPhone 6. While it's too early to
tell you what to expect from the battery of the phone, the first signs aren't
promising. On my first full day with the phone, when I was installing and
updating apps and testing the phone heavily, the battery was dead by 4pm. On the
second day, using it only moderately, it was dead by 6.30pm, 12 hours after I
took it off the charger. Short battery life was the No.1 problem with the iPhone
5s, and while it looks like it might be a couple of hours longer on the iPhone
6, it looks like it's still not up to par.

At the end of the day, literally, that could turn out to be the right simile for
the iPhone 6. It's like trying to drive a car with a flat battery.

