                              198 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                    February 12, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



No-bezel iPhone 6 with fingerprint scanner to be launched this year, says latest

speculation



LENGTH: 239  words





Apple's annually launched iphones do fuel a lot of rumours, speculations, and

concept designs of the upcoming model, throughout the year. The latest

speculation says, Apple might go bezel-less on the next iPhone, the iPhone 6.



"Amid the mounting rumors about the upcoming unveiling event from Samsung

Electronics later this month, fresh speculation surfaced on Tuesday that Samsung

Electronics and Apple Inc. would both roll out bezel-free phones that support

fingerprint scanning for their next-generation flagship models a the Galaxy S5

and the iPhone 6" reported the KoreaHerald yesterday.



Apple iPhone 6 pics emerge



Sony and Apple to enter into partnership?



Apple planning a 4.8 inch iPhone 6, another big screen phone to come



Bendy Galaxy S5 and flexible iPhone 6S to launch later in 2014



According to its source, Apple is also testing a prototype with bezel-less

screen and a fingerprint scanner.



"Speculation about an iPhone with an edge-to-edge display has been around for

years. The problem is, the real next-gen iPhone, aka iPhone 6, isn't due for a

long time. So, Apple could very well be testing a bezel-free design, but what

the company ultimately decides is unknown" says Cnet.



Though few concept iPhone 6 have been expecting a bezel-less display, we are yet

to come across any concrete leak. As far as the fingerprint scanner goes, we can

expect this new technology introduced with the iPhone 5S to be there on the

iPhone 6 as well.



LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





