

Thailand will get its chance to buy the iPhone 6 at regular prices Oct 24 when
Apple Corp officially brings its latest two devices to retailers and mobilephone
operators in the kingdom, an industry source said Tuesday.

Currently only available via greymarket resellers at exorbitant prices, the
iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will go on sale on Apple's online store, mobile
operators and distributors at prices ranging from 25,500 baht to 37,300 baht,
according to a source at a major Thai informationtechnology distributor. Apple
itself has not confirmed the release date.

The 4.7inch iPhone 6 will sell for 25,500 baht for a version with 16 gigabytes
of storage memory. The 64 GB model will sell for 29,400 baht and the 128 GB
version for 33,400 baht, the source said.

The 5.5inch iPhone 6 Plus "phablet" will start at 29,400 baht for the 16 GB
version, 33,400 baht for the 64 GB model and 37,300 baht for the topoftheline
128 GB iPhone 6 Plus.

The IT distributor acknowledged  but could not explain why  prices supplied to
him were higher than what the iPhone models sell for in the US, based on current
exchange rates. The quoted retail prices for the iPhone 6 are also higher than
historically charged for iPhone 4S and iPhone 5S models with the same amount of
storage.

Another industry source said this week that Thailand could have been among the
countries to receive the iPhone 6 the first day it launched, Sept 19, worldwide.
But he said public comments by an official at the National Broadcasting and
Telecommunications Commission confirming the existence of the iPhone 6 a month
before its launch dashed those chances.

NBTC secretarygeneral Takorn Tantasith announced that the NBTC had approved
Apple's application to distribute two models  identified only by number  and
then, on Aug 12, tweeted the news. Apple, notoriously secretive about
unannounced products, demanded an immediate meeting with Mr Takorn and,
according to the Thai industry source, booted Thailand down the launch list.

Thirtyone other markets will have received the latest iPhones before Thailand if
it indeed does launch here on Oct 24. China gets the devices on Oct 17.

The IT industry source suggested Apple may not have retaliated against the NBTC,
however. He said the delay could be caused by the extremely constrained supplies
of the iPhone 6 Plus, which have sold out in nearly every market. Apple
reportedly is having trouble meeting manufacturing goals for the handset, which
has been more popular than the 4.7inch model.

