                              205 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                            October 2, 2014 Thursday



Here's why Apple iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus may win the race with premium

smartphones



BYLINE: Gulveen Aulakh



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 543 words





NEW DELHI: Apple's new devices - iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus - are expected to

corner a chunk of the premium market when they are introduced in India on the

back of pent up aspirational demand.



The Cupertino-based company's new gadgets could beat back competition from

upcoming launches by leading brands such as Samsung, Sony and BlackBerry in this

low-volume, high-value category of smartphones, say analysts.



The brand's iconic status - besides features such as a larger, crisper screen,

faster processor, better camera and onboard storage of as much as 128 GB - will

continue to draw consumers, analysts add.



"Success of upcoming flagship devices such as iPhone 6 series, BlackBerry and

Xperia Z3 will be quite polarised towards iPhones as the rich urban consumer

will look to get her hands on the most aspirational brand in the market right

now, which is Apple," said Tarun Pathak, a senior research analyst at Hong

Kong-based Counterpoint Research.



Of the two, the iPhone 6 Plus with a 5.5-inch display could fare better, given

the demand for handsets with larger screen sizes, analysts said.



While there is uncertainty over whether Apple will start selling the new iPhones

in India before or after Diwali, Samsung is set to launch its Note 4 phablet

before the festival of lights. Although the India prices for the iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus have not been officially disclosed, they are available in Delhi's

grey market for between Rs 1,00,000 and Rs 2,00,000, three to four times the

expected price, and an indication of the huge interest in the products.



The unlocked, 128 GB iPhone 6 Plus costs $949 (about Rs 58,600) in the US,

according to Apple's website.



However, launch delays and supply issues given the huge global demand and

"exorbitant pricing" could affect demand for the new iPhones for at least the

next two or three months, Pathak cautioned, indicating that if Apple missed the

upcoming festival season, competitors such as Samsung and Sony could steal a

march over it in the near term. Apple sold over 10 million iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus models in the three days after the launch on September 19.



Sony started sales of flagship products Xperia Z3 and Xperia Z3 Compact last

week at Rs 51,990 and Rs 44,990, respectively, while Black-Berry launched its

Passport smartphone on Monday for Rs 49,990. Samsung introduced the Galaxy ALPHA

smartphone for Rs 39,990 last week.



The new and upcoming launches, which showcase technological advancements and

innovations, could provide a fillip to growth in the premium segment of

smartphones, which start at Rs 35,000. Sony has improved its display, hardware

and design over the Z2, while Samsung brought a steel-bodied phone for the first

time in the Galaxy Alpha. BlackBerry's Passport offers a unique square display,

which allows greater reading space, apart from an innovative touch-enabled

keyboard that combines a physical keypad with virtual keypad functions.



According to Counterpoint Research, the market share of smartphones above Rs

35,000 was limited to 2.5% in the first quarter till March and fell to 2.3% by

June. The decline was mainly blamed on the lack of innovation, which wasn't

appealing enough for consumers to replace their already expensive handsets.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





