                              219 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                             October 3, 2014 Friday



Apple's iPhone 6 rollout proceeds with boost by 'Consumer Reports'tests

disproving new devices are easily damaged and a software glitch fix put an end

to a social-media firestorm



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 759 words





Bloomberg



San Francisco



Apple has got the latest iPhones' global introduction back on track with a

rollout in 22 countries, a glitch-free software update and backing from Consumer

Reports magazine tests that show the handsets are hard to bend.



Stress tests on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, along with comparable smartphones from

competitors, showed that it took "significant force" to damage any of the

devices, Consumer Reports magazine said in a study published on its website.



In a sign that consumers were ready to overlook the smartphone's rocky first

week, long lines formed at stores as Apple introduced the latest iPhones to a

second wave of markets, including Russia, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab

Emirates.



The new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are Apple's most important products to debut this

year, leading a wave of gadgets that will go on sale, including new iPads and

the Apple Watch.



While Apple touted record 10 million sales of iPhones during the opening

weekend, the celebration was cut short by an iOS mobile-software update that

disabled cellular services, causing Apple's engineers to pull it back. The

company also had to respond to a social-media firestorm over claims that the

large-screen iPhone was susceptible to bending if sat upon.



"Apple customers are probably some of the most demanding customers in the

world," Francis Sideco, an analyst at IHS, said in a telephone interview. He

said that no news was good news, because "if they weren't fixed or if there were

new issues that had cropped up, we would have seen it."



About 600 people lined up late last week outside Amsterdam's Apple Store, with

400 customers at the Barcelona shop, the Cupertino, California-based company

said.



Apple on September 25 released its second fix, iOS 8.0.2, for its mobile

operating system, which is included in the new iPhones and available as an

upgrade for recent models. Apple also said that it had only received nine

customer complaints about bent iPhone 6 Plus devices.



Stress tests showed the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are as "tough" as other

comparable phones including HTC's HTC One M8 and Samsung Electronics's Galaxy

Note 3, Consumer Reports magazine said on its website.



"Our tests show that both iPhones seem tougher than the Internet fracas

implies," the report said.



Apple chief executive officer Tim Cook is counting on the new handsets, which

generate more than half of Apple's annual $171 billion (Bt5.5 trillion) in

revenue, to fuel sales growth. He is using the iPhone 6, which has an

11.9-centimetre display and iPhone 6 Plus with a 13.9-centimetre screen to push

into Samsung, HTC and other manufacturers of smartphones turf with jumbo-sized

screens.



Demand for Apple's new handsets has the company poised to sell more than 61

million iPhones in the last three months of the year, surpassing last year's

record 51 million sold, according to Barclays.



"People who want an iPhone are going to buy one, regardless of what the news

says," said Carl Howe, an analyst at 451 Research. "Given that they are

backordered in every country in which they are available, they will have no

problem selling them if they don't want the phone."



Sales are also set to pick up as the new iPhones become available in more

countries. The list expanded to also include Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland,

Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New

Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and Turkey.



In total, the iPhones will be in 115 countries by the end of the year, Apple has

said.



Apple apologised for the early iOS glitches and said that fewer than 40,000

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus devices were affected by the iOS 8.0.1 problem that caused

users to lose cellular reception.



Software developers, whose livelihood depends upon creating applications for

devices such as the new iPhone, took the glitches in stride, saying it was a

normal part of the process.



"Every time Apple does anything, people complain because they are so big," said

Collin Donnell, lead iOS developer at Lovely, an online apartment finder. "I

haven't seen anything out of the ordinary."



Still, others were frustrated by the glitches.



"Most of those 40,000 people were probably developers, these are the guys who

are waiting for this because they need to check against public releases," said

Slaven Radic, CEO of Vancouver-based Tapstream Network, which helps developers

market their apps. "I know a number of them who got this bug. Your phone not

having cellular connectivity was a major problem for a lot of them. They didn't

know what to do."



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





