                              228 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 Yorkshire Post



                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday



Keep taking the tablets... the iPhone 6 is nearly as big as one



LENGTH: 340  words





The iPhone, one of the most recognisable smartphones on the market, has been

redefined by Apple, with the technology giant resizing the device, with the

iPhone 6 Plus becoming the first iPhone to have a screen over five inches in

size - just two inches smaller than the iPad Mini tablet.



Size is the biggest change here, emphasised by the Apple slogan for the new

devices "bigger than bigger." The current iPhone, the 5, has a four-inch screen,

whereas the 6 and 6 Plus measure in at 4.7 and 5.5-inches respectively.



At the Flint Centre in Cupertino, Apple's CEO Tim Cook called the smartphone

makeover "the biggest advancement in the history of the iPhone".



The screen is made of ion strengthened glass, and both devices are thinner than

the current generation iPhone 5s. On the iPhone 6, Apple's stats show that

battery life is similar to that on the 5s, but is much improved on the 6 Plus,

with the amount of hours of audio playback doubled being one example shown.



Apple has also continued its tradition of updating its main processor - this

time to the A8, as well as the M8 coprocessor, which focuses on movement

tracking. Apple says this has been tweaked so that it now recognises elevation,

and can therefore monitor you more accurately as you climb. Whether it be

mountains or stairs.



The A8 now processes at speeds 50 times that of the original iPhone, giving

users an idea of just how far things have come.



Battery life will also improve in the iPhone 6 Plus, with some usage now

draining the battery half as quickly as the current generation iPhone 5s say the

tech giant. Owners of the 6 Plus will also be able to use some apps in landscape

orientation - identically to how it works on an iPad - for the first time on

iPhone.



The camera in both of the new phones has also been upgraded, with a new 8

megapixel rear-facing camera, and new technology called Focus Pixels that ensure

quicker than ever focus when taking pictures.



Both new iPhones will ship on September 19, with the iPhone 6 starting at £539,

and the 6 Plus at £619.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP





                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





