                              230 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          International New York Times



                          September 18, 2014 Thursday



It's the inside that shines in new iPhones;

Machine Learning



BYLINE: MOLLY WOOD



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 1136 words



ABSTRACT



The best part of the new phones is actually the new software, which is available

for some older models, too, starting on Wednesday.



FULL TEXT



Bigger. Bigger. Bigger.



The new Apple iPhones going on sale this week, the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6

Plus, have crisper screens, faster processors and sharper cameras.



And, as you might have heard, they are also bigger than previous iPhones - the 6

Plus by a long shot - joining the stampede toward bigger handsets.



But after almost a week of trying the phones, it became clear that the hardware

was not the best part of the package. In its quest to deliver bigger phones to a

market clamoring for them, Apple has made one phone that is actually a little

too small and one that's a little too big. (Apple lent The New York Times an

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus under the condition that a review would not be

published before Tuesday at 9 p.m. in New York.)



The best part of the new phones is actually the new software, which is available

for some older models, too, starting on Wednesday. The software, iOS 8, combines

some of the advanced features of Android with Apple's ease of use and

reliability. Because of the software, it's hard to see many iPhone fans straying

from Apple, even if they don't buy new iPhones immediately.



The iPhone 6 is a 4.7-inch device, up from four inches on the iPhone 5 and 5S.

It's a little wider than those phones, too.



Those dimensions make it slightly smaller than the top Android and Windows

devices on the market, helping it fit easily in jeans pockets. Compared with a

Samsung Galaxy S5 or the HTC One (M8), though, the iPhone 6 screen feels

constrained.



The iPhone 6 Plus is a behemoth. It has the same size display as the LG G3, at

5.5 inches, but is significantly taller. It's longer even than the Galaxy Note

3, which has a 5.7-inch display.



Both the 6 and 6 Plus get thinner, flatter and more rounded shapes than their

predecessors, losing the squared-off sides on the more recent models. The effect

looks sleek, but feels slippery. Dropping seems imminent as you stretch your

thumb across the larger screens.



Apple takes some small steps to mitigate the finger stretch with a feature

called Reachability, which lets you touch (not press) the home button twice to

shift the screen down to the bottom half of the display.



The feature works nicely for one-handed scrolling and finding app icons, but it

doesn't do much else. If you're in an email, for example, you can't get access

to any actions like Reply or Archive.



Apple could have taken a cue from other makers of so-called phablets (a blend of

''phone'' and ''tablet'') and come up with powerful ways to take advantage of

those bigger screens.



For example, the forthcoming Samsung Galaxy Note 4 will let users resize app

windows using a finger or stylus and view multiple windows simultaneously on its

5.7-inch display, as on a desktop computer. The 5.5-inch LG G3 lets you open two

apps at once and resize them as you like.



The iPhones do include some tricks created for bigger phones, like a zoom

feature that lets you subtly increase the size of app icons and text in native

apps. And when you turn the phones sideways, into landscape mode, the keyboard

in the built-in apps like Mail and Messages has more options - including

microphone, undo, period, comma and others on the iPhone 6, and even more on the

iPhone 6 Plus, like dedicated copy and paste keys.



Those extra iPhone 6 Plus keys disappear if you choose the zoomed display,

however. And the iPhone 6 Plus is so big that in landscape mode, I had a hard

time reaching the keys to type.



Even the built-in Apple keyboard doesn't get any extra keys when holding the

phone upright, the way the Samsung and LG keyboards include number keys above

the letters, and period and comma keys.



As for the features that people love about their iPhones, they only get better.

The iPhone 6 cameras, for example, are outstanding. Both rear-facing cameras

have new sensors that deliver faster autofocus, better face detection and the

ability to capture high-resolution panoramas. The faster focus is immediately

obvious, even in casual use.



The iPhone 6 Plus in particular uses optical image stabilization to deliver

better photos in low light and reduce overall shake and blur. Sadly, that nice

feature is not on the iPhone 6.



And filmmakers are swooning over the phones' high-definition video, faster frame

rates (which lead to smoother video) and higher-quality slow-motion capture.

Cinematic video stabilization helps smooth out video taken while moving, and a

time lapse mode snaps a shot every second or so and stitches them together. Of

course, all the videos and photos look great on the bigger screens, especially

the iPhone 6 Plus. For camera buffs, that bigger phone is likely to be a

must-have.



Call quality on the new phones is excellent and I found battery life on the

smaller iPhone 6 to be impressive. I went almost two full days without a charge.

Battery life on the iPhone 6 Plus is more like a day of constant use and not

much more, but that's not terrible on a phone that size.



The real magic, though, happens because of Apple's new operating system.



The iOS 8 software doesn't look greatly different, but many refinements make it

more powerful and flexible. Some of the features catch up to competitors and

some are totally new.



The upgrade adds iCloud Drive, for example, which lets you more easily share

documents across devices, as you can with Dropbox or Google Drive. A Family

Sharing feature will let you share your purchased books, movies, music and some

apps with up to six family members, so they don't have to log in to your account

to watch a movie or use an app you have purchased.



After OS X Yosemite, the new operating system for Macs, is released in October,

Apple's Continuity feature will let you view incoming text messages across all

devices, hand off documents between a phone and computer and send a text or make

a call from your Mac.



Smaller improvements - expiring messages and voice memos, Spotlight searches

that include web results, and recently used contacts that show up when you

double-press the home button to switch between or close apps - add up to a

refined mobile OS.



Some of the features aren't perfect, and many of the sexier features are still

down the road. Right now, for example, the Health app simply doesn't do much.



The new operating system comes on the new phones and can be installed this week

on the iPhone 5S, 5 and 4S. People who have those phones and whose two-year

cellphone contracts have not yet expired can rest easy. They will get many of

the best features of this year's upgrade cycle.



The slim new iPhones aren't a big-screen slam-dunk, but they work well, as we

have come to expect from Apple. Ultimately, it's what's on the inside that keeps

them just in front of their rivals.



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 International Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





