                              231 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             The New Zealand Herald



                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday



Is this the latest iPhone?



SECTION: BUSINESS; General



LENGTH: 256 words





Apple fans are intrigued by an image posted online believed to be a leaked

preview shot of the latest iPhone.



The photo shows what Apple fans believe is the "iPhone 5se", the iPhone model

Apple is expected to launch in March, pictured beside the iPhone 5. It was

published on website One More Thing, the same site which had a leaked image of

the iPad Air 2 display two years ago as well as the iPad Air design.



Apple specialist site 9to5Mac reported sources had revealed the phone would be

known as iPhone 5se, meaning "special edition" or "enhanced".



The iPhone would have a 4-inch screen, the same size as the iPhone 5, and

feature the curved glass of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s.



It would feature the same 8 megapixel rear camera as the iPhone 6 and sources

told 9to5Mac that the iPhone 5se would feature the A9 and M9 processor, like the

iPhone 6s.



READ MORE:



bull Has Apple"s iPhone reached its peak?



bull 10 iPhone tricks that will make your life easier



bull iPhone 6s battery trouble? Try this fix



The website said it believed the iPhone 5se would replace the iPhone 6 and 6

plus in the line-up, and appeal to people who want all the up-to-date features

in a more compact form.



The March announcement by Apple is also expected to feature an iPhone 7, or a

new iPhone model by a different name. An upgrade to the Apple Watch was also

expected to feature in the presentation.



The photos of the model could turn out to be fake, but the site One More Thing

has published leaked images from "Apple insiders" which turned out to be

legitimate before.



LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 The New Zealand Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





