                              235 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                              The Herald (Glasgow)



                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

                                   1 Edition



New iPhone generates more than four million first-day pre-orders



BYLINE: NO BYLINE



SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 250 words





Apple received more than four million first-day pre-orders of the next

generation of the iPhone, which goes on sale on Friday.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus became available to pre-order on Friday, more

than a week after the device was unveiled in California.



Customers will be able to get their hands on them from the Apple stores in

Buchanan Street, Glasgow, and the intu Braehead shopping centre.



Apple confirmed that in the first 24 hours of pre-orders going live, more than

four million units were sold - double the number for the iPhone 5 when it went

on sale to pre-order.



Both devices will be available in new sizes for the first time.



The iPhone 6 offers a 4.7-inch screen, and the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen

- 5.5 inches - which Apple has produced for a smartphone.



The number of orders appears to have caught the technology giant off guard, as

the firm stated that some iPhones might not reach customers until next month.



Apple said: "Demand for the new iPhones exceeds the initial pre-order supply.

While a significant amount will be delivered to customers, beginning on Friday,

many iPhone pre-orders are scheduled to be delivered in October."



Chief executive Tim Cook, who unveiled the new smartphones in a live stage

event, said: "iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are better in every way, and we are

thrilled customers love them as much as we do. Pre-orders for iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus set a new record for Apple, and we cannot wait to get our best

iPhones yet into the hands of customers."



LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: GH





                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group

                              All Rights Reserved





