                              23 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             The Examiner Newspaper



                             October 5, 2014 Sunday

                         Examiner First Edition Edition



FOR the first time, iPhone sho...



SECTION: FEATURE; Pg. 43



LENGTH: 396 words





FOR the first time, iPhone shoppers are faced with a choice: do you go large

with the iPhone 6 or extra large with the iPhone 6 Plus?



In response to growing competition, Apple has released two versions of its

latest phone: the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and hefty 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus. The iPhone

can now stand toe-to-toe with giant Android rivals.



While big phones are old news for Android lovers, the iPhone 6 might come as a

shock to Apple fans because it's taller and wider than its predecessor. To

compensate, Apple has moved the power button to the right-hand side so it's

easier to reach. The iPhone 6's extra girth grows on you and more screen real

estate certainly comes in handy.



The next step up to the iPhone 6 Plus is more confronting and it might be

difficult to grip for people with small hands. It's more of an in-between device

if you don't want to carry around a phone and a tablet.



iPHONE 6 FROM $869



It's thinner than the iPhone 5 and only a fraction lighter, so it doesn't feel

like more of a burden in your hand or your pocket. The curved edges are easier

to grip and look more elegant. Both new iPhone models have more grunt than the 5

and take slightly better photos (the same number of megapixels, but improved

lenses).



iPHONE 6 PLUS FROM $999



It's thicker and heavier than the iPhone 6, but still thinner than the 5. The

screen is larger than the 6 and sharper at 1920x1080 to match a Full HD

television. You get longer battery life, and optical image stabilisation to

remove shake from videos. It also borrows tricks from the iPad, like extra

buttons on the keyboard and split-screen mode in some apps like Mail.



THE VERDICT It depends on what you feel comfortable holding, as the iPhone 6

Plus is bulky and demands two hands to perform some tasks. If you're jealous of

the expanses of screen real estate available on giant Android phablets such as

Samsung's Galaxy Note, then the iPhone 6 Plus is for you. If in doubt, stick

with the iPhone 6 because it will still feel like a major step up from an older

iPhone.



Check this out



The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus can act as tap-and-go credit or debit cards, thanks to

the built-in near-field communications chip, but there's no launch date for

"Apple Pay" in Australia. When it does launch, iPhone 5 and 5s owners will also

be able to swipe their phone to pay at the counter if they're also wearing the

Apple Watch, due next year.



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Big, and bigger . . . the new iPhone 6 comes in two sizes.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





