

Forget Scottish Independence for a minute - tomorrow is the biggest day of the
week.

Friday will see the brand spanking new iPhone 6 released across the globe, with
manufacturer Apple reporting record numbers of pre-orders from consumers.

Of course, that's hardly a surprise that around 4 million phone lovers have
placed orders. People everywhere are desperate to get their hands on the latest
technology - and the smart iPhone 6 and slightly larger model 6+ mark another
leap forward from Apple.            What is it?

The new iPhone comes in two separate models.

There is a standard 4.7-inch iPhone 6 version which is set to take the baton
from the iPhone 5S, and an iPhone 6+ which boasts a 5.5-inch screen in an aim to
bridge the gap between mobile phones and tablets.            What are the
differences?

Erm, to be honest, not a lot.

Aside from the screen, both models have pretty much the exact same qualities
except the iPhone 6+ boasts an upgraded camera. Hardly surprising, is it, given
the screen size?

Both versions boast longer battery life and better performance than their iPhone
4 and 5 counterparts, with both models offering iOS 8.            How much is
it?

Here are the price breakdowns for the iPhone 6:

16GB: £539

64GB: £619

128GB: £699

And the iPhone 6+:

16GB: £619

64GB: £699

128GB: £789

Different networks offer different pricing plans and costs.            Why
should I get one?

If you aren't somebody tempted by fashions and fads, maybe you will be swayed by
the iPhone 6's avant-garde model designs and improved technology and better
performance.

The model's curved edges mean you have the power button on the side of the model
rather than the top and, because of the bigger screen, double-clicking the
centre home button brings up all your app icons within a thumb's reach.

The camera has improved, too, with faster autofocus and next-gen local tone
mapping.

The better battery life is obviously a huge draw for workers, with iOS 8
offering them improved performance and connectivity so you can reply to e-mails
and messages reliably and promptly.

