                              247 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)



                          September 27, 2014 Saturday

                                 Final Edition



Options for new and old smartphones



BYLINE: Gillian Shaw, Vancouver Sun



SECTION: WEEKEND REVIEW; Pg. F3



LENGTH: 625 words





Whether it's time to buy a BlackBerry, sell your iPhone or protect your new

iPhone 6 from expensive repairs, here are the latest options.





BlackBerry Passport Business users who lamented the loss of a keyboard on their

touchscreen smartphones have a new option with this week's release of

BlackBerry's new Passport. The big square-screened Passport comes with a

touch-sensitive QWERTY keyboard. It's available now through Telus Mobility,

starting at $100 bundled with Internet and Optik TV service on a two-year

contract; $200 (an introductory price until Sept. 30) with a two-year phone

contract and $700 with no contract. The factory unlocked version from BlackBerry

is $700. The touchscreen on the Passport is 4.5 inches with 453 pixels per inch,

higher than Apple's iPhone 6 Plus. It's heftier and wider than Samsung's Note 4

and the iPhone 6 Plus. BlackBerry says the passport-like size makes it easy to t

in a pocket. That would be a suit pocket. The Passport has BlackBerry's new 10.3

operating system, which includes BlackBerry Blend, an app that links your

messages and content from your BlackBerry to your computer or tablet. It has a

13-megapixel rear-facing camera with optical image stabilization and 1080p HD

video recording and a front-facing 2MP camera with 720p recording. Find out more

at ca.blackberry.com.





Orchard app -Sell Your iPhone Are you looking to sell your old iPhone so you can

buy a new iPhone 6? There's an app for that. The app Orchard tests your phone,

gives you a selling price and if you choose to sell it, the company will send

you a shipping box to send in your phone. With Apple announcing it set a record

for iPhone sales, no doubt there are a lot of second-hand iPhones looking for a

new home. The problem, says Bruno Wong, a University of Victoria grad who

co-founded the Toronto-based start up Orchard with Alex Sebastian of Vancouver

and University of Toronto grad Hamza Javed, is that the majority of people don't

want to go through the hassle of selling. Only 18 per cent of smartphones get

resold, a bit higher for iPhones. Orchard charges sellers 20 per cent if they'll

wait for three weeks for their phone to sell and get their money; for two weeks,

the fee goes up to 25 per cent; for one week it's 30 per cent and for a one-day

sale - it's 35 per cent. I tested the app with my 64-GB factory unlocked iPhone

5. The app estimated it's worth $380, meaning if I opted to wait three weeks to

get my money, I'd net $304. If I wanted the money immediately, I'd get $247. By

comparison, with Bell Mobility's trade-in program my phone would be worth $125.

The company plans to expand its service, adding iPads, Android devices and other

consumer electronics. Look for Orchard -Sell Your iPhone by Orchard Labs Inc. in

Apple's app store.



BodyGuardz Screen Protectors We often put our phones in a case but leave the

screens unprotected. If you've ever sat on your phone, had it crushed in the

bottom of a hockey bag or suffered some other similarly shattering experience,

you'll know that damaged screens can be an expensive headache. Already repair

shops say they are getting iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones in for screen

repairs and Apple has posted screen repair prices: $109 for the iPhone 6 and

$129 for the iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 5s, iPhone 5c and the iPhone 5. You could

invest in a BodyGuardz screen protector for your new iPhone 6 or 6 Plus with

several options including the ScreenGuardz Pure and the ScreenGuardz Pure

Anti-Glare at $40; the HD Impact and the HD Impact Anti-glass at $30, the $25

Clear Skins, which are an ultrathin clear polyurethane protector that wraps the

entire iPhone, and Armor, a PVC lm that retails for $20. Find them at

bodyguardz.com.



gshaw@vancouversun.com vancouversun.com



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2014 The Vancouver Sun

                              All Rights Reserved





