                              257 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)



                               September 14, 2014

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



OUR SAY;

Our specialists answer your travel questions



SECTION: DISCOVER;FEATURES; Pg. 11



LENGTH: 533 words





FAQ  How useful is the new iphone 6 for travellers?



A DONALD STRACHAN, technology expert, replies:



Apple's two new iPhones, the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus, have bigger and

better screens than the iPhone 5, but for travellers other considerations are

usually more important. Here is my guide to the key areas to consider:



Longer battery life?



My last-generation iPhone rarely lasts a full day on a single charge when I'm

checking apps, maps and review sites on a city break. The contrast, when I

roadtested the HTC One (M8) on a recent trip to Rome, was stark. Its 2,600 mAh

battery did not once run out before bedtime. Sony's recently announced Experia

Z3 will have an even bigger, 3,100 mAh battery. The iPhone 6 is an upgrade on

the 5S. By how much? Alongside increases in raw battery capacity, the iPhone's

faster A8 processor offers improvements in power management. Apple data suggests

the iPhone 6 will last 25 per cent longer on 3G browsing than the iPhone 5S.

Standby times are identical, however. It's an improvement rather than a sea

change. The larger iPhone 6 Plus promises a bigger boost in battery life.



A better camera?



Camera quality was long one of the iPhone's strengths, but rivals have matched

and even surpassed Apple. Sony recently announced the Experia Z3 with a 20.7

megapixel (MP) camera, 4K video recording and image sensitivity equivalent to

ISO 12,800, making low-light shooting easier. Nokia's 41MP Lumia 1020 currently

leads the way in smartphone photo performance. Does the iPhone 6 camera match

these? On the face of it, not quite. The new iPhones still have 8MP cameras, but

both models have a new sensor, faster, more precise autofocus, and improved

image stabilisation for sharper photos. They can also shoot slow-motion video at

up to 240 frames per second. Without a detailed hands-on test it's impossible to

be certain, but the camera looks like a significant upgrade on the iPhone 5S.



Improved protection against the elements and accidents?



Pre-launch rumours suggested that new iPhone screens could be made from

ultra-tough synthetic sapphire. Instead, the new iPhone comes with what Apple

calls an "ionstrengthened glass" screen. And rivals already make fully

waterproof phones. The new Sony Experia Z3 is waterproof under 5ft (1.5 metres)

of water for up to 30 minutes, for example.



A secure mobile payments system?



Several phone networks and banks are launching mobile wallets. These are

designed to replace credit and debit cards with tapping your smartphone to pay,

in any shop that accepts contactless cards. Apple launched its own version

yesterday: Apple Pay. It will be available from next month, initially in the

United States only. Both new iPhones have a Near Field Communication (NFC)

antenna for making contactless payments, which shoppers authenticate using their

iPhone's Touch ID fingerprint sensor. It looks as though Apple Pay could soon

offer a safe and convenient way to pay when travelling and the payments system

will also work with the new Apple Watch.



ASK OUR EXPERTS



If you have a travel query, we have an expert to answer it. Email queries to

asktheexperts@telegraph.co.uk We regret that experts can only answer queries

used for publication



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: The iPhone 6 camera has a faster and more precise autofocus



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STL





                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





