                              263 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                        July 4, 2014 Friday 11:22 AM GMT



Apple iPhone 6 'leaked' images, release date and price round-up: 12 rumours

about upcoming device;

The tech giant is keeping most details under wraps - but luckily social media

users are dripfeeding the world 'leaks' on a daily basis



BYLINE: By David Raven



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 1237 words





iphone 6 rumors



The iPhone 6 is the smartphone everybody has been waiting for - well Apple users

at least.



It's known across the tech world that the company usually keeps all official

announcements until the last minute, leaving frustrated fans to wait with bated

breath.



But luckily there are a band of rogue social media users who claim to leak bits

of information out to the world.



Here we bring you all of the speculation, rumours and release date details that

have been gossiped about on websites, blogs, Twitter and Facebook.Only 5.5inch

model will pack '128GB internal storage'



Reports from China claim only the larger iPhone 6 will have the more substantial

amount of internal space.



Apple Insider claims Chinese sources say only the supposed 5.5 inch device will

have 128GB storage - while its 4.7 inch counterpart will have just 64GB.



It has been reported online that both models will be released on the same day,

thought to be in September.New picture shows curved edges on 4.7in model



The iPhone 6 will include a curved glass screen if the latest leaked images are

anything to go by.



Tech website 9to5Mac posted the new pictures which were sent to them by blogger

Sonny Dickson.



On the picture, two glass covers of the latest Apple handset can be seen

side-by-side in both black and white.



The most notable difference from these designs and the mock-ups we've seen in

the past are the curved edges.



Now standing at 4.7inch display, it looks like the new model is set to be not

only bigger but rounder than ever before.Could leaked mockups differ from final

design?



The iPhone 6 will not look exactly like the mock-ups that have been leaked,

according to new reports.



Japanese website Nikkei is claiming that while there will be some similarities,

the final design will be different than what we've seen.



This is largely because low-quality materials are used to make the dummy models

to keep cost to a minimum during the early stages.



One alleged difference is that the handset that makes it to the shelves will

include a curved glass display.



This feature is ultimately better quality than flat displays which have been

seen in the leaked images.Highest resolution images revealed



The clearest images yet of the iPhone 6 have been posted by an eBay user.



Through the high resolution shots of a black and silver handset more detail can

be seen than ever before.



There looks to have been some significant design changes, including the fact

that the power button has been moved to the side of the device.



It is rumoured from the images that Apple's new release will be thinner and

longer than any iPhone before it.New images of 'leaked iPhone 6 screen'



New 'leaked' images point towards Apple releasing their latest handset in two

different sizes.



Australian blogger Sonny Dickson has publicised pictures which show a ruler

measuring the screen of an iPhone 6.



It reaches a diagonal measurement of approximately 14cm which is 5.5inches when

converted.



While the full phone is not shown in the pictures, the LCD display component is

instead used.Could iOS 8 come with a barometer weather device?



The iPhone 6 may be able to track weather according to codes found within its

operating system.



Yet-to-be-released iOS 8 includes frameworks for a barometer, meaning it would

be able to predict the atmosphere around the device.



This would allow users to track the weather, altitude and air pressure wherever

they go.



The discovery was made by Apple-tracking website 9to5Mac which spotted multiple

references to the feature when analysing the operating system.



It was then tested by FutureTap developer Ortwin Gentz who tried to add the

information onto Apple's most recent handset, the iPhone 5s.The 5.5 inch model

and 'Sapphire Glass'



The new iPhone 6 will allegedly feature Sapphire Glass - but only on the larger

model.



Apple are rumoured to be producing two different sized versions of the phone at

their launch this autumn however, only one of the devices will be using the

advanced screen.



The tech-giant's 5.5inch model will be kitted out with Sapphire Glass according

to suppliers.



Taiwanese supply chain insiders have said that the larger version is being

manufactured with the super strong material.



If used, the feature will ultimately make the phone resistant to scratches. This

will come in handy for those who buy the expanded version of the device and want

to store is safely.What does it look like next to HTC One M8?



This picture shows how the upcoming iPhone 6 measures up to the HTC One M8.



It appears to be another 'leaked' image of the new model, but this time the

handset is positioned next to their rival's and the iPhone 5.



The snaps seemingly confirm that Apple's latest release will have gained some

extra length as the phone evolves.



It is noticeably taller than its predecessor which was 4 inches when launched in

2012.How does it measure up to Samsung Galaxy S5?



This picture appears to show Apple's upcoming iPhone 6 held next to the Samsung

Galaxy S5.



The image was posted by phone tech website GSM Arena and shows the S5's screen

looking slightly longer and considerably wider.



This is in line with other 'leaked' pictures which have claimed that the smaller

version of Apple's new phone will have a screen size of 4.7 inches - up from 4

inches on the iPhone 5.



The S5 has a screen size of 5.1 inches, but will be dwarfed by the bigger iPhone

6 - planned to be 5.5 inches - if rumours are to be believed.So what's the

release date?



Apple will be launching the iPhone 6 on September 19 in 32G and 34GB, according

to a report.



The website MacRumors has slated a release for the third Friday of the ninth

month which is in line with previous launches.



Last year the iPhone 5s and 5c hit the shelves on that date, and before that

both the iPhone 5 and iPhone 4 were also launched on the same week in previous

years.



This date corresponds with the end of Apple's fiscal year meaning it is one of

their most lucrative times to unveil the new model.'Leaked pictures' show 5.5

inch designiphone 6 sonny dickenson tweet



Australian blogger Sonny Dickson tweeted new photos of two different sized

handsets which he claims will be the tech giant's newest models.



There is a noticeable difference between the two handsets which are both thought

to be dummy models.



If this picture is authentic, then it could confirm that Apple will be releasing

two duel versions of their new phone.



 iPhone 6 screen size comparison



Rumours have been circulating for months now that the tech-giant would be

debuting a larger model to combat the growing popularity of phablets such as

Samsung's Galaxy Note.



Blogger Dickson has a history of being correct with such revelations.



Last year he posted authentic snaps of the latest iPhone prior to it hitting the

shelves.Current headphones may not be compatible



Apple might be eliminating the headphone jack on the iPhone 6, according to a

rumour.



If the tech giant were to follow through with the plan it would render all

existing headphones unusable.



Currently the company's handsets use a 3.5mm jack, which has been standard in

portable music even before the first Sony Walkman went on sale in 1979.



The move is sure to disappoint loyalists who are still getting over changes to

the iPhone 5 which left them out of pocket.



However, other users denied this and the company is yet to make an official

comment.



For all the latest Apple news on the iPhone 6 as it breaks click here.



Will Apple's iPhone 6 be the best phone out there?



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





