

With less than a week to go before Apple reveal the iPhone 6 , more has been
leaked ahead of time than any other Apple device in history.

Leaked photos, videos and schematics appear to show intricated details of the
phone's design, screen, camera and even battery life.

The next generation phone is expected to come in two flavours, with different
screen sizes, and feature a complete redesign with a new super-slim profile.

How can I watch Apple's iPhone 6 launch event online?

So let's take a look at what we know - and think we know - about the biggest
Apple launch of the year.Screen

Everything we've seen so far points towards Apple gearing up to release two
models of iPhone - one with a 4.7" screen, and another with a 5.5" display.

While it was rumoured the devices would feature a near-scratchproof sapphire
crystal display, inspection of the Apple manufacturing chain has since suggested
the costly material will not be standard - at least at launch.

There's talk of a premium model, with higher specifications which would include
the sapphire glass - along with a costly price tag - but at present this is
speculation.

Microscope pictures claimed to be of the iPhone 6 screen suggest a much sharper
display than the current model.

The Retina screen on the current iPhone 5S has a density of 10.5 pixels per mm.
The 1704x960 display suggested by the photos would be a much sharper 16 pixels
per mm.Speed

The   iPhone   6 will feature a new super-fast WiFi chip, improving internet
speeds dramatically.

It will also feature Apple's next generation A8 processor, which should give the
smartphone a huge performance boost.Design

The iPhone 6 is expected to have a more rounded body than the 5S - with a design
that harks back to the original first-generation iPhone.

A video has been released online which claims to show an entire iPhone 6
constructed from parts leaked from the production line.

iPhone 6 cobbled together from leaked factory parts

An alleged leaked schematic suggested the new phone will be 7mm thick - and the
4.7" model has a codename of N56.Digital payments

The tech giant are reportedly working with  Visa, Mastercard and American
Express  to develop an 'iWallet' payment system, allowing users to pay for
things with thier phone.

It's thought this will use  Near Field Communication (NFC)  - the technology
used for contactless payments.

Apple's system would allow users to link their iPhone with their credit card,
using it to make purchases with a swipe of their device.Battery Life

As well as a huge performance boost, the A8 processor is expected to improve
power efficiency, and therefore increase battery life

On top of that, leaked photos supposedly showing the iPhone 6 battery suggest
the charge capacity of the two models will be vastly improved.

The photos show two batteries - presumably for the 4.7" and 5.5" models - with
whopping 1810 and 2915mAh capacities.

That's much bigger than the current iPhone 5s battery, which is just 1560mAh.

The high resolution screen is by far the biggest power drain on iPhone devices,
which explains why the 5.5" model needs a larger battery.Camera

Apple's new device is also expected to have a vastly improved camera, with a
13-megapixel sensor provided by Sony .

The new design is expected to feature a camera which protrudes slightly from the
iPhone 6's new slimline body.

Although the 4.7" model is thought to be slightly thinner than the 5.5" iPhone,
the measurements when the camera is included are the same, pointing towards the
two models having the same camera sensor and lens.

What addition would you like to see on the iPhone 6?  Launch event

Apple will unveil the iPhone 6 on Tuesday, September 9th, at a major event in
the tech giant's home town of Cupertino.

They're holding the event at the Flint Centre for the Performing Arts, the venue
they used to launch the original Mac computer and the iPhone 5.

It's the first time in years that Apple have held an event at the Flint Centre -
they usually unveil hardware and software at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Centre
or at their own 'Town Hall' venue at their headquarters.

But the Flint Centre has a much higher capacity - approximately 2,405 seats -
than those other venues, suggesting Apple is looking to launch its new products
with a larger than usual bang.

The event kicks off at 10am California time, which works out to 6pm UK time.How
can I watch the event online?

The keynote speeches at Apple's big launch events are broadcast online by Apple.
You'll be able to watch the speech through the iTunes app on any iPhone, iPad or
iPod Touch.

There'll also be a special event app icon appearing on the home screen of Apple
TV devices on the day of the keynote.

It'll also be streamed on Apple.com, though previous events have been restricted
so they're only viewable using Apple's Safari web browser.

You can also follow all the events with the latest information and commentary
with our full live coverage.Release date

The iPhone 6 release date has not yet been announced, but most rumours put it
within a month of the launch event on Tuesday, September 9th.

Some have suggested the 4.7" model could be on shelves as soon as a week or two
after the event.

But it's thought the 5.5" model will be held back - either because of
manufacturing delays or as a deliberate move to prevent causing competition
between the models.Price

Apple's pricing is usually kept fairly well under wraps - you can never tell
when they're going to pull a surprise price drop.

But if we base it on last year's pricing, the 4.7" model with the smallest
capacity (16GB for the 5S) will cost £549, the next up (32GB) £629 and the
biggest storage (64GB) £709.

If Apple upgrade the maximum storage to 128GB as is rumoured, it's likely
they'll make the minimum amount 32GB.

That's all based on the current screen size - we're expecting the price to shoot
up for the 5.5" version, perhaps even more for the "premium" version with
Sapphire glass.

Will you be buying the iPhone 6 on launch day?

