                              278 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                     September 26, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST



iOS 8.0.2 released to take care of issues caused by the previous update



LENGTH: 356  words





A day after Apple pulled a plug on iOS 8.0.1 update which created a few issues

for Iphone 6 and 6 Plus users, Apple has now released the second update to iOS 8

operating system. This iOS 8.0.2 update has been released to resolve issues like

loss of call services and problems with TouchID which were faced by users who

upgraded to the iOS 8.0.1.



Apple had a day back apologised for the issues caused by the iOS 8.0.1 update,

and suggested a workaround for Iphone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus users to downgrade to

iOS 8.



This update brings bug fixes and improvements to features which include

Healthkit Apps, third-party keyboards, Photo Library, cellular services, SMS/MMS

messages and others.



Here is the complete changelog by the company:



- Fixes an issue in iOS 8.0.1 that impacted cellular network connectivity and

Touch ID on iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus



- Fixes a bug so HealthKit apps can now be made available on the App Store



- Addresses an issue where 3rd party keyboards could become deselected when a

user enters their passcode



- Fixes an issue that prevented some apps from accessing photos from the Photo

Library



- Improves the reliability of the Reachability feature on iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus



- Fixes an issue that could cause unexpected cellular data usage when receiving

SMS/MMS messages



- Better support of Ask To Buy for Family Sharing for In-App Purchases



- Fixes an issue where ringtones were sometimes not restored from iCloud backups



- Fixes a bug that prevented uploading photos and videos from Safari



To download the update, do this:



The update is available over-the-air and can easily be downloaded. Users of

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus can go to 'Settings' in the menu and  'General' in

it. There will be an option called Software Update given in it. Opt for it and

download the update.



Ever since the launch of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, users have been

companing about some of the other issue. Appart from software issues, Apple

users have also complaint about the iPhone 6 Plus bending issues when kept in

pockets. Due to this bendgate issue, Apple has been trolled by other its

competitors as well. You can read about it here.



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





