                              279 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                           November 22, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending Nov. 22;

One size fits all, insiders, the more expensive iPhone



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1058 words





The iOSphere has gone gaga over what everyone says is a "report" that iPhone 6

will have a big screen and we now knowhow big. Thank heavens for "insiders."



Also in this abbreviated Rollup: brace yourselves for the More Expensive iPhone.



You read it here second.



"According to Ctech, both iPhone 5S and 5C will get a display size bump next

year, though they are not sure how big the screen of C line will be."~ Stasys

Bielinis, UnwiredViews, who translates the Google translation__________ iPhone 6

will have 4.9-inch display according to a "report" that's "pretty good" By now,

everyone knows that iPhone 6 will have a bigger-than-4-inch display. Because ...

well, because it's obvious.



The latest "confirmation" of big-screen iPhones sweeping the iOSphere, as in

this post at UnwiredView, is based on a short post at a Chinese language tech

site called CTech.



Here's how UnwiredViews Stasys Bielinis puts it: "Now Chinese site C Technology

[i.e. CTech], which has been pretty good at this, claims to have received an

insider tip that Apple is testing iPhone prototype with 4.9" display."



According to Google Translate here is CTech's claim in its entirety: "We have

just received a message from insiders is that Apple has begun testing a

prototype iPhone 6 for some time, and its size is 4.9 inches."



That's it. Based on that one sentence, it's impossible to know whether there

actually are multiple insiders who are messaging CTech, or whether CTech simply

made it all up. [FYI, here's the original Chinese post at CTech.]  The use of

the word "prototype" always creates a frisson of excitement in the iOSphere. But

prototypes are widely used in product development. What's missing here, and in

nearly all iOSphere revelations about Apple prototypes, is any understanding of

how Apple actually does its prototyping: at what stage of the development

process; whether it does different prototypes at different stages; at which

stage is this alleged prototype; how do the "insiders" know it's an iPhone 6

prototype; and so on.



Finally, UnwiredView adds that "According to Ctech, both iPhone 5S and 5C will

get a display size bump next year, though they are not sure how big the screen

of C line will be."



That's what might be called a very loose paraphrase, according to Google

Translate which renders the Chinese almost into gibberish: "In addition to the

screen size, no more news iPhone 6, but the news source also revealed that next

year Apple will release two may be at the press conference announcing the big

screen iPhone, ie iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C is an upgraded version of the big

screen But iPhone 5C upgraded version of the screen size is uncertain whether

the 4.9 inches. But from the perspective of avoiding fragmentation, iPhone 5C is

an upgraded version of 4.9 inches screen size should also, of course, how the

truth, you also need to wait for further news, we will continue to pay close

attention."



The phrase "you also need to wait for further news" could be the Great Litany of

the iOSphere.



But in the skilled hands of seasoned interpreters, you don't need to wait for

further news: you can make it up yourself, because the very absence of

information reveals information. "The screen number jump, however, for the 5C

was not provided though the report has attested that a 4.9-inch handset is

currently being tested, softly implying that the tech giant has finally found

the sweet spot for the screen of its first phablet offering," helpfully explains

International Business Times' Erik Pineda.  iPhone 6 will have a bigger pricetag

to match the bigger screen Not many people who argued, or ranted, that Apple

"had" to have a cheap iPhone to survive saw this one coming: a more expensive

iPhone.



"Given the high cost of components in Apple's new iPhone 5s and the company's

appetite for high profit margins, some observers theorize that it may opt to

ship its next flagship iPhone with a higher price," writes John Paczkowski, at

the AllThingsD blog.  "Some observers" apparently means "one guy," specifically

Chris Caso, a stock analyst with Susquehanna, who "figures the so-called iPhone

6's bill of materials -- which is expected to include a faster chip and a new,

larger display that may or may not be made from sapphire -- will drive up the

device's retail price."



Of course the Big Question is: how much?



"We think Apple could get away with a $50 to $100 premium for a larger screen

size iPhone 6," Caso wrote. "We think such a move could avoid the margin erosion

that occurred when the iPhone 5 was launched."



Paczkowski does the math: "That means instead of $199 (with two-year contract),

the iPhone 6 -- or whatever the successor to the 5s is called -- could price out

at somewhere between $249 and $299."



But it would be worth it to get that Bigger-Than-4-Inches display, eh?



He points out that Apple boosted the price of the new iPad mini with Retina

display by $70 to $399. "It would likely have no trouble doing the same for the

iPhone, particularly if the device's new bill of materials required a higher

price to maintain the fat margins of which Apple is so fond," he concludes.



The iPad price hike is 21 percent, essentially to $400. That's a hefty premium

when there are so many lower-priced tablets on the market, though obviously none

of them are the iPad and none of them participate in the "iOS ecosystem." For

the third-generation iPad, the first to introduce the Retina display on the

tablet, Apple had a bigger battery, much improved CPU and graphics processor,

and clearly a more expensive screen. Yet its starting price was unchanged at

$499.   But the tablet and smartphone are clearly two different markets. So far,

tablet sales for Apple or anyone else are a fraction of smartphone sales.



There are a lot of unknowns here. How price sensitive are potential buyers of a

Big Screen iPhone (BSi)? Would a BSi become the flagship phone, with the "iPhone

6C" keeping the current 4-inch display? Does Apple want to increase the price

difference between the two phones? Or does Apple plan a trinity of iPhone

models: the less expensive "C" line with year-old technology; a higher-end model

continuing with the 4-inch display; and a new larger-screen model that will have

a higher price?



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





