
DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Apple Inc.'s new iPhones will take as many as four weeks to ship, a sign that
early demand for the smartphones is outstripping supply.

The iPhone 6 Plus, which has a larger display, will take three to four weeks for
shoppers who pre-ordered online as of Friday, according to Apple's website, as
people rushed to buy the smartphones hours after the company began taking
pre-orders. Certain models of the iPhone 6, which has a slightly smaller screen,
will take seven to 10 business days to arrive, though some versions are still
available for delivery on Sept. 19, when the devices are set to officially go on
sale in stores.

"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible, with a record
number of preorders overnight," Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman with Cupertino,
Calif.-based Apple, said Friday. Apple CEO Tim Cook is counting on the new
devices to usher in demand for other products he introduced this week, from the
iPhone-compatible Apple Watch to the credit card-substituting Apple Pay service.

Demand for the latest iPhone is the greatest AT&;T Inc. has seen in two years,
Ralph de la Vega, CEO of its mobile division, said Friday at a Goldman Sachs
media conference.

This isn't the first time Apple and phone carriers have seen iPhone models
delayed well before they were available in stores. In 2012, the iPhone 5 was
delayed for shipment by a week after a rush of orders, and in 2011 the iPhone 4S
sold out at AT&;T, Verizon Wireless, and Sprint Nextel Corp. only five days
after pre-orders began.

The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch display and the iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch one,
while the previous iPhones have a four-inch screen. Customers took to Twitter to
complain of difficulties loading Apple's website to place pre-orders early
Friday morning.

While the company normally doesn't disclose figures for its production runs of
new products, it typically has a supply of its new devices in stores on the
first day. Carriers, which typically offer deals when a new iPhone comes out
aiming to capitalize on sales of the device to lure more data-hungry smartphone
users and bolster their market share, are again offering incentives that may be
bolstering interest.

The iPhone remains the most important piece of Apple's business. The handset
accounted for about half of Apple's $171 billion in revenue in its last fiscal
year, and with sales of the iPad slowing, the company needs to keep the iPhone a
blockbuster to maintain growth.

The handsets will initially be available in a limited set of markets - including
Canada - for shipping on Sept. 19. China, one of Apple's biggest markets, won't
get the new devices at first, though the company said it plans to have the
devices in 150 countries by the end of the year.

