                              28 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)



                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Retailers look to woo Apple lovers, who line up for newest iPhone



BYLINE: Denise Allabaugh, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.



SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS



LENGTH: 607 words





Sept. 20--WILKES-BARRE TWP. -- A long line of people awaiting the launch of the

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus stretched outside the Verizon Wireless store on

Schechter Drive early Friday.



"They started camping out last night. The earliest person got here as the store

closed last night," said Chris Blasi, advanced solutions architect for Verizon

Wireless. "It's been very busy."



In the past, customers paid about the same price for their iPhone and were

presented with the same options no matter where they went.



Now, providers like Verizon Wireless and retailers like Best Buy, Target, Radio

Shack and Wal-Mart offer discounts and other perks like trade-in and sign-on

bonuses and gift cards to try to win more customers.



"That makes good sense because they got the crowds out there and they

(retailers) all want to get a piece of the action," said Anthony Liuzzo, Ph.D.,

director of business programs for Wilkes University.



Verizon Wireless provided customers a $200 gift card when they traded in an

iPhone 4, iPhone 4S, iPhone 5 or iPhone 5c and purchased a new iPhone 6 or

iPhone 6 Plus. Owners of the iPhone 5S received a $300 Verizon gift card.

Verizon Wireless also accelerated upgrades on Friday, Mr. Blasi said.



While the launch of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus drew lines, crowds and

retailer promotions, Dr. Liuzzo said it did not elevate to the level of an event

like Black Friday since tech enthusiasts who want the latest phones were only

purchasing a specific item.



"I don't think anybody really needs it, but people want it. It's a specialty

good," he said. "It's kind of a status symbol among some people."



Kingston resident Ian Mondelice, 26, traded in his iPhone 5S for the iPhone 6

Friday and got a $300 gift card at Verizon Wireless.



"I'm only paying about $50 for the phone so that's a good deal," Mr. Mondelice

said.



Mr. Mondelice arrived as Verizon Wireless opened at 8 a.m. and solutions

specialist Ainsley Maiers set up his new iPhone at about 10 a.m. amid a crowded

store.



"Usually, you wait hours," he said. "I like the bigger screen, the faster

processor, the better camera and more features like Apple Pay."



According to Apple, pre-orders for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus topped 4

million during the first 24 hours, a new record for the tech giant.



Kris Jones, founder of ReferLocal.com and KBJ Capital and co-Founder of the

French Girls app, bought an iPhone 6 from the Verizon website on the morning it

went on sale and said he couldn't wait to get it Friday.



"Honestly, I was worried about Apple post-Steve Jobs, but with the release of

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus as well as Apple Pay and Apple Watch, I think Apple is cool

again," Mr. Jones said.



Mr. Jones likes the iPhone 6's improved resolution for FaceTime and its bigger

screen, which he said makes for a better experience viewing pictures, launching

apps and navigating the phone.



The iPhone 6 screen is 4.7 inches and the iPhone 6 Plus screen is 5.5 inches,

said Connor Scalleat, founder of Krate, a website and mobile application

development company in Forty Fort. The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus have Apple's new A8

processor, which is 50 percent faster than the iPhone 5S, he said.



Mr. Scalleat said his favorite addition to the iPhone 6 is Apple Pay, an easy

way to make payments with the touch of a finger.



"In addition, Apple is boasting loads of added security features such as remote

deactivation, no card numbers displayed, and they do not track your purchases,"

he said.



Contact the writer:



dallabaugh@citizensvoice.com



___ (c)2014 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice

(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



ACC-NO: 20140920-YC-Retailers-look-to-woo-Apple-lovers-who-line-up-for-newest-

iPhone-0920-20140920



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: YC





                       Copyright 2014 The Citizens' Voice





