                              296 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                               TODAY (Singapore)



                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

                                  APM Edition



New iPhones prove that big is beautiful



BYLINE: Hedirman Supian



SECTION: ITC; Technology; Pg. 48



LENGTH: 561 words







HIGHLIGHT: Larger displays provide a compelling reason to upgrade to Apple's

latest models





SINGAPORE - Apple has finally caved in to consumers clamouring for larger

screens with the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.



The bigger displays are arguably the smartphones' most compelling new feature.

The 4.7-inch LCD display on the iPhone 6 and the 5.5-inch on the 6 Plus are

brighter and offer a much wider viewing angle than their predecessors.



The iPhone 6 Plus crams more pixels on its display, offering a higher resolution

along with a bigger screen.



Viewing videos captured at 60 frames per second on these devices is like peering

at an object out of a clear window.



With the iPhone 6 Plus' bigger display, however, using the gadget with one hand

can be a bit of a stretch.



I could reach and tap the bottom corners of the display with my thumb, but had

to balance the back of the smartphone precariously with my remaining fingers,

preventing me from keeping a sturdy grip on it.



With their smooth edges and curved bodies made of anodised aluminium and

stainless steel, both smartphones exemplify Apple's consistency in pushing the

boundaries of product design.



These are the thinnest smartphones that Apple has made, with their svelte curves

blending harmoniously with the bigger screens.



Apart from battery capacity and display size, both iPhones share almost the same

technical specifications. Both sport the newer A8 64-bit processor.



No details have been revealed about the A8's clock-speed.



A comparison of the performance of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus with smartphones from

the likes of Samsung or Microsoft is also difficult as the A8 runs a different

operating system, and cross-platform apps or games that push the performance of

processors are scarce.



The iPhones hardly lagged when I played graphics-intensive games or viewed

high-resolution videos. Just like the iPhone 5s, I've yet to come across an app

or game that pushes the 64-bit processor to its limit.



The main cameras on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus come with a resolution of 8

megapixels each. Given their impressive array of camera features, iPhone users

may no longer need to rely on a dedicated point-and-shoot camera.



Despite having the same resolution as their predecessors, the new models produce

the most stunning photos and videos that I have seen on a smartphone.



Photos sport more accurate colours and better exposure. A built-in timelapse

feature is available for both the front and back cameras.



The iPhones also boast new fast-focusing features that are used in DSLRs. You

barely need to tap the screen to direct the focus on the camera as it

automatically and instantly does so when you point it at an object.



Both phones include an image stabilisation feature, which is useful for

low-light photography and making videos.



The 6 Plus has a slight edge in this area because its camera is also equipped

with optical image stabilisation - it makes constant adjustments to compensate

for a user's movements.



While there are a number of compelling reasons for users to upgrade to the

iPhone 6 or 6 Plus, the larger displays are the biggest reason - you wouldn't

want to go back to using a smaller iPhone after having your visual experience

enhanced by more screen real estate.



Prices for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus start at S$988 and can go up as high as

S$1,448 if you purchase one without a mobile subscription contract.



Both models will be available from all three major telcos in Singapore from

tomorrow.



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2014 MediaCorp Press Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





