                              306 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 EKantipur.com



                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday



iPhone 7 A silhouette into a faux future



LENGTH: 1403 words



DATELINE: Kathmandu





Kathmandu, Oct. 4 -- The release of Apple's latest iteration in the iPhone line

has been all the hype these last few weeks. There have been contrasting reviews

: some like the faster processor while others hate the removal of the headphone

jack. Some even complai



that Apple is playing catch-up with Android with features like water-resistance

and processor performance, but I think comparing iPhone to Android phones is

like comparing apples to oranges. Primarily



because, while both of them are smartphones, they fill totally different

spectrums of the smartphone industry. Android is more open to different kinds of

hardware, third-party apps and user tweaks while iPhones are limited to specific

hardware and the Apple eco-system. So, in my review today, we look at the iPhone

7, unadulterated.



With the iPhone 7, there are a lot of new features that Apple brings to their

line of flagship phones but there are a lot of compromises as well. The main

question here would be whether the compromises are worth the new features

implemented by Apple: currently the answer is no. The iPhone 7 still feels like

a prototype since a lot of its new features aren't really fleshed out and, for

it to actually find a ground, Apple needs to loosen up the noose a little bit.

But iPhones have always been trendsetters in the smartphone industry and it's

likely that most of the iPhone 7's features will bleed into other devices as

well (if Apple doesn't threaten to sue on patient claims).



At first blush, the iPhone 7 and the 7 Plus look exactly like the older iPhone 6

and 6s. The only distinguishing aesthetical change here would be the slightly

invisible antenna lines. On the older iPhones, the antenna lines were stark and

obvious; for the latest offering, Apple has tried to hide them by them bleeding

them into the edges of the phone. This makes for a more seamless design by Apple

but if you snap on a cover on top of the iPhone 7, it'll hardly be

distinguishable from the older iPhone 6. And much like the popularisation of the

rose gold colour by Apple on its iPhone 6 line, Apple has introduced the new jet

black colour for their iPhone 7 line as well. Although the jet black colour

looks polished and refined, it's a fingerprint magnet and is highly receptive to

scratches and dents which make the use of cover essential. The home button is

also not a physical button anymore and the elongated button reacts like a sensor

and works with the Taptic Engine to simulate a vibration jolt every time the



button is pressed. This feels like an unnecessary change since the tactile

physical button response of the older iPhone felt a lot better. Apple claims to

have made this decision to make the home button more customisable but since the

engine has not yet been adopted by most third-party app developers, it seems

redundant for now and even the Taptic response of the engine makes it feel like

the whole lower bottom of the iPhone 7 is a sending out a click response rather

than the button.



Performance wise, Apple new A10 Fusion processor works great. It outperforms

both the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge and the One Plus 3. It follows the same

architecture that Qualcomm has implemented on most of their recent processors,

the BIG.LITTLE technology that works for low performing cores for everyday

activities and high powered core for more CPU intensive tasks. The A10 Fusion

chip is a quad-core processor and utilised two high-powered cores and two

low-powered cores. This would mean that the iPhone 7 would perform faster than

the iPhone 6 line and achieves better performance at a lower power consumption.

But again, the performance does not increase by leaps and rather the performance

increment can be taken as a small step forward in comparison to the iPhone 6.

The higher powered cores don't kick in until the apps demand which would mean

that fluidity of the iPhone 7 would seem on par to that of the iPhone 6 during

daily use.



Apart from the performance increment, the iPhone 7 has a better camera and the

iPhone 7 Plus features a dual camera set-up. iPhone have always set the standard

in mobile photography and although other companies have been pushing for higher

megapixel sensors, none of them have been able to match the quality of photos

taken by an iPhone. Recently, though, Samsung S7 line has been able to produce

excellent quality photos and could take on the iPhone 6 in terms of picture

quality but matching Apple's image quality took Samsung years. With the iPhone

7, Apple has managed to improve image quality by implementing a faster f/1.8

lens but here too, the quality increment is nominal when compared to the older

iPhone 6. The iPhone 7 Plus does increase image quality drastically because of

the dual lens setup but Apple has disappointed me here too. While the pictures

the iPhone 7 takes are phenomenal, having access to two lenses would mean a host

of features but with the iPhone 7 Plus, it only amounts to a better zoom.

Optical zoom is good and all but looking at what other companies like Huawei

have managed to do with dual



lenses, the iPhone 7 Plus' zoom ability is just sad. Huawei's Honor 8 lets you

play with all kinds of optical effects like depth of field and focus

adjustments. Some companies with dual lens cameras even let you focus after the

shot has been taken. To me, the full capabilities of the dual lenses have not

been adopted by Apple and puts the dual lens setup of the iPhone 7 Plus to

shame.



Apart from the faster processor and the dual lens camera, the feature (or rather

the lack of) that has been turning heads is the removal of the 3.5mm analogue

headphone jack. Apple's always been confident about setting trends but the

removal of the headphone jack might not be a good thing. This severely limits

the number of ports on a portable device and having to use the

lightning-to-3.5mm converter is a hassle. They're small and you can lose they

easily. Apple seems to be hinting at a completely wireless ecosystem but that

too is not properly fleshed out on the iPhone 7 because it does not feature

wireless charging. Even the enhanced Bluetooth support of the iPhone 7 is locked

into Apple's ecosystem. The company's new flashy pairing support is only limited

to their W1 compatible audio products which means that every other audio system

will have to suffer through the same snags that Bluetooth pairing entails. This

is very disappointing because Apple is taking away an industry standard port

claiming to pave the way for newer technologies but locking this new technology

only to the Apple ecosystem and not across the whole board just beats the whole

purpose. I would have defended Apple in this regard claiming that since

everything is going digital, getting rid of the analogue 3.5mm jack is zeitgeist

but seeing as how Apple has made a conscious decision to lock their new

technology to the Apple ecosystem just seems underhanded and wrong.



So, considering all of these claims, investing on an iPhone 7, especially at

this point in time, is not a very good idea. The phone looks like the iPhone 6

with additional cables and converters plugged into it and it does not bring

drastic performance increments to actually make the jump from an iPhone 6 to the

7. The loss of the headphone jack is also a big problem at this point of time

and would only mean that you'd have to keep track on one more (Bluetooth

headsets) device to charge up. Also using Bluetooth instead to cabled headphones

would mean quicker battery drain. The shortcoming of the iPhone 7 and the iPhone

7 Plus are just too stark for me to recommend it right not. The retina display

of the iPhone also seems pointless today since almost all flagships by other

manufactures come with 2k or 4k display resolutions at a higher pixel per inch

ratio. Currently, the iPhone 7 doesn't bring much to the table and even the new

feature that they have introduced feel rudimentary and impish at this stage.

Maybe waiting for the next iteration in the iPhone line would be a better call.



If your technological devices are giving you a hard time or if you're just

curious about certain technological questions, please drop us an email at

technopolis.tkp@gmail.com and we'll try to answer your questions as best we can.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query

with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact

Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





