                              309 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)



                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday



Apple of our eye - Comparing different devices from the tech giant with friends

revealed the iPad mini 3 trumps the rest



LENGTH: 788  words





IOS devices: iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad mini 3, iPad Air 2.



I have had guests at my home all week and it has been something of a mini-Apple

event. I bought iPads for the two friends who already had an iPad mini each. I

gave them the latest iPad mini 3. With these we had over a dozen devices

together and I could not resist a photograph that included a MacBook, MacBook

Pro 13-inch (2012), MacBook Pro 13-inch (2010), two x iPad mini 2, 2 x iPad mini

3, iPad Air 2, 2 x iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and an Airport Extreme router under

the table. There was also an Apple TV behind me.



My friends were able to make direct comparisons with their old and new models,

reporting that the iPad mini 3 scrolled quicker and had much better battery

life. Reactions to Wi-Fi speeds were also better and I saw this with a

back-to-back comparison: two iPads, same web page. Both were also pleased with

the higher quality images they were now taking with the camera on the iPad mini

3.



An interesting point with both of these friends is that they use their iPads for

everything. One hardly ever touches a computer. The other has a MacBook Pro but

uses that only when absolutely necessary. This matched with comments made to me

elsewhere concerning some older users who claimed that using a PC made them

dizzy and so use their iPads constantly.



I did wonder if they needed special glasses to compensate for the extra distance

a computer screen is usually positioned, but this is academic and they are

"addicted" (as I was told) to the hand-held devices. Tablet computers are now

the new personal computers. Analysts may need to recognise that in the future

some users will never touch what we think of as a PC (Macs included).



I was also asked during the week about how the iPhone 6 Plus would fare as a

replacement for an iPhone and an iPad. That prompted me to take a side-by-side

photograph of current iOS devices. I tend to leave my iPad at home and make-do

with the smaller screens of the iPhones when out. I can work on the iPhone with

most applications, including those I write with, although columns of figures in

Apple's Numbers are not so easy to read on the iPhone 6. With news sites, I

prefer to use landscape mode as the characters are larger.



On the iPhone 6 Plus, the text, including Numbers, is only slightly larger.

Tentatively I would say it is possible to replace an iPhone and iPad with the

iPhone 6 Plus. But it depends on the type of work being done and how good the

user's eyes are. A smaller screen is bound to cause some strain if used to

excess. I often connect my iOS devices to the television: there is an adaptor

available, or I link via Apple TV. Being able to display the contents of an

iPhone on the large screen of a TV is a useful solution.



The screens of both current iPhones make reading text quite easy and the display

of images is good. I am using the camera of both iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus more

these days and often leave my DSLR camera at home. This week, I also tried some

macro photography using the lenses from Mobi-Lens, a former Kickstarter project.

While I tried the well-engineered olloclip lenses before (also a Kickstarter

project), these have the advantage that their construction allows them to be

used with iPads as well as the iPhones. I also tried them on a Samsung and a

Sony phone.



Last year I wrote that Microsoft had released a version of Office for the iPad

(and later iPhone), but it was not available in the iTunes app store for

Thailand. Official comments I managed to glean from Microsoft then told me it

was "unlikely to be made available any time soon". Almost a year later, Office

for the iPad is now in the iTunes App Store for Thailand. The components are

hefty apps and may take some time to download.



Apple released a flash Storage Firmware Update for the mid-2015 15-inch MacBook

Pro with Retina display last week. Apple said that the update addressed a

storage firmware issue that, in rare cases, could cause data corruption.



The Apple Watch caused much speculation before and since Apple's quarterly

financial results partly because Apple decided beforehand to lump the figures in

with the other sales that included iPods. With that section showing an increase

of about US$952 million (33 billion baht) in revenue over the previous report,

analysts thought they had the answer, but Apple's CFO Luca Maestri said not:

watch sales were offset by declining revenue from iPods and accessories so the

figures were still just guesses. Perhaps Rene Ritchie of iMore had it right when

he wrote that "the iWatch will be one of the dumbest media frenzies of 2015".



Graham K. Rogers of Mahidol University's Engineering Faculty has OS X flavoured

web pages at www.extensions.in.th/index4.html



LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2015 The Bangkok Post

                              All Rights Reserved





