

IT goes without saying that the right kind of marketing, backed up with quality
hardware and service, is a winning formula not to be trifled with. However,
Apple has lost some of its sheen in recent times where the advancement of the
smartphone industry is concerned; other manufacturers such as Samsung, HTC,
Nokia and LG have taken the phablet route sometime back to resounding success.

Basically, a larger display is always welcome by consumers, since they can see
more and do more with their handset compared to Apple's reluctance to go beyond
the 4-inch display boundary.

Well, all of that has been put to bed now with Apple on the verge of rolling out
its iPhone 6 and larger - sized sibling, the iPhone 6 Plus, in Malaysia via
three of the major mobile carriers, Celcom, Maxis and DiGi.

Pre-orders have kicked off on the respective carriers' websites on Oct 3, and as
expected, the websites did experience heavy traffic, so much so that online
forums were awash with the frustrations of those who actually sacrificed part of
their sleep in order to snag an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus. If you happen to be
one of the lucky few who managed to sneak in your pre-order, then you can
certainly look forward to showing off your spanking new iPhone 6 come Nov 6.

First of all, let us have a closer look at the hardware specifications of each
of the iPhones, so that you more or less know what you will be getting for your
hard earned money.

The iPhone 6 will feature a 4.7 inch Retina HD display while the iPhone 6 Plus
will sport a larger 5.5 inch display. Shared hardware specifications include an
8.0MP iSight camera that boasts faster autofocus, full HD video recording
capability, and slow motion video at 240fps, Touch ID support for a greater
level of personal security on your device without having to rely too much on
passwords and PINs. Selfie lovers will most probably wish that the front-facing
camera pack in more megapixels than just 1.2MP though.

Underneath the hood, there will be the all new A8 chip touted to be faster than
its predecessor, the A7, not to mention being more energy efficient, alongside
1GB RAM and a non-removable lithium ion battery. Throw in a new M8 motion
co-processor, and you will be able to use the spanking new iPhone 6 to track
various aspects of your life, including travelling speed, distance and
elevation, among others. In order to keep up with the rest of the competition,
both iPhone 6 models sport NFC support - a staple in the Android powered
flagships for quite some time. It will be interesting to see just how Malaysian
business entities incorporate Apple Pay in the future.

Now might also be the time to jump aboard the 4G LTE bandwagon since you will be
able to take advantage of theoretical speeds of 150Mbps in the ideal
environment, not to mention having the standard WiFi connectivity thrown into
the mix. Last but not least, both models run on iOS 8 - the most advanced mobile
operating system in the world.

The iPhone 6 will be the lighter of the two, tipping the scales at 129g as
opposed to the iPhone 6 Plus' 172g. Of course, due to the difference in their
respective screen sizes, the iPhone 6 has a pixel density of 326 ppi, while the
5.5 inch iPhone 6 Plus sports a 401 ppi pixel density.

As for which model to select, it really depends on your needs as well as amount
of usage. While getting a larger capacity iPhone 6 is always better if you can
afford it since there is a lack of expandable memory, perhaps coming to a
compromise by picking it up on contract instead of an unlocked model might be
well worth a tradeoff.

There have been concerns about the possibility of the iPhone 6 Plus actually
bending when placed at a certain angle in the pocket either in front or at the
back. There are also reported instances that blue denims discolour the plastic
strip of the iPhone 6 Plus. However, neither of these are expected to turn the
masses away.

Basically, you can choose between 16GB, 64GB and 128GB capacities for the iPhone
6 and iPhone 6 Plus. While there is no detailed information on the breakdown of
how much an unlocked iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will cost, estimates point to
RM2,400 onwards for the 16GB iPhone 6 and all the way to RM3,200 for a 128GB
iPhone 6. The iPhone 6 Plus will probably start from RM2,750 for the 16GB model
and a whopping RM3,500 for the largest capacity model at 128GB, and all of these
come with a contract.

Certainly, it might be a solid piece of hardware with a proven mobile operating
system and app ecosystem, but is it really worth all that money for a
smartphone? I suppose the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus continue to push the idea
that the iPhone - more than just a smartphone - is a fashion statement in the
world of mobile technology.

( END )

