

Apple has launched the new Iphone 6 today. Like last year the Cupertino company
this time also, Apple has launched two new iPhones, with displayy sze of 4.7
inch Iphone 6 and 5.5 inch iPhone 6 Plus.

These two phones will come for worldwide sale on the 19th of this month with the
pre-orders begging on the 12th, The basic 16 GB model of the iPhone is expected
to come at above INR 50K.

The handset in India is a class different. It is considered premium device in
India, which Apple was able to dilute a bit after the launch if iPhone 5C and 5S
in India. Now that Apple is getting aggressive in India and China (Asia),
competitors are no wonder under pressure to match up to Apple devices.

Since then, competitors have also grown fierce to perform well in the market.
This is expected too, since China and India are the top two leading telecom
market today.

Today when Apple is all set to launch its new iPhones and iWatch its time to
estimate what could be Apple's competition this time for the new phones.

Premium feature, a fad no more

The fingerprint scanner that appeared in devices launched by Samsung, Apple and
later in HTC device came to only premium (above INR 40K) Smartphones.

iBerry Asia launched an under INR 15K device this year featuring the fingerprint
scanner and Swipe launched one at less than INR 10K, announcing that's not
premium anymore. Whether or not these budget Smartphone offer any payment
gateways via the phone, they indeed could get the technology go budget!

Apple this time Apple got itself covered well with its deal (Rumoured) with
Mastercard, Visa and others to make iPhone 6 an payment gateway for making
payments via NFC. This none of its competitors have been able to get through,
expect Samsung who went with PayPal to enable payments via PayPal.

For  those luxury phone seekers this will mark security and more payment
options.

Security, hacking and Apple's promise to customer

Last week hackers hacked icloud storage of about 100 celebrities and stole
pictures of them from the cloud. The list of celebrities included Kristen Dunst,
Jennifer Lawrence and many others.

Apple denied security loophole in 'Apple devices' but later switched to
maintenance mode and announced that the company will add an alert system to
iCloud.  This system will notify the user making them change passwords and take
control of the account.

An announcement related to this should come up in two weeks, Cook said in an
interview to the Wall Street Journal.  Though launch event is definitely not a
place for such announcements, a mention will not be bad idea.

The Alpha fight with Samsung

Samsung is going to come as the biggest and direct fighter with the new Alpha
phone, which seems to have been designed keeping in view all the rumours of the
New Iphone 6. The Galaxy Alpha has a metallic body, iPhone like looks and will
pose as a perfect competitor of the iPhone 4.7 incher.

Well, this time Apple has been smart to change its design though. It got the
Galaxy like buttons (power button and volume rocker) on one side and curved
edges like look in latest leaks.

Apple could face a competition if Samsung decides to place its Alpha at about
INR 35K, that's because you get iPhone like phone at, at least INR 15K less than
the iPhone.

And the budget game-changers

"An Apple is an Apple" bueapets possible prices in front of the customers and
agree or not they are hugely ppopular.

After rocking sale of Xiaomi Mi3 flagship based on Snapdragon 800 processor, the
Apple of China is ready with its most affordable handset in India.

Before Apple could launch its iPhones in India, Xiaomi put up 40,000 pieces of
its INR 5,999 handsets for 2nd flash sale. They were again gone in few seconds.
It sold equal number of units in the first flash sale.

That's not all! Micromax unveiled its latest flagship, called the Canvas Nitro
A310 with octa-core processor, 2 GB RAM and a new stitched leather back panel
this week at an affordable price of INR 12,990 for the Indian market. This phone
is going to come to compete with the iPhone 6 this year which will be priced at
a premium.

Is that all?

If that would have been the only competition, it's little worry for Apple, but
cheaper alternatives apart from other companies coming up with slightly cheaper
priced flagships. Oppo's Find 7 flagship with a new camera could be another good
competitors.

All other budget competitors will come up cheap and ultra cheap devices (that
include Android One Smartphone, Mozilla Firefox Smartphones) that won't compete
with iPhone 6, but will make a choice.

So what's the way forward for Apple?

Buy backs have worked pretty well last year with Nokia, Samsung launching
special schemes to buy back old devices and launching premium handsets at
cheaper prices, through online partners and stores. This time too this holds a
lot of hope, especially for the iPhone 5S and 5C customers, who will be ready to
trade in the old iPhone and an INR 20K or 25K price for a new iPhone on
contract.

Offering the handset at lower prices with a year's contract with service
provider is another good option.

The cheaper iPhone (iPhone 5C) for the basic 16GB model last year was priced at
INR 41,900, the iPhone 5S started at INR 53,500. This year the 16 GB model of
iPhone 6 with a 2 year contract will cost INR 12,111 (based on simple
translation of currency, USD 199). That's no way cheap, but seems good enough to
compete with budget phones.

What's expected?

This time the company went into partnership with other companies and is planning
to couple the handset with latest iOS8 with new features. There is an increase
in the screen size and processing capabilities and a bumped up camera in the new
iPhone based on rumours about increased screen size and a new processor) that
would have pressurized resources at Apple. And yes, there could be new Beats to
accompany the new phone.

For full price the Applee will not go near INR 41,000 price point for new iPhone
. But, yes the latest leak leaked online by GForGames who claims to have put the
iPhone 6 on the Geekbench app, saya iPhone 6 4.7-inch will come with 1GB of RAM,
instead of the rumored 2GB RAM on board. That kind of justifies a lower price
for the new iPhone. We can expect it to begin at INR 42,500 or 43,500 in India.

For iPhone 5.5 incher will come in limited numbers and will not be cheap. Given
the fact that last time the iPhone 5S started at INR 53,500, one can't expect
the new iPhone at the same price.  The bigger iPhone might 2GB of RAM. The
bigger screen and iOS 8 customizations will also call for more cost for this.
This will be a particular luxury gadget lovers device this year. Expect it at a
price not less than INR 60,500

The company would in all chances couple the Phone  with the iWatch as a deal, or
sell them independently.

Since this is the first smart watch from Apple which will compete with Samsung,
Motorola, LG smart watches in the market that are placed at INR 15K to 20K in
market, Apple will try and carve itself a niche here. In multiple leaks we have
seen that Apple has been trying to stay as a "choice of luxury" in this segment.
We don't expect the iWatch at below INR 20K anyway, well us if you expect them
to be cheaper than this.

