                              315 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                           September 4, 2014 Thursday



iPhone 6 may boost China's export growth



LENGTH: 389  words





Apple Inc's latest iPhone 6 is likely to add about 1 percent export growth per

month for the rest of 2014 after the product is launched later this year.



BEIJING - Apple Inc's latest iPhone 6, an American product assembled in China,

is likely to add about 1 percent export growth per month for the rest of 2014

after the product is launched later this year, an economist has said.



A boost of 1 percentage point to export growth is no small matter, especially

for the currency market, which closely tracks export growth numbers, says Lu

Ting, chief China economist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, in a recently

published research note.



In the first seven months of 2014, China's exports edged up 3 percent

year-on-year to $1.28 trillion, customs data showed.



Apple Inc said on Aug 28 that it will host a special event on Sept 9, at which

the company is widely expected to launch iPhone 6.



Sales of iPhone 6, with high volumes predicted to be sold, are expected to

impact macro indicators in the countries and regions involved in making it.



All iPhones, except those sold in China, are counted as China's exports. So the

launch of iPhone 6 will surely provide a boost to China exports when these

products are shipped out of China for global end users, Lu said.



According to Lu, Bank of America Merrill Lynch expects 37 million and 63 million

iPhones 6 to be produced in China in the third quarter and the fourth quarter of

this year, respectively.



After deducting the iPhone 6 sold within China, there should be around 83

million units to be shipped out of China, which will translate into $25.2

billion in total export value given an estimated sales price of $607.5 per unit,

he said.



Using the average monthly China exports data in 2014 as proxy, Lu estimated

iPhone 6 shipments to add about 1 percent to China monthly exports for the rest

of this year.



The economist also said that the launch of iPhone 6 will only have a negligible

impact on growth of China's gross domestic product (GDP) this year, which is

expected to approach $10 trillion.



"We estimate that manufacturing iPhone 5S in China only adds about $8 per unit

versus an average retail sales price at $749 and the value added in iPhone 6

might be only slightly improved," he said.



China Mobile ringing up sales for hotly anticipated iPhone 6

Samsung unveils Galaxy Note 4 with extras



LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





