

Christmas came in September this year for Apple devotees, as scores of people
across the country turned out early at the company's stores on Friday to get
their hands on new supersized iPhones.

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were met with delirious excitement by fans, many of whom
had awakened at the crack of dawn -- or even camped out -- to be among the first
to buy the new gadgets. With significantly larger screens, the latest iPhones
help Apple match competitors like Samsung, which have long offered devices that
blur the line between smartphone and tablet.

Apple loyalists clogged San Francisco's Marina District, where the line to enter
the Apple Store wrapped around the block. Many were fatigued after a sleepless
night in the cold, but they perked up once they'd secured the prized phones.
Raul Ramos, a 68-year-old San Francisco resident, was jubilant as he strolled
out of the store with a gold 6 Plus in hand.

"Once I got the phone, I woke right up," said Ramos, a retired pharmacist who
has camped out for every new gadget since the iPhone 3. "I'm not going home to
sleep. I'm going to be playing with it."

Ramos was fourth in line, sitting just behind Klaus Bandisch, a 59-year-old San
Francisco resident who arrived nearly 24 hours early to secure his spot. Parked
in his folding chair, he said a competitive spirit drove him to be among the
first to get the iPhone 6 Plus.

"Second is the first loser," said Bandisch, who is CEO of 140AdAgency.com , a
company that makes mobile websites.

Exiting the store with a space gray 6 Plus, Bandisch, a first-time camper, said
the device was worth the wait.

"The screen is so crisp and clear," he gushed. "I love the size, and it seems
very light."

But supplies of the 6 Plus did not last for long. Tony Ring-Dowell, a
26-year-old who was about 20th in line, said the device was sold out by the time
he entered the store. He was content with his space gray iPhone 6, though.

"I'm even more excited because the phone is so different," said Ring-Dowell, a
first-grade teacher.

Apple offered the first glimpse of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus last week as part of
a wave of new products and services at a star-studded event.

Now that Apple has finally answered the call for larger screens, analysts expect
the new iPhones to trigger a gusher of sales. More than 4 million pre-orders for
the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were placed the day they became available online last
week, twice the volume Apple saw for the iPhone 5. If supplies don't run out,
analysts predict that Apple will sell more than 10 million iPhones this weekend,
up from 9 million during the opening weekend for the iPhone 5s and 5c last year.

The iPhone hysterics extended far beyond Apple's Bay Area stomping grounds. In
Australia, the first country where the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus went up for sale,
more than 1,400 people lined up outside Apple's flagship store in Sydney Friday
morning, according to technology news site ZDNET.

Consumers in Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore
and the U.K. could also buy the devices on Friday, before Apple opens up sales
in more than 20 additional countries on Sept. 26. But it is unclear when the new
iPhones will be released in China as Apple is still waiting for the approval it
needs from regulators there.

The iPhone 6, which measures 4.7 inches diagonally, costs $199 with a two-year
contract, while the 5.5-inch 6 Plus starts at $299. Apart from their superior
size, the phones offer sharper displays, improved battery life and an upgraded
camera.

