                              317 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                            January 18, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending Jan. 18;

El Cheapo rising, home button fingerthingy, OMG specs



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 2147 words





The iOSphere was feasting this week on Notes to Investors, those alchemical

documents that transmute the lead of iPhone6 rumors into the gold of

authoritative fact.



How else could we know the many details of iPhone cheapo that emerged in such

plenitude, including multiple release dates, and sizes, not to mention the

suffering of "billions" who yearn for it and yet must wait.



Also this week, fingering the home button, how iPhone 6 stacks up against

another nonexistent smartphone, the specter of 2014, consumer longings, and whoa

of un-wow.



You read it here second.



__________ __________ Not one but two Next iPhones will be announced around June

or July 2013, according to an ever-more-widely cited "note to investors" from

KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo.



CATCH UP: Week of Jan.11 iPhone 6 rumor roundup Among Kuo's "expectations" is

that one of the iPhones, dubbed iPhone 5S, will "very similar to the current

iPhone 5" but it will have a new processor (the A7), a fingerprint sensor, and

an improved camera with a f2.0 aperture and smart LED flash.



Somewhat disappointingly, Kuo "believes that the lower-cost iPhone will in many

ways simply be an iPhone 5 repackaged into a slightly thicker (8.2 mm vs. the

current 7.6 mm) plastic enclosure available in six colors," according to

MacRumors' Eric Slivka, one of many who repeated the Kuo expectations.



According to a handy "breakdown of specs" chart helpfully included by Slivka,

Kuo's "iPhone 5S" will have a bill of materials estimate of $230-$250 (making it

more expensive to build than the estimated $210-$230 for iPhone 5); but the

retail price for an unlocked model would be in the same range as iPhone 5:

$600-$700.



Kuo "expects" the unlocked iPhone cheapo to retail for $350-$450, and to be free

-- as in "FREE!" -- with a two-year contract.



That Apple would offer a brand new product for a price of $0 seems a stretch; it

currently offers an 8GB iPhone 4 for $0 and two-year contract with AT&T, Sprint

or Verizon, or $450 if unlocked.



Slivka assures readers (who otherwise might be inclined, cynically, to consider

notes to investors, or NTIs for short, as the copy/paste results of analysts

reading Apple rumor sites), that Kuo "has a very good track record in predicting

Apple's product plans."



This would be the same Ming-Chi Kuo who last August released an NTI that

predicted the soon-to-be-announced iPad mini had suffered delays because it

would use a "thinner and lighter 'GF Ditto' touch structure," according to the

same Eric Slivka who faithfully summarized Kuo's expectations. Instantly known

as "GFD," this new "touch structure" was (and as far as The Rollup can tell

remains) a completely unexplained and possibly nonexistent innovation. But that

didn't inhibit Slivka from claiming that "Apple is said to be the first company

in the world to commercialize and mass produce the technology."



AppleInsider leveraged Kuo's NTI to the max. Slivka's colleague, Neil Hughes,

provided new details of Kuo's expectations regarding the fingerprint sensor for

the Next iPhone.



"Apple is expected to launch a new iPhone this year with a fingerprint sensor

hidden beneath the home button -- an intuitive design that could be difficult

for competing Android and Windows Phone devices to copy," Hughes enthused.



Kuo and Hughes expect that the fingerprint sensor will be based on technology

acquired last year when Apple bought AuthenTec, which makes a variety of

silicon-based "smart sensors" with functions like fingerprint recognition but

also highly accurate touch and gesture processing. According to Hughes, Kuo

"believes Apple will find a way to integrate the fingerprint sensor into the

home button, allowing Apple to keep its 'minimalist design.'" Hughes continued:

"In contrast, many Android and Windows Phone devices have more than one button

below the display, and those buttons frequently lack the mechanical push of

Apple's home button. As a result, attempts to integrate fingerprint scanning on

competing devices would be less intuitive, and could frustrate users, Kuo said."



Combining the iPhone home button with a fingerprint sensor lets Apple "replace

the use of usernames and passwords, allowing users to authenticate in a more

efficient manner. [Kuo] also expects that the fingerprint scanner will integrate

with applications such as Passbook to enhance their functionality."



For background, Hughes links to an August 2012 analysis by AppleInsider's Daniel

Eran Dilger on the AuthenTec acquisition.



Much of the industry coverage focused on the fingerprint sensing technology and

the prospect of adding a fingerprint sensor to the iPhone, and other Apple

products, to lock/unlock the devices.



But Dilger examines how the home button could use AuthenTec's technology to be

transformed into a complement to the iPhone's touchscreen: using swipes of

different fingers not only to unlock and activate specific apps and to trigger

customized tasks, but also to launch faster screen scrolling or more precise

screen touch for specific apps.



In addition, he notes that AuthenTec "also develops IP cores for accelerating

cryptography and encryption/decryption, features Apple could add to its System

on a Chip designs to simplify and enhance the performance of iOS devices in

handling HDCP (HDMI content protection) or integrating hardware acceleration of

disk encryption, VPN services, app and iOS platform authentication (thwarting

jailbreaks)."



So even if Kuo is right, there may be more to the fingerprint sensor than meets

the i.



It's part of the iOSphere's surreal charm that it can compare two unreleased and

unannounced products, complete with assertions that simultaneously sound fully

authoritative and utterly baffling.



"iPhone 6 vs. HTC M7: Will HTC Follow Samsung's Footsteps in Beating Apple's

Smartphone?" wonders Kristin Dian Mariano, posting at International Business

Times.



This is the iOSphere convention of rhetorical question, where the answer is

implicit in the question. "It seems that HTC aims to follow the path paved by

Samsung overtaking Apple," she announces.



She begins by citing another recent Note To Investors, this one by Jefferies

stock analyst Peter Misek, who predicts that "the iPhone 5S/6 has a new 'super

HD camera/screen, a better battery, and NFC,' and 'possible updates include an

IGZO screen for Retina+, 128GB storage.'" Authoritative. Yet it becomes baffling

because in IBT's comparison of the two nonexistent smartphones, nearly all of

the specs and features show the non-existent iPhone 6 matching if not besting

the nonexistent M7.



For example, "Screen Display - Upcoming iPhone 6 is speculated to boast 5-inch

Full HD display. HTC M7 will have 4.7 inches 1080p display." So, the iPhone will

have a larger screen than the M7. The term "1080p," according to Wikipedia,

"usually assumes a widescreen aspect ratio of 16:9, implying a resolution of

1920 × 1080 (2.1 megapixel) often marketed as Full HD."



Or take "Internal Storage - Apple's smartphone will have 128GB storage. HTC's

upcoming smartphone is speculated to come with 32GB of internal storage."



And OMG both devices will have LTE and NFC, LOL. ARGH.



That's the bad news. The good news is it will be preceded in June or July 2013

by the iPhone 5S.



GottaBeMobile's Josh Smith seems sold by the latest Note To Investors by

Jefferies stock analyst Misek.



This year, Apple will release only a "minor iPhone 5 upgrade," Smith posts,

based on Misek's NTI. But. Next year. Who Knows.



Misek "believes Apple is planning a 4.8-inch iPhone 6," Smith reveals. And it

won't have a home button. That would be bad news for KGI Securities analyst Kuo,

of course, who is predicting the Next iPhone, one of them anyway, will have an

improved phone button.



This prediction is "based on a prototype." To keep this in perspective, it's

probably best to think of an "iPhone prototype" as sort of like "iPhone fan art

turned into a 3D model."



Misek also has exspectulations (a combination of "expectations" and

"speculations") that the iPhone cheapo will, in Smith's phrasing, "focus on

low-cost instead of being 'cheap'" and have a "polycarbonate case with 4"

non-Retina display and no LTE."



And speaking of cheaper, GottaBeMobile's Chuong Nguyen says that "a Cheaper

iPhone 6 Doesn't Matter to You, But it Does to Billions."



Billions. Pining, longing, yearning for iPhone, if only it was cheaper or less

expensive or lower-priced. Apple, are you listening?



"It's still unclear what the cost savings and profit margin would be for a

cheaper iPhone, but with emerging markets like China, India, and Africa, the

tradeoff would be greater and more lucrative market share for Apple," Nguyen

assures us.



Of course, Apple Senior Vice President of Worldwide Marketing Phil Schiller

recently assured us that Apple will "never blindly pursue market share." [Also

see: "Will Apple introduce a lower-priced iPhone?"]  Part of the issue in

overseas markets, according to Nguyen, is that carrier subsidies may not be as

generous, or even available, as in the U.S. "In China, after high national

taxes, the true cost of a base model iPhone 5 may be as high as $800 or $900,"

Nguyen says.



But last December, when the iPhone 5 went on sale in mainland China, there were

two tiers of pricing. Fortune's Philip Elmer-DeWitt, based on a report by

China's Shanghai Daily, reported that "Traffic may have been light at the Apple

retail outlets that were selling only unsubsidized iPhones (i.e. starting at US

$846), but Apple's partners were having a field day selling the iPhone 5 under

contract for as little as US $96." That's affordable by almost anyone's

definition.



Part of that affordability was driven by unprecedented big trade-in discounts

for older iPhone models, according to a ZDNet account.



Elmer-DeWitt continued: "In addition to the 300,000 pre-orders racked up last

week by China Unicom -- up 50% from the 200,000 it took for the [iPhone] 4S last

January -- the carrier sold 5,000 more before Friday noon in Shanghai alone.

China Telecom, for its part, expected to sell 10,00 units in Shanghai by the end

of the day Friday."



Game over, man.



"Writer and radio producer" Eric Mack, writing in CNET's Crave gadget blog,

declares "The iPhone 6 won't wow: 6 reasons why."



"Back in September [2012], after the much-awaited and meh-filled unveiling of

the iPhone 5, I made a declaration that's being borne out further in this week's

headlines -- the iPhone jumped the shark some time ago," Mack reminds us.

"Jumping the shark" was a phrase originally coined for the point where a

television series runs out of real ideas and resorts to gimmicks.



The iPhone 5 demonstrated, Mack reiterates, the "lack of any groundbreaking

innovation."



He thinks there will be an "iPhone 5s" with some dinky "iterative updates" and

possibly a lower-cost iPhone cheapo. "But the real question is: then what?" he

asks.



Not much, apparently.



"My gut tells me the iPhone as we know it will be done at that point," Mack

says. "I have a hunch there will never be an iPhone 6, because Apple will be

forced to move into a significantly different form factor to keep people

interested and compete with the movement toward bigger phablet-like thingies and

emerging wearable electronics."



When you put it that way, it's all so obvious: the Big Ones and the Unmistakable

Irreversible Trend to "wearable electronics."



We can quickly summarize Mack's six reasons why the iPhone 6, which hunchwise

will never appear anyway but if it does, will fail to wow, because the same six

reasons have been pretty widely cited since the iPhone 4S, at least.



Here they are:



* "iOS is stale" * "Samsung and Android are rocking lately" * "Apple is

different under Tim Cook" (here "different" means "worse" because now Apple is a

company "that seems to follow the more traditional model of giving customers

what they want, rather than the Jobs model of dictating to consumers what they

will want.") * "Young people don't think Apple is cool anymore" * "Price does

matter" because "Money talks, and during these economic times it actually

screams" * "To wow, you need a wow factor. ... Right now I'm having a hard time

imagining any iPhone 6 that will elicit that most joyous of palindromes"Almost

needless to say, Mack doesn't bother quantifying any of these "reasons" which

amount to little more than opinions, or even prejudices. An operating system is

not, for example, like a loaf of bread. The fact that Samsung is rocking is

irrelevant to Apple's success, both in sales and more importantly profitability:

all the indications are that Apple next week will announce its most successful

quarter for iPhone sales ever. And "young people" probably means "Eric Mack."



Mack's main mistake is to think that wowing the impressionable iOSphere hive

mind is the same thing as having a successful and profitable product.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.

Twitter: @johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





