                              32 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          Sunday Times (South Africa)



                            November 9, 2014 Sunday

                              Natal Metro Edition



Battery and camera give iPhone 6 Plus the edge



BYLINE: Deon Govender



SECTION: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 432  words





Gadget Guy. . Battery and camera give iPhone 6 Plus the edge



DEON GOVENDER finds that bigger can be better in the world of the Apple addict



FRIDAY October 24 was like Christmas for many Apple fans in South Africa when

the new iPhone became available.



Two years ago, during the Christmas period, I was one of many who queued in the

iStore, waiting for the iPhone 5.



At that time it was the coolest and best phone available.



Blackberry was out, leaving the cellphone war to be waged between Apple and

Samsung.



I will admit, Samsung has very cool phones and the S5 is the most sought-after

phone this year.



But all that may change.



The people at Apple were smart when they designed the iPhone 6.



They needed to make a phone that targets Samsung or LG users, and by that I mean

a phone with a bigger screen display.



That brings us to the two versions of the Apple phones - the iPhone 6 and the

iPhone 6 Plus.



What is the difference?



I was lucky to test both phones before I bought one.



First, size is the difference:



iPhone 6: Curved aluminium, gold or light/dark silver, 6.9mm thick, 129g.



iPhone 6 Plus: Curved aluminium, gold or light/dark silver, 7.1mm thick, 172g.



The screens are also different. The iPhone 6 looks like the Mini-Me of the

iPhone 6 Plus; it's like the equivalent of the Samsung S5 and the S5 mini. Some

say the iPhone 6 Plus is a smaller version of the iPad mini.



Both phones are slim.



Most people will go for the iPhone 6 because it is a comfortable size, but

before you do, I have to share a few other points to ponder.



The iPhone 5's weak point was the poor battery life and you needed a car charger

to make it last through the day. The iPhone 6 is slightly better, but I can

vouch for the iPhone 6 Plus. It lasted a whole day with frequent use, including

social media and e-mails.



If you have settled on an iPhone 6, don't read any further because the details

might depress you.



This is how they differ:



iPhone 6: 4.7-inch 1334 x 750, Retina HD LCD.



iPhone 6 Plus: 5.5-inch 1920 x 1080 LCD, optimisation in landscape.



So the iPhone 6 Plus comes with a much bigger screen.



The 6 Plus also has a better display, but you have to look hard to notice.



E-mails and social media look amazing.



Both phones come with an 8 megapixel camera, but there is an important

difference between them.



The iPhone 6 Plus comes with optical image stabilisation - no more shaking or

blurry pictures.



The storage space for both phones range from 16 to 128 gig.



Both are available in the colours mentioned above.



Choose a phone you need. If it's for business, I suggest you go for the 6Plus.

But the iPhone 6 will never disappoint.



LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





