                              332 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday



Apple takes on rivals with new larger-screen iPhone 6;

US firm plays catch-up with new models sporting up to 5.5-inch screen



BYLINE: Trevor Tan In Cupertino (california)



SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS



LENGTH: 701 words





Find out more about the features on Apple's new phones and what people say about

them at www.straitstimes.com



APPLE is gearing up for a fight with its new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

smartphones, both of which were announced on Tuesday at the Flint Centre for the

Performing Arts in Cupertino, California.



While both devices mark the first time that an iPhone display has exceeded four

inches, the American firm is playing catch-up with its Android, Windows Phone

and BlackBerry competitors, all of whom launched large-screen devices as far

back as 2011.



The new iPhone 6 sports a 4.7-inch display while its "phablet" cousin, the

iPhone 6 Plus, has a 5.5-inch display. The iPhone 5s has only a four-inch

display. The term "phablet", a portmanteau of phone and tablet, refers to

smartphones with a display size of between 5.01 inches and 6.9 inches.



Size matters, according to the likes of Nokia, BlackBerry, Sony, HTC and LG, who

have all achieved success with larger displays. Many current flagship

smartphones, such as the Sony Xperia Z2 and LG G2, sport screen sizes of 5.2

inches and above.



According to research firm Canalys, phablets represent 34 per cent of smartphone

shipments globally, and 43 per cent in Asia.



Research firm GfK said more than 1.1 million phablets, worth US$567 million

(S$716 million), were sold in South-east Asia in the first quarter of the year.



According to research company IDC, Apple's global market share fell to 11.7 per

cent in the second quarter of this year, from 13 per cent over the same period

last year, as consumers held out for the launch of the anticipated larger-screen

iPhone 6.



"The introduction of larger-screen iPhones eliminates a key differentiator that

has insulated Samsung, Sony, HTC and LG large-screen flagship smartphones from

iPhone competition," said Mr Ian Fogg, senior director at research firm IHS

Technology.



It forecasts that with the new iPhone 6 devices, Apple will overtake Microsoft,

which now sells Nokia phones, to ship the second largest number of mobile

handsets this year, after Samsung.



Marketing manager Daniel Lee, 34, is one user considering the switch to the

iPhone 6 Plus from his Samsung Galaxy S4. "I don't like the fact that I have to

manually set everything each time I change an Android smartphone."



iPhone users need only to sync their new smartphone with the iTunes software, to

retain all the settings and messages from their previous iPhones.



But while Apple has caught up in terms of physical size, it is still behind on

several features found in other smartphones.



Samsung is slated to launch its 5.6-inch Galaxy Note Edge smartphone, which has

a curved screen that creates a two-sided display, next month. It also boasts a

Quad high-definition screen that is said to be sharper than the Retina HD

display on the new iPhone 6.



The Note Edge also has a 16MP camera, versus the 8MP camera in the new iPhone 6

models as well as in the last three iPhones.



Still, Apple's iOS operating system has been lauded for its ease of use, and

that is what matters to Apple loyalists such as quantity surveyor Vivian Tan,

41.



"As long as it is easy to use and produces good images, I do not care how many

megapixels my phone's camera has."



One new advantage Apple has over its competitors is that it has finally included

near field communication (NFC), a short-range wireless link between two devices

held near each other.



The NFC feature will be used with the company's new Apple Pay service, a

wireless payment method that allows users to store their credit card details in

their iTunes account on their phones.



Apple Pay will work directly with American Express, MasterCard and Visa credit

cards.



To make payments, users just need to tap their iPhone 6 against an NFC sensor,

and authorise payment through a biometric sensor on the iPhone 6.



Apple Pay is rolling out first in the US next month and Apple chief executive

Tim Cook said the company is actively looking to expand Apple Pay to more

merchants and other countries.



Both phones go on sale in Singapore on Friday next week.



trevtan@sph.com.sg



SEE WORLD, OPINION



Find out more about the features on Apple's new phones and what people say about

them at www.straitstimes.com



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





