                              338 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)



                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

                                 Early Edition



Long waits for new iPhone 6; Apple's latest smartphone offerings prompt record

number of pre-orders



BYLINE: Tim Higgins And Doni Bloomfield, Edmonton Journal



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C8



LENGTH: 406 words



DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO





Apple Inc.'s new iPhones will take as many as four weeks to ship, a sign that

early demand for the smartphones is outstripping supply.



The iPhone 6 Plus, which has a larger display, will take three to four weeks for

shoppers who pre-ordered online as of Friday, according to Apple's website, as

people rushed to buy the smartphones hours after the company began taking

pre-orders. Certain models of the iPhone 6, which has a slightly smaller screen,

will take seven to 10 business days to arrive, though some versions are still

available for delivery on Sept. 19, when the devices are set to officially go on

sale in stores.



"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible, with a record

number of pre-orders overnight," Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman with Cupertino,

Calif.-based Apple, said Friday.



Apple CEO Tim Cook is counting on the new devices to usher in demand for other

products he introduced this week, from the iPhone-compatible Apple Watch to the

credit card-substituting Apple Pay service. Demand for the latest iPhone is the

greatest ATT Inc. has seen in two years, Ralph de la Vega, CEO of its mobile

division, said Friday at a Goldman Sachs media conference.



This isn't the first time Apple and phone carriers have seen iPhone models

delayed well before they were available in stores. In 2012, the iPhone 5 was

delayed for shipment by a week after a rush of orders, and in 2011 the iPhone 4S

sold out at ATT, Verizon Wireless, and Sprint Nextel Corp. only five days after

pre-orders began.



The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch display and the iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch one,

while the previous iPhones have a four-inch screen.



Customers took to Twitter to complain of difficulties loading Apple's website to

place pre-orders early Friday morning.



While the company normally doesn't disclose figures for its production runs of

new products, it typically has a supply of its new devices in stores on the

first day.



Carriers, which typically offer deals when a new iPhone comes out aiming to

capitalize on sales of the device to lure more data-hungry smartphone users and

bolster their market share, are again offering incentives that may be bolstering

interest.



The iPhone remains the most important piece of Apple's business. The handset

accounted for about half of Apple's $171 billion in revenue in its last fiscal

year, and with sales of the iPad slowing, the company needs to keep the iPhone a

blockbuster to maintain growth.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Oli Scarff, Getty Images; Shoppers wait in tents outside the Apple

Store on Regent Street in London, England. The iPhone remains the most important

piece of Apple's business, generating $171 billion in revenue in its last fiscal

year.;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2014 Edmonton Journal

                              All Rights Reserved





