                              339 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                            November 28, 2014 Friday

                                 First Edition



Telco's magic number: Six



BYLINE: David Ramli



SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 13



LENGTH: 369 words





SingTel-Optus's release of Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus smartphones was the most

successful device launch in the company's history.



Optus postpaid marketing director Tim Cowan said the company had its most

successful week of sales from the devices' launch in September.



"Clearly there's competitive pressure with the three big players in the market,"

he said. "The iPhone 6 period has really heightened that and the device has

driven more demand than anyone would've really expected.



"We sold out of iPhone 6s and it exceeded our previous high, which happened with

the launch of Apple's iPhone 5s."



Optus's experience is similar to Telstra's, whose retail group executive Gordon

Ballantyne said in October its iPhone 6 launch had recorded significantly better

results than previous devices. In both cases, the shortage of supply led to

complaints from customers about waiting times for the new phone.



Morgan Stanley in September predicted the iPhone 6 launch would shake up the

market by giving Telstra an overall increase in its market share.



Optus was due to stay flat, with Vodafone Hutchison Australia losing a small

percentage. This would help deliver $300 million to $500 million extra mobile

revenue for Telstra, the investment bank said.



Mr Cowan said the iPhone 6 had increased the number of SingTel-Optus's

subscribers overall.



The number of iPhone 6 devices in the market may increase the amount of data

being downloaded because it can send and receive at faster rates.



In November, SingTel Singapore consumer chief executive Yuen Kuan Moon was asked

by analysts about the effect of Apple's iPhone 6 on the amount of data being

downloaded, which in turn affects how much money the company can make.



"iPhone 6 is similar to the latest Samsung Note 4 [because] both are Cat 6

devices which mean ... they can actually transmit data at a much-faster speed,"

he said.



"So we would expect users to eventually use more because of the better

experience.



"It's still early days and it's only about two months since the phone was

launched ... but the initial trend tells us that we believe our customers who

have bought these new phones are actually using a bit more data."



The author visited Singapore courtesy of SingTel-Optus.



LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple's iPhone 6 is a hit for both SingTel-Optus and Telstra. Photo:

Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





