                              341 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)



                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday



TRA warns of fake iPhone 6 in market



LENGTH: 371 words





Customers must retain the receipt of iPhone 6 purchases and call the police if

they find a device is counterfeit, says UAE Telecom Regulatory Authority.



Tens of fake iPhone 6 handsets have been confiscated from across the UAE,

prompting the authorities to warn customers against illegal purchase of the

latest Apple smart phone model which was launched in the UAE on Friday.



Potential iPhone 6 buyers have been asked to make their purchases only from

authorised Apple retailers and they should check the official Apple website to

ensure that the features of the phone match the handset's box and packaging

before buying a handset, the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA) said

in a media statement on Tuesday.



Customers must retain the receipt of iPhone 6 purchases and call the police if

they find a device is counterfeit, the authority said. It also pointed out that

counterfeit iPhone 6 devices will not be able to connect to iTunes.



There have been reports of fake iPhone 6 devices on sale in China. The TRA said

it conducted an official investigation into reports of illegal and counterfeit

iPhone 6 handsets on sale in the UAE in cooperation with other departments

concerned.



"As a result of the investigation, a series of counterfeit iPhone 6 handsets

have been confiscated from various locations across the UAE. Based on the

investigation, the TRA has issued a series of recommendations to the public to

generate awareness," the statement said.



"The Type Approval department of the TRA will continue to work alongside all

relevant bodies to tackle the trade of illegal devices in the UAE."



The TRA's announcement comes at a time when the UAE market is experiencing a

huge demand for iPhone 6 handsets. Many approved retailers were running out of

stock and top retailers have been finding it difficult to meet the demand at the

ongoing Gitex Shopper.



While a leading retailer was reportedly selling just 10 units of iPhone 6 16GB

model for Dh2,749, a rival company was offering the same for Dh3,025 at Gitex

Shopper on Tuesday. Khaleej Times also spotted that a UAE-based website was

offering iPhone 6 Plus 16GB, 64GB and 128GB models with FaceTime for Dh3,999,

Dh4,450 and Dh5,199, respectively.



sajila@khaleejtimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 44





   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





