                              343 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                     The Chronicle (Toowoomba, Queensland)



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Camera among best features



BYLINE:  Nick Houghton



SECTION: Pg. 25



LENGTH: 340  words







HIGHLIGHT: Photographer sees iPhone 6 as must-have



Key Features



Larger screen:The screen on the iPhone 6 is 4.7 inches, while the iPhone 6 Plus

has a 5.5-inch display.



Faster Processor:Apple's new A8 chip is said to have 50% faster graphics than

the previous A7 chip.



Improved camera:The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus each have an 8MP camera,

featuring 1.5 micron pixels, an f/2.2 aperture, and a new iSight sensor.



Apple Pay:Integrated Near Field Communication technology will allow the new

iPhone to become a mobile wallet. Use your phone to make contactless purchases

at shops.



LINING up in the early hours was worth it for iPhone fan Ben Walker.



The photographer was one of the first in Toowoomba to get his hands on the

highly anticipated Apple smartphone when it went on sale at 8am yesterday.



Demand for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus was at an all-time high as hundreds

queued at mobile phone retailers across the Garden City.



"I have been an iPhone user for years, and when I heard a new one was being

released, I knew I had to have it," Mr Walker said.



"This will be my fifth iPhone, and it has come to be a vital tool for both my

work and personal life.



"They are really impressive devices, and I can't wait to have a play with all

the new features."



Mr Walker said the bigger screen and better camera were the improvements to the

iPhone 6 that he liked the most.



"As a photographer, it is very impressive to see the sort of great shots you can

now get from your phone," he said.



"I often use my phone to show clients some of my previous work, so having the

bigger and better screen will be really useful."



Telstra Country Wide area general manager Nigel Beaman said the iPhone releases

were always massive events.



"There has been a real buzz around the store. It is like a mini Christmas for

smartphone fans," Mr Beaman said.



"Due to our time zone, Australian customers are the first in the world to get

the new iPhone, which is something special.



"Our Telstra stores in Toowoomba will be opening a little bit earlier and

closing later to give Toowoomba locals a chance to get their new handsets."



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: TCH





                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





