                              345 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)



                              June 19, 2016 Sunday



Apple appeals China ruling to halt some iPhone sales



BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise



SECTION: BREAKING



LENGTH: 521 words





By Rex Crum



rcrum@bayareanewsgroup.com



CUPERTINO -- Apple said Friday that it's doing business as usual in Beijing as

the company appeals a Chinese governmental agency's ruling that banned the sale

of some iPhone models in China's capital city.



The Beijing Intellectual Property Bureau told Apple it had to stop selling the

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in the city because the smartphones violated a patent

held by Chinese phonemaker Shenzhen Baili. The dispute, which has been going on

for more than a year, is over a patent covering the external design of Shenzhen

Baili's 100C phone.



However, Apple has appealed the order to halt iPhones sales, and said in a

statement, "As a result, the order has been stayed pending review by the Beijing

IP (intellectual property) court."



Apple said that during the appeal process, its iPhones, including the iPhone 6s,

iPhone 6s Plus and iPhone SE, as well as the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, "are

all available for sale today in China."



Gene Munster, an analyst who covers Apple for Piper Jaffray, said the clampdown

on the iPhones is more symbolic than anything, due to the timing of the move and

when Apple is likely to release the next iteration of the smartphone. Apple

historically holds an event in early fall to stoke enthusiasm for the newest

iPhone ahead of the Christmas and holiday shopping season.



"The bottom line is that the ruling is unlikely to have any impact on (sales)

numbers because the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus model will be discontinued in

September," Munster said. "Even if the device were banned through all of China

for the September quarter, it would likely be no more than a 2 percent to 3

percent headwind," on Apple's sales during the period.



However, the importance of the Chinese market to Apple can't be underestimated.



China surpassed Europe as Apple's second-largest revenue region last year, and

the country trails only the Americas in terms of Apple's regional sales. When

Apple reported its fiscal second-quarter results in April, revenue from China

totaled $12.5 billion, compared to the $19.1 billion that came from sales in the

Americas. Sales in China fell by 26 percent from a year ago, and the performance

of the country was one of the main reasons given for Apple's decline in

year-over-year sales for the first time since 2003.



UBS analyst Steven Milunovich agreed with Munster about the Chinese agency's

ruling on Apple's immediate business, but said the decision highlights the

tricky situation Apple faces when it comes to doing business in China. An

example of that came earlier this year, when Apple had to shut down its iBooks

store and sales of iTunes movies due to new Chinese laws against the publishing

of content by foreign companies.



"China is an existential threat to Apple in that the government could decide to

favor local suppliers," Milunovich said. "However, we view this as a long-term

risk."



Along with trying to boost its own sales in China, Apple has invested in other

opportunities in the country. In May, Apple made a $1 billion investment in

ride-sharing company Didi Chuxing, which is considered to be the top rival to

Uber in China.



LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





