                              34 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                   Mail Today



                            October 18, 2015 Sunday



The iPhone 6 is better than Apple's latest 6s



BYLINE: TECH JAVED ANWER TALK



LENGTH: 325  words





APPLE'S latest and greatest iPhone - the iPhone 6s - is now available in India.

But just like all shiny Apple products, this iPhone too comes with a hefty price

tag of Rs.62,000. In fact, it is the most expensive iPhone the company has

launched in India so far.



Those who love to splurge on all things Apple will not be deterred. For many

buying something made by Apple is more an act of faith rather than a necessity.

For them no price is high enough. For lesser mortals, who just want a great

phone and seek that greatness in the iPhone, the price sure is a concern.



The solution, however, also comes from Apple. And that is called the iPhone 6,

the device that was launched last year. The iPhone 6s is the latest phone and

hence marginally better than the previous iPhone but the highprice means it is

not the best value. The iPhone 6, which was launched at a price of above

Rs.50,000, is now selling for around Rs.37,000. This makes it an incredible

value.



The interesting bit about the iPhone 6 is that if you opt for it, you don't

really give up much in comparison to the iPhone 6s. The design, size and the

screen of both the devices are same.



Features too are same and with the iPhone 6 you get the same software that you

get with the iPhone 6s. Also, it is sure that you will continue to get the same

features and software with the iPhone 6 that will you get with the iPhone 6s for

at least two years.



The difference, on paper, between the two phones is the core hardware, including

camera. But the iPhone 6 is already a very fast phone so you won't notice any

meaningful difference between it and the iPhone 6s. On the camera part too, same

is true. So far from what we have seen there is very little difference between

the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6s camera performance.



By going with the iPhone 6, you can save almost Rs.25,000. This is a big saving.



More significantly, the iPhone 6 is already so good that it is almost identical

to the iPhone 6s.



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2015 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





