                              350 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday



China regulator approves iPhone 6 for sale in China



LENGTH: 455  words





Apple Inc's iPhone 6 can now be sold in China, after the company received a

license for the device to be used on China's wireless networks.



A customer holds an iPhone 6 (R) and iPhone 6 Plus after the phones went on sale

at the Fifth Avenue Apple store in Manhattan, New York Sept 19,

2014.[Photo/Agencies]



BEIJING - US tech giant, Apple Computers has announced the release date for the

latest iterations of their popular iPhone smartphones. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

plus will be released in the Chinese mainland on October 17.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus go for pre-sale on Oct 10 and in-store pickup on

Oct 17. The phones will retail starting at 5,288 yuan and 6,088 yuan

respectively. They will be available across all three Chinese telecom carriers

and Apple's own standalone stores.



The reveal of the release date came on Tuesday afternoon, hours after the

Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) said that it has granted

a network access license to Apple Inc's latest smartphone, the iPhone 6.



The license approval came after four models of the iPhone 6 passed 3C (China

Compulsory Certification) certification, a mandatory certification system to

inspect and approve various products to be sold in China, and won approval from

the State Radio Regulation earlier this month.



The network access license together with the two other regulatory approvals

means that the iPhone 6 can be sold in China.



The MIIT said in a statement that it made the decision to issue the license

after getting reassurance from Apple that three background service programs,

which reportedly had risks of personal privacy leaks, are only diagnostic tools

that won't be used maliciously.



In a document submitted to the ministry, Apple said that the company won't be

allowed to "interfere with" any personal information without clients' approval,

and it has already taken measures in its ios8 system to make it even more

difficult for anybody to use the tools maliciously.



Apple also said it will improve security and privacy protection for its clients.

The company said it has never and will never set up so-called "back doors" in

any of its products or services in cooperation with any government organ of any

country.



The MIIT said it pays great attention to protecting mobile phone users' personal

information and will strengthen security management of mobile phones, according

to the statement.



The ministry will also enhance network access security review as well as

supervision and inspection of products that are already licensed, saying any

violation of regulations on personal information protection will be investigated

and punished.



IPhone 6 sets records, but problems quickly emerge

Apple fans line up around the world for iPhone 6



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





