                              351 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                          China Daily - Africa Weekly



                                October 18, 2014



Video: Why I line up for new iPhones?



BYLINE: Liu Zheng and Eric Jou



LENGTH: 244  words





"The selling points of the new iPhone for me are the large screen and the new

camera system," said Liu Yi, the first buyer of Taikooli Apple Store on Friday

in downtown Beijing.



About 100 Apple fans gathered in front of Taikooli Apple Store in downtown

Beijing before the launch of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones in China on

Friday morning.



"The selling points for me are the large screen and the new camera system. The

large screen makes it easy to use and the camera app is something people use

every day." said Liu Yi, the first iPhone buyer.



According to Liu, he is an Apple Fan, and he have purchased every version of the

iPhone. The reason he purchased a domestic iPhone over an import one, is because

domestic iPhones are safer, and they have warranties.



"I purchased the 5S online but it took a long time before I received it, it's

faster to come to the store," said Wang Kelu, another iPhone buyer.



"I first purchased a Hong Kong imported iPhone but at the behest of my friends

that wanted one, I ordered three phones. I was only able to purchase one of the

phones today. I still want to buy an iPhone Six Plus, I'll have to try again

tomorrow," Wang added.



Video[#xff1a]Liu Zheng



Editor[#xff1a]Liu Zheng



Voiceover: Eric Jou and Cai Muyuan



Producer: Zhao Tingting



Apple iPhone 6 wins two regulatory approvals in China

Peek inside Apple's iPhone 6



Chinese buyer shows his Apple iPhone 6 Plus smartphone at a branch of China

Telecom in Shanghai, October 17, 2014. [Photo/IC]



LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1497





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





