                              365 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                             August 18, 2014 Monday



Will Apple introduce three new iPhones this year?



LENGTH: 570  words





Although not formally announced, it is widely expected that Apple will introduce

the new iPhone 6 on September 9. We are most likely to see a 4.7-inch version at

launch followed by a 5.5-inch version down the road. Two new iPhones in a year

shouldn't surprise anyone. Apple already did that last year with the [...]

The post Will Apple introduce three new iPhones this year? appeared first on

tbreak.ae.



Although not formally announced, it is widely expected that Apple will introduce

the new iPhone 6 on September 9. We are most likely to see a 4.7-inch version at

launch followed by a 5.5-inch version down the road. Two new iPhones in a year

shouldn't surprise anyone. Apple already did that last year with the iPhone 5S

and iPhone 5C. Question is- will we see a third new iPhone as well? I have a

feeling that we will.



Traditionally, Apple discounts the previous year's iPhone model when a newer one

is released. That changed when the iPhone 5S and 5C were released. The outgoing

iPhone 5 was eliminated from the product line-up and replaced with iPhone 5C.

Apple continued to sell the iPhone 4S. So what happens when iPhone 6 is

introduced? Surely, the iPhone 4S will go away but will Apple continue selling

the iPhone 5S and 5C? Nope.



I think Apple will replace both these models with one that has a 64-bit

processor, a 4-inch screen and dual sim cards. Yes, I think Apple is ready to

release an iPhone with dual SIM cards. I like to call it the iPhone 5d. Why do I

see Apple doing this? A couple of reasons actually.



First, the A7 processor on the iPhone 5C is not 64-bit and I think it would be

foolish of Apple to continue developing 32-bit and 64-bit versions of iOS 9. iOS

8 will make sure that all transitions from 32-bit to 64-bit are completed. With

iPhone 5 out of the product portfolio, it won't make sense for Apple to continue

supporting iPhone 5C as the only 32-bit device.



Second, the latest earnings reports from Apple showed China to be one of the

best growth markets for the iPhone along with India, Brazil and Russia. Guess

what sells even more in countries like India and China. Cheaper, dual SIM

models. I believe Apple would be making a mistake if they don't entertain the

dual SIM market in these highly populated countries with a cheaper iPhone.



Traditionally, dual SIM is associated with a cheaper phone and Apple could very

easily accommodate that with the iPhone 5d that will have the plastic build

similar to the iPhone 5C. It would have a 4-inch display which will make it

smaller than the iPhone 6 at 4.7-inch or a 5.5-inch display, be powered by the

64-bit Apple A7 processor and come in capacities of 8GB and 16GB. The camera

will remain unchanged from the iPhone 5C - so expect an 8MP shooter with a 1.2MP

front facing one. Battery capacity will be around 1500mAh and I do believe that

it will support LTE along with your usual Wi-Fi and Bluetooth radios.



I doubt that Apple will reveal the iPhone 5d at the same time as the iPhone 6.

They realised that revealing two new iPhones at the same time such as the iPhone

5S and 5C doesn't allow them to keep both models in the spotlight- one of them

takes over like the iPhone 5S did. Also considering that a larger 5.5-inch model

is expected, I think the iPhone 5d to take a back seat- probably waiting until

the inventory for the iPhone 5c starts running dry.



The post Will Apple introduce three new iPhones this year? appeared first on

tbreak.ae.



LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2014 TBREAK MEDIA

              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

                              All Rights Reserved





