                              367 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          The Business Times Singapore



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday



You can pre-order your iPhone 6 from Sept 12;

SingTel, StarHub already registering expressions of interest



BYLINE: amit roy choudhury



SECTION: TOP STORIES



LENGTH: 579 words





%5BSINGAPORE%5D Apple's new iPhone 6 will be available in Singapore from

September 19, the global launch date for the phone. The Apple website for

Singapore says that pre-orders will start from Sept 12.



One of the new features of the iPhone 6 models is that it supports what is known

as voice over LTE (long term evolution) or VoLTE for short. VoLTE allows voice

calls to go through an LTE or 4G network which is exclusively meant for data.

Most phones today connect to the 4G network for data and use the older 3G

network for voice.



Since VoLTE allows phones to use the 4G data network, calls go through as data

packets. As a result, it's possible for a VoLTE-enabled phone to seamlessly

transfer a voice call to a local WiFi network when the mobile signal is weak and

then re-transfer it back to the mobile network when the signal gets stronger.

Internet-based calls similar to the type of service that Skype offers are also

possible. Of course, all these can only happen if the carrier supports the

service.



During the presentation, Apple showed a slide with all its global VoLTE carrier

partners. For Singapore, it listed a sole telco: StarHub. When asked about this,

a StarHub spokeswoman said very guardedly: "StarHub customers using the new

iPhones will be able to enjoy VoLTE calls." She refused to clarify further.



An M1 spokesman was equally cryptic: "We are testing the VoLTE technology and it

is expected to be available by November."



A SingTel spokesman noted that the telco launched its VoLTE service in May this

year. "Our service will be available to the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus users

soon."



From the statements, it's apparent that only StarHub will be able to provide

VoLTE services from the day the iPhone 6 is sold in Singapore.



The Apple website for Singapore says that without contract, the iPhone 6 will

start from S$988 while the larger iPhone 6 Plus will start from S$1,148. SingTel

and StarHub are already registering expressions of interest.



The other major announcement made by Apple on Tuesday was the long-rumoured

smart watch called Apple Watch. The device will be available in early 2015 and

will start from US$349. Singapore pricing and availability is not known yet.



As smart watches go, the device is very pricey compared to the current models

available from Apple's rivals. However, Apple's chief executive officer Tim Cook

feels that the watch will have sufficient bells and whistles to command the

premium.



Apple Watch will come in two sizes and the company has designed six different

straps for it. There are also three collections - the standard Apple Watch, the

fitness lover's Apple Watch Sport and the premium Apple Watch Edition which will

be 18k gold plated. Straps in different colours will also be available. Mr Cook

said that with three models, two sizes and different coloured straps, there are

plenty of options for personalisation.



The Apple Watch will require the iPhone 6, iPhone 5, or iPhone 5C in order to

function.



Ian Fogg, senior director at IHS Technology, notes that the Apple Watch stands

on the shoulders of the company's iPhones.



"Significantly, the addressable market for Apple Watch will be tied to the

installed base of iPhones. While Apple has shipped 551 million iPhones

cumulatively to the end of June 2014, the iPhone's global installed base will be

slightly under 400 million at the end of this year. But of those, only a little

more than half, or over 200 million, will be an iPhone 5 or newer models."



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





