                              370 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                           October 29, 2015 Thursday



Apple iPhone 6s Plus and iPhone 6s review



LENGTH: 1423  words





By Abbas Jaffar Ali -



TLDR: The iPhone 6s is the best iPhone yet.



You didn't need me to tell you that. Apple's already doing a great job at that.

And almost every review you've read has highlighted that. So what could I

possibly add that hasn't been talked about? Not much really. I figured that the

best option would be to highlight what's new about these iPhones and then

compare how the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus differ. Hopefully this will help

you decided which one might be the right one for you.



Before we get into it, I would like to highlight that the iPhone 6s is my

personal unit that I upgraded from my iPhone 6 Plus. You can read why I moved to

the smaller size here. The iPhone 6s Plus was provided to me by Apple on loan

for review purposes.



Apple changes the design of the iPhone every couple of years so the design of

the iPhone 6S is, expectedly like it's predecessor. What's new is the material

that Apple has used for the enclosure- it's a new alloy of 7000 Series aluminum

and is super strong that should prevent any bending issues people had with the

older iPhone.



Apple has also added a new color Rose Gold color option with the iPhone 6S and

it is beautiful. I didn't like the color much in pictures and thought that it

looked very pink but in reality, it resembles a shade of copper and has become

my favorite color. I do have one complain though- of the four colors that the

iPhone 6s is available in, three have a white front and only the space grey is

black. I would like Apple to change that with the iPhone 7 and see more dark

fronts.



The Winner: Both the iPhones look identical. It really comes down to your

personal preference- if you like bigger phones, buy the Plus, otherwise pick up

the iPhone 6s. Personally, I'd pick the iPhone 6s because its more manageable

with one hand.



The biggest change that Apple has brought about in the iPhone 6s is 3D Touch

which adds pressure sensitivity to the screen allowing you to quickly access

functions that would otherwise require multiple taps. It's a power users tool

and my favorite new feature. The way it works is that you push a little harder

on an App's icon to get a menu which ranges from app to app. For example, the

camera app allows you to directly go into Selfie mode or the Phone app shows

some of your favorite contacts.



3D Touch also works within apps through peek and pop functions. If you're in

your inbox, you can peek into a preview of your email or press harder to open

it. In Instagram, while looking at a user's profile, you can peek into each

photo. You can also 3D touch the edge of your screen to go back to a previous

app or open multi-tasking, although this particular action is the one I found

the hardest to use- especially if you have a cover on your iPhone.



Although 3D Touch is a step in the right direction, it requires tweaking and

refinement, which is expected from a first gen feature. The good thing is that

many of the tweaks are software based so Apple should easily be able to control

the experience with iOS updates. Coming to the actual hardware, where I would

love to see it go is in the direction of the new trackpads on MacBooks that

completely tricks your brain into thinking that you've pressed the trackpad.

That's Apple magic.



The Winner: The larger size of the iPhone 6s Plus makes it harder to use with 3D

Touch gestures such as swiping from one end of the phone to the other so my

recommendation is to go with iPhone 6s.



The camera on the iPhone finally gets a megapixel bump after the 8MP sensor was

introduced on the iPhone 4s. That does not mean that Apple hasn't improved the

camera on the iPhones that followed- it has improved tremendously. But the

megapixel count was stuck at 8MP and with the iPhone 6s, Apple has made the jump

to 12MP. Increasing the megapixels doesn't automatically improve the quality of

the camera but it does let you zoom more into pictures and provides a bigger

cropping area.



The bigger improvement to the camera is on the front with the FaceTime HD camera

being bumped to 5MP and with a screen flash that will allow you to take good

selfies even in low-lit conditions. Apple has also updated the video camera to

4K but you really need a stable pair on hands or OIS on the camera which is only

present on the iPhone 6s Plus and works with both stills and videos.



On the software side, Apple has introduces Live Photos that take 1.5 seconds of

recordings before and after the photo is taken giving you moving pictures. I had

used this feature on HTC phones in the past and really liked it so I'm glad that

Apple has added them on the iPhone. A software update will fix one of my

complains which was the sudden shakiness of you lowering your hand after taking

a photo.



The Winner: The iPhone 6S plus is the clear winner here mainly because of the

OIS that you get on stills and movies which is especially helpful if you're

planning on shooting in 4k. Also, the larger screen makes for a better

viewfinder experience.



The iPhone 6s and the iPhone 6s Plus are based on the new Apple A9 processor and

come with 2GB of RAM which helps tremendously switching between apps. Having

owned last year's iPhone 6 Plus, I was a bit concerned about the performance on

the Plus model which was noticeably laggier than the non Plus model.



The iPhone 6 Plus has a higher 1920×1080 resolution screen (2M pixels) compared

to the regular iPhone 6 which has a 1334×750 resolution screen or 1M pixels.

However, the iPhone 6 Plus internally renders at an even higher 2208×1242

resolution (2.7M pixels) and then scale it down to 1920×1080. Clearly, the A8

and A9 chips do a lot more work on the Plus variants resulting in the lagginess.



The good news is that the Plus version of the phone runs much smoother with the

iPhone 6s models. However, even with the iOS 9.1 update released a few days

back, it's not as smooth as the regular 6s model which runs like butter. I could

still see a few stutters on the iPhone 6s Plus but I believe that with the raw

performance that the A9 processor offers, Apple will be able to optimize many of

the UI effects.



The winner: If you want the best performance, the iPhone 6s is definitely the

clear winner with a butter smooth UI.



One of my biggest complains with the iPhone 6 when it was originally released

was the battery life. There was hardly a day when I could get past 6PM on a full

charge and it was the reason I sold my iPhone 6 to buy the Plus. The larger size

of the Plus allows for a bigger battery and one that easily lasts you a full

day.



With software update to iOS 8, the battery life on iPhone 6 improved and with

iOS 9 Apple introduced the battery saver option that got more juice out of your

battery. On the iPhone 6s, I now get enough battery to last until early parts of

the night.



However, the iPhone 6s Plus continues to be the king when it comes to battery

life. On regular days, I have well over 40% capacity left by the time I hit my

bed but even on days when I'm out and about using the iPhone to record

interviews, videos and pictures, as well as tethering data, the iPhone 6s Plus

still lasts me till the end of the day.



Winner: Clearly the iPhone 6s Plus with it's bigger battery is the best option

if you want a device that lasts you all day and then some. The iPhone 6s

struggles to make it to the end of the day without getting some recharging.



I've tried to cover most of the bigger changes that Apple has made to the new

iPhone 6s. There are some other changes as well such as an addition of a 4th

microphone and an insanely faster TouchID that barely lets you see the lock

screen. Apple has also made the iPhone 6s a bit more water resistant. You get

all of that with both the iPhone 6s and the iPhone 6s Plus.



Between the two phones, there is no "better" one. It all depends on what's

important to you. If you like large phones, the iPhone 6s Plus is the way to go.

You get additional battery life and a better camera experience with it. On the

other hand, if you prefer a device more manageable in one hand, then the iPhone

6s would be a better option. It's easier to use with gestures and has better

performance.



It's the best iPhone yet. But you didn't need me to tell you that.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/90/144611764948.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/84/144611765095.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/87/144611765253.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/47/144611765410.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/6/144611765551.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/85/144611765675.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/36/144611765771.gif







LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2015 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





