                              373 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                              May 9, 2014, Friday



iPhone rumor rollup for the week ending May 9;

Sapphire sticker shock, date conflicts, fingerprint findings



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1665 words





The iOSphere was rocked by iPhone 6 Sticker Shock, at about 10+ on the Richter

scale, when one "report" this week predictedthat the Next iPhone will cover its

5.44-inch display with a synthetic sapphire sheet that will boost the phone's

unlocked price to $1,285.



Also this week, how anonymous rumors that iPhone 6 will ship in "third quarter"

are translated into "August" and "September," leaving July inconsolable. And the

iPhone 6 fingerprint sensors are now shipping which means ... well, it's not

clear what that means but it's an iPhone Fact.



You read it here second.



Talk about a bummer. And even if you could afford it, Apple is only going to

build 10 million of them over the phone's life-cycle of two to three years, so

the chance of you actually finding one are remote, given that Apple currently is

selling roughly 180 million iPhones yearly based on sales over the last two

quarters.



This rumor originated on the Chinese Weibo site, though the link posted by

various Western sites leads to a page that now seems to be unavailable for

translation.



G for Games was one of the first to trumpet the, frankly, unbelievable "news,"

with the headline "5.44-inch iPhone 6: 10 Mil.



Units Life-cycle; Sapphire Pretty Damn Expensive (Rumor)."



+ More: What the rumor mill expects from iOS 8  | History: 5 years ago they said

the iPhone would be a flop + "The latest rumors now suggest that the larger

iPhone 6 will in fact pack a 5.44 inch display, and that, due to the high

production costs, the smartphone might be produced in smaller quantities," wrote

Mihai Matei, apparently without pausing to wonder about the feasibility of

expanding the iPhone brand by selling fewer phones.



"These latest reports suggest that the sapphire screen costs around 1743 yuan

(or $280), which would raise the final cost of the device to about 8000 yuan (or

$1,285) - at least in China," writes Mihai Matei. "At the moment, the 16 GB

iPhone 5S costs 5288 yuan in China ($850), whereas the beefier 64 GB variant is

retailed at the price of 6888 yuan (or $1106)."



The $280 price tag for the sapphire cover seems preposterous.



The current Corning Gorilla Glass cover for today's 4-inch iPhone models is

estimated by a materials analyst at one market research firm to be $3 per sheet,

which would make the (admittedly much larger) 5.44-inch sapphire cover nearly

100 times more expensive. At that rate, you're treating sapphire as a gemstone,

not an industrial material.



Perhaps the best sapphire screen estimates have been developed by Yole

Development, a market research firm headquartered in Lyon, France, as Network

World reported in the recent "How Apple's billion dollar sapphire bet will pay

off."    "We modeled a $17 cost initially for the finished part [i.e., for an

iPhone display cover]," says Eric Virey, senior market and technology analyst

for LED devices and materials at Yole. Adding in margins for the various supply

chain partners, "We expect Apple to initially pay around $20 per part," he says.

"That's a significant increase compared to an equivalent part made of Gorilla

Glass, which should cost around $3."



If Apple releases sapphire for only a high-end iPhone model, and not for the 'c'

variant, it could possibly pass the cost to the buyer in the form of a higher

price. Or Apple could absorb the costs itself, reducing the iPhone's margin and

hence its profitability at least temporarily. Virey notes that some of the added

costs could be offset by savings in warranty costs due to fewer cracked iPhone

screens that have to be replaced.



Apple is treating sapphire as a strategic material, in quantities too vast to be

used by an "iWatch," no matter how many were sold. But at this point, it is

completely unclear whether Apple intends to introduce sapphire covers in 2014 or

2015 products, or whether they might initially be limited to some kind of "super

premium" iPhone with a higher price tag.



AppAdvice's Bryan Wolfe dismissed the GForGames account. "While it is entirely

possible that Apple would charge this amount for an iPhone 6 phablet, I don't

buy it," he wrote. "Just last week, for example, the company dropped the price

for the entry-level MacBook Air to $899. This compares to $849 for an unlocked

64GB iPhone 5s."



But that's not a very convincing line of reasoning. Few, if any, buyers are

going to conclude that, because the MacBook air is just $50 more than an

unlocked 5s, it's a better buy. That's because they "hire" the phone for a

different job than the laptop, and most iPhones are sold (at least in the U.S.)

with some kind of carrier subsidy.



Taiwan's Economic Daily News reports that Apple will unveil and release an

iPhone 6 model with a 4.7-inch screen in August, or at least one month earlier

than expected, according to a rehash of that story by Reuters.



No link was provided to the EDN story and The Rollup couldn't find one to the

Chinese language original. Founded in 1967, the Economic Daily News was the

first economic and business newspaper in the Republic of China, covering local,

regional and international economic and financial news, currently with a

circulation of about 368,000.



EDN based its reporting on "unidentified supply-chain sources," according to

Reuters' Michael Gold.



Also in the story, apparently from the same sources: Apple will release a

5.5-inch or 5.6-inch model in September; and that 80 million iPhone 6 handsets

would be "produced" in 2014. Presumably that is a forecast of how many units

will be assembled, but not necessarily sold.



Once again, the predictions of two different sizes for the new iPhone raise more

questions than they answer. Apple segmented the iPhone line for the first time

in 2013, when it introduced the lower-priced, plastic-bodied 5c along with the

5s, both with 4-inch displays. Contrary to widespread belief, the limited

credible data we have about the 5c indicates that it has achieved the goals

Apple apparently set for it. [See "The great 'iPhone 5c is a failure' freakout:

Getting the few facts available wrong."] Will Apple continue to offer a 4-inch

model? Despite all the frenzy over how Apple is missing out on a huge chunk of

the market, remains a hugely successful global seller: in the last two quarters,

Apple has sold nearly 95 million 4-inch smartphones.



Or will it transition both the flagship 5s and the mid-range 5c to larger

screens, and will those larger screens be the same size or different? Will this

larger screen mean a price hike? Will a still-larger iPhone product (a 5.5-inch

model, for example) be offered as a third iPhone option, priced yet higher?



Here's the headline from the anonymous post AppleInsider: "Rumor: Apple supplier

Pegatron nets orders for 4.7-inch 'iPhone 6,' to ship in September."



To AppleInsider this is variously a "rumor," "rumblings" and a "report."



"A report from Taiwan's Commercial Times on Tuesday claims Pegatron's 15 percent

share of upcoming 4.7-inch iPhone 6 orders is in addition to continued

manufacturing of current models like iPhone 5C and 4S," according to the post,

which does include a link to the original Chinese language post.



When The Rollup copied and pasted the hanzi into Google Translate, the one

paragraph actually referencing the iPhone 6 is this: "Apple's supply chain

rumors, Apple will deliver a 4.7 -inch iPhone in the third quarter, the market

is also optimistic about the size of enlarged iPhone, expected to create a new

wave of buying boom, and the master also won about 15% of new iPhone orders, is

expected to begin in September of goods, coupled with the old iPhone 4S, iPhone

5C, estimated this year's iPhone Pegatron point total shipments of 50 million

units, compared to 3,500 million units last year, a significant growth of 40%."



So there is no "report." It's simply a summary of "supply chain rumors." The

"third quarter" refers to the July-August-September period, not "September" as

AppleInsider asserts.



In other words, nobody knows when Whatever-it-is actually will be announced or

available.



Let's face it: this is hardly something to make one's pulse race. The Touch ID

fingerprint sensor was introduced for the higher-end iPhone 5s last fall, but

not for the lower-priced, plastic-bodied iPhone 5c. So the belief and

expectation that iPhone 6 will keep Touch ID doesn't really rise to the level of

yawnability.



But that didn't stop sites like MacRumors from declaring that, as Richard

Padilla writes, "Apple supplier Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company

(TSMC) has reportedly provided the first batch of Touch ID fingerprint sensors

to be used in the iPhone 6, iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3...."



OK, so Touch ID being extended to the iPads is different.



The iOSphere rumor amplification is based on the first origination at what

Padilla describes as a "component information website" called cecb2b.com and

then, again, picked up by GForGames.  The Rollup's Google Translate version of

original Chinese: "News from Taiwan, said the industry, TSMC has begun in

mid-April to provide fingerprint sensor assembly for Apple iPhone 6, iPad Air 2,

the third generation iPad mini, back-end services outsourced to Xintec, Suzhou

Jing Fang two semiconductor manufacturers. According to informed sources pointed

out that mainland China, Suzhou Jing Fang semiconductors, TSMC has delivered the

first batch of the product."



Give whatever credibility you want to "informed sources."



Mashable added what passes for "context" in the iOSphere. "A report in January

noted that TSMC would begin production on the sensors sometime in the second

quarter of this year with a new 12-inch fab processing method, however a report

in February stated that TSMC would be using the same 8-inch fingerprint sensor

processing method that was used for the iPhone 5s."



Wow. Apple is going to keep using the same 8-inch fab processing method!



Using TheRollup Translate service we come up with: "nobody knows what's going

on."



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2014 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





