                              377 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Apple deciding to go big, iPhone 6 to have 4.8 inch display



LENGTH: 269  words





Apple's progress on the display size have been quite slow. The iPhone 5 and 5S

made the jump of .5 inches from the previous generation iphone. The customers

around the world are already showing their inclination towards phablets. Though

it's already late, Apple seems to finally wake up to this realization.



Peter Misek, an analyst at Jefferies, after meeting last week with Apple

suppliers in Asia, Misek issued a note to investors on Monday in which he said

that the iPhone 6 would offer a 4.8-inch screen, according to Cnet. If true,

this will be a welcome move.



In early September this year we heard rumours about bigger Apple iPhones. As per

a news report in the Wall Street Journal, says Apple has "begun evaluating a

plan to offer iPhones with screens ranging from 4.8 inches to as high as 6

inches, people familiar with the matter say".



Apple testing iPhones with 6 and 4.8 inch display, what will Samsung do?



Misek predicts that more people will be willing to buy a iPhone 6, since iPhone

5 registered less sales and more 4 inchers were sold by Apple last year.



"On the downside, iPhone 5C sales have been weak, according to Misek. As such,

manufacturing builds are being slashed to 15 million to 20 million from 30

million, he said. On the plus size, that could lead to an even larger number of

upgraders who gravitate toward the iPhone 6" cnet says.



The iPhone 6 according to Misak can come in September next year. We don't think

Apple will wait that long to launch a new model. By that time the the market

will have curved phones from LG, Samsung and hundreds of cheaper new launches

that will mostly be phablets.



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





