

Saturday, January 31, 2015: For over a decade, Apple has been on the cutting
edge of the mobile technology industry, delivering one revolutionary device
after another. STK Accessories has been there every step of the way to provide
trusted protection for each device and ensure that every time an Apple falls,
STK is there to protect it. STK Accessories, a pioneer in a wide range of mobile
phones and computing accessories announces a robust lineup of protection cases
now exclusively available for iPhone 6.

The Product line up includes iphone 6 stand case, Ultra thin cases and TPU back
cover amongst the brand new cases designed by STK Accessories. STK Accessories
has protected several generations of iPhones (and many other devices) and has a
reputation for providing solid protection and a good fit. It's slim enough to
not detract from the iPhone 6's svelte dimensions, while still offering
comprehensive protection for the handset's body, including the buttons. All
these cases provide the bulk-free protection for which STK is known and have
been carefully designed to complement the new, slimmer profile of the iPhone 6.

iPhone 6 Stand case: Priced at Rs. 799/-, This case combines a new, innovative,
and truly unique engineering approach and is made from faux leather. With the
folio design and soft interior lining it protects the phone from dust, dirt and
scratches. The case also becomes a stand for easy viewing of photos or films and
has easy access to all phone ports. It is available in Black and White colors.

iPhone 6 Ultra Thin Back Cover: This ultra-thin back cover is made from durable
polycarbonate material and will provide stylish protection for the iPhone 6. It
Resists dirt, stains and has an easy access to all phone functions. It features
bold, high-resolution and high-style graphics for brilliantly colored cases.
This case is made available in Blue, Black, Pink, Yellow, Green, White colours
and is priced at Rs. 399/-.

iPhone 6 TPU Back Cover: Made of Thermoplastic Polyurethane (TPU) this back
cover will provide durable protection for the iPhone 6. Stiff to touch but
remains flexible, Shock absorbent and shatterproof, Specifically designed for
the iPhone 6, this case is the perfect combination of style and strength. It is
available in Black and White colours and priced at Rs. 399/-.

"STK Accessories is a significant contributor to the ecosystem of accessories
that enhance the smartphone experience for Apple customers. We've learned from
their feedback and continually evolve our products accordingly. Our new designs
for iPhone 6 continue our tradition of raising the bar on design and
protection",Said Puneet Gupta, STK Accessories India Head and SAARC.

All the three iPhone 6 Protection cases are now available in a variety of the
season's trendiest colors and patterns at the select retailers in India.

