                              379 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



New iPhones run into software, bending complaints



LENGTH: 523  words





Apple's newest iPhones ran into some glitches Wednesday after users complained

that a new software update blocked their calls.



A customer holds an iPhone 6 (R) and iPhone 6 Plus at the Apple store on Fifth

Avenue after the phones went on sale in New York in this file photo taken Sept

19, 2014.[Photo/Agencies]



SAN FRANCISCO - Apple's newest iPhones ran into some glitches Wednesday after

users complained that a new software update blocked their calls, while a widely

circulated video showed the larger of the two new models is vulnerable to

bending.



Apple said it would stop providing the software update, which it began

distributing Wednesday morning to fix several issues in last week's iOS 8

operating system for iPhones and iPads.



The decision to pull the update came after some people complained on Twitter and

in Apple user chatrooms that the update, dubbed iOS 8.0.1, rendered their phones

unable to make calls and caused problems with a feature that lets people unlock

their phones with their fingerprint.



iPhone 6 still lacks license for mainland

Apple to unveil new iPads, operating system on Oct 21: report By midday

Wednesday, Apple announced that it was investigating the reports and would issue

advice to users "as quickly as we can." Users are still able to the upgrade

older phones to last week's version of iOS 8, which Apple said has already been

downloaded to nearly half of all iOS devices.



Some tech blogs reported the update only seemed to cause problems for the latest

phone models - the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. It's not uncommon for new software to

contain bugs that have to be fixed with subsequent releases.



Meanwhile, social media sites were buzzing Wednesday with reports that the

aluminum shell of the iPhone 6 Plus is vulnerable to bending. Some Twitter users

claimed their phones showed a slight curving at one end after several hours in a

pants pocket. With a 5.5-inch screen, the iPhone 6 Plus is slightly longer and

thinner than other iPhone models.



It's not clear how widespread the complaints are. One YouTube video showed

someone bending an iPhone 6 Plus by applying extended pressure with his hands -

not from normal sitting.



Both the iPhone 6 and the 6 Plus were given high ratings in a recent

"breakability" test conducted by SquareTrade, a San Francisco firm that sells

insurance to consumers for their electronic devices. The test did not include

bending.



But SquareTrade Chief Marketing Officer Ty Shay said that after reports of

bending circulated online, two staffers at his firm tried to bend a pair of 6

Plus phones: One staffer, a man, was able to duplicate the results from the

video, while the other, a woman, could not. He said the bent phone appeared to

still function normally.



Shay said his firm then checked and found a small number of bent older-model

iPhones had been reported in the past. "It does happen," said Shay, "but it

seems like for the most part it's cosmetic damage."



He suggested the bending is not a major issue. Referring to the iPhone 6 Plus,

he added, "I think it's still a very durable phone. But we'll keep an eye on the

claims."



Apple did not comment on the reports of bending.



LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





