

As had been widely rumoured, Apple launched two iPhones this year; one bigger
than the other, and both bigger than the iPhone 5/5s.

The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch display, while the iPhone 6 Plus features a 5.5-inch
display.

Both models use the same new 64-bit A8 processor that is supposed to deliver
20-per-cent faster performance and 50-per-cent faster graphics than the iPhone
5s.

The new iPhones also have the new M8 motion co-processor that can measure both
distance and elevation, and a built-in barometer that reckons elevation by
measuring differences in air pressure.

In a first for the iPhone, Near Field Communication or NFC, is built in, as is
Wi-Fi 802.11ac and a Touch ID home button.

The colours - space grey, silver and gold - are the same as for the iPhone 5s.
Storage options are 16GB, 64GB and 128GB.

Design

Other than having different screen sizes, the newest iPhones share the same
design elements. Gone are the chamfered edges of the iPhone 5/5s. The newcomers
have slim aluminium chassis with rounded edges.

The front glass panel is also curved around the edges and seamlessly joins the
rounded edges of the aluminium shell.

The rear of both iPhones sheds the duo-tone look of the iPhone 5 series and has
a more uniform colour. Only the antenna band is slightly different in colour.

Both new iPhones are thinner than the iPhone 5/5s, which were 7.6mm thick. The
iPhone 6 is only 6.9mm thick, while the iPhone 6 Plus is 0.2mm thicker at 7.1mm.

However, both new iPhones are heavier than the iPhone 5s, which weighed 112g.
The iPhone 6 weighs 129g; the Plus tips the scales at 172g.

Display

Apple describes the display of both new iPhones as having "Retina HD" quality.
Certainly, both are better than what is usually described as high-definition
(HD) quality - that is, 1,280 x 720 pixels.

The 4.7-inch display of the iPhone 6 has a screen resolution of 1,334 × 750
pixels to give it a pixel density of 364 pixels per inch (ppi).

The 5.5-inch display of the iPhone 6 Plus has a screen resolution of 1,920 ×
1,080 pixels, with a pixel density of 401 ppi. So you can watch a full-HD video
in its full glory on an iPhone.

They are supposed to have a better colour gamut, more accurate white balance and
higher contrast. The iPhone 6 has a 1,400:1 contrast ratio to the Plus
(1,300:1).

Text, websites and videos look clear and sharp, and colour shift is negligible
when the display is viewed from the side.

Camera

The 8-megapixel f/2.2 rear camera did not get an improved megapixel count or
pixel size. But it got a very important autofocusing upgrade.

The image sensor now has Focus Pixels, Apple's fancy term for phase detection
autofocus which is usually found in DSLR cameras. So autofocusing should be much
faster whether for still or moving images.

The camera allows for slow-motion videos at 240 frames per second (fps), an
improvement from the iPhone 5s' 120fps.

With the new iOS 8, time-lapse photography is also built into the camera
software.

The iPhone 6 Plus has an optical image stabiliser that works with the A8 chip,
gyroscope and M8 motion co-processor to measure motion data and provides lens
movement to compensate for camera shake.

Handling

The rounded edges, unlike those of the iPhone 5/5s, make the new iPhones really
easy to hold.

The Sleep/Wake button that had been sited on top of iPhone for the longest time
is now sited on the right edge of both new models, within easy reach of your
thumb.

Being smaller, the iPhone 6 does feel easier to use with one hand. Two hands
would probably do better for the Plus.

For a full review of both models, keep a lookout today at Digital Life Online
(www.straitstimes.com/digital-life).

