                              384 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                              The Herald (Harare)



                               September 26, 2015



Cool Reloaded - the Latest Smartphones, Movies [opinion]



BYLINE: Swagga T



LENGTH: 553 words





With the bigger and better screen, multitasking is one of the iphone's flagship

features. The function allows apps to perform certain tasks in the background

while you're using other apps or not using your device.



Hope all is dope and those in final exam classes are slogging at their studies

like there is no tomorrow.



This week's buzz is with iphone 6 and 6 plus.



Unlike the previous iphones which of course some of you are still stuck with,

these two iphones come with bigger screens, iphone 6 has a 4,7 inch, while the

6plus has a 5,5 inch screen. This actually proves that bigger is better because

it allows the user to have a better display and easier to use.



With these two iphones the user can easily reach the top of the iphone using one

hand as the screen can be shifted up and down to allow easy accessibility of the

top functions, especially when the other hand is occupied, hence, the iphone 6's

new reach ability feature.



You simply double-touch the Home  button to shift the screen down closer to your

thumb, and once you make your selection, it will conveniently slide back up to

its natural position with no second hand required.



The iphone 6 has stellar video recording capabilities, especially when you

enable 60 FPS which allows you to capture smoother videos. The feature

essentially doubles the amount of frames per second when recording, taking

iphone 6 videos from 30 to 60 frames per second.



Unlike previous iphone models, the iphone 6 is capable of capturing slow-motion

videos, which are great for recording action videos. You only need to launch the

Camera app as you would normally do, and select Slo-mo from the sliding wheel at

the bottom of the screen and then, choose the frames that you want per second.



With the iphone 6 and 6 plus taking photos can be done using the volume button

and it's as easy as it sounds. As long as the camera app is open, you simply

press either the volume up or down button housed on the left-hand side of the

smartphone to take a photo. The process even works when using a pair of

headphones featuring an inline remote and volume keys.



You cannot talk of a smart phone without considering the battery, with these two

the battery is certainly better than past models, as they can allow you to

monitor on which apps are draining your battery. This improves the lifespan and

the number of times that you recharge your battery.



With the bigger and better screen, multitasking is one of the iphone's flagship

features. The function allows apps to perform certain tasks in the background

while you're using other apps or not using your device.



Who is going to be the first to get it?



So recently there was a noise about the girlfriends' gate away at Ster Kinekor,

with them jostling to watch the chick flicks which were being screened.



So me and my hommies decided to do our own boys' gate away and check out a chick

flick.



We decided to watch "The Perfect Man" because it has some serious action. The

thriller features characters that ladies really like who include Morris Chestnut

and Micheal Ealy.



The movie is a must watch because it talks of a young successful lady Sannaa

Lathan who wants to start a family but her boyfriend Morris Chestnut is not so

keen on the idea. If you want to know more then go watch it yourself.



All I can promise you is will not be disappointed.



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.

                              All Rights Reserved





