                              385 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                     August 21, 2014 Thursday 12:38 PM GMT



iPhone 6 rumour round-up: Release date, features and pictures of the 4.7" and

5.5" iPhones;

New details surface of the various rumoured models of iPhone 6 every day. Here's

what we know so far



BYLINE: By Mikey Smith



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 762 words





More and more details about the various rumoured models of iPhone 6 are sneaking

onto the internet every day.



Whether it's the different screen sizes thought to be in production or a

"premium" model featuring a near-indestructible Sapphire crystal display, the

rumour mill is reaching a fevered rotation as launch day draws near.



And with more pictures leaking from the manufacturing chain than any iPhone

launch in history, there's plenty for Apple fans to drool over while they wait

for the big announcement next month.



Here's a round-up of everything we know - or think we know - about Apple's

forthcoming smartphone.Will there be more than one iPhone model?



We're expecting Apple to release two models of iPhone 6 with 4.7" and 5.5"

screen sizes - though it's not certain they'll both be released at the same

time.



Pictures leaked today by Evasi0nJailbreak.com give a rare glimpse at Apple's

larger handset, showing the phone's rear shell in much more detail than was

previously available.



There's been talk of a delay between the two versions - either because of delays

in the supply chain, or as a deliberate move to prevent competition between the

devices when they hit stores.



There'll be the usual storage capacity and colour option. While it's thought the

space gray/black and white/silver colourways will remain, the fate of the gold

version isn't certain.



There's also speculation that the super-strong sapphire crystal display will be

reserved for a premium, more expensive model.



What size iPhone 6 would you buy?  What will the new iPhone look like?



feld volk 2



The iPhone 6 is expected to have a more rounded body than the 5S - with a design

that harks back to the original first-generation iPhone.



An alleged schematic leaked today suggested the new phone will be 7mm thick -

and the 4.7" model has a codename of N56.What new features are we expecting?



The  iPhone  6 will feature a new super-fast WiFi chip and an improved Touch ID

fingerprint sensor, according to reports.



It will also feature  Apple's  next generation A8 processor, which should give

the  smartphone  a huge performance boost, according to tech website Venture

Beat



Apple's new device is also expected to have a vastly improved camera, with a

13-megapixel sensor provided by  Sony  .



There's also speculation that the phone's new Lightning connector cable will

work either way up - at both ends.



The iPhone 5's cable was Apple's first charging cable that would work regardless

of which way round you put it in - and it's thought they've come up with a

solution for how to make the USB end reversible too.



iphone cable



Photos have also emerged purporting to show the new iPhone's batteries. The

photos show batteries with whopping 1810 and 2915mAh capacities.  That's much

bigger than the current iPhone 5S battery, which is just 1560mAh.



The new screen - on the 4.7" version, at leasty - is thought to have a higher

resolution than previous models.



The Retina screen on the current iPhone 5S has a density of 10.5 pixels per mm.

The 1704x960 display suggested by Feld & Volk would be a much sharper 16 pixels

per mm.



feld volk iphoneWill it have Sapphire glass?



The inclusion of Sapphire glass on the iPhone 6 has been the subject of

speculation ever since a video purporting to be the phone's screen appeared on

YouTube.



leaked iphone display



Analysts have inspected Apple's supply chain and say it's unlikely that all of

the phone's unprecedented production run will feature the near-indestructible

crystal displays.



Would you be put off buying an iPhone 6 if it didn't have sapphire glass?When

will it come out?



We're expecting an announcement event on September 9th, with iPhones hitting

stores soon - perhaps as soon as a week or two after. Though initial estimates

suggested the release date wouldn't be until mid-October.



If the rumours of a staggered release for the two models are correct, we can

expect to see the larger version about a month later.How much will it cost?



Apple's pricing is usually kept fairly well under wraps - you can never tell

when they're going to pull a surprise price drop.



But if we base it on last year's pricing, the model with the smallest capacity

(16GB for the 5S) will cost £549, the next up (32GB) £629 and the biggest

storage (64GB) £709.



If Apple upgrade the maximum storage to 128GB as is rumoured, it's likely

they'll make the minimum amount 32GB.



That's all based on the current screen size - we're expecting the price to shoot

up for the 5.5" version, perhaps even more for the "premium" version with

Sapphire glass.



Will you get the iPhone on launch day?



iphone 6 rumors



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





