

I received gift cards for Christmas to buy the iPhone 5S. In a previous column
you wrote about the probable upgrades to the next iPhone over the current one.
In your opinion will the upgrades be worth waiting for?

Ahh, the "Timing Question." Do you keep waiting for the newest upgrade of that
gadget you want, or do you pull the trigger now only to have a newer upgrade
come out two weeks later, or worse, it's discounted just after you buy it?

But when it comes to the iPhone, deciding on what to do is a little easier.
First, a new version of the phone only comes out once a year, and the way the
release cycle has been established, it's usually around September. Second, the
updates have followed a specific pattern: Whenever the next phone is given a new
number, for example "iPhone 4", "iPhone 5," it will be a bigger upgrade that
usually includes significant new features. Whenever it's labeled with an "S,"
such as the "iPhone 4S"or the "iPhone 5S," the update is usually incremental
with only minor improvements such as a speed increase on the processor or a
better camera.

Such was the case with the iPhone 5S which only got a better processor, more
features added the camera, and a new color, gold. But the case, design and size
of the screen remained the same.

Whether you should wait another six months for an iPhone 6 largely depends on
timing. Do you really want or need a new phone now? If so, then having that
phone for an extra six months may trump any new features you might get if you
were to wait for the iPhone 6 in the fall.

But make no mistake: The new iPhone 6 will likely have big changes. Here's
what's been churning out of the rumor mill:

The proposed iPhone 6, or whatever it will be called, is expected to be big, and
I don't just mean in terms of anticipation. The phone likely will grow in size
-- finally.

For the last couple of years, other handsets, particularly Android-based phones,
have been growing in screen size, from 4.7 inches diagonally to a whopping 6
inches with the recently-released LG G Flex. The increase in sales with the
phones have proven that many consumers want a bigger screen. Yet, the iPhone has
remained relatively small at 4 inches diagonally.

Count me as one of those customers who would love to see an iPhone with a bigger
screen and a higher screen resolution to go with it. The bigger screen is what
had me forego the iPhone last year and get an HTC One Android-based phone, which
has a larger 4.7-inch screen. Eventually, I gave up on the Android phone because
I much preferred the elegance and ease of use of the iPhone's operating system.

This year, all evidence suggests that I'll finally get what I want -- Apple will
finally allow its phone to grow up.

There have been reports that Apple is testing at least two different sizes of
screens, one around 4.7 inches diagonally and another that is more than 5
inches. Some pundits believe that Apple won't release two new sizes but only
one, and if they do, I would bet on the smaller 4.7-ish display. Hopefully,
Apple will also raise the screen's resolution along with the size.

The new phone also will have the requisite faster processor, which is an upgrade
that happens with every new version. There's also the strong rumor that the
camera's resolution will finally be bumped up from its current 8 megapixels to
something that is around 13 megapixels. Apple has been bullish about improving
its camera by upgrading the quality of the senor and its ability to let in light
rather than the number of megapixels, which is a smart move. The iPhone 5S
camera is still the best of any mobile device, regardless of how many megapixels
there are.

So if you wait for an iPhone 6, be prepared for the biggest upgrade the iPhone
has seen in quite awhile.

If you have a tech question for Vince, email him at ohmytech@sltrib.com, and
he'll try to answer it for his column in The Salt Lake Tribune or on its
website. For an archive of past columns, go to www.sltrib.com/Topics/ohmytech.

