                              392 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday



Regulator says iPhone 6 in final review stages - Tencent



LENGTH: 253  words





Apple Inc's iPhone 6 is in the final stages of review for approval, with results

due shortly, a top Chinese government regulator said.



Smuggled iPhone 6 cellphones are found in a tea box by customs officers in

Shenzhen, Guangdong province. CHINA DAILY



Related:  Customs officers target smugglers of iPhones



BEIJING - Apple Inc's iPhone 6 is in the final stages of review for approval,

with results due shortly, a top Chinese government regulator said in an

interview published on Tuesday by Tencent.



The status of the iPhone 6 in China has been a mystery since Apple unveiled the

device this month without releasing a launch date for the world's largest

smartphone market.



The delay has led to widespread speculation the iPhone has run into difficulty

securing regulatory approval from China's Ministry of Industry and Information

Technology (MIIT), with some reports suggesting the launch could be delayed

until 2015.



"The iPhone 6 has entered the final stage of the approval process, now it's just

a matter of time," MIIT chief Miao Wei told Tencent in an exclusive interview in

Beijing. "Netizens, please wait patiently."



Miao declined to offer a timeframe for completion of the review, saying only

that he expected a result "very soon".



The ministry could not be immediately reached for comment Tuesday.

iPhone 6 rollout bypasses mainland

Apple unveils new phones, watch



Apple store employees wait for the store to open on the first day of sale for

the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, in Sydney September 19, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





