                              396 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                     The Sunday Independent (South Africa)



                               September 18, 2016

                                   E1 Edition



A short history of everything iPhone



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 399 words





Apple's new iPhone 7 isn't a major upgrade on the previous version, despite its

various updates and features - and the well-flagged news that the smartphone has

no headphone jack. That said, the iPhone has been a game-changer. It helped

Apple become the world's most valuable company and has swept aside many a rival

device over its lifespan, contributing to the decline of household names from

BlackBerry to Nokia. Here's a look at its evolution over the years.



Introducing the iPhone



The first model arrives in 2007, ushering in the era of smartphones. While other

devices had featured touchscreens, Apple's was the first to package the

technology so that it worked seamlessly.



iPhone 3G



The first upgrade, with 3G offering faster wireless connections. The new App

Store is a key element in enhancing the capabilities of the device.



iPhone 3GS



The iPhone 3GS in 2009 isn't a major upgrade, offering only marginal

improvements in speed.



iPhone 4



The iPhone 4, which comes out in 2010, is Apple's first radical redesign of the

device. The launch also results in Antennagate: The design of the case leads to

some dropped calls and forces the company to offer free antenna bands to

mitigate the problem.



iPhone 4S



The iPhone 4S is another minor upgrade, helping to solve the antenna issue and

boosting performance.



iPhone 5



The iPhone 5 in 2012 marks Apple's move to bigger screens and is a hit with

consumers, delivering rapid revenue growth for Apple.



iPhone 5C and 5S



The iPhone 5S upgrade isn't a surprise. It's the introduction of the more

affordable iPhone 5C that raises eyebrows; designed to appeal to emerging

markets, it doesn't prove to be a big hit.



iPhone 6 and 6 Plus



The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in 2014 is the right move at the right time. The bigger

smartphones wow customers in Asia and put Apple into the top spot in China.



iPhone 6S



The upgrade doesn't change much - a bit faster, a bit better.



iPhone SE



Earlier this year, Apple surprises by reviving the iPhone 5's size and shape in

the form of the iPhone SE. A cheaper, mid-range phone, it sells better than

expected in places such as Latin America, but isn't enough to reverse a revenue

decline.



iPhone 7 and 7 Plus



The iPhone 7 is a break from Apple's two-year upgrade cycle, with the size and

shape almost unchanged from its predecessor. It sports a better camera, faster

performance and, in a new twist, gets rid of the headphone jack. - Bloomberg



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SI





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





