                              400 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                              May 10, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending May 10;

Popping inventory, Apple's secret factories, June madness



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 2800 words





An unstable hot air mass troubled the iOSphere this week, the sky blackened by

contradictory rumors, sometimes in thesame blog post.



There was even confusion over whether the words "4G iPhone 6" referred to the

Next iPhone or the Current iPhone.



Also this week: the audacious made-before-your-very-eyes rumor that Apple is

building its own overseas assembly plants; the supply chain is ahead of schedule

and behind schedule so that means a June or perhaps later release date for

iPhone 6; and Sharp is ramping up to mass produce iPhone 5S screens in June even

though it dropped Apple as a customer in January.



You read it here second.



__________"The curiously conflicting comments from the factories [of Apple's OEM

partners], which don't line up with known sales figures and inventory

availability, only make sense if Apple is quietly but broadly pulling its

manufacturing orders from its longtime partners in favor of building its own

factories."~ Will Stabley, StableyTimes.com, showing what can be accomplished

when one pretends that comments and figures are based on facts instead of on

rumors.__________ iPhone 6 "pops up in carrier system" Yet another rumor that

promises more than it delivers.



The headline at GottaBeMobile reads in full: "iPhone 6 Pops Up in Carrier

System, But Far From Release."  Which certainly implies that, you know, someone

saw and identified an iPhone 6.



In fact, what allegedly "popped up" were the words "4G iPhone 6" on what was

variously called (sometimes in the same online posting) an inventory list, a

product list, a "till system," a computer system, or perhaps all the above, of

British mobile carrier Vodafone.



"A Vodafone employee reportedly snapped the photo of the computer system showing

an entry for the "4G iPhone 6? mixed in with what appear to be plans and other

device listings," explains Josh Smith.



The photo was originally published by Stuff.tv.  "Stuff has received a spy shot

of a UK mobile operator's till system which lists '4G iPhone 6' on a product

list," the website announced. Here's the current version of the spy shot, with

some previously visible portions blurred out.



"The photo was snapped at a UK operator store and strongly suggests that Apple

will be skipping the 5S moniker and jumping straight to the iPhone 6, meaning we

could be in for some drastic changes from the Apple camp," Stuff announces

breathlessly.



Because the iPhone 5S is just, in the phrase a la mode, a "spec bump" whereas

the iPhone 6 will be a Huge Step Forward.



But by this time, GottaBeMobile's Josh Smith is busily trying to convince

readers of his post that actually there's nothing to the rumor, because the term

"iPhone 6" doesn't refer to a new iPhone at all.



"The simpler explanation for the iPhone 6 showing up in Vodafone's system is

that this may be a listing for the [existing] iPhone 5," he reveals. "The iPhone

5 is actually the sixth iPhone, so it could potentially carry the iPhone 6 name

on an internal system that is never meant to see the light of day."



But there's no holding back Stuff.tv, which reaches escape velocity from the

gravitational pull of Reason in just a few sentences.



"[W]e could see a totally revamped body which strays away from the iPhone 4S and

iPhone 5's well-established shape," according to Stuff. "With Apple's WWDC

kicking off on June 10th with a plastic budget iPhone expected to make an

appearance, Apple could surprise us all with an early reveal of the iPhone 6.

This would match up with the latest rumours which suggest that iPhone 6

production will begin in July, with an earlier August release date."



Which of course contradicts rumors from as recently as last week, which pushed

the "iPhone 6" into 2014, leaving us in 2013 with only the "iPhone 5S."



iPhone 6 will be assembled in Apple's own factories StableyTimes.com is to be

congratulated for what is undoubtedly the most audacious rumor of the week,

created apparently ex nihilo ("out of nothing"): Apple is building and manning

its own overseas manufacturing/assembly factories. The downside to audacity is

that after this, the website will be known as UnstableyTimes.com The post by

Will Stabley starts by misstating, misinterpreting, and mangling news and rumors

about two of Apple's device assemblers, Pegatron and Foxconn.



"[iPad assembler] Pegatron [is] stating that it's facing a surprise drop in iPad

mini demand from Apple," Stabley asserts.



"IPhone 5 sales continue to soar while its manufacturer Foxconn reports massive

drops in orders for it as well, with the vendor talking about life after Apple

as if it's already lost the iPhone 6."



Neither of the companies made such assertions.



A Bloomberg story this week by Tim Culpan, on Pegatron's first quarter results,

implied that Pegatron's CEO explicitly blamed a drop in iPad orders from Apple

for an expected second quarter decline in Pegatron's consumer electronics

revenues. And that's how it was widely and uncritically interpreted.



But Fortune's Philip Elmer-Dewitt dissected the Bloomberg story's problems. And

he emailed Pegatron CEO Jason Cheng and asked him about his alleged comments. In

reply, Cheng summarized his interacting with Culpan and concluded "I did not say

anything associated with any specific products." Or, in keeping with the

company's long-standing practice and principles, with any specific customer.



Which, as Elmer-Dewitt noted, is standard operating procedure for contract

manufacturers, especially those working with Apple.



Similarly, in its recent quarterly financial report, Foxconn reported a decline

in orders from one customer, without naming the customer. Apple isn't its only

customer; and estimates of the percentage of Foxconn business attributed to

Apple are unreliable, ranging from 40 to 70%. Again, executives made no mention

of Apple or the iPhone.



But Stabley is undeterred and, apparently unaware of the dangers of building a

house on sand instead of rock (cf the Gospel of Matthew 7:24-27), constructs a

new rumor before our very eyes.



"The curiously conflicting comments from the factories, which don't line up with

known sales figures and inventory availability, only make sense if Apple is

quietly but broadly pulling its manufacturing orders from its longtime partners

in favor of building its own factories," he declares. It apparently doesn't

occur to Stabley that the comments are in conflict and don't line up because

there's something mistaken about the comments or figures.



Set aside the question of what actually is "known" about Apple's sales figures

and inventory availability, except quarterly.



Let's think about this. Apple relies on Asian OEM manufacturers who have honed

their ability to manufacture complex, high quality consumer electronics products

on a mass basis. This takes place, especially in the case of Foxconn, in immense

factories based in Taiwan and China, staffed by hundreds of thousands of

employees in some cases. As a result, these companies have a web of

relationships with local and national political and regulatory authorities,

local labor markets, shipping and freight carriers, and a network of scores or

hundreds of component suppliers to name just a few.



Apple, according to Stabley, is preparing to scrap this entire, complex

infrastructure and re-create it all by itself.



"As odd as the idea may sound, it's the only explanation which allows the

current chain of events regarding the two products to make sense," Stabley

insists.



"Odd" doesn't begin to describe the idea.



In 2012, Apple invested $9.5 billion in capital spending, "including product

tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and other corporate facilities and

infrastructure." That was more than double what it spent in 2011. Apple

indicated last fall it will spend over $10 billion in the current fiscal 2013.



In a November 2012 analysis of this spending, Asymco's Horace Dediu suggests

that some of this money is to secure manufacturing assets of Sharp Corp., a

financially struggling screen manufacturer and a key supplier of mobile displays

to Apple. The rest of it is investing in equipment that is owned by Apple but

deployed at the manufacturing plants of its OEM contractors.



"The overall story remains that Apple is still injecting vast and growing

amounts of capital into production and placing those assets on its own balance

sheet," Dediu concluded.



Far from replacing the strengths and infrastructure of OEM partners, Apple's

capital spending leverages them. And the $20 billion being spent in calendar

2012 and 2013 indicate a massive growth in production capacity and, conceivably,

in equipment for new categories of Apple products, as Tim Cook indicated at

Apple's most recent earnings call when he talked about product introductions

starting in the fall of 2013 and continuing into 2014.



iPhone 5S or 6 due in June, or maybe July or August, no matter what Tim Cook

says If it's Friday, the Apple supply chain must be behind schedule again. Or

ahead of schedule. It all depends.



International Business Times on May 8 declared that "New rumours claimed that

Apple's upcoming smartphones, iPhone 6 and 5S, is set to be launched next month

along with iOS 7."



That seems straightforward enough, eh?



"This contradicts earlier reports that the next iPhone will be released as early

as later this year, according to the somewhat confused phrasing of Kristin Dian

Mariano. She mentions that Apple CEO Tim Cook recently said, pretty clearly,

that new hardware, software and sources would begin to be announced in the fall

of 2013. Rather amazingly, she takes this as proof that "the reports on the

delayed release date of Apple products proved to be true."



The June release rumor also contradicts IBT's post - the day before on June 7 --

that the "production of iPhone 6 and 5S may commence as soon as July." IBT's

source for this claim was a post at PatentlyApple on May 6, which in turn cited

but didn't link to a "new Chinese report" that Apple's "supply chain

manufacturers have begun to receive component parts for the new iPhone,

supposedly named the 5S."



PatentlyApple's Jack Purcher explains it takes two months to "reach the assembly

stage," which means the Next iPhones will be assembled in July and released in

August.



"Today's latest rumor suggests that Apple could be breaking with their

traditional September-only release time frame for new iPhones," Purcher says.



That would be the ancient and venerable 2-year-old tradition encompassing the

iPhone 4S, released October 2011, and the iPhone 5, released September 2012.



"The rumor is blatantly suggesting that the iPhone 5S would debut in August and

a new economical entry in September." For no identifiable reason, Purcher

considers this a "stretch."



"Yet for now, the rumor of the day out of Apple's supply chain is that Apple has

moved up their part orders earlier than normal which could point to an earlier

release of the iPhone 5S."



So putting together these two websites' "reporting," we now know that Apple's

supply chain is running ahead of schedule and behind schedule, that the release

of the Next iPhones will be later than planned and earlier than planned, and

could be released in June, August, or September or possibly as early as later

this year.



iPhone 5S display panel from Sharp ramps up production in June or not More

"reporting" from the supply chain.



"A report from the Far East on Tuesday says struggling LCD manufacturer and

Apple supplier Sharp is ready to ramp up display manufacture for the

next-generation iPhone, with mass production slated to start next month," says

AppleInsider's Mikey Campbell.  The information, such as it is, is lifted

originally from a Japanese website, Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun. The website post also

caught the eye of VentureBeat's John Koetsier, who like Campbell, wrote a

summary that managed to be longer than the original.  Koetsier linked to a

Google Translate version of the original post, something that always require a

certain, uh, flexibility of imagination to grasp its meaning, since you end up

with sentences like: "Appears to have embarked on production readiness of

consecutive holidays from May Kameyama Plant No. 1 of Apple smartphones LCD

dedicated plagued by sluggish occupancy rate since the beginning of the year in

(Kameyama, Mie Prefecture)."



A generous interpretation appears to be: the Japanese website claims that Sharp

will ramp up production of iPhone 5S displays starting in June. Koetsier calls

attention to this sentence: "The liquid crystal panel of the next model 'iPhone

(iPhone) 5' Apple, specification is close to the current and the 'iPhone 5'."



"In other words, the 5S is the same size and shape as the 5, which means that

this particular product is not the iPhone Mini or iPhone Maxi that have recently

been rumored," Koetsier explains. "Which doesn't, of course, mean that Apple is

not sourcing components for those potential products from other manufacturers."



Exactly. What we know points to the opposite of what we thought we knew but that

doesn't mean that what we thought was happening isn't actually happening. As

Will Stabley might put it, "As odd as the idea may sound, it's the only

explanation which allows the current chain of events regarding the two products

to make sense."



Yet despite the rumors that Sharp is ramping up iPhone display production, this

week also brings rumors that say, basically, the reverse. "Surprising Report

Surfaces Claiming Sharp has Dropped Apple" is the headline at PatentlyApple.



"A surprising Korean report [by Korea IT News] this afternoon emphatically

states that Sharp, the leading company in the small & medium-sized LCD panel

market, is starkly changing its supply strategy...."writes Jack Purcher.

"According to the industry on May 8, Sharp stopped the production of LCD panels

for iPad as of January this year and started supplying Samsung with small and

medium-sized IGZO panels instead."



The problems with this assessment are almost as great as those associated with

Stabley's assessment that Apple is building its own assembly plants, as this

March 27 story by The Wall Street Journal makes clear: "Sharp Corp. is banking

on a proprietary technology with an unproven track record to revive its fortunes

after it soon reports what's expected to be the largest annual loss in its

100-year history."



Thoroughly reported, the Journal story clarifies the technology's benefits,

reveals its importance to Sharp, and puts the company's product and financial

challenges in context.



"The technology is IGZO, short for indium gallium zinc oxide, and it's a

semiconductor material developed to make liquid crystal displays. It appears to

be a major step forward from the more common silicon-based alternatives,

promising twice as much battery life, sharper images and a more than fivefold

increase in the sensitivity of touch screens for smartphones and tablets."



Here's how important IGZO is to Sharp, according to the Journal story: "'IGZO

will be the technology to rescue Sharp,' Takashi Okuda, the company's president,

told a news conference Nov. 1 [2012] as the electronics maker warned that its

financial situation was so tenuous it was worried about its future as a 'going

concern.'" But the rescue is not assured. From the Journal: Sharp is "on track

for a loss of nearly $9 billion [!] over the past two fiscal years, and its

interest-bearing debt dwarfs its cash on hand by a ratio of seven to one." The

story continues: "Ironically, the exclusive advances made by Sharp's IGZO

screens are limiting the company's reach. Major electronics manufacturers often

insist on at least two suppliers for every key component to ensure stable supply

and maintain pricing leverage."



As noted above in "iPhone 6 will be assembled in Apple's own factories," Apple

may have been heavily involved in 2012 in propping up Sharp's troubled finances.

Samsung recently took about a 3% equity stake in Sharp, and according to the

Journal is set to expand its purchase of Sharp IGZO displays, currently found on

Samsung products sold only in Japan. It's not clear that Samsung's stake is to

persuade or compel Sharp to "drop" Apple, given how desperately the display

maker needs more, not fewer, customers.



The Journal notes two other display makers are investing in IGZO, but don't seem

to have reached the level of Sharp: Innolux Corp., a unit of Taiwan's Hon Hai

Precision Industry Co. (parent of Foxconn, a main assembler for Apple products)

started producing IGZO displays in small quantities in February 2013; and AU

Optronics Corp., also based in Taiwan, has developed IGZO displays, "but it

hasn't said if or when it will start mass production."



So we know that Sharp is ramping up production of screens for the next iPhone.

And we know that it's not.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





