                              412 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                          China Daily European Edition



                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday



Apple sells more than 10m new iPhones in 1st 3-day



SECTION: COMPANIES



LENGTH: 445 words





Apple Inc said it sold more than 10 million iPhones in the first weekend after

its new models went on sale on Friday, underscoring strong demand for phones

with larger displays.



Chief Executive Tim Cook said the company could have sold even more iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus models if supplies had been available.



Analysts had estimated first-weekend sales of up to 10 million iPhones, after

Apple booked record pre-orders of 4 million on Sept 12, the day pre-orders

opened.



Apple's shares were little changed at $100.98 in afternoon trading on the Nasdaq

on Monday.



The company's first-quarter revenue is likely to be 9 percent higher than Wall

Street estimates, based on reported sales and projected demand for the new

iPhones, Piper Jaffray & Co analyst Gene Munster wrote in a note.



Munster said he expected earnings per share to be 12 percent higher than

estimates.



"Despite the supply chain constraints around the iPhone 6 Plus and tightness

around certain models of the iPhone 6, we believe (Monday's) strong print

demonstrates that Apple executed extremely well in the face of severe supply

constraints," Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White wrote in a note.



First-day pre-orders for the new phones, which went on sale in 10 countries, far

surpassed the 2 million recorded for the  model two years ago.



"While our team managed the manufacturing ramp better than ever before, we could

have sold many more iPhones with greater supply and we are working hard to fill

orders as quickly as possible," Cook said in a statement.



Apple sold 9 million iPhone 5S and 5C models last year in 11 countries,

including China, in the first weekend they were available.



Sales of the latest models in China, the world's largest smartphone market, have

been delayed by regulatory issues.



Lured by the prospect of profit from smuggling the new iPhones into China,

opportunists joined the scores of fans outside Apple stores to buy the devices.



Apple said last week that many US customers would have to wait until next month

for their new iPhones due to strong demand. The company routinely faces iPhone

supply constraints, particularly in years that involve a re-design.



The new iPhones will be available in 20 more countries on Sept 26, Apple said.



The company sold 5 million iPhone 5 hanets, 4 million iPhone 4S models and 1.7

million iPhone 4 units during the first weekend.



The shipment levels of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are positive, given that the

new models are not initially available in China, Stifel Nicolaus & Co analyst

Aaron Rakers wrote in a note.



Rakers noted that the latest models would be available in 115 countries by the

end of this year compared with 100 for iPhone 5S and 5C.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co

                              All Rights Reserved





