                              426 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                        May 31, 2015 Sunday 6:30 AM EST



10 New Features In Next Generation iPhone



LENGTH: 400  words





Here are 10 rumoured features of next-gen iPhone!



Friday, May 29, 2015: Even though the next iPhone is more than 4 months away,

still there are lot of rumours about it. Many bloggers, social media enthusiast

are posting about next generation iPhone. Today we have listed top 10 things

that you can expect to see in Apple's next generation flagship device.



1. Rose Gold Edition



Apple might ship new iPhone in new colors. Currently iPhone comes in Gold,

Silver and Space Grey colors. It is expected that new iPhone will come in

variants similar to Apple Watch.



2. Camera



We can finally expect to see a megapixel upgrade to iPhone's camera. Apple is

still using 8MP sensor in camera. The new iPhone is likely to sport 12 MP

sensor.



3. Microphone



A Japanese company has predicted that Apple will add all new microphone to

iPhone for better voice clarity. The latest versions of iPhones come with three

microphones for enhanced noise cancellation.



4. New Processor



Latest iPhone 6/6 plus sport A8 chip. The new iPhone will sport A9 processor

along with a 2GB RAM. This RAM upgrade will certainly make the phone much more

powerful.



5. New Material and Design



Apple will supposedly make important mechanical changes to new iPhone in order

to give extra strength to the body. Apple has made this decision after receiving

lot of media criticism for faulty design of iPhone 6 and 6 plus.



6. Sapphire Display



The new iPhone is expected to sport 13.97-cm (5.5-inch) sapphire glass display.

This will give new level of strength to the display of iPhone.



7. Gesture Control



iOS 7 and 8 already feature gesture control to limited extent. The new iOS

version will include more gesture based functionality.



8. Force Touch



Force touch technology is an intelligent algorithm that detects the difference

between a light tap and harder press. The new iPhone will be integrated with

this technology. It is already present in Apple watch and all new Macbook. This

will open doors to new features and options in iOS.



9. Touch ID



Touch ID is already present in latest variants of iPhone. The new iPhone will be

equipped with improved Touch ID to promote Apple Pay. Apple has high goal of

promoting it's mobile payment solution.



10. No Small Screen



Apple has made decisions of not producing any compact variant of iPhone anymore.

Apple will continue to develop 11.93-cm (4.7-inch) and 13.97-cm (5.5-inch)

screen size phones with same screen resolution.



LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





