                              42 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



Apple Call Is On Line With New iPhone 6s; Gluten Free' But Bland? Smartphone

debut event and Apple TV, iPad Pro fail to impress investors



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ



SECTION: FRONT PAGE NEWS; Pg. A01



LENGTH: 523 words





Apple unwrapped its ninth-generation iPhone on Wednesday, but investors were

unimpressed.



Apple stock fell 1.9% to 110.15 on the day, which also saw the unveiling of a

fourth-generation Apple TV set-top box and a large-screen iPad Pro tablet.



Wall Street is concerned that iPhone unit sales could fall year over year for

the first time ever with the new iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus handsets. Apple's

latest smartphones face tough comparisons to last year's huge iPhone 6 launch,

which satisfied pent-up demand for big-screen smartphones.



The iPhone is by far Apple's largest business, accounting for 63% of its June

quarter revenue.



Going For The Rose Gold



This year's handsets look the same as last year's, except for the added new rose

gold color model. The iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus have the same screen sizes (4.7

and 5.5 inches, respectively) and pricing as their predecessors. But they sport

better components, such as a pressure-sensitive 3 D Touch display, improved

front- and rear-facing cameras, a faster processor and a sturdier aluminum case.



"By the way, iPhone 6 S is gluten free," quipped One Direction singer Ryan

Tedder, who was the musical guest at Apple's event.



The new phones will be available for pre-order starting Saturday and will be in

stores Sept. 25.



Apple touted the new iPhones as its most advanced yet, but the sales pitch did

little to ease concerns that the growth days for the iPhone are behind it.



"We view positively iPhone enhancements, but are wary of comparables given the

success of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus," said S&P Capital IQ analyst Angelo

Zino. He rates Apple stock a hold.



The new features and technologies in the iPhone 6 S should be enough for Apple

to continue to gain market share at the high-end of the smartphone market, Piper

Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said. Lower prices for the existing iPhone 6 models

also should help draw customers, he said. Munster rates Apple stock as

overweight with a price target of 172.



"We are expecting 4% year-over-year iPhone unit growth vs. the Street at flat in

2016," he said.



An Incremental iPhone?



Apple CEO Tim Cook addressed how to follow the phenomenal success of iPhone 6.



"How do you follow a success like this? I've gotten that question a few times,"

Cook said. "While (the iPhone 6 S phones) may look familiar, we have changed

everything about these new iPhones."



The first TV commercial for the iPhone 6 S starts with a narrator saying, "This

is the iPhone 6 S. Not much has changed." Then she says "except" and lists the

many new features.



The pressure-sensitive display can tell a soft press from a hard one, creating

new ways to interact with apps and content. With 3 D Touch, users can get

previews of content and find app shortcuts.



The iPhone 6 S has a 12-megapixel rear camera, vs. 8 megapixels for the old

model. It shoots 4 K ultra high-definition video, new for the iPhone. The phone

has a 5 megapixel FaceTime camera that uses the Retina display as a flash for

taking better selfies.



The iPhone 6 S uses Apple's A9 processor, its third-generation 64-bit chip. It

provides a 70% faster CPU and 90% faster graphics processor speed vs. the A8

chip.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





