                              434 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                         Sunday Tribune (South Africa)



                               September 28, 2014

                                   E1 Edition



iCame, iPhone, iDrop it in beer



SECTION: Pg. 36



LENGTH: 566 words





THE release of the iPhone 6 was eagerly anticipated all around the world.



But one Apple fan went to great lengths to ensure he was the first to get his

hands on one, by changing time zones and flying to Australia for the launch -

just so he could drop the first iPhone 6 in a pitcher of beer.



Canadian-based musician Michael Mooney spent 22 hours on a plane so he could be

the first to buy an iPhone in Brisbane, even paying the first people in the

queue of 2000 to hand over their handset.



But it was no accident that the first iPhone 6 met such a sticky ending - Mooney

dropped it into his beer on purpose.



As part of a clever marketing ploy, the musician was working to promote a

product that claims to revive phones even when they have been completely

saturated.



Reviveaphone tasked Mooney with acquiring the first iPhone 6 on the market, so

he could test out the product with a fun video.



So he headed to Australia, which was the first country to welcome the release

date of September 19, due to time zone differences.



Mooney is the lead singer of a Montreal Band called Le Trouble.



The video was shot from September 16 to September 19 and it involved flying

Mooney and a two-man crew to Brisbane.



Mooney said, "When the guys approached me with this crazy and beautiful idea, I

had to go with it. What's funny is that nothing was guaranteed.



"Would we get to the store on time? Would we get the first phone? Of course, we

were confident Reviveaphone would bring the iPhone back to life, but it was all

a big gamble.



"Those four days were hectic, and boy did we have fun."



On the day of the iPhone 6 release Mooney is taken aback by the length of the

queue.



During the entertaining video, Mooney comes to an agreement with the first two

people in line for the iPhone 6 and he agrees to give his new friends thousands

of dollars in return for acquiring the world's first iPhone 6.



The video then cuts to the morning of the iPhone 6 release and an excited

Mooney.



He says, "Our friends are being interviewed because they were the first in line

but what they don't know is the first phone is mine."



When Mooney finally gets his hands on the iPhone 6, he kisses it and says,

"'Thank you very much everybody, that one's mine. We came a long way for that

b*****d."



Minutes later the musician can be seen in a hotel with a large jug of beer.



Mooney says, "Ladies and gentlemen, I'm now going to drop the world's first

iPhone 6 into a full pitcher of beer."



Although the phone looks doomed as the display lights are extinguished as the

beer infiltrates the device, Mooney then introduces Riviveaphone.



Minerals



He says, "When you drop your phone in water or beer or whatever it's not the

liquid that makes the thing die, it's the minerals in the liquid and somehow

this stuff treats the minerals and works on the minerals. I don't know, I'm not

a scientist."



Mooney continues: "You pour the liquid into the pouch and then stick the phone

in and seal it. You leave this thing in for seven minutes and then you take it

out and leave it to dry for 24 hours and you're good to go."



The video then cuts to Mooney 24 hours later as he checks if the phone has been

revived.



"This thing has been sitting outside for 24 hours drying and it is dry so I

guess I'll turn it on."



The lead singer is delighted to see the phone lights up.



He adds, "Please look at |that, please, look at the apple and please see that

that works." - Daily Mail



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NT





                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





