                              445 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                       August 31, 2014 Sunday 2:02 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6 'leaked video' claims to show device on iTunes ahead of release

date;

Short clip of stylish 'prototype' of this year's must-have mobile has been

dividing opinion since it first surfaced on Friday



BYLINE: By Steve Kelly



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 817 words





iPhone 6 hands-on



A video claiming to be leaked footage the new iPhone 6 has surfaced online.



The short clip of the apparent prototype, entitled 'iPhone 6 Hands-on', hit

YouTube on Friday after being released by luxury phone designer Feld and Volk,

causing a storm among millions of Apple lovers.



The video shows the stylish silver device charging and even booting up.



However, eagle-eyed critics have branded the phone a fake, correctly arguing the

iTunes logo in the 6's new operating system, iOS 8, is a different colour.



The logo on the new phones has been changed from the standard blue, as shown in

the clip, to a new orange.



Whether this is an oversight or it is simply running on the current iOS 7 format

is unclear, but it appears to have wet the appetite of fans keen to catch of

glimpse of the gadget in action.



The two-minute video has spread across the internet like wildfire, having

attracted almost 1.5 million views in just two days.



The clip is one of hundreds flying around the web in anticipation for the

official iPhone 6 launch in just over a week.



What do you think of the iPhone 6 video?



And Apple is already using the building suspense to its advantage.



A mysterious three-storey structure has been built next to the conference centre

where the device will be unveiled.



The structure, clad in a giant white box and protected by round-the-clock

security, has been built near the Flint Centre for the Performing Arts in

Cupertino, the Californian city that Apple have their headquarters.



It's the first time in years that Apple have held a event at the Flint Centre -

they usually unveil hardware and software at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Center

or at their own 'Town Hall' venue in Cupertino.



Blogger Jim Dalrymple, whose site The Loop has reliably broken countless Apple

stories over the years, suggests the structure could be a hands-on area for

journalists to try out the new devices after the launch keynote.



Others have questioned why the tech giant would be keeping the venue so tightly

under wraps, considering the number of leaked photos of the forthcoming iPhone

devices.



It's thought the guarded secrecy could mean there are still some surprises in

store at the event - perhaps involving an iWatch.



Apple sent out cryptic invitations three days ago, believed to be connected with

the launch.



The image carries a date and the cryptic message "Wish we could say more."



There's no mention of iPhone specifically, and the background - a section of

Apple's iconic logo - gives no clues as to what hardware is due to be revealed

at the event.



Everyone's pretty sure we'll see some iPhones unveiled at the keynote speech,

but will there be anything else? Perhaps an iWatch ?



iPhone 'dummy' vid



Meanwhile, excitement is building for devotees as the official launch of the

iPhone edges closer.



In typical Apple fashion, hard facts are scarce, but rumours about exactly what

the new phone will offer continue to spread across the web thick and fast.



Here are a few things expected to be included in the new offering:Bigger screen



It's almost a given that Apple will increase the iPhone's screen size.



Critics were quick to mock the relatively tiny 4-inch screen in the current

model, which is more than an inch smaller than Samsung's flagship Galaxy S5.



Apple has clearly taken complaints to heart and is believed to have expanded the

iPhone 6's screen by 1.5 inches. That's a serious jump in size!



However, it has been reported that a smaller 4.7-inch version could be available

to those who prefer things a little more portable.



iPhone 'leak' vid iOS 8



Not really so much of a rumour, but something that will be music to the ears of

iPhone lovers.



Apple has already announced the new operating system will allow us to share

music, books and apps.



Photos, video and documents will also be able to saved to iCloud and users will

also be able to keep track of their health with the new HealthKit app.



A much-needed improvement will also see a timer added to the camera and group

messaging will get a facelift.Sapphire screen



A main gripe of many iPhone users its fragility.



To combat the growing number of cracked screens, the company is believed to have

developed a synthetic sapphire, which is much more resilient than the current

glass used.



Sapphire was used for the camera lens and home button of the iPhone 5 and 5s

respectively so it would appear to be a logical step go whole hog with the new

screen.



Mobile shopping



iPhone 6 rumour round-up



This might not seem like anything particularly new, but it could actually

revolutionise the way we shop.



The 6's purported near field communication (NFC) capabilities, which allows

devices to connect wirelessly, could replace our wallets by allowing users to

pay goods with a quick phone swipe.



Apple is believed to be in talks with banks and credit card companies to push

the move forward.



What addition would you like to see on the iPhone 6?



iphone 6 rumors



LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





