                              446 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      August 6, 2014 Wednesday 2:09 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6 release date 'confirmed' 10 days after September 9 unveiling;

Tech fans can finally breath a sigh of relief as the mobile phone giant pencils

in the date for 'media event' said to be a worldwide unveiling



BYLINE: By David Raven



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 1011 words





iphone 6 rumors



Apple's iPhone 6 will be unveiled to the world on September 9 before going on

sale 10 days later, it is claimed.



The tech giant's bosses are notorious for keeping quiet about new gadgets but

have marked September 9 for a 'worldwide media event', according to recode.



Many Apple bloggers and insiders claim this will be the date the iPhone 6 will

be unveiled and if the company were to follow previous years, then the model

would go on sale 10 days later.



The new much-anticipated iPhone is expected to feature bigger screens of 4.7 and

5.5 inches.



New features on the next generation phone are said to include Near Field

Communications technology to allow contactless payments, a super-sturdy screen -

possibly made at least partially from Sapphire crystal, and a massively upgraded

camera.



Apple is planning an unprecedented production run, with manufacturers being

asked to assemble between 50 and 70m units before the phone's launch.



The tech firm is expected to make a second announcement later in the year

covering the iWatch, OSX Yosemite and new iPad and Mac hardware.



Apple has not commented on the rumoured launch date.Only 5.5inch model will pack

'128GB internal storage'



Reports from China claim only the larger iPhone 6 will have the more substantial

amount of internal space.



Apple Insider claims Chinese sources say only the supposed 5.5 inch device will

have 128GB storage - while its 4.7 inch counterpart will have just 64GB.



It has been reported online that both models will be released on the same day,

thought to be in September.New picture shows curved edges on 4.7in model



The iPhone 6 will include a curved glass screen if the latest leaked images are

anything to go by.



Tech website 9to5Mac posted the new pictures which were sent to them by blogger

Sonny Dickson.



On the picture, two glass covers of the latest Apple handset can be seen

side-by-side in both black and white.



The most notable difference from these designs and the mock-ups we've seen in

the past are the curved edges.



Now standing at 4.7inch display, it looks like the new model is set to be not

only bigger but rounder than ever before.Could leaked mockups differ from final

design?



The iPhone 6 will not look exactly like the mock-ups that have been leaked,

according to new reports.



Japanese website Nikkei is claiming that while there will be some similarities,

the final design will be different than what we've seen.



This is largely because low-quality materials are used to make the dummy models

to keep cost to a minimum during the early stages.



One alleged difference is that the handset that makes it to the shelves will

include a curved glass display.



This feature is ultimately better quality than flat displays which have been

seen in the leaked images.Highest resolution images revealed



The clearest images yet of  the iPhone 6  have been posted by an eBay user.



Through the high resolution shots of a black and silver handset more detail can

be seen than ever before.



There looks to have been some significant design changes, including the fact

that the power button has been moved to the side of the device.



It is rumoured from the images that Apple's new release will be thinner and

longer than any iPhone before it.New images of 'leaked iPhone 6 screen'



New 'leaked' images point towards Apple releasing their latest handset in two

different sizes.



Australian blogger Sonny Dickson has publicised pictures which show a ruler

measuring the screen of  an iPhone 6 .



It reaches a diagonal measurement of approximately 14cm which is 5.5inches when

converted.



While the full phone is not shown in the pictures, the LCD display component is

instead used.Could iOS 8 come with a barometer weather device?



The iPhone 6  may be able to track weather according to codes found within its

operating system.



Yet-to-be-released iOS 8 includes frameworks for a barometer, meaning it would

be able to predict the atmosphere around the device.



This would allow users to track the weather, altitude and air pressure wherever

they go.



The discovery was made by Apple-tracking website 9to5Mac which spotted multiple

references to the feature when analysing the operating system.



It was then tested by FutureTap developer Ortwin Gentz who tried to add the

information onto Apple's most recent handset, the iPhone 5s.The 5.5 inch model

and 'Sapphire Glass'



The  new iPhone 6  will allegedly feature Sapphire Glass - but only on the

larger model.



Apple  are rumoured  to be producing two different sized versions of the phone

at their launch this autumn however, only one of the devices will be using the

advanced screen.



The tech-giant's 5.5inch model will be kitted out with Sapphire Glass according

to suppliers.



Taiwanese supply chain insiders have said that the larger version is being

manufactured with the super strong material.



If used, the feature will ultimately make the phone resistant to scratches. This

will come in handy for those who buy the expanded version of the device and want

to store is safely.What does it look like next to HTC One M8?



This picture shows how the upcoming iPhone 6 measures up to the HTC One M8.



It appears to be another 'leaked' image of the new model, but this time the

handset is positioned next to their rival's and the iPhone 5.



The snaps seemingly confirm  that Apple's  latest release will have gained some

extra length as the phone evolves.



It is noticeably taller than its predecessor which was 4 inches when launched in

2012.How does it measure up to Samsung Galaxy S5?



This picture appears to show Apple's upcoming  iPhone 6  held next to the

Samsung Galaxy S5.



The image was posted by phone tech website GSM Arena and shows the S5's screen

looking slightly longer and considerably wider.



This is in line with other 'leaked' pictures which have claimed that the smaller

version of Apple's new phone will have a screen size of 4.7 inches - up from 4

inches on the iPhone 5.



The S5 has a screen size of 5.1 inches, but will be dwarfed by the bigger iPhone

6 - planned to be 5.5 inches - if rumours are to be believed.



Will Apple's iPhone 6 be the best phone out there?



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





