

The wait will end in just a week but iPhone 6 and the leaking channels are not
at all tired with their activities.

Monday, September 01, 2014: There seems to be no end to iPhone 6 leaks this year
as every week there is something new for you. Even after the Cupertino firm's
official invitation for the 9 September event, here comes one more leak now. We
have gone through all kind of possible leaks for the device before.

Now a video has been released showing a fully functional 11.94-cm (4.7-inch)
iPhone 6 with evidence that the leaked device is not Apple made but has been
assembled with leaked parts. The video has been created by Feld & Volk, the
maker of Apple cases and accessories. The iPhone 6 is shown in silver colour and
it's connected to an iMac. The phone displays the 'Connect to iTunes' screen
after it gets booted.

But the user is unable to connect as the iMac shows a message that, "iTunes
could not contact the iPhone software update server because you are not
connected to the internet." The video also shows an iPhone 5s along with the
iPhone 6 as the previous one can successfully connect to the iTunes screen. The
Mac points out that the iPhone is not Apple made and has been put together from
leaked parts. Several inconsistencies could be spotted as the device is running
on iOS 7 and iOS 8, defying the expectations.

The website notes that the colour of the iTunes logo shown on the device's
'Connect to iTunes' screen in the video is blue and white, the colour of iOS 7.
iPhone 6 is awaited in iOS 8 where the iTunes logo is orange and white. A gear
icon also appears on the screen before showing the 'Connect to iTunes' screen
after being paired with the iMac. The design of the device, as shown in the
video, is in line with previous leaks.

In the past too, several iPhone leaks have been offered by Feld & Volk and it
seems that it has access to a limited edition of Apple parts. But all
speculations will come to an end by next week when the iPhone 6 is launched next
week, 9 September, finally. But, in the meantime, so more leaks are also
expected. So watch this space for more.

