                              453 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                             July 9, 2013, Tuesday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending July 6;

Apple iPhone 6 scuttlebutt: Two-sided displays, glossy and cheap, processor

power



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 2208 words





The extended July 4 holiday put a bit of crimp in iPhone rumoring (and delayed

this Rollup) but not before the iOSpherefigured out a way for Apple to double

the size of the iPhone screen without making the phone any bigger.



"Just" add a second screen to the back.



Also this week: glossy iPhone bodies not only signal "cheap," they look it. And

following a signed deal with a Taiwan semiconductor alternative to Samsung, the

iOSphere is already anticipating the A8 microprocessor in 2014, even though

there's still no sign of the A7.



You read it here second.A __________ "The rear surface of the iPhone and similar

devices has long been wasted space, necessary simply to complete the housing but

offering no features beyond the rear camera lens. Doubling the screen to wrap

around to the back of the iPhone 6 would open up a world of possibilities,

allowing the entire touchscreen interface to be reimagined."



A A A A A A A A A A A ~ Phil Moore, StableyTimes, without apparently wondering

whether millions and millions of iPhone users would embrace the reimagining of

the entire touchscreen interface when they're pretty happy with the one they

have.



__________ A iPhone 6 will have a curved and two-sided display The Fourth Law of

Rumoring holds that the shallower the rumor the more convoluted is its genesis.



Phil Moore, at StableyTimes.com ("a new kind of news" and how), asks the obvious

question, in a post with the misleading headline "iPhone 6 will have a curved

and two-sided display."



[APPLE IPHONEYS: iPhone 6 & iPhone 5S edition] It's misleading because Apple

doesn't file "iPhone 6" patents. It files patents for inventions that might one

day appear on a smartphone ... or on a tablet, or a laptop. But none of the

patent filings that the iOSphere has actually covered has been for a specific

model iPhone.



The Obvious Question is: "If you're Apple and you've already delivered an iPhone

whose screen is as dense as the human eye can see, how do you top it?"



And Moore has an answer. "By delivering an iPhone 6 whose screen wraps around to

both sides of the device, if a patent application for a flexible display is to

be believed," he writes. "The filing calls for a curved body style most similar

to the mid generation iPod nano, where the entire front and rear faces are

contoured to meet each other at the edges, with no siding. The result is a

screen that's twice as large, and a world of possibilities."



A "world of possibilities." That means you can make up almost anything. Because,

you know, almost anything is possible.



One would think that Moore, or someone at StableyTimes would put in a link to

the relevant patent or at least to some other website that covered the patent.

But one would be wrong.



The phrase "if a patent application is to be believed" is odd to say the least.

Does Moore think Apple creates a dummy U.S.



government patent application? Or submits a real application for a fake

invention?



Since at least last fall, there have been multiple Apple patent applications for

a variety of screen technologies: flexible, curved, pressable, stressable...it's

a wonder Apple doesn't synthesize them into a display with the properties of

natural rubber: a large stretch ratio, high resilience, and extremely

waterproof.



There is for example, TheUnwiredView's September 2012 postingA on an Apple

patent application for flexible screens combined with "an array of piezoelectric

actuators below the display and activating them on demand for tactile feedback.

This way you have a perfectly smooth surface when you browse the net or read

your e-mail. Call up a keyboard, actuators pop up and now you can feel the

letters as you type."



Others: + March 28, 2013 PatentlyApple post, "Stunning Future iPhone with

Wraparound Display Revealed." Complete with a drawing of the stunning device

itself.



+ May 21, 2013 post at the same website, regarding a "Double-Sided Touch Panel

for iPhone." And nine days later, PatentlyApple posts about "Apple reveals new

Flex Screen Feature with Force Detection."



+ In March 2013, there was even news of a Microsoft patent application for a

"two-sided smartphone display system."



Moore never says from which source this latest rumor springs. And he doesn't

spend a lot of time contemplating the Endless Possibilities. He concentrates on

just one.



"The rear surface of the iPhone and similar devices has long been wasted space,

necessary simply to complete the housing but offering no features beyond the

rear camera lens," he observes. "Doubling the screen to wrap around to the back

of the iPhone 6 would open up a world of possibilities, allowing the entire

touchscreen interface to be reimagined."



Is a World of Possibilities the same or less than Endless Possibilities?

Whichever, it's a still a pretty short post overall given that the Possibilities

are, you know, a lot.



Moore does make one interesting point from a user interface perspective, and

it's the only point worth any attention. "The question would become, of course,

whether consumers would be inclined to flip the device back and forth in their

hand to take advantage of both sides of the screen," he writes. "But it would

allow for full screen video to play on one side of the device, for instance,

while text messages and notifications arrive on the other side. Simply pausing

the video and flipping the iPhone 6 over could be seen as more intuitive than

having to exit the video or work over top of it to interact with notifications

and messages in the current single-screen motif."



Try it with whatever smartphone you're carrying right now, and he's right: even

just pretending to watch a video in landscape mode, one can easily flip the

phone over to "see" a back display, showing an email or call. But Moore makes it

sound easier than, in all likelihood, it would prove to be: it would involve a

massive hardware redesign and probably some significant UI redesign as well. And

the hardware, and more specifically the display technology, would have to be

implemented in just as massively redesigned large-scale manufacturing systems

for Apple's contract suppliers and iPhone assemblers.



Moore, quite sensibly, notes the potential battery and heat impact of running

not one but two displays. Yet he doesn't ask how or even whether that problem

could be met with current battery technology. And he doesn't ask whether both

screens would be high-res Retina displays or whether the back one would be a

much lower resolution devoted to receiving and processing notifications and

alerts.



The 2013 or 2014 iPhones may have big changes. It just seems unlikely that

either year will be the Year of Seeing Double.



iPhone 5S or something will have glossy colors and be cheap French-language

website NowhereElse.com received photos that show just how glossy and bright one

can make a polycarbonate iPhone.



The website published photos showing, apparently, plastic-bodied iPhones in at

least five colors: a peachy-toned red, a yellowish peasoup green, a

dirty-looking white, bright blue and industrial-safety green. The photo has been

widely interpreted as showing the long-rumored "cheap iPhone."



The post by editor Steve Hemmerstoffer, via Google Translate, credits "our

little Chinese weasel" as the source, a translation which unintentionally

captures something of the essence of iPhone rumoring.



Perhaps Google actually meant "mole."



In any case, the little Chinese weasel provided a photo that shows phone "shells

allegedly designed for plastic iPhone...in many colors," Hemmerstoffer writes.

"Without giving us the formal proof that these shells are indeed intended to

equip the hypothetical low-cost iPhone, this new snapshot confirms that these

elements are now circulating in the number next to China."



But at almost the same time, Barron's Tiernan Ray bloggedA on an analysis by

stock analyst Steve Milunovich, of UBS, that questions whether the case for a

cheap iPhone is as obvious as many insist.



"If the high end [of the smartphone market] is slowing, the obvious answer is to

head to lower price points," Milunovich wrote.



"Although analysts are anxious for Apple to broaden the iPhone line, we think

the company has to be careful. Its brand cannot afford significant quality

dilution-- short-term gain could result in long-term pain. Management is very

aware of the risk as reflected by Tim Cook's comment that Apple is about making

the best products rather than the most."



He argues that the "right way" for Apple to dive to the bottom is "to set up a

separate brand and perhaps even a wholly- owned subsidiary."



And then he adds: "But we don't expect Apple to veer from its current strategy."

[Emphasis added] "The expected low-end' iPhone probably won't be priced below

$350-400," he explains. "Even at that level the gross margin could be near 30%

and become an example of the company's occasional willingness to accept lower

margins to penetrate a market, as CFO Peter Oppenheimer said recently. In Figure

9 we suggest that the $300-500 price range only will be 10% of the market in

2014. That still means millions of incremental buyers in emerging markets but

will not radically change Apple's market share."



Back to the weasel-supplied photos. Left unanswered, assuming these shells are

real, is what, exactly, they are: final products, prototypes at some stage in

the development process, or even mockups or test shells for one or another

future iPhone model?



Can these be taken as "proof" of the existence of plastic-bodied 2013 iPhone?



Hemmerstoffer seems to think the picture is part of a pattern that leads one to

answer "yes" but he does raise a caution.



"The shadow of a vulgar Chinese copy nevertheless still looms again over this

mysterious colorful iPhone," he writes.



When will the weasels learn to create elegant Chinese copies?



iPhone 6 will have Apple's A8 processor, made by TSMC According to Softpedia's

Filip Truta, Apple plans to launch iPhone 6 in 2014 with an A8 processor that

will be manufactured by TSMC instead of the long-time iPhone chip supplier

Samsung.



Truta bases his post, headlined "Apple Signs with TSMC for iPhone 6 A8' Chip

Production and Beyond," on a recent story in The Wall Street Journal. And not

only that, Truta also claims that Apple will release the iPhone 5S with the

as-yet-unannounced A7 chip "with enhanced capabilities."



"The A7 will be the last A-series chip made by Samsung, or so it is being

suggested by a Wall Street Journal report which takes a close look at the Korean

company's failing marriage with Apple," Truta explains helpfully.



The only problem is that, though the July 1A Journal articleA in question did

indeed take a close look at Apple's relationship with Samsung it didn't say

anything about the iPhone 5S or the iPhone 6. And in fact, the article

explicitly says "Despite the deal [with TSMC], Samsung will remain the primary

supplier through next year [2014], one of these executives said."



The thrust of the article is that Apple has finally signed a deal, after about

three years of talks, with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSMC) to

manufacture at least some of the Apple-designed A series processors, starting in

2014. Samsung has been the sole foundry for the chips since the advent of both

the iPhone and iPad. According to the Journal, "The process had been beset by

glitches preventing the [TSMC] chips from meeting Apple's speed and power

standards, TSMC officials said."



It is widely believed that the smartphone patent battles between Apple and

Samsung, and the growing success of Samsung's Galaxy S smartphone line has

soured the relationship and caused Apple to find alternative suppliers. But

there's no evidence cited to show that Apple has any real complaints about

Samsung's manufacturing, pricing, or delivery of key mobile components, which

come from business units entirely separate from the Korean company's smartphone

unit.



By contrast, there's a powerful incentive for Samsung to keep Apple happy as a

supplier, according to the Journal. "Apple's component orders from Samsung were

set to hit around $10 billion last year, says Mark Newman, an analyst at Sanford

Bernstein in Hong Kong. That represents a significant chunk of the 67.89

trillion won ($59.13 billion) Samsung posted in sales from its component

business, which includes chips and displays. The Apple processor, where Samsung

is currently the sole supplier, accounted for $5 billion of purchases in 2012,

he estimates."



TSMC's first chips for Apple, according to the Journal, will be on its advanced

20-nanometer silicon process, which promises greater performance, potentially

smaller physical size, and more efficient power use compared to the current

generation of A series processors, which variously use 32- and 45-nanometer.



If TSMC can bring the 20nm process up to large-scale volumes in the first half

of 2014, it might be possible to introduce those chips into mobile products

announced in the second half of that year. On the other hand, 32- and

28-nanometer variants of the A6 and the still unknown A7 might provide all the

processing power Apple needs through next year.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for "Network World."

Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwA Email: john_cox@nww.com Read more about

anti-malware in Network World's Anti-malware section.









LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





