

Next Tuesday will see Apple's biggest launch event of the year finally roll
around, with the release of the iPhone 6.

It's thought the new iPhone will come in two sizes, and have a fresh slimline
look.

There have been rumours the tech giant is also expected to launch its first
wearable device - the iWatch.

There's also talk that they're working with Mastercard, Visa and American
Express to launch a contactless payment system that would allow users to link
their credit card to their devices.

But the only way to find out for sure is to follow the keynote in Cupertino,
California, where Apple has its headquarters.

As usual, the big event will be broadcast live online. Here's all the
information we have on the new iPhone, and details of how you can watch the
launch event as it happens.What can we expect to see at the keynote?

Everyone's fairly certain that Apple are going to launch the two iPhone 6 models
at Tuesday's event - but could they have a few surprises up their sleeves?

The cryptic invitations sent out to journalists last week carried the enigmatic
phrase "Wish we could say more."

This phrase could be taken in a number of ways - but many see it as a reference
to there being a few things kept under wraps. Most people now believe this will
be the revelation of a wearable device - the iWatch.

There's also speculation it could refer to improvements to Apple's voice command
system - Siri - or increased battery life.

The other big surprise being kept under wraps is the three story structure being
built by Apple near the Flint centre. Nobody knows what's underneath the big
white box, but most believe it's a hands-on centre for journalists to have a go
on their new device.

Aside from that, the keynote's bound to see contributions from CEO Tim Cook,
Senior Vice Presidents Craig Federighi, Eddy Cue and Phil Schiller.

Design chief Jony Ive, who is in charge of the look and feel of both Apple's
hardware and iOS software, doesn't do the stage show, but he's bound to show up
in a few videos with his hypnotic, whispery English voice.When will the iPhone 6
launch be?

Apple will unveil the iPhone 6 on Tuesday, September 9th, at a major event in
the tech giant's home town of Cupertino.

They're holding the event at the Flint Centre for the Performing Arts, the venue
they used to launch the original Mac computer and the iPhone 5.

It's the first time in years that Apple have held an event at the Flint Centre -
they usually unveil hardware and software at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Centre
or at their own 'Town Hall' venue at their headquarters.

But the Flint Centre has a much higher capacity - approximately 2,405 seats -
than those other venues, suggesting Apple is looking to launch its new products
with a larger than usual bang.

The event kicks off at 10am California time, which works out to 6pm UK time.How
can I watch the event online?

The keynote speeches at Apple's big launch events are broadcast online by Apple.
You'll be able to watch the speech through the iTunes app on any iPhone, iPad or
iPod Touch.

There'll also be a special event app icon appearing on the home screen of Apple
TV devices on the day of the keynote.

It'll also be streamed on Apple.com, though previous events have been restricted
so they're only viewable using Apple's Safari web browser.

You can also follow all the events with the latest information and commentary
with our full live coverage.What will the iPhone 6 look like?

The iPhone 6 is expected to have a more rounded body than the 5S - with a design
that harks back to the original first-generation iPhone.

A video has been released online which claims to show an entire iPhone 6
constructed from parts leaked from the production line.

iPhone 6 cobbled together from leaked factory parts

An alleged leaked schematic suggested the new phone will be 7mm thick - and the
4.7" model has a codename of N56.What new features can we expect?

The  iPhone  6 will feature a new super-fast WiFi chip and an improved Touch ID
fingerprint sensor, according to reports.

It will also feature  Apple's  next generation A8 processor, which should give
the  smartphone  a huge performance boost, according to tech website Venture
Beat

Apple's new device is also expected to have a vastly improved camera, with a
13-megapixel sensor provided by Sony .

There's also speculation that the phone's new Lightning connector cable will
work either way up - at both ends.

The iPhone 5's cable was Apple's first charging cable that would work regardless
of which way round you put it in - and it's thought they've come up with a
solution for how to make the USB end reversible too.

The new screen - on the 4.7" version, at least - is thought to have a higher
resolution than previous models.

The Retina screen on the current iPhone 5S has a density of 10.5 pixels per mm.
The 1704x960 display suggested by Feld & Volk would be a much sharper 16 pixels
per mm.            Will it have Sapphire glass?

The inclusion of Sapphire glass on the iPhone 6 has been the subject of
speculation ever since a video purporting to be the phone's screen appeared on
YouTube.

leaked iphone display

Analysts have inspected Apple's supply chain and say it's unlikely that all of
the phone's unprecedented production run will feature the near-indestructible
crystal displays.

But it has been suggested that a more expensive "premium" model could have the
super-sturdy glass from launch.

Would you be put off buying an iPhone 6 if it didn't have sapphire glass?How
much will it cost?

Apple's pricing is usually kept fairly well under wraps - you can never tell
when they're going to pull a surprise price drop.

But if we base it on last year's pricing, the model with the smallest capacity
(16GB for the 5S) will cost £549, the next up (32GB) £629 and the biggest
storage (64GB) £709.

If Apple upgrade the maximum storage to 128GB as is rumoured, it's likely
they'll make the minimum amount 32GB.

That's all based on the current screen size - we're expecting the price to shoot
up for the 5.5" version, perhaps even more for the "premium" version with
Sapphire glass.

Will you get the iPhone on launch day?

iphone 6 rumors

