                              45 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                            October 18, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending Oct. 18;

Facts, warnings, gut feelings, and solid reasons



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1390 words





Nine million new iPhone buyers can't be right. They should have waited until

January or June or September 2014 for thebig-screened iPhone 6.



The Big Screen has achieved Facthood, according to some in the iOSphere. It's

just a question of when iPhone 6 will introduce it. Rumors, rather unhelpfully,

suggest anywhere from January to September 2014.



It can't come too soon, according to everyone from rumormongering bloggers to

Donald Trump, all of them warning of Doom, if Apple delays. Pay no attention to

those 9 million new iPhone owners.



You read it here second.



iPhone 6 will have a larger display and that's a fact Much of the rumoring this

week was simply rehashing last week's rumors about the screen size for iPhone 6.



Claire Hopping at KnowYourMobile created a grab bag of rumors by linking to

weeks-old speculative blog posts.



"Much of what we're hearing at the moment is conjecture," she begins, modestly

enough. Alas, the modesty doesn't endure. "But the next iPhone update is likely

to be a very significant one - it's a solid number update, and that means big

changes...."



How big? Well ... big.



"The iPhone 6 will be the handset that sees Apple implement larger displays and

that isn't conjecture - it's fact," she declares.



This fact is based, apparently, on speculation by stock analyst Brian White, of

Cantor Fitzgerald, who has been cranking out Notes To Investors since returning

from a tour of component manufacturers in Asia.



"Our meeting with a tech supply chain vendor during our China/Taiwan Tech Tour

today highlighted a bigger iPhone is in the works, and our contact expects a

launch in the 2Q:14/3Q:14 time frame," White claims, according to Teresa Rivas'

account in Barrons' TechTradeDaily blog.  "We are confident a larger iPhone will

be launched in 2014," White says.



Hopping also links to the oft-linked Sept. 5 Wall Street Journal story that

repeated what most people already knew: that Apple does a lot of prototype

product testing.



"The electronics giant has begun evaluating a plan to offer iPhones with screens

ranging from 4.8 inches to as high as 6 inches, people familiar with the matter

say...," according to the Journal. "Component suppliers say Apple already began

testing larger screens for iPhones in recent months. Apple has been particularly

interested in recent tests for a 4.8-inch screen, these people say."



Arguments will be raging until whenever in 2014 the Next iPhone or the next

iPhone model is released about how big the screen will be, or should be, or must

be. This week, Donald Trump added his two cents, by tweeting "As an addition,

Apple must go to a larger screen now--asap! They're losing their standing in the

market!"



They are so losing their standing in the market that Verizon's just-announced Q3

results revealed that only 51 percent of all phone activations were for iPhones

(up from 43 percent in Q2); that unit iPhone sales were about the same as for

Q2; and that year over year, iPhone unit sales were up 26 percent.



Please release a bigger iPhone, Tim Cook, before it's too late!



iPhone 6 will create problems for IT groups because of its big screen This rumor

arrives courtesy of IBM, specifically it's "Midsize Insider," a website intended

to be a "valuable repository of expert content tailored for small-to-midsized

business owners and IT decision makers. Expert insights and perspectives in the

Midsize Insider are gleaned from actionable business experiences and will assist

readers in creating efficiencies, cutting costs and delivering results."



This particular expert content, "Apple's iPhone 6 Screen May Be Challenging for

IT Managers" was written by Melissa Busch, who begins by linking to CNET's

coverage of the Big!Screen! predictions by the aforementioned Brian White.



Then she gets to the real issue.



"The real issue for IT managers, which may become more of an issue as

smartphones such as the iPhone and other devices change and evolve, is that

employees have begun to move from working in an arena of company-controlled

equipment to an area of unknown operating systems, applications and device

hardware," according to Busch. "In addition, IT professionals will deal with a

special host of problems with mobile devices because they lack many of the trust

features that are often found on laptops and other systems."



In other words, the real issue is that iPhone 6 may be challenging for IT

managers because it's a ... smartphone with an unknown operating system lacking

trust features.



iPhone 6 will be released earlier than September/October 2014...or maybe not

"What we're trying to say here - other than blatantly boasting - is that our

release date and rumour round-up articles tend to get a lot of things right,"

blatantly boasts David Court, writing at PCAdvisor.



The headline gets right to the question: "iPhone 6 release date: When will the

iPhone 6 be launched?"



It turns out that history provides clues to the answer.



"History repeats itself people, so guess what? That's exactly where we are going

to look for a first clue as to when we might see the iPhone 6," Court announces.



He offers a table of iPhone release dates. The first four phones were released

in June (one in July); the last three, in September or October. What clue does

that suggest to Court's keen mind?



"While the history books suggest that there will be a new iPhone 6 release date

around September/October 2014, we have a gut feeling that Apple might - just

might - shake things up a little bit and launch an iPhone 6 earlier than

expected, just like it did with the iPad 4, which was launched just eight months

after the iPad 3 (previous iPads were release 11-12 months apart)," he declares.



In other words, "We're ignoring the clues of history of going with our gut

feeling." And the gut feeling feels like earlier in 2014.



But. "But for the record, the smart money goes on an iPhone 6 release date of

September/October 2014," Court concludes. In other words, "If you're smart,

you'll ignore our gut feeling."



So the answer to the question "When will the iPhone 6 be launched?" is: "I have

no idea."



iPhone 6 will be released in January 2014 Apple is rushing, stampeding even, to

release the iPhone 6 in January because the iPhone 5S and 5C are such failures.



That's the reasoning in Erik Pineda's post at International Business Times,

where it reveals "iPhone 6 Release Date is Q1 2014: 3 Solid Reasons Why Apple is

Rushing the Debut of 1st iOS Phablet."  Things are bad, he says. "To offset what

seems to be shaping up as an Apple financial nosedive, reports alluded to a move

that would lead to earlier than expected coming out of the large-screen iPhone,"

he reveals.



So what are the Solid Reasons for the rush?



First, "Replenishing the 5S stocks remains a huge challenge for Apple." The idea

here seems to be that Apple is having so much problem getting enough inventory

to meet demand for the two newest iPhones that it will therefore rush to release

a third new iPhone. Which, of course, would only shift the alleged inventory

problem to the iPhone 6; and doesn't address the fact that the inventory

"problem" shows how popular the new phones are.



Second, the "64-bit A7 chip is giving the iPhone 5S a bad name." We'll skip even

the few details Pineda offers on this and jump to his conclusion: "To correct

the issue, it's quite possible that the tech giant will simply expedite the

iPhone 6 rollout, aside from dispatching firmware updates that should make the

already circulating 5S and 5C more stable."



Apparently, Apple will solve the 64-bit A7 chip problem by ignoring it - except

for dispatching firmware updates to, you know, fix it - and bringing out a

different 64-bit chip in a new iPhone.



Finally, "The price is not right, that is of the 5S and 5C." Zillions of people

with unsubsidizing mobile carriers can't buy them. So, Apple will release the

iPhone 6 in January. "While it may not touchdown with a lower price mark, at

least consumers will be convinced that they are getting the better deal as

analysts have been insisting for the longest time that the 5S is a mere

incremental jump," Pineda writes.



So, the solution to the problem of the high-priced iPhone 5S and 5C is to

release the high-priced iPhone 6.



You can't get more "solid" than that.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





