                              470 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                           January 21, 2014, Tuesday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for week ending Jan. 17;

China saves the day, Tim dodges, NFC rises again, size matters



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1971 words





The Chinese, as everyone knows, drink a lot of tea. And with Apple's deal with

the humungous China Mobile to offer thenew iPhones to its zillions of

subscribers, iOSpherians are trying to read all those tea leaves. But they're

drawing, honestly, some strange conclusions.



Apparently, the Chinese, who are reputedly enamored with Big Screen Smartphones,

are going to demand a Big Screen iPhone 6.



Apple doesn't listen to Americans, but they will listen to the Chinese.   And

that shifty Apple CEO Tim Cook, at China Mobile HQ for the launch, did a lot of

dodging and shrugging off, because he didn't tell Chinese buyers who were busy

buying the iPhone 5S anything about the iPhone 6.



Disclosure of a new Apple patent application sent a thrill of anticipation

through those longing for near-field communications in their favorite phone,

apparently because they misread what the patent was actually about.



Finally, the same "expectations" of a larger-screened iPhone 6, in at least two

sizes, were recycled from last October.  They still remain just expectations.



You read it here second.



iPhone 6 with "massive screen" more likely because of China This is the ...

well, let's call it the "innovative" argument by GottaBeMobile's Josh Smith.



And it's simple: Apple has just started offering the iPhone to the zillions of

subscribers on China Mobile. And Chinese people like Big Screens on their

phones. Therefore, to please them, Apple "will likely" increase the screen for

the iPhone 6.



Here is Smith's first sentence in his blogpost: "The iPhone 6 screen size will

likely grow in 2014 as Apple pushes to compete with growing smartphone sizes in

the U.S. and looks to offer an iPhone with a larger screen in China."



Here is Smith's second sentence: "This week the iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c launched

on China Mobile, bringing orders in the multi-millions and spawning lines around

buildings at China Mobile stores, including one where Tim Cook was on hand to

sign autographs."



So "multi-millions" of Chinese are buying the iPhone with its puny 4-inch

screen, not to mention its sky high price tag, oblivious to all those "competing

smartphones [that] range from 4.7-inches to 5.9-inches with 1280 x 720 and 1920

x 1080 resolution displays" that are also, like, cheap! What is wrong with those

idiots?



So far, Apple has not segmented the smartphone market as it did the portable

music player market with multiple iPod models.



So far, it still puts a premium on a display size that permits one-handed use,

and display technologies that create a high pixel density, readable text, and

crisp images and video with very accurate color representation.



Last fall, Apple introduced for the first time, a second iPhone model, the 5C

priced $100 less than the 5S with a plastic body instead of metal, most of the

internals of the prior iPhone 5, and the same four-inch screen. The 5C is now

routinely offered by carriers as a very low-priced iPhone with a contract, or

even free with a contract.



Apple may decide the time is right to offer a third model, with a larger screen,

and presumably a higher price, if it thinks it can achieve the display quality -

including color representation and power trade-offs.



But the "multi-millions" happily buying a four-inch display in China suggest

that the iPhone is doing just fine as it is.



Tim Cook dodges iPhone 6 questions What a prevaricating, evasive weasel this guy

is. And thank heavens we have CNET's Rich Trenholm to call him out on it.



Cook was in China to launch the iPhone 5S and 5C with China Mobile. He appeared

at the carrier's headquarters with Chairman Xi Guohua, the two of them handing

out autographed copies of the phones to early buyers.



Not too surprisingly, one of them at least, asked Cook about iPhone 6. According

to Trenholm, "Tim Cook has shrugged off questions about a bigger, badder iPhone

." And that weasel "wouldn't confirm or deny rumours of a larger screen for the

hotly-anticipated iPhone 6."



But Cook did hint, according to Trenholm. "We have a lot to look forward to in

2014," Cook hinted, "including some big plans that we think customers are going

to love."



Used as a verb, "dodge" means "elude or evade by a sudden shift of position or

by strategy: to dodge a blow; to dodge a question."



Trenholm based his blog post, and everything in it, on an actual news story,

from Bloomberg. Here's Bloomberg's account of what actually happened: "Cook was

at China Mobile's headquarters store as the world's largest carrier started

selling the iPhone, concluding six years of negotiations with Apple. As Cook

handed out autographed iPhones with carrier Chairman Xi Guohua, people asked him

about bigger screens and the use of flexible displays.



"We never talk about future things," Cook said. "We have great things we are

working on but we want to keep them secret. That way you will be so much happier

when you see it."



We're not seeing much eluding and evading, or even shrugging off. Cook simply

and politely repeated to his questioner Apple's long-standing policy on "future

things" and repeated the kind of general, upbeat comments he's made before -

"great things."



iPhone 6 will have NFC because Apple filed a new patent application Ben Lovejoy

at 9to5Mac noticed a newly published Apple patent filing, which unfortunately

included the acronym "NFC" which is short for near-field communications, which

specifically refers to a very short-range wireless communications technology but

which almost everyone thinks means "wireless wallet and payment system."



Lovejoy's own post about the filing was a model of reticence. He offered his

opinion that "it seems likely that Apple is intending to eventually establish

iBeacon as a wireless electronic wallet system, rather than the existing NFC

system commonly used in parts of Europe and Asia..."



That's debatable, partly because Apple hasn't said much in public about its

iBeacon plans. iBeacon was introduced in iOS 7.



It relies on a Bluetooth variant: Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), which minimizes

power in part by offering lower data rates.



The beacons themselves are small, Bluetooth sensors placed around, say, a

department store or museum. They connect with the Bluetooth radio in an iPhone

or iPad. Apps and software can be used for indoor mapping, navigation,

notifications, customized ads, and coupons. Presumably, mobile payments might be

another app.



Sonic Notify makes such beacons, supporting both iOS iBeacon and the recently

introduced Android BLE. Two grocery chains this month began trialing the

iBeacon-based hardware and software from InMarket.  Lovejoy's blog post also

noted, correctly, that a patent application isn't a sure and certain sign of a

product introduction in the next nine months. And while Apple has said little

about its plans for electronic payments, Lovejoy is probably right when he

concludes that "the question of using iPhones for payment is almost certainly

when and how rather than if."



Reticence in the iOSphere is rather like a snowball in hell.



The patent application put Geek.com's Russell Holly into a lather of NFC

anticipation: his blog post was titled, with unconscious irony, "iPhone 6 could

have NFC (No really, it might happen this time)."  "Despite all of our wildest

hopes and dreams, Apple has yet to grace the iPhone with what could end up being

one of its most important hardware upgrades," he wrote. "Once again, however, it

looks like there may be a chance we'll see NFC on the new iPhone."



Despite all Holly's wildest hopes, the Apple patent application itself is

actually not for NFC, but for a "commercial transaction method." The idea, as

the document explains, is first creating a secure link between a "purchasing

device" - a smartphone - and a point of sale device through a specified "air

interface" - the way of transmitting information over the air between two

radios. Then a second air interface is used to "conduct a secure commercial

transaction."



NFC is one air interface named in the patent. So is RFID, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth.

The real focus seems to be creating and completing a "commercial transaction

between the purchasing device and the backend server using payment data secured

by a shared secret known to a secure element in the purchasing device and to the

backend server," using one, or two, of several possible radio technologies.



Holly himself acknowledges what surely must be at least one of the reasons why

Apple has not fallen all over itself to present the world with NFC on an iPhone:

"The last two releases of Apple's flagship smartphone have been absolutely

riddled with hope for NFC inclusion..." Holly writes. "The biggest reason Apple

hasn't bothered yet is because no one has been able to truly justify the

technology to users. While geeks use it to do all sorts of fun things, there's

nothing out there aside from the hope of a future filled with smartphone

payments that has been even a little exciting to the average consumer."



Quod erat demonstrandum.



iPhone 6 will have two or even three or maybe four different screen sizes Or

maybe not.



BGR's Chris Smith is excited by another "report" from NPD DisplaySearch, which

was picked up by CNET.



Smith's summary of CNET's summary is that Apple "is expected" to offer bigger

iPhones in 2014, and DisplaySearch is "predicting" what kinds of displays they

will be.



"The researchers [meaning DisplaySearch analyst David Hsieh] mention two iPhone

6 sizes including 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches, which could have LCD displays with

1600 x 900 resolution (386 pixel-per-inch density or PPI,) and 1920 x 1080

resolution (401 PPI), respectively," Smith writes.



The Rollup loves those precise numbers. It makes it so much easier to overlook

mere "expectations" and "predictions," otherwise known as "guesses."



The problem with Smith's summary is that DisplaySearch made the same predictions

in October 2013. And BGR, in the person of Zach Epstein, was equally excited to

cover it then, too.  Here's Hsieh's October blog post, entitled, "In 2014, Apple

Will Once Again Rely on Displays for Innovation," which essentially argues that

Apple for some years led in display innovation, but has been trailing more

recently compared to rivals. "Introduction of the iPhone 5S and 5C was the

latest example that Apple has been slow in adopting the latest display

technologies," Hsieh wrote then. "While 5-6" FHD [full high-definition]

resolution displays are rapidly growing in the smart phone market, the iPhone

has stayed with the 4" 1136×640 screen for over a year and a half." He predicted

that in 2014, Apple will turn again to new display technologies, higher

resolutions, and larger screens to again be a contender.



Here is his most recent blog post, entitled "New Display Sizes and Formats to

Look for in 2014," based on his visit earlier this month to the Consumer

Electronics Show (CES). In this post, he shows a set of tables of "display

models we may see in 2014. Of course, not all of the panels listed here will go

into mass production, as panel maker strategies can change."



Of course.



The information, such as it is, about Apple's displays remains unchanged, as do

their status as expectations, predictions, possibilities, mays and cans.



Hsieh, in neither blog post, actually asserts what Apple's display plan is or

even what he thinks it is. In essence, he's simply saying that Apple is likely

to try to keep improving screen technology for its mobile devices.



Unless the Apple engineers in charge of displays, and Tim Cook, have all fallen

into a deep sleep, we can expect that Apple continues to be interested in "high

quality" displays - according to Apple's definition of "quality" -- that realize

an ever-improving "user experience," according to Apple's definition of "user

experience."



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2014 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





