                              47 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             Lanka Business Report



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Apple announces iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus



LENGTH: 1232 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, Sept. 10 -- Apple announced iPhone(R) 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, featuring

two new models with 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch Retina HD displays, and packed with

innovative technologies in dramatically thin and seamless design, the company

said in a statement.



Apple Press Info



The new iPhones feature a precision unibody enclosure of anodized aluminum that

conforms seamlessly with the shaped glass of the display, resulting in a

completely smooth and continuous surface.



iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are engineered to be the thinnest ever, delivering a

bigger display in a design that is still comfortable to hold and easy to use.



Packed with innovative new technologies, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus include: the

Apple-designed A8 chip with second generation 64-bit desktop-class architecture

for blazing fast performance and power efficiency; advanced iSight(R) and

FaceTime(R) HD cameras; ultrafast wireless technologies; and Apple Pay, an

easier way to simply and securely make payments with just the touch of a finger.

Both models include iOS 8, the latest version of the world's most advanced

mobile operating system, featuring a simpler, faster and more intuitive user

experience with new Messages and Photos features, QuickType keyboard, a new

Health app, Family Sharing and iCloud Drive?.



"iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are the biggest advancements in iPhone history,"

said Tim Cook, Apple's CEO.



"The iPhone is the most loved smartphone in the world with the highest customer

satisfaction in the industry and we are making it much better in every way. Only

Apple can combine the best hardware, software and services at this unprecedented

level and we think customers are going to love it."



For the first time iPhone is available in two new sizes: iPhone 6 features a

stunning 4.7-inch Retina(R) HD display with 1334 x 750 resolution, providing 38

percent more viewing area than iPhone 5s, while iPhone 6 Plus features an even

bigger 5.5-inch Retina HD display with 1920 x 1080 resolution, providing 88

percent more viewing area and nearly three times the pixels than iPhone 5s. The

Retina HD displays offer advanced technologies including higher contrast for

deeper blacks and dual-domain pixels for more accurate colors at wider viewing

angles.



With second generation 64-bit desktop-class architecture, the all-new A8 chip

offers faster performance and is more energy efficient, delivering higher

sustained performance with great battery life. With Metal, a new graphics

technology in iOS 8, developers can take performance of the A8 chip even further

to bring console-class 3D games to iPhone. The A8 chip also includes a new,

powerful Apple-designed image signal processor that enables advanced camera and

video features.



Both models include the M8 motion coprocessor that gathers motion data from the

accelerometer, gyroscope, compass and the new barometer, which senses air

pressure to provide relative elevation. The M8 motion coprocessor can

continuously measure your motion data, even when the device is asleep, saving

battery life for fitness apps that use the sensors all day. With iOS 8, motion

data from M8 appears in the Health app so you can see how many flights of stairs

you've climbed, or how far you've walked or run. Developers can use CoreMotion

APIs that take advantage of M8 and HealthKit to create apps that help you take

better care of your health and fitness.



iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus introduce Apple Pay, an easy way to securely pay for

physical goods and services in stores or apps with just the touch of a finger.

Users can pay securely and conveniently in stores by simply holding the phone

near the contactless reader while keeping a finger on Touch ID; there is no need

to unlock your iPhone or launch an app. With Apple Pay, you can also make

one-touch purchases within apps, without having to enter credit card or shipping

information. All payment information is kept private, encrypted and stored

securely in the Secure Element, a chip inside the new iPhones.



The iSight camera gets even better with a new sensor featuring Focus Pixels for

faster autofocus, making it easier to quickly capture any moment. iPhone 6 Plus

users will also benefit from optical image stabilization technology that

compensates for hand shake in low light and works with iOS 8 to reduce subject

motion. High-definition video on iPhone improves with faster frame rates up to

60fps for 1080p video and 240fps for slo-mo, as well as continuous autofocus,

cinematic video stabilization and time-lapse video. The FaceTime HD camera now

captures over 80 percent more light with a new sensor, larger f/2.2 aperture and

advanced new features including burst mode and HDR video.



With faster LTE download speeds of up to 150 Mbps, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

users can browse, download and stream content faster. The new iPhones also

support high-quality voice calls over LTE (VoLTE) as well as Wi-Fi calling. With

support for up to 20 LTE wireless bands-more than any other smartphone in the

world-the new models make it easier to experience high-speed networks around the

world. Both iPhones also include 802.11ac Wi-Fi with speeds up to 433 Mbps and

Bluetooth 4.0.



The new iPhones come with iOS 8, the biggest release since the launch of the App

Store?, delivering a simpler, faster and more intuitive user experience and new

features including QuickType keyboard, a new Health app, Family Sharing and

iCloud Drive. With more than 4,000 new APIs, iOS 8 allows developers to further

customize the user experience with major extensibility features and robust

frameworks such as HealthKit and HomeKit. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus users also

have access to the revolutionary App Store, which offers more than 1.3 million

apps to iPhone, iPad(R) and iPod touch(R) users in 155 countries around the

world.



Pricing & Availability



iPhone 6 comes in gold, silver or space gray, and will be available in the US

for a suggested retail price of $199 (US) for the 16GB model, $299 (US) for the

64GB model and, for the first time, a new 128GB model for $399 (US) with a

two-year contract.? iPhone 6 Plus comes in gold, silver or space gray, and will

be available in the US for a suggested retail price of $299 (US) for the 16GB

model, $399 (US) for the 64GB model and $499 (US) for the new 128GB model with a

two-year contract.? Both models will be available from the Apple Online

Store(www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores, and through AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile,

Verizon Wireless, additional carriers and select Apple Authorized Resellers.

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available in the US, Australia, Canada,

France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK beginning

on Friday, September 19, and customers can pre-order both models beginning on

Friday, September 12.



Apple-designed leather cases will be available in black, soft pink, olive brown,

midnight blue and (RED) for $45 (US) for iPhone 6 and $49 (US) for iPhone 6 Plus

and silicone cases in black, blue, pink, green, white and (RED) for a suggested

retail price of $35 (US) for iPhone 6 and $39 (US) for iPhone 6 Plus through the

Apple Online Store (www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores and select Apple

Authorized Resellers.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Lanka Business Report. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





             Copyright 2014 Vanguard Management Services (Pvt.) Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





