                              483 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday



Just in case;

Now that you know your new iPhone might be prone to flexing and bending, all the

more you need to protect it from the elements. TREVOR TAN offers a case study



SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight



LENGTH: 353 words





Otterbox Defender for iPhone 6



$69



At times, you can be your new iPhone's worst enemy. That is why the Otterbox

Defender offers three layers of protection for your new iPhone 6.



A silicone outer layer and a two-piece polycarbonate housing keep out the dust

and ensure the phone is safe if it is dropped or scratched.



It has a screen protector built in. The protective membrane that covers the

Touch ID allows you to use the fingerprint sensor. A belt-clip holster comes

with the case.



Ozaki O!coat Travel



$49.90 (for both iPhone 6 and 6 Plus)



This case comes with a reminder of a favourite travel destination with its

iconic landmark - Big Ben for London; the Eiffel Tower for Paris.



The Ozaki O!Coat Travel case is available in a range of colours: London (Dark

Blue), New York (Orange), Paris (Pink), Rome (Black) or Sydney (Light Blue).



The leather folio case has two pockets - one on the flap for a credit or

commuter card and another underneath the phone case to stash your banknotes.



Spigen Ultra Hybrid



$29 (iPhone 6), $32 (iPhone 6 Plus)



The Spigen Ultra Hybrid case lets you enjoy the exquisite Apple design while

protecting its rounded edges from damage with soft yet durable thermoplastic

polyurethane bumpers that also enhance the grip.



A transparent back panel protects and shows off the iPhone's rear.



Uniq Executif for iPhone 6



$34.90



No faux leather for the Uniq Executif, which is designed for the corporate man

about town.



The folio case has a smooth minimalist design that is gorgeous in the showroom

and will look elegant in the boardroom.



A discreet flap on the case holds up to two credit cards. The case protects the

iPhone while allowing easy access to all the buttons. It comes in red, light

brown and black.



X-Doria Defense 360 Case for iPhone 6



$39



If you want to protect your iPhone from head to toe and front to back, the

X-Doria Defense 360 is the case to get. This tough polycarbonate two-piece case

covers the front, sides and back to prevent scratches.



It has openings for you to access the buttons of your iPhone 6 and allows you

complete control of the screen through its protective shield.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





