                              487 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                             hollywoodreporter.com



                           September 12, 2014 Friday



Apple iPhone 6 Sets Pre-Sale Record Despite Online Ordering Snags



BYLINE: Natalie Jarvey



SECTION: NEWS; TAG



LENGTH: 235  words





Apple says that it has processed a record number of pre-orders for the iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plussince the new devices went on sale just after midnight on

Friday.



A representative for the Cupertino tech giant told Recodethat the "response to

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible with a record number of preorders

overnight." The company has not announced how many units it has sold of the new

device. The last time it announced pre-order sales was in 2012 when the iPhone 5

topped more than 2 million orders in its first 24 hours.



Strong pre-sales does not necessarily indicate the the iPhone 6 will surpass

previous phone sales, but it's a good sign that the new model is on its way to

becoming a hit. And the demand is notable. The larger iPhone 6 Plus model

appears to be sold out, with the Apple Store and all major carriers reporting

shipping delays.



That demand has caused some problems for customers itching to get their hands on

the new devices. The Apple Store website was down for many customers, and it

wasn't necessarily easier to purchase the phone through the major carriers.

Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless and AT&T all experienced outages or delays

during the early hours of the morning.



The iPhone 6 goes on sale Sept. 19 in more than 100 countries, starting at $199

with a two-year carrier contract. The iPhone 6 Plus starts at $299.



Email: Natalie.Jarvey@THR.comTwitter: @NatJarv



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                    Copyright 2014 VNU Business Media, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





