                              489 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                              July 7, 2014 Monday



Leaked? Apple's phablet version of iPhone 6 to be named 'iPhone Air'; launch

date on September 25



BYLINE: Ruchi Kumar



LENGTH: 232  words





Leaked information and fake rendition create a defining picture of what Apple's

next iPhone might look like. Launch dates presumed to be some time mid-September



If industry sources are to be believed, Apple enthusiasts can expect the launch

of the next iPhone as early as September 25.



Apple Insider reported on Thursday, quoting a Chinese language website, that

Apple might announce the iPhone 6 by September 15, ten days ahead of formally

launching it in the first group of countries.



Apple Insider, however, has its doubts, considering that Apple has always

launched a product on a Friday and September 25 is a Thursday. Price-wise, the

4.7-inch iPhone 6, a 32 GB model, is speculated to cost around $850.



iPhone Air?



Another rumour that has taken the internet with a frenzy is talks of a new

5.5-inch "phablet" version of the next iPhone being dubbed the 'iPhone Air'.

Mockups of this alleged new phone that have already surfaced all over the

internet, show a sleeker gadget with a larger screen and rounded edges,

competing with the likes of HTC One.



This sleeker version of the iPhone, if true, is pegged to cost the user around

around $1000. iPhone 6 and the 5.5-inch iPhone phablet are both expected to have

similar specs.



Earlier, French website Nowwhereelse.fr had shown 'leaked' images of what is

presumably the new iPhone 6 battery, which they claim to be sourced from a

Taiwanese website



LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





