

Increasing demand in China for Apple Inc's latest flagship devices, the iPhone 6
and iPhone 6 Plus, has spurred consumers there to buy more of the devices than
their American counterparts for the first time, data from Switzerland-based
financial services company UBS AG showed.

Increasing demand in China for Apple Inc's latest flagship devices, the iPhone 6
and iPhone 6 Plus, has spurred consumers there to buy more of the devices than
their American counterparts for the first time, data from Switzerland-based
financial services company UBS AG showed.

"Recent data suggest that iPhone demand saw considerable growth in China, even
finding that China could constitute as much as 35 percent of shipments in the
quarter compared with 22 percent a year ago," Steven Milunovich, an analyst with
UBS, wrote in a research note published on Wednesday.

The US share of iPhone sales is expected to dip from 29 percent a year ago to 24
percent in the first quarter of 2015, he wrote.

Milunovich, who covers Apple for UBS, said the iPhone has seen significant gains
in the world's second-largest economy since the device was rolled out in
October.

Estimates from UBS show that Apple sold 69.3 million iPhones in the fourth
quarter of 2014, a new quarterly record for the Cupertino, California-based tech
company. The figure beat the consensus estimate of 65.5 million devices.

Apple's distribution agreement with China Mobile Ltd, the world's largest mobile
phone operator, could be one of the reasons for the uptick, Milunovich said.

"China Mobile's distribution agreement with Apple was signed in late December
2013 and Apple began shipping the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in October, so it seems
reasonable that demand in China surged relative to other regions," he wrote.

In October, Apple's new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus arrived in China despite a
regulatory delay in the rollout. Heavy interest from Chinese consumers helped
Apple sell nearly 10 million units within three days of the initial sell date on
JD, the e-commerce platform of JD.com Inc.

At the end of the third quarter of last year, the iPhone held 18.1 percent of
market share in China. In the US, nearly half of all smartphones sold (47.3
percent) were iPhones, according to international market research firm Kantar
Worldpanel.

Apple also posted its largest third-quarter sales volume figure in 2014,
according to data from the International Data Corp. The company boosted its
global smartphone shipments to more than 39 million units, second worldwide
behind Samsung Electronics Co (78 million units).

Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, remained the world's largest smartphone
vendor in the third quarter of 2014, with 23.7 percent of the market, followed
by Apple with 11.7 percent.

Other global players, including Chinese companies like Xiaomi Corp and Lenovo
Group Ltd have also managed to squeeze into the fray.

Xiaomi and Lenovo were ranked third and fourth on that list, with 5.2 percent
and 5.1 percent shares, respectively.

jackfreifelder@chinadailyusa.com

An Apple Inc store in Xuchang, Henan province. At the end of the third quarter
of last year, Apple held 18.1 percent of smartphone market share in China. Gen
Guoqing / for China Daily

(China Daily 01/10/2015 page7)

