                              498 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                     Marin Independent Journal (California)



                           September 19, 2014 Friday



iPhone release draws hundreds to Corte Madera Apple Store



BYLINE: By Laith Agha lagha@marinij.com @LaithAgha on Twitter



SECTION: MARIN; News



LENGTH: 636 words





While waiting in line Friday to buy a new iPhone 6, Mona Helen Renney of Tiburon

reflected on the first time she joined a release-day frenzy to buy the world's

most popular smartphone.



It was the day the first ever iPhone was released in 2007, she said, "and I've

been addicted ever since."



The mother of four   who said she would leave if her wait lasted more than two

hours   was one of hundreds who spent hours waiting to get into the Apple Store

at The Village at Corte Madera the morning of the new iPhone's release, pining

to get their hands on one of the two versions of the new device.



The iPhone 6 and its larger derivative, the iPhone 6 Plus, are stirring up a

frenzy of interest for being bigger than previous iPhone models and for having

longer battery life.



Two lines   one for those who pre-ordered their smartphones online and one for

everyone else   formed in front of the store, flaring out in either direction.

While the pre-order line included several dozen customers when the store opened,

several hundred stood in the line, which stretched longer than a football field,

down to the Williams-Sonoma store.



While the store ran out of the iPhone 6 Plus within 90 minutes, store employees

assured customers plenty of regular iPhone 6 devices were in stock. Store

manager Jeannine Nittner said it is against company policy to release sales or

inventory numbers of individual stores.



"The goal is to put as many smiles on faces as we can," Nittner said.



The store usually opens at 10 a.m. on weekdays, but doors flung open at 8 a.m.

Friday in anticipation of the day's expected increase in sales.



"This is by far the largest crowd I've been in" for an iPhone release day, said

Anton Prikash, a software developer from Corte Madera.



Prikash said Friday marked the third time he had waited in line to buy an iPhone

on the first day a new model became available to the public.



The rage was enough to inspire dozens to camp overnight at The Village, some

arriving as early as 6 p.m. Thursday to stake their spot in line.



Alberto Navarro of Oakland arrived at 9 p.m., and spent the night sitting in a

metal fold-out chair, watching episodes of "Dr. Who" and various anime

television series on his iPad.



"I dozed off a couple times, but I pretty much stayed awake the whole night,"

Navarro said. "I made a mistake by not bringing a jacket. It got chilly."



Navarro, wearing blue jeans and a yellow Oakland A's jersey, estimated that he

was the 35th person in line.



"It's everybody's goal, to have the next hot thing," he said.



The new iPhone was such a smash hit in Corte Madera that even legendary slugger

Barry Bonds showed up to buy one.



The former San Francisco Giants star and Major League Baseball's all-time home

run leader was greeted with cheers, including a male voice that yelled, "I love

you, Barry," as he exited the Apple Store with a friend. Bonds posed for a photo

with a fan in the shopping center parking lot before driving off.



People stood in line with their dogs on leashes or babies in strollers. Many sat

in some sort of chair   mostly collapsible camping chairs, but some sat on metal

chairs, such as the one Navarro sat in, provided by the Apple Store. One woman

worked on her laptop while sitting on a stool, which she dragged forward every

time the line moved.



A handful of people declined to give their names, saying they were supposed to

be elsewhere and didn't want to be outed through a media publication.



But not everyone who stood in line on Friday was caught up in the excitement of

the iPhone 6's release. Some said it was just time to get a new phone.



"I'm only doing it because I'm due for an upgrade," said Sophie Priolo of San

Rafael, frustrated by the prospect of waiting in line for a while. "I don't even

know what (the new iPhone) does differently. I'm tempted to just come back on

Monday."



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Hundreds of iPhone enthusiasts stand in line to buy the new iPhone 6 on

its release day Friday at The Village at Corte Madera.

A stool was one of many types of seats Apple Store customers used while waiting

hours in line for the new iPhone 6 at The Village at Corte Madera on Friday.

The new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are displayed in the Apple Store front

window, as the store's first customers shop for their new smartphones on Friday

at The Village at Corte Madera.

Apple store employees clap for Larry Gadea, the first customer to leave with a

new iPhone on Friday at The Village at Corte Madera. Customers began lining up

for the Friday release of the new smartphone at 6 p.m. the day before.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





    Copyright 2014 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication

                              All Rights Reserved





