
ABSTRACT

Charles Arthur: Plus what focus groups can't tell you, Indian grey market iPhone
pricing, weather forecasting phones, and more

FULL TEXT

A feast of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team

Focus groups are worthless && Medium

Erika Hall:

Everything focus groups purport to give you, you can get through interviews and
contextual interviews, without the unpleasant side effects. Here is what you get
from a focus group:

Opinions that participants are willing to speak in the presence of a group of
strangers.One-on-one interviews can be challenging to get right, but they always
have the following advantages:

· Fast to set up and run.· If one bad participant makes it through the
screening, you can cut your losses and stop the conversation without affecting
other recruits.· You can have the conversation with participants in their
natural environment.

Also worth reading for:

People are lazy, forgetful, creatures of habit. We all are. This is why the mega
bestselling book is called The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, instead of
An Infinite Number of Novel Tasks Performed by Highly Effective People.

Some iPhone 6 Plus owners accidentally bending their iPhones in pockets && Mac
Rumors

"Yesterday, I left at 10am with the iPhone in my left FRONT pocket of my suit
pants. I drove 4 hours to a wedding, which also involved a lot of sitting during
dinner etc but also 2-3 hours of dancing. I left at 2am and went to bed, driving
home 4 hours back.

So in total, the 6 Plus was about 18 hours in my pocket while sitting mostly.

As I lay it on the coffee table and sat down on the couch to relax from the
drive (yes, sitting again ), I saw the reflection of the window in the iPhones
slightly distorted."

Er, yes.

Exclusive: Samsung exits laptop market including Chromebooks && PC Advisor

Following in the path of Sony and its Vaio PCs, Samsung has decided to exit the
laptop market stopping sales of Ativ Windows and Chromebook devices in Europe,
PC Advisor can confirm.

It's common knowledge that the PC market is in decline with Sony pulling out and
selling its Vaio business back in February of this year. Despite being a giant
of the tech world, Samsung has now followed suit.

Things have been quiet from Samsung this year on the laptop side of things with
no new devices at IFA 2014 in Berlin. The firm's main recent releases have
included the Ativ Book 9 Plus and Ativ Book 9 Lite.

"We quickly adapt to market needs and demands. In Europe, we will be
discontinuing sales of laptops including Chromebooks for now. This is specific
to the region - and is not necessarily reflective of conditions in other
markets," said a Samsung spokesperson.

Sony, Toshiba, Samsung - who's next to retrench?

How the new iPhones could help scientists predict the weather && CITEworld

Somewhat like the way old Androids are:

Researchers are already using data collected from an Android app that measures
barometric pressure. Jacob Sheehy and Phil Jones built the app, called
PressureNet, and have been sharing data collected from it with scientists. They
also let other developers build their technology into third party apps as a way
to further distribute the technology and collect more data.

They launched PressureNet in 2012 and have had 95,000 downloads but only about
22,000 people actively use it, Sheehy said. However, including third party apps,
like Beautiful Widgets, around 300,000 phones are capable of feeding pressure
data to PressureNet.

So far around 300 people have signed up to use the data from the app, 100 of
whom are researchers. But only around 10 or so are active, Sheehy said.

That's the real problem - getting scale.

Now you can quickly share the best parts of your GoPro videos, with BrightSky
Labs' App '10' && TechCrunch

The 10 app was created to reduce the friction GoPro users currently have when
finding and editing videos to share. Currently, anyone who attaches a GoPro to
their snowboard, surfboard or any other device usually ends up waiting until
they get home and upload videos to their computers before being able to access
them. Then they have to go through the trouble of sorting through all the
content they recorded for just the choice bits and cut them down before
uploading them to YouTube or other networks.

BrightSky Labs hopes to simplify that process, which they believe will make for
a lot more shareable and shared GoPro content making its way online. The 10 app
makes it simple for extreme sports enthusiasts to finish recording, check out
the videos they've recorded, and get right back to the slopes or the surf, or
whatever it is they're being extreme on.

Stanford promises not to use Google money for privacy research && ProPublica

Stanford University recently declared that it will not use money from Google to
fund privacy research at its Center for Internet and Society, according to a
legal filing made by the school.

"Since 2013, Google funding is specifically designated not [to] be used for
CIS's privacy work," the university said in the court filing, found by
ProPublica in documents filed in an unrelated lawsuit.

Stanford's Center for Internet and Society has long been generously funded by
Google, but the center's privacy research has proved damaging to the search
giant in the past two years. Two years ago a researcher at the center helped
uncover Google privacy violations that led to the company paying a record $22.5m
fine.

Academics not happy, and prepared to say so publicly.

Watch this madman fix the iPhone 6's biggest design flaw with a grinder &&
Gizmodo UK

The industrial design of the iPhone 6 is close to flawless... except for one
flaw so weird, so major, that it's maddening: the fact that the camera protrudes
from the body of the phone, meaning it never lies completely flat and gets
caught on all kinds of stuff.

The perfectionists at PeripateticPandas have a solution, and it involves
industrial machinery.

Maybe iron out the lumps on the Samsung Galaxy Alpha next?

iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus hit India's grey markets, prices touch Rs 140,000 for
the 64GB iPhone 6 Plus && BGR India

Apple will be launching the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in India on October
17. With less than a month to go for the official launch, the smartphones have
hit India's grey markets, with prices touching a ridiculous Rs 140,000 for the
iPhone 6 Plus 64GB variant.

In Delhi's grey markets, the 16GB variant of the iPhone 6 is priced as much as
Rs 80,000. The bigger iPhone 6 Plus, on the other hand, is retailing at Rs
120,000 for the 16GB variant, and Rs 140,000 for the 64GB variant.

Last year, before the iPhone 5S was officially launched, it too hit the grey
markets in India. It retailed for around Rs 75,000 for the 16GB variant, and the
rare gold colored variant was available for as much as Rs 115,000.

Rs 140,000 is about £1,400; the iPhone 6 Plus 64GB retails for £699 in the UK.

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus battery life: how long they last && Tom's Guide

We saw how the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus compared to the Samsung Galaxy S5 in
terms of performance, but how well do Apple's new smartphones stack up to the
competition when it comes to battery life? We ran our battery test over the
weekend to find out.

Answer seems to be: battery life follows a basic law of physics, so endurance is
almost exactly proportional to capacity.

You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard

To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free
Delicious service.

