                              505 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                           September 12, 2014 Friday



iPhone case sellers ahead of the game



BYLINE: Mandy Zuo mandy.zuo@scmp.com



SECTION: NEWS; Local (Hong Kong News); Pg.3



LENGTH: 322 words





This week,  Apple unveiled its iPhone 6 and larger iPhone 6 Plus, but at

factories in the mainland hub of Guangdong production of cases and other

accessories for the  phones started three months ago.



Details about the company's new products, supposedly confidential before their

official launch, have been more frequently and accurately disclosed in recent

years.



David Chan, a sales manager  at Guangzhou-based mobile phone case supplier SLT

Communication Equipment, said the company would traditionally start  selling

cases for the latest iPhones several months before their release, and  would

offer free replacements  if the products did not fit  the  phones.



"For the iPhone 4 we suffered quite a loss  because Apple did well in

maintaining secrecy, but  for iPhone 5 and 6 there was no such problem,"  said

Chan.



Accessories for the iPhone 6 have already flooded China's largest online

marketplace, Taobao.com. All sellers the                South China Morning Post

approached promised their products would precisely  fit new iPhones.



"We have tried them out with a real iPhone 6. We specialise in this industry, so

we definitely have a way to get the information," said Qing Xiangying, owner of

a mobile phone accessory shop in Shenzhen.



Chan said a major channel for such information was their clients. "Among our

clients there are telecommunications operators, and they would give us the data

to produce the right accessories," he said.



China Telecom, one of the mainland's three telecom operators and an Apple

partner in China, gave details of the iPhone 6 in an advertisement for

pre-ordering the phone on its  website four days before Apple's official launch.

China Mobile followed suit three days later.



As early as June, Taiwanese actor Jimmy Lin Chih-ying  posted on his Weibo

account a photo of himself holding  what he claimed  was an iPhone 6, which

turned out to be the same as  the final product.



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:                  Companies selling iPhone cases had advance notice of

the new products' dimensions.                    Photo: SCMP Pictures



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





