                              506 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                            October 2, 2014 Thursday



iPhone sellers may dial down prices;

Parallel traders are trying to shift stock before Apple's latest device goes on

sale on mainland. But some are confident they'll still find buyers



BYLINE: Elizabeth Cheung elizabeth.cheung@scmp.com



SECTION: NEWS; City; Technology; Pg.1



LENGTH: 459 words





Parallel-goods traders  are under pressure to slash prices for the iPhone 6,

with demand from over the border expected to fall after Apple said it would

start selling the smartphone on the mainland from mid-October.



More than 40 sellers gathered outside the Apple Store  in Causeway Bay

yesterday, eager to sell their remaining stock of the iPhone 6 before prices

fell.



Mainland consumers have been buying up the phone in Hong Kong after missing out

on its global launch on September 19 because of licensing problems.



But the US company's announcement on Tuesday that it would be available on the

mainland from October 17 had hit sales in the city, one trader said.



"The price is sure to drop," the man, who was selling the 16GB iPhone 6 at

HK$6,400, said. He had bought several hundred phones in a bid to cash in on the

mainland delay; now he has two weeks to offload the remainder.



The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said the iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus had passed tests and been issued a telecoms network access licence, but

only after the company gave assurances about users' privacy and security.



A 16GB iPhone 6 will cost 5,288 yuan (HK$6,670), while the slightly bigger

iPhone 6 Plus with the same amount of storage will be priced at 6,088 yuan.

Customers can start ordering online on October 10 and collect the product seven

days later.



In Hong Kong, the two phone models are officially priced from HK$5,588 and

HK$6,388, respectively. The launch last month saw speculators selling the phones

for up to double the original prices.



Those who want to sell their iPhone 6 to parallel-goods traders will also be

under pressure to lower their prices.



Some traders have stopped accepting new phones, fearing they will be left with a

surplus.



But other sellers in Hong Kong are confident of continued sales to mainland

customers, as their prices are slightly cheaper than the official retail prices

on the mainland.



One vendor in Causeway Bay, who has been selling the iPhone 6 for a week, had

about 10 of the devices left and did not believe it would be difficult to sell

them.



Another vendor, Kenny Kwok, wasn't fazed by the mainland launch. "I'm not

worried as there are quotas for individual purchases," he said. "If the quotas

are used up, the price will rise."



Buyers who pre-registered in Hong Kong ahead of the smartphone's launch were

limited to two units.



Kwok has sold three phones and has another three to sell. His friend, Bee Kwong,

managed to find buyers for two phones within just three hours yesterday, he

said.



But Xiayao Wanting, a mainland tourist checking prices outside the Causeway Bay

store, said: "If the price is the same as on the mainland, I would prefer to buy

the phone back home because it comes with a warranty."



LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



NOTES:                  {+$}6,670                ; The cost, in HK dollars, of a

16GB iPhone 6 on the mainland; it sells for HK$5,588 in HK



GRAPHIC:                  More than 40 parallel-goods traders were trying to

sell their stock outside the Apple Store in Causeway Bay yesterday.

Photos: May Tse

                 Some traders have stopped accepting new iPhones.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





