

It seems that a lot of counterfeit iPhone 6 units have entered the UAE as it has
prompted the Telecom Regulations Authority (TRA) to issue a statement generating
awareness. The following is the statement issued by TRA: In cooperation with
concerned parties, the UAE TRA conducted an official investigation into reports
of illegal and counterfeit iPhone 6 [...]
The post TRA issues advisory against fake iPhone 6 handsets appeared first on
tbreak.ae.

It seems that a lot of counterfeit iPhone 6 units have entered the UAE as it has
prompted the Telecom Regulations Authority (TRA) to issue a statement generating
awareness. The following is the statement issued by TRA:

In cooperation with concerned parties, the UAE TRA conducted an official
investigation into reports of illegal and counterfeit iPhone 6 handsets on sale
in the UAE. As a result of the investigation, a series of counterfeit iPhone 6
handsets have been confiscated in various locations across the UAE. Based on the
investigation, the TRA have issued a series of recommendations to the public to
generate awareness of the trade of such illegal devices and to prevent the
purchase of them.

This move from the TRA falls in line with its wider strategy that seeks to
prevent the sale of unlicensed goods and protect the interests of the consumer.
The timing of the announcement follows the demand from the UAE public for the
iPhone 6 handset.

The Type Approval department of the TRA will continue to work alongside all
relevant bodies to tackle the trade of illegal devices in the UAE.

Instructions issued by TRA urges the public to consider the following:

Only purchase iPhone handsets from official Apple retailers.

Before purchasing any device, check the official Apple website to ensure the
features of the phone matches the handset's box and packaging.

Always retain the receipt when making a purchase and inform the police
immediately should a device be found to be counterfeit.

Counterfeit iPhone 6 devices will not be able to connect to iTunes.

The post TRA issues advisory against fake iPhone 6 handsets appeared first on
tbreak.ae.

