                              511 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                            Business World (Digest)



                           September 15, 2014 Monday



Apple iPhone shipments delayed;

Apple



LENGTH: 523 words







HIGHLIGHT: Customers may have to wait three to four weeks to get their hands on

Apple Inc's iPhone 6 Plus, after a record number of orders for the company's

latest smartphones strained available supply.





Customers may have to wait three to four weeks to get their hands on Apple Inc's

iPhone 6 Plus, after a record number of orders for the company's latest

smartphones strained available supply.



The new iPhone 6 goes on sale on Sept. 19 in the United States but the company

began taking online orders on Thursday. While the larger 5.5-inch "Plus" models

now display a wait time of up to a month, the 4.7-inch version remains available

for delivery on Sept. 19, Apple's website showed.



Verizon Wireless, AT&T and Sprint Corp, also showed shipment delays of up to six

weeks on their respective websites. Apple said the pace of orders has so far

outstripped any of its previous iPhones.



"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible, with a record

number of pre-orders overnight. Pre-orders are currently available online or

through the Apple Store App," spokeswoman Trudy Muller said. Apple routinely

grapples with iPhone supply constraints, particularly in years that involve a

smartphone re-design. The latest iPhones come with larger screens and some

analysts had anticipated that production issues may keep a lid on initial runs.

Its suppliers had scrambled to get enough screens ready because the need to

redesign a key component had disrupted panel production, supply chain sources

told Reuters last month. It was unclear whether the hiccup could limit the

number of phones available to consumers, the sources said at the time. Apple

declined to comment on supply chain issues. In addition, Chinese customers may

also have to wait until the year-end before they can buy the iPhone 6. Apple is

yet to set a release date for China, the world's biggest smartphone market. The

company unveiled its latest iPhones along with a watch and a mobile payments

service on Tuesday. AT&T's chief executive of mobile and business, Ralph de la

Vega, told investors at a conference in New York that iPhone 6 orders have so

far surpassed orders last year and the year before. "It is such a great thing to

wake up in the morning to know that you have hundreds of thousands of orders

already before you even have a cup of coffee," said the executive. Apple's

iPhones tend to incite the kind of initial buying frenzy unknown to many other

brands, partly because of the company's well-honed marketing tactics. On

secondary markets online, the rights to a pre-ordered iPhone 6 Plus are worth as

much as double the unsubsidized sticker price. One eBay auction for an unlocked

128-gigabyte gold version of the 5.5-inch phone, for example, was bidding at

dollar 1,625 on Friday afternoon, compared with a face value of dollar 949. One

post on the New York City edition of Craigslist sought dollar 10,000 the

privilege to "be one of the first & few people to own this model and before the

rest of the world." New iPhones tend to get listed at stratospheric prices on

various online retail sites from the United States to China, on the assumption

that there's big demand from people who must get their hands on the phone from

day one. That in turns fuels a grey market of dealers who buy in bulk for

resale. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





