                              519 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)



                          September 27, 2014 Saturday



Upgrade habit creates a connection



BYLINE: Myles Hume



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 4



LENGTH: 295 words





Queuing to claim the country's first wave of iPhones has become a social

occasion for Paul Francis and Ben Austin.



The Christchurch pair remain in touch on social media and their paths cross

occasionally but what remains constant is their annual catch-up when the latest

iPhone hits the shelves.



Yesterday was no different.



Francis, who owns an IT support business, and Austin, a property developer,

queued outside the Westfield Riccarton Spark store to be among the first in the

city to claim an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus.



As Francis departed, he told Austin: "I'll see you next year."



Francis, a self-confessed Apple fanatic, has previously owned six versions of

the device and was excited to upgrade his iPhone 5.



He was impressed by the bigger screen, which could replace his iPad at work.



Canterbury Polytechnic Institute of Technology student Kieran May was the first

Christchurch Spark customer to get his hands on the new device.



The 19-year-old said he would pick up extra shifts at his Countdown job during

the holiday break to pay for what will be his fifth iPhone.



"I always upgrade every year. I'm one of those people that can't resist the

temptation of new technology, so this year I thought I won't stop the

tradition."



Riccarton Spark store manager Sandro Ribeiro expected about 90 iPhone 6 and 10

iPhone 6 Plus devices would sell yesterday and did not expect any of the limited

stock to be left.



--------------------



CAPTION:



Hit for six: Property investor Ben Austin, left, and Paul Francis, with their

queue place-holders during the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus launch at the Spark

store in Westfield Riccarton.



Picture: JOHN KIRK-ANDERSON/FAIRFAX NZ



Number One: Student Kieran May, 19, was first to march into the Spark store in

Westfield Riccarton to claim his iPhone 6.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2014 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





