                              528 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                       August 9, 2015 Sunday 6:30 AM EST



IK Multimedia Announces iKlip Case - The Durable Multi-Angle Viewing Stand Case

For iPhone 6 And iPhone 6 Plus



LENGTH: 412  words





Sunday, August 09, 2015: IK Multimedia, the leader in mobile music creation

technology, is pleased to announce the release of iKlip Case for iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus. iKlip Case is a uniquely designed protective case featuring a

built-in multi-position stand that can be used in 4 different viewing angles in

portrait or landscape mode. Convenient and flexible, its legs can be adjusted to

suit a wide variety of purposes: it's an ideal tool for making music, surfing

the web, reading eBooks, giving lectures, video chatting and a whole lot more.

With iKlip Case, now iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus users can take a stand anywhere

they go.



A great angle



At its heart, iKlip Case is all about providing optimum visibility with its

built-in stand system. The stand is comprised of two thermoplastic legs that can

be quickly adjusted to position an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus in 1 of 4 different

viewing angles, with 2 set angles per orientation. In Portrait mode, the iPhone

can be positioned at 60 or 45 - great angles for video chat and FaceTime calls,

plus vertically oriented apps like AmpliTube, VocaLive, iRig Recorder and Mic

Room can be used in this mode with iRig accessories attached to the accessible

open ports. In landscape mode iPhones can be positioned to accommodate 80 and 60

- great angles for watching movies, surfing the web, reading e-books or using

other horizontally oriented apps.



Portrait - 60



Portrait - 45



Landscape - 80



Landscape - 60



When not used as a stand, the legs on iKlip Case securely lock into the back of

the case for an ultra-slim low profile that fits easily into a pocket, an iKlip

Xpand Mini or an iKlip Grip. With iKlip Case, all ports on the iPhone model are

completely unobstructed so it can be used with accessories like IK's iRig line

of audio interfaces, microphones and MIDI controllers.



Flexible protection



iKlip Case is secure. It features a soft-touch rubberized finish and a

shockproof thermoplastic shell that's been designed to provide security in even

the most demanding of circumstances. Like all iKlip products, iKlip Case has

been designed to give musicians and other users the peace of mind that comes

with knowing that their mobile device is protected.



Pricing and availability



iKlip Case will be available in September 2015 in two versions: One for iPhone 6

and one for iPhone 6 Plus. Both will be available from music and electronics

retailers worldwide, and from the IK online store, for only $39.99/29.99

(excluding taxes).



LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





