                              529 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            October 17, 2014 Friday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Apple starts iPhone 6 sales in key China market



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 463 words





Apple began selling its latest iPhone in China Friday, nearly a month after

other major territories due to a licence delay by regulators, but it faces a

tough battle with rivals led by Samsung in the crucial market.



Staff at an Apple Store in downtown Shanghai clapped and congratulated iPhone 6

customers as they left the shop, which opened two hours early for those who had

pre-ordered.



Fashion industry worker Wang Xue picked out a gold-coloured iPhone 6 Plus,

having used an iPhone 4 for the past four years.



"I like the design and everything about it," she said. "It's worth it to me to

pay 6,088 yuan ($998)."



The new gadget hits shelves in China a day after the tech giant unveiled a new

line-up of iPads in the United States in a bid to face off tough competition in

the cooling tablet market.



Apple's products enjoy a devoted following in China, the world's second-largest

economy and the largest smartphone market according to an industry estimate.



It launched the large-screen iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in 10 countries and

regions on September 19, but could not do so in mainland China because it lacked

a key network access licence.



Media have reported widespread smuggling of the new phone into China given its

initial unavailability.



The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology granted permission late last

month, but said it had pressed Apple to improve personal data security to gain

approval and quoted the US firm as saying it would do so.



The government agency said outside parties could obtain information stored on an

iPhone by accessing a "trusted" computer or from an iPhone undergoing repair.



Apple has not responded publicly to the claims.



Customer deliveries began Friday in the company's 12 retail stores in mainland

China, and through the country's three major telecom providers and other sales

channels.



E-commerce firm JD.com said it had taken 9.5 million pre-orders for the iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus as of Thursday.



But Apple is only in sixth place in China's highly fragmented smartphone market,

where cheaper phones using the Android operating system are popular.



Apple has a 6.9 percent share, according to consultancy Analysys International,

far behind leader Samsung of South Korea, which has 15.4 percent.



Analysts said the new models' larger screen would appeal to Chinese consumers

and the launch should help Apple's sales, despite their high prices.



The iPhone 6 with 16 GB of memory is selling for the equivalent of $867 in

China, significantly higher than neighbouring Hong Kong where the same model

retails for $726.



The top-end iPhone 6 Plus with 128 GB sells for $1,277 in the mainland.



"I think it will sell better than the (iPhone) 5 series," said Xu Hao of

Analysys. "This trend of a larger screen will serve better to snatch some

users."



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





