                              52 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Apple's new iPhone 6 goes on sale



LENGTH: 393  words





Local resident Andreas Gibson celebrates with employees outside the Fifth Avenue

Apple store after being the first to exit with an iPhone 6 in hand on the first

day of sales in Manhattan, New York September 19, 2014. Apple Inc's latest phone

lured throngs of gadget lovers, entrepreneurs and early adapters to its stores

in New York, San Francisco and other cities around the world in the latest sign

of strong initial demand for the new, larger generation of iPhones.

[Photo/Agencies]



A woman (L) walks past as customers wait in line to buy the newly released

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, on the first day of sales outside the Apple store at

Grand Central Terminal in New York September 19, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



An employee counts money while selling new iPhone 6 phones at the Fifth Avenue

Apple store on the first day of sales in Manhattan, New York September 19, 2014.

Apple Inc's latest phone lured throngs of gadget lovers, entrepreneurs and early

adapters to its stores in New York, San Francisco and other cities around the

world in the latest sign of strong initial demand for the new, larger generation

of iPhones. [Photo/Agencies]



A customer celebrates with employees as she enters the Fifth Avenue Apple store

on the first day of iPhone 6 sales in Manhattan, New York September 19, 2014.

Apple Inc's latest phone lured throngs of gadget lovers, entrepreneurs and early

adapters to its stores in New York, San Francisco and other cities around the

world in the latest sign of strong initial demand for the new, larger generation

of iPhones. [Photo/Agencies]



Michele Mattana of Sardinia, Italy, poses with an iPhone 6 Plus and an iPhone 6

on the first day of sales at the Fifth Avenue store in Manhattan, New York

September 19, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



People queue to buy iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus outside the Apple store on the

Fifth Avenue in New York, the United States, Sept 19, 2014, the first day of

sales of Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. [Photo/Xinhua]



People line up to purchase the new iPhone 6 smartphones in front of an Apple

store in Los Angeles, California, the United States, on Sept 19, 2014. Apple's

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus went on sale on Friday in the country. [Photo/Xinhua]



Apple unveils the Watch, larger iPhones at star-studded event



Apple iPhone 6 wins two regulatory approvals in China



Top 10 game-changing Apple innovations



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





