                              531 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                        Topeka Capital-Journal (Kansas)



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Locals line up for release of iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus



BYLINE: Ann Marie Bush.



ann.bush@cjonline.com



LENGTH: 498 words





Topekans Rachel Lara and her son, Victor Lara, spent Thursday night camped out

in front of the AT&T store in anticipation of the launch of the new iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus.



They were the first people to walk through the doors of AT&T, 2201 S.W.

Wanamaker Road, on Friday.



"It's exciting to go from one iPhone to the newest one," Rachel Lara said.

"We're an Apple family."



The two spent the night - from 9 p.m. Thursday until 8 a.m. Friday - listening

to music, napping, walking around and visiting with people who lined up after

them.



Brian Baxa, of Topeka, was the third person in line. He pulled up to the AT&T

store shortly after 11 p.m. Thursday. Other people joined the line later in the

night.



By the time the doors opened at 8 a.m., more than 50 people were eagerly

awaiting the in-store launch. Some were wrapped up in coats and blankets and

others spoke with sales representatives. One AT&T employee was handing out

granola bars, coffee and juice.



"We're excited about it," store manager Josh Gleb said.



Mike Scott, president of AT&T Kansas, also was at the store to greet people and

speak with members of the media.



"It's a huge day for us," Scott said. "We are doing this nationwide. It's a big

day for the customers, as well."



AT&T was the original iPhone carrier and has a "very large existing base of

iPhone users," Scott said.



The store's online pre-orders, which started Sept. 12, was the largest pre-order

sales launch day ever, Gleb said.



Gleb wasn't allowed to say how many of the new iPhones the store had in stock.

But he reassured customers they would be taken care of.



"We have all hands on deck," he said of the 18 sales staff members he had

working Friday.



As the Laras, as well as several other customers, poured into the store at 8

a.m. sharp, sales representatives began filling orders.



Customers said they were looking forward to having a bigger screen. Apple's new

iPhone 6 Plus' screen measures 5.5 inches diagonally, according to an Associated

Press story.



The new iPhones include an advanced camera and iOS8, the Apple website states.



"iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are the biggest advancements in iPhone history," Tim

Cook, Apple's CEO, said in an Apple news release. "The iPhone is the most loved

smartphone in the world with the highest customer satisfaction in the industry,

and we are making it much better in every way."



The same day Apple's larger iPhones went on sale, Samsung said U.S. wireless

carriers began taking orders for its large-screen Galaxy Note 4 smartphone. The

Note 4 will be available Oct. 17. It has a screen measuring 5.7 inches

diagonally.



Samsung's Note phones come with a stylus for note taking, according to AP.



The Note runs Google's Android system and has Samsung-produced extras such as

the ability to show multiple apps on the same screen at once.



Samsung also is making the Galaxy Note Edge with a side screen to display

weather information, clocks and other information, AP said. The company hasn't

provided details about U.S. availability.



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 The Topeka Capital-Journal

                              All Rights Reserved





