                              538 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                          The Guardian - Final Edition



                          September 27, 2014 Saturday



Phones 4u administrators rule out iPhone 6 offer



BYLINE: Charles Arthur



SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 45



LENGTH: 302 words





Customers who preordered Apple's iPhone 6 through Phones 4u before it collapsed

have been told they will not receive a refund.



The announcement, by adminstrators at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), means that

customers could lose up to £700 on orders which cannot be fulfilled because the

retailer was shut before the phones could be issued. At least 130 Phones 4u

customers have been affected.



Phones 4u went into administration on 15 September, four days before the iPhone

6 and its larger version, the iPhone 6 Plus, went on sale. The retailer had

allowed people to preorder the devices on its site until it was forced to close

after mobile phone networks withdrew their business.



PwC had said customers who had preordered the phones would be entitled to cancel

their order and receive a full refund. But now PwC says that because Apple did

not supply any iPhones to Phones 4u, it cannot honour orders. Instead, those who

ordered through the company will be treated as unsecured creditors.



PwC has advised those who paid for the preorder with a credit card to contact

their card issuer, which can be liable to make a refund under Section 75 of the

Consumer Credit Act. "Unfortunately we do not have any iPhone 6s. Therefore

customers who have preordered an iPhone 6 through Phones 4U will not receive

their purchase," it said.



A Carphone Warehouse spokesperson said: "We understand Phones 4u customers have

been told they won't receive a refund on iPhone 6 pre-orders. We are offering to

reimburse Phones 4u customers for any money paid upfront when they buy their new

iPhone 6 or 6 Plus from us. All they have to do is come into our stores with

printed evidence of their pre-order."



Captions:



Customers could lose up to £700 on orders that cannot be fulfilled because

Phones 4u was shut before the iPhone 6 could be issued



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





