                              53 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)



                            December 5, 2014 Friday



Dialog presents iPhone 6 Plus and 6 in Sri Lanka



LENGTH: 330 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, Dec. 5 -- Sri Lanka's only authorised partner network for Apple

iPhone, Dialog Axiata, launched the iPhone 6 Plus and the iPhone 6 in Sri Lanka,

dialing a new chapter in the country's premier mobile device offering.



The iPhone 6 Plus and the iPhone 6 operates on 4G and users can avail of Sri

Lanka's widest 4G LTE network with Dialog to stay connected on the go. Dialog

also presents the best after sales service with warranty and expert support for

Apple iPhones in Sri Lanka, offering the best complete solution in the country.



Dialog offered the new iPhones for pre-order last week, and received an

overwhelming response with close to 500 orders for both models.



"As the country's only authorized partner network for Apple iPhone, Dialog is

privileged to present the iPhone 6 to Sri Lanka, as we transcend the mobile

device experience with unparalleled best-in-class service. We are committed to

add value to our customers, to surpass their connectivity experience and the

partnership with Apple and the presentation of the official iPhone 6 for the

first time in Sri Lanka is a testimony to this vision," said Lasantha

Thevarapperuma, Head of Business, Mobile Telecommunications of Dialog Axiata

PLC.



Customers can experience the Apple iPhone 6 Plus and 6 live demos at selected

Dialog outlets, and enjoy connectivity to Sri Lanka's fastest 4G LTE network.



The iPhone 6 is available in 16 and 64 GB models whilst the iPhone 6Plus comes

with 16 GB. The models are available in Gold, Silver and Space Gray.



The Apple iPhone 6 features a larger 4.7 inch Retina HD display, whilst the 6

Plus offers 5.5 inches. The '6' is also the slimmest iPhone so far at a

staggering 6.9 millimeters.



Both models are built on 64-bit desktop-class architecture and increased battery

life.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2014 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





