                              542 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday



Samsung Galaxy S6 vs Apple iPhone 6: Which looks better?



BYLINE: Anupam Saxena



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 527 words





There are no two ways about it that Apple's iPhone 6 and Samsung's Galaxy S6

edge are two of the most good looking smartphones you can buy right now.

Interestingly, Samsung has taken a page out of Apple's design notebook,

liberally using glass and metal in the Galaxy S6's construction. We try to find

out which out of the two is a better looking device...



Samsung has got rid of the removable back cover (and battery) in favour of a

premium unibody shell. The Galaxy S6 edge looks even more unique with its

display curving on the left and right sides meeting the metal frame with utmost

precision. The S6 edge is without doubt a head-turner! The metal frame is

thinner at the left and right edges and thicker at the top and bottom edges,

compared to the iPhone 6. In fact, you may not notice the left and right edges

at first glance.



The iPhone 6 is all glass at the front, tapered at the edges giving the phone a

smoother finish compared to its predecessor but not as curved as the Galaxy S6

edge. Both phones feature a hardware Home key that also integrates a fingerprint

sensor.



The metal frame used in both of the phones feel durable yet premium but Apple's

frame is more consistent in shape (mainly because the S6 edge has the edge

display). The iPhone's edges are also more rounded while the edge's are

chamfered like that of the iPhone 5/5S. The bottom edge of the two phones looks

very similar with both the charging ports (iPhone has a lightning port) and

headphone jack placed close to each other along with the speaker outlet. Of

course, the speaker grills look different and the Samsung also has two antenna

slot inserts.



Both phones have metal buttons for power/lock and volume rocker keys and Apple

also offers the mute switch, all located at the left and right edges. The power

key is placed almost at the middle of the right edge in the Samsung for

convenience though even Apple's placement is also not cumbersome.



The back of the iPhone 6 is all metal with some plastic inserts acting as the

antenna while Samsung, for the first time, has used glass (Gorilla Glass 4) at

the back making the phone a bit fragile. However, the Galaxy S6's glass, as we

saw in our week-long usage, is scratch-proof and does not crack even when the

smartphone is dropped from a height of approximately 3-feet.



The S6's camera protrudes out from the back and looks a little awkward. Even the

iPhone 6 camera is not exactly flush with the body but the module is not that

big so you don't notice it much.



The iPhone 6 is slightly narrower and shorter, thinner by just 0.1mm and 3grams

lighter in weight but then it also features less screen real estate (4.7-inch vs

5.1-inch).



Our Take: Both iPhone 6 and Galaxy S6 Edge are stunners when it comes to looks.

However, the latter has an 'edge' (excuse the pun) due to the novelty of the

curved display. We also don't really like the iPhone 6's ugly plastic bands

(only tolerable on the space grey version, in our opinion).



Dimensions:



iPhone 6 - 138.1x67x6.9mm



Galaxy S6 edge - 142x70.1x70mm



Weight:



iPhone 6 - 129gram



Galaxy S6 edge - 132gram



Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>



And like us on Facebook >>>



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





