                              543 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                               India Retail News



                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Black Friday 2014 iPhone 6 Deals, Cyber Monday Sales, Reviews are Now at

ThankShopping.com



LENGTH: 286  words





Nov. 26 -- US-based ThankShopping.com issued the following news release:



ThankShopping.com, a user-friendly website that offers shoppers lists of gift

recommendations for the 2014 holiday season, has just listed the iPhone 6 as one

of the most-wanted holiday gifts. In addition, for shoppers who hope to purchase

the latest version of the iPhone for this Christmas season, the website offers

deals information and a price check on the popular phone.



The founders of ThankShopping.com understand that teens and adults alike are

hoping to find the new iPhone 6 under the tree on Christmas morning. They also

realize that a lot of shoppers are wondering how the phone will be priced over

Thanksgiving weekend, when a lot of people are out looking for good deals.

Because of this, they are providing the latest information about the iPhone 6.

By visiting ThankShopping.com before they shop, people can get a price check on

the popular phone.



With its A8 processor and large 4.7 inch screen, the iPhone 6 has been compared

to a slimmed-down version of an iPad Air. Even though it is larger than many

other smartphones, the iPhone 6 is not hard to hold, and actually fits quite

nicely into the palm of the hand.



The iPhone 6 also boasts a nice quality camera as well as an improved keyboard,

and voice-over LTE support. While the battery will still tend to run down fairly

quickly when a lot of programs and apps are in use, the iPhone 6's improved

battery life is definitely evident.



Shoppers who would like to learn more about the 2014 deals and sales for the

iPhone 6 may visit the (ThankShopping.com) website in late November and early

December; there, they can find deals information about the product.



Source: ThankShopping.com



LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





