                              544 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                            October 11, 2013 Friday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



IPhone 6 May Be Released In Record Time As Soon As April, Says Analyst



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ that the iPhone 6 will have a 4.8-inch display and will be

launched next September. White said Apple also will introduce the iWatch

smartwatch in 2014. An Apple supplier told White the iWatch will be more than

an+ extension of the iPhone, but will act as a "multi-purpose gateway in

allowing consumers to control their home (i.e., heating/cooling, lights, audio,

video, etc.)," White said. "We found this discussion interesting as it opened

our eyes to why the + "iWatch' has the pot



SECTION: A; Pg. A04



LENGTH: 232 words





Historically, Apple has released a new iPhone roughly every 12 months. But that

could change with the iPhone 6.



A source in the tech supply chain in China and Taiwan told Cantor Fitzgerald

analyst Brian White that the Apple iPhone 6 is expected to launch in Q2 or Q3

2014. That would mean the rumored bigger-screen iPhone would come out between

April and September.



An April release would be just seven months after the Sept. 20 debut of the

iPhone 5 S and 5 C handsets. Since the first iPhone launched in June 2007, the

quickest Apple has come out with a new iPhone has been 11 months.



Susquehanna Financial Group analyst Chris Caso said Wednesday he expects the

iPhone 6 to come out late in Q2 2014, or nine months after the iPhone 5 S and 5

C.



Apple might be feeling pressure to come out with new smartphones faster because

its chief rival, Samsung, is on a rapid release cycle. This year, Samsung has

flooded the market with niche versions of its Galaxy S4 smartphone and Galaxy

Note 3 phablet. They include a ruggedized smartphone (Galaxy S4 Active), a

handset with a high-resolution camera (Galaxy S4 Zoom) and a phablet with a

curved glass display (Galaxy Round).



In a research note Thursday, White said the bigger screen iPhone would have a

display approaching 5 inches, vs. 4 inches for the iPhone 5 series. Jefferies

analyst Peter Misek said in a research note Mondayresearch note Monday



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2013 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





