                              549 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      September 7, 2015 Monday 3:02 PM GMT



iPhone 6s rumoured to feature pressure-sensitive 3D Touch Display - and it could

make you better at FIFA;

Is Apple feeling the pressure? The new display on the iPhone 6s will be able to

tell how hard you press, say experts



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 733 words





Apple will be introducing a "3D Touch Display" when it reveals the

highly-anticipated iPhone 6s later this week, according to new rumours.



The screen will be able to differentiate between three different levels of

pressure: a tap, a press and a prolonged press.



Experts suggest it is a revamped version of the same "Force Touch" technology

used in the Apple Watch and new Macbook computer.



It will mean app developers can build extra functionality into their programs or

games.



Imagine playing FIFA and being able to control the power of your shot or pass

with how hard you press down on the screen.



According to Apple site 9to5Mac, the 3D Touch name comes from the screen's

ability to sense three separate dimensions of pressure, compared to just two.



Have your say in our new comments section below



Apple is also believed to be making the body of the new iPhone stronger -

avoiding the "bendgate" criticism it has faced in the past.



Something that could be even more important if we're pressing our phones even

harder.



Here's a round up of all the other iPhone 6s intelligence we've gleaned so far:



If the rumours of a smaller, cheaper iPhone 6C are true then it's unlikely that

Apple's main iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than past models.



Most experts reckon the new iPhone will start at £539 for a 16GB model,

effectively taking the place of the current iPhone 6 - which will see an

incremental drop in price.



If true, we could expect other models with larger storage - 64GB and 128GB most

likely - to stick with the £619 and £699 prices.



We'll see it officially revealed on September 9.



Both the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 5s were revealed in September and Apple has no

reason to change its strategy. It will look to take advantage of Black Friday

sales and the run up to Christmas.



Alongside the iPhone 6s, Apple is also expected to reveal the iPhone 6S Plus and

potentially an iPhone 6C .



Expect this phone to be a snapper's delight, with a 12 megapixel camera and the

ability to shoot 4K video.



It will probably include a front-facing camera flash - something currently

unavailable on any existing model of iPhone.



Hamza tweet 1



In terms of design, the iPhone 6 was a big change from the iPhone 5S and it's

unlikely Apple will redesign the appearance two years running.



Having said that, both Samsung and LG have embraced curvy screens with the

Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge and the LG G Flex 2 respectively.



It's unlikely Apple will follow suit but then the world's most valuable company

has frequently had a problem with bending phones .



And yet, the latest set of rumours suggest that Apple will be introducing a

brand new colour into the mix. We're expecting the usual space grey, silver and

gold options but how about...pink?



A set of images appearing on Chinese social media appear to show a fully-formed

2015 iPhone with a pink case.



Apple usually refers to this colour as "Rose Gold" when it's talking about the

Apple Watch - so it could be producing this new version of the iPhone to match

its smartwatch.



Screen size is perhaps the most contentious issue. Some rumours have suggested

Apple will reveal three handsets this year , each with a different screen size.



Alongside the 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch upgrades to the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, some

rumours have suggested a smaller iPhone 6C could be revealed with a 4-inch

screen.



If true, it would give Apple a "budget" option to appeal to those who don't want

to fork out for the larger phones.



Because the new iPhone will arrive with Apple's iOS 9 software and an upgraded

processor, it will offer even more power and better efficiency.



According to a report from Reuters , Apple's arch-nemesis Samsung will be

responsible for building 75% of the new processor.



Likely to be called the A9 chip, the new beating heart of the iPhone will be

smaller than the previous iteration - allowing engineers to cram even more

transistors onto the silicone.



At the moment, we don't know what kind of battery the iPhone 7 will use - but at

least there's now a Low Power Mode built into iOS 9 to help it last even longer.



So far, Apple has resisted updating the random-access memory (RAM) of its

smartphones, but some sources expect the new model to have at least 2GB of RAM

on the clock.



iPhone 7 Concept



Will you buy an iPhone 7?



See our pick of the best 5 contract deals on the iPhone 6 here , plus find out

how to buy a second-hand handset, or sell your current device for more.



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





