                              551 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                           September 11, 2015 Friday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



Apple Product Event Gets Muted Approval Despite No Surprises; Analyst Sees

"Plenty To Like'; IPhone advances include a new rose gold model; iPad, TV, Watch

upgraded



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ



SECTION: INTERNET & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A04



LENGTH: 1277 words





Apple's fall product launch event Wednesday provided little to excite investors.

The products were all widely expected and were either tweaks to existing devices

or niche products unlikely to move the needle for the massive consumer

electronics vendor.



But several analysts issued upbeat reports about the new products, spurring a

modest rebound in Apple shares Thursday. Apple stock rose 2.2% Thursday, to

112.57. On Wednesday, Apple stock fell 1.9% as investors reacted to the iPhone 6

S, iPad Pro and new Apple TV.



Apple did not announce a big new offering like its rumored Internet TV service

or reveal a major initiative like developing an Apple electric car. (It did poke

fun at the Internet chatter on the latter.) Details about the company's latest

iPhones, iPads and TV set-top box had leaked to the tech press ahead of

Wednesday's event in San Francisco.



"Some might be disappointed that Apple isn't reinventing the world," UBS analyst

Steven Milunovich said in a research report Thursday. "But Apple is now

mainstream and not the upstart. Consolidating its ecosystem and pragmatically

improving upon current products plays to the large installed base and

increasingly annuity-like revenue streams."



Milunovich rates Apple stock a buy, with a 12-month price target of 150.



RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani said Apple's fall product line

offered "plenty to like." Apple's stock could climb once the first-weekend

iPhone 6 S sales numbers come in and initial demand becomes apparent, he said in

a note Wednesday.



Daryanani rates Apple stock outperform with a price target of 150.



IPhones Incremental Upgrades



The company's ninth-generation iPhones look the same as last year's models, with

the exception of a new rose-gold color model. But Apple touted a host of new

capabilities and features afforded by upgraded components, such as a

pressure-sensitive display, a faster processor and improved front- and

rear-facing cameras.



The 3 D Touch display lets users preview emails without opening them, get

glimpses of other content and expose shortcuts for apps. The new touch display

can tell the difference between a soft press and a hard one.



The iPhone 6 S has a 12-megapixel rear camera, vs. 8 megapixels on last year's

model. It shoots 4 K ultra high-definition video for the first time. The phone

has a 5-megapixel FaceTime camera that uses the Retina display as a flash for

taking better selfies.



Apple also introduced a feature called Live Photos, which automatically turns

still photos into 1.5-second video clips. Some likened the special effect to

something out of a Harry Potter movie.



The iPhone 6 S uses Apple's A9 processor, its third-generation 64-bit chip. It

provides a 70% faster CPU and 90% faster graphics performance vs. the A8 chip.



The 4.7-inch iPhone 6 S and the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 S Plus will be available for

pre-order starting Saturday and will be in stores Sept. 25.



Apple delivered "meaningful updates" with the new iPhones, which should continue

the upgrade momentum started with last year's iPhone 6 series, FBR analyst

Daniel Ives said in a note Wednesday. He rates Apple stock outperform.



Of the new features, the two most likely to encourage iPhone 6 users to upgrade

are the rose-gold model and the Live Photos function, Rosenblatt Securities

analysts Jun Zhang and Martin Pyykkonen said in a report Thursday.



"Consumers in the Asian market are big fans of the rose-gold color, which can be

seen through Samsung's great success with their rose-gold version of the Galaxy

S4," they said. "In addition, it is notable that cameras and photo software are

some of the biggest factors in a consumer's decision to upgrade phones."



Getting iPhone 5 and 5 S customers to upgrade to the latest handsets is the key

for the iPhone 6 S, Susquehanna Financial Group analyst Chris Caso said in a

note Thursday. Some 73% of iPhone users have yet to upgrade to the iPhone 6

series, he said.



Jumbo iPad With Jumbo Price



Apple added a larger iPad to its tablet lineup targeted to creative

professionals and enterprise users. The iPad Pro has a 12.9-inch display vs. the

9.7-inch regular iPad and 7.9-inch iPad Mini.



The iPad Pro works with an optional stylus called the Apple Pencil and an

attachable Smart Keyboard.



The Apple Pencil can be used for drawing, sketching, painting and note-taking on

the device. The keyboard turns the iPad Pro into a laptop replacement like

Microsoft's Surface computer.



Apple highlighted business and education uses for the iPad Pro during the launch

event, which featured demonstrations of Microsoft Office software and Adobe

Systems creative software optimized for the jumbo tablet.



The iPad Pro costs $799 for the 32-gigabyte model with Wi-Fi and $1,079 for the

Wi-Fi plus cellular model with 128 GB of data storage. The Apple Pencil will

cost $99 and the Smart Keyboard will sell for $169.



The new tablets and accessories will be available in November.



The iPad Pro could cannibalize some sales of the MacBook PCs, Nomura analyst

Jeffrey Kvaal said in a report Thursday. An iPad Pro with a keyboard and stylus

would cost at least $1,067.



"This could break either way for Apple depending on whether people trade up from

a $999 MacBook Air or down from a $1,299 MacBook Pro," Kvaal said.



Apple TV Catches Up To Rivals



Apple's fourth-generation Apple TV streaming video box offers support for

playing video games and a new remote control with Siri voice search and

commands.



The Siri remote also has a glass touch surface for fast and fluid navigation

through on-screen menus and built-in motion controls for gaming and other apps.



The Siri-enabled remote also provides universal search for finding programs to

watch across different services including Netflix, Hulu, HBO, Showtime and

Apple's iTunes.



The new Apple TV also will have its own App Store for third-party developers to

offer games and other TV apps.



The latest set-top box will be available in late October, starting at $149 for a

32-GB model and $199 for a 64-GB model.



"We believe it is the future of television," Apple CEO Tim Cook said at the

event.



But IHS analyst Paul Erickson said the new Apple TV merely catches up the

capabilities of rival set-top boxes like Amazon.com's Fire TV, which has voice

controls and an app store for games and video channels.



"The new Apple TV is an evolutionary, not revolutionary, update," Erickson said

in a statement. "While this is a significant step up for Apple TV from its last

model iteration, many of the features are already state-of-the market -- TiVo

and others have universal search; Roku, Fire TV, LG, Android TV, and others have

voice search; gaming is on other platforms as well."



Apple's new set-top box is expensive compared with the $35 Google Chromecast and

Roku devices, which cost $99 or less, he said.



"This latest update to Apple TV is an iterative move that does well in capturing

the attention and purchase decision of people already within the Apple

ecosystem, but a high price premium and a lack of truly game changing

functionality will ensure that the device's appeal and qualitative total

available market continues to remain constrained to largely the iOS device owner

base," Erickson said.



Apple Watch Goes Hermes



Apple also expanded its Apple Watch lineup with a new high-end collection in

partnership with French luxury fashion house Hermes.



The Apple Watch Hermes collection marries bands made with Hermes signature

leather with a specially designed watch face. Apple's Hermes watches will range

from $1,100 to $1,500 and go on sale Oct. 5.



Apple also introduced new gold and rose gold aluminum Apple Watch Sport models,

plus a range of sports bands in colors from vibrant hues to more neutral tones.



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





