

Hundreds of people queued outside Bluewater and intu Bromley shopping centres
last night, as iPhone 6 fever gripped south east London and north Kent.

Overnight, 400 people joined the queue for the new iPhone at Bluewater, with the
first people turning up at around 3pm.

Camping outside Apple BlueWater from now till 8am to get my hands on the iPhone
6 plus! #iPhone6Plus #Apple #sleepingbag

- M Steven ElHajj (@tufaa17) September 18, 2014

The Apple store said the first person in the queue, Paul Sadwell - a bit of an
Apple Bluewater celebrity - has been first in the queue for every iPhone launch.

1st in the q at bluewater for the iPhone 6 pic.twitter.com/CiUkCLFojx

- Paul sandwell (@sandwellmobiles) September 18, 2014

Some were thrilled with the new iPhone's new design...

In q at bluewater iPhone 6 just seen the new phones in the window OMG the
screens are epic pic.twitter.com/VHE7eileei

- Dave Bruce (@DaveBruce77) September 19, 2014

...while others couldn't resist having a grumble.

Bluewater is out of iPhone 6 Plus, and somehow I went from person 140 in the
queue to person 200. Typical.

- mister.d (@mister_djd) September 19, 2014

Meanwhile devotees also flocked to intu Bromley, where the Apple store opened at
8am and welcomed shoppers with free cups of coffee and cookies.

Many had started queuing overnight...

Maria Cooper, Marketing Manager for intu Bromley said: "We are very excited
about the launch and aware that intu Bromley will be a hot spot for many people
today.

"This is why we decided to open our doors earlier than usual at 6.15 this
morning, well ahead of the store opening."

Biggest que outside of the glades (intu Bromley) I'm guessing for the iPhone 6
I'm shocked

- MC Rachhhh (@jaffacak3rach) September 19, 2014

The new iPhone 6 features the latest smart-phone technology called 'Metal' which
promises to deliver enhanced effects and more detailed graphics than past
iPhone's have been capable of.

