                              559 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday



iPhone 6 rollout bypasses mainland



BYLINE: Cao Yuan



LENGTH: 513  words





A pending government approval is likely the major reason that the world's

largest smartphone market will miss the rollout of the iPhone 6.



A woman holds a mock iPhone 6 plus (L) and an iPhone 5s as she waits in a line,

ahead of the September 19 release of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, in front of an

Apple Store at Tokyo's Ginza shopping district September 10, 2014. Apple Inc

unveiled a watch, two larger iPhones and a mobile payments service on Tuesday as

Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook seeks to revive the technology company's

reputation as a wellspring of innovation. [Photo/Agencies]



A pending government approval is likely the major reason that the world's

largest smartphone market will miss the rollout of the iPhone 6.



The next-generation iPhone will be available in 10 markets starting Sept 19.

Hong Kong is the only Chinese territory to get in on the initial launch.



Apple did not say why the Chinese mainland was not on the list of initial

countries to receive the iPhone 6.



The phone is not on Ministry of Industry and Information Technology's list of

telecom devices that have been approved to sell on the mainland.



It remains unknown if Apple has not yet handed in applications to the ministry

or if the industry watchdog put the US company on hold.



The ministry did not respond to calls from China Daily asking for clarification.



More than a week ahead of the official sale, Chinese scalpers are ready to fill

the void.



"We accept preorders of iPhone 6," said a sales manager at Ding Hao Top

Electronics City, one of the busiest electronics marketplaces in Beijing. "The

devices will be the Hong Kong version and should be available three or four days

later," said the manager surnamed Yang.



Kang Hua, a shop assistant at Zhuoyue Haichang, a store at Ding Hao, said the

devices will be available for 8,000 to 9,000 yuan ($1,300 to $1,460).



At Sin Tat Plaza, a shopping mall in Hong Kong, retailers are also preparing to

feed demand from the mainland.



"iPhone prices are usually driven by mainland customers. The reaction on the

mainland to the new phone will lead the trend," said a shop manager who would

only give his surname as Yiu.



China is set to be one of the biggest buyers of Apple's new handset, analysts

said.



"The customer base for Apple is still there. We are expecting a replacement

market for existing Apple users for a larger screen iPhone," said Kitty Fok,

managing director of consultancy IDC China.



Xu Hao, a researcher at Analysys International, said Apple is not likely to lose

ground in China because of the delays.



"Apple's shipment on the Chinese mainland has been on the upswing over the past

two quarters. The foreseeable price cut for earlier versions of iPhones will

also lift sales volume in the market," Xu said.



Apple took less than 7 percent of the Chinese smartphone market during the

second quarter, according to Analysys International, lagging far behind Samsung

and local brands Xiaomi and Lenovo.



Ni Huiliuqian and Amanda Hua contributed to this story.



gaoyuan@chinadaily.com.cn



Top 10 game-changing Apple innovations

Apple unveils new phones, watch



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





