                              564 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                           September 20, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending Sept. 20;

Sapphire gleaming, Big Things, solar secrets, NFC angst



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1480 words





With the official announcement and, today, release of iPhone 5S and 5C, the

iOSphere returns to its regular iPhone 6rumor nomenclature. But things would be

simpler if Apple simply used "iPhone 2014."



This week, there were rumors of new and bigger uses for those cool sapphire

glass covers; revelations about the Biggest Things fans really, really want in

the next iPhone (and you, too, will be underwhelmed by them); scifi rumoring

about solar charging that cross-our-heart-and-hope-to-die actually works; and

still more angst on the Great Apple Failure to support NFC-based mobile

payments.



You read it here second.



__________"If they don't put NFC in an iPhone soon, they risk being a technology

laggard."~ Mark Hung, analyst, Gartner (quoted in the Wall Street Journal's

Digits blog), despite the facts that 1) Hung earlier said there are less than

100,000 NFC readers being used in the U.S., and 2) there's no sign of an

imminent mobile payments tsunami that will leave laggardly Apple under

water.__________ iPhone 6 will have a sapphire touchscreen cover The advent of

the iPhone 5S home button with its "sapphire glass" cover, and a recently

announced Apple patent, have the iOSphere agog about a really big sapphire cover

- one covering the display of the, yes, 2014 iPhone, now generally called iPhone

6.



Sapphire glass is actually corundum, a crystalline form of aluminum oxide. Apple

first used the super tough, and super costly, transparent material for the

iPhone 5 lens cover. It now covers the 5S integrated home button with Touch ID

fingerprint scanner.



The juxtaposition and extrapolation of unrelated events was effortlessly

achieved by PhonesReview in a post announced that "use of sapphire [may be]

expanded further so that it features in the touch screen cover as well as the

home button."



The source of this revelation? A three-paragraph post, which PhonesReview

graciously calls a "report," at Taiwan-based DigiTimes.



Citing "Taiwan-based sapphire makers," DigiTimes claims that "Apple is expected

to extend the use of sapphire glass home keys" to its upcoming new iPads and

"for making touch screen covers for its new iPhone to be launched in 2014."



The technology basis for PhonesReview speculation is a recently published patent

application by Apple, originally filed in March 2013. Information on the patent

was reported by PatentlyApple in a post earlier this month.  Apple's patent is

for a technique of laminating sheets of sapphire to both side of the glass layer

users in mobile displays.



It would create a highly scratch-resistant surface and presumably make the glass

less subject to breaking or cracking.



Whether a technology just entering the patent process in 2013 will be ready in

2014 for the next iPhone is very much an open question. The Rollup is skeptical:

making the technology work is one thing; making it manufacturable, on a large

scale that's affordable and that also achieves quality goals, is another thing

entirely.



iPhone 6 needs to have four really Big Things Just in case Apple hasn't figured

out what its fan expect for iPhone 6, Tyler McCarthy at HGN.com, explains it to

Cupertino in a post headlined, "iPhone 6 Rumors: 4 Biggest Things Fans Expect

for Apple's Next Smartphone."  Fans expect a larger display, because of the

"growing trend of smartphones leaning toward bigger, phablet-sized, displays."



McCarthy reminds us of a Reuters story "a few weeks back" that said Apple was

testing a 5.7-inch phone display (they've been testing various sizes for years).

"[I]t's not surprising that Apple would try and look into the technology," he

says.



Fans expect water and dust resistance. "This one seems like a no-brainer,"

McCarthy says, perhaps optimistically. He seems to think that the Samsung's

Galaxy S4 Active, with its water- and dust-resistant features, "has provided

more rugged people with the option to keep a smartphone on them at all times."

Apple clearly needs to reach out to the under-served More Rugged People segment.



Fans also expect an Infrared Blaster on iPhone 6 to operate Apple TV, just like

the one in Galaxy S4. Keep in mind that this is No.3 on McCarthy's list of the

four "biggest" features that iPhone fans want.



Finally, fans want a 128GB iPhone model. This is all the more urgent, McCarthy

claims, because Apple introduced Touch ID in iPhone 5S. "With the Touch ID

fingerprint scanner, Apple is encouraging people to keep more information on

their smartphone now that it is supposedly safe," McCarthy explains. "With that

[new feature,] users would likely benefit from the extra storage space now that

they can think of it as secure."



Color us under-whelmed. Plenty of people still insist Apple must, simply must,

release an iPhone with a bigger-than-4-inch-screen, but "they" also insisted

Apple must, simply must release a really cheap iPhone. And look what we got.



iPhone 6 will have solar charging Although," Michael Nace, editor of

iPhone6NewsBlog, tells his readers that, apparently, it is.



"The first in what will most likely be a long line of rumors related to the

iPhone 6 claims that Apple will make good on several patents related to solar

recharging for the iPhone," announces Michael Nace, at his iPhone6NewsBlog.  And

then his next sentence says that, actually, "the notion of a solar charging

feature on an iPhone is nothing new." It joins the long line of rumored power

sources, including fuel cells and curved batteries. We're holding out for the

miniaturized fusion reactor.



Nace says there are "plenty of third-party options" if you want to recharge your

iPhone battery using solar radiation. There's one little problem, though. "None

of these products, however, are considered to be viable enough to foster

mainstream appeal, and for the most part, solar charging arrays for the iPhone

tend to be used more as emergency, last-ditch-effort features for giving just a

bit of juice to a dead iPhone," he says.



He claims there is a "new rumor" that "Apple will change the face of solar

charging for smartphones next year by implementing well-establish patents for an

iPhone 6 battery that will feature a solar charging panel that actually works."



He doesn't say where he heard or read that rumor and doesn't link to anything

about it. But that seems like a quibble when Apple is about to change the face

of solar charging. Talk about a new dawn.



iPhone 6 will not have NFC/mobile payments...unless it does Apple just isn't

interested in NFC, no matter what anyone says, according to Supratim Adhikari,

writing at BusinessSpectator, based in Australia.



His rather plaintive headline is: "Will Apple ever give NFC a chance?"  His

short answer: no.



"The lack of NFC capability on the latest iPhones will grate those who have been

pinning their hopes on making payments as simple as waving a phone in front of a

reader," he says. "For many the inclusion of the technology on the iPhone was

seen as the seminal moment needed to take NFC primetime, but Apple isn't

interested and it's hard to see it change its mind in a hurry."



How can this be? "Everyone knows" how important NFC is: it's convenient, it will

reduce fraud, and it's so cool: waving your phone around and buying concert

tickets, and beer, and flat panel TVs, and new video games. Apple owes it to the

industry, to us!



But NFC is hardly a done deal, as Greg Bensinger writing at the Wall Street

Journal's Digits blog makes clear.



He cites data from Gartner analyst Mark Hung that less than 100,000 NFC-enabled

readers are in use in the U.S. Compare that to traditional credit card and debit

card readers, which are like everywhere, including those red Salvation Army

donation kettles. Bensinger notes that Google's effort to create a digital

wallet linked to NFC chips in some Sprint phones is faltering, partly because

other carriers are creating their own NFC solution, a joint venture called Isis.

And it's already available in two - TWO! - U.S. cities. And then there's a drove

of startups scrambling to offer mobile apps and different payment options.



And then there's Apple, with its still pretty mysterious iBeacon technology

that's part of iOS 7. "Apple and eBay's PayPal are working on technology that

can detect a smartphone's presence in a store through Bluetooth and send coupons

or enable payments wirelessly," says Bensinger. "That's more flexible than NFC,

which works through frequencies transmitted from a phone that is in close

proximity to a reading device."



But some people just can't let it go. "Apple may ultimately regret its decision

not to include NFC in the iPhone 5, Gartner's Mark Hung said. 'If they don't put

NFC in an iPhone soon, they risk being a technology laggard,' he said."



Apple: the world-renowned technology laggard because it refuses to do what

everyone says it ought to do.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





