                              568 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                               Bendigo Advertiser



                               September 9, 2014



Apple unveils new iPhones



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 732  words





RELATED:iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and Apple Watch: the 6 things you need to know



Apple has moved to recapture its role as the leading tech trend-setter as it

unveiled its first smartwatch and two large-screen versions of the iPhone.



In a major product event on Tuesday, the California company also introduced anew

mobile walletthat will allow consumers to simply tap their phones to pay

retailers, aiming to popularise the idea of mobile payments.



The announcements are Apple's most wide-ranging set of product introductions

under chief executive officer Tim Cook, who succeeded co-founder Steve Jobs in

2011.



The Apple Watch, a sleekly designed wrist device that links to the iPhone, "will

redefine what people expect from this category", Mr Cook said in Apple's

hometown of Cupertino.



"It is the next chapter in Apple's story."



It was met with a standing ovation by event attendees and has newly designed

software that works with a dial on its side.



The touch-screen device will come in two sizes, as well as in classic, sports

and gold edition models, but won't be available until early 2015 in the US.



It can be used to detect pulse rate and has other health-tracking applications,

as well as including apps for maps, photos, music and messages, the company

said. An iPhone is required for the Apple Watch to work. It will cost from

$US349 with Australian pricing not yet announced.



Also unveiled were the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, in a large boost to the

screen size of the popular handsets - the company's first entry to the "phablet"

category.



Apple's main rival Samsung has long had a range of larger handsets and has tried

to market a smartwatch of its own.



The iPhone 6 will have a screen of 4.7 inches and the 6-Plus will be 5.5 inches,

allowing Apple to adapt to consumers' apparent preference for bigger displays.



Mr Cook said the new handsets represented "the biggest advancement in the

history of iPhones".



Apple senior vice president Phil Schiller said the new iPhones were "simply

stunning" with polarised glass displays and bodies that are "thinner than ever

before".



"These are the best phones ever made," Mr Schiller said, as he described the new

devices at a major set-piece event streamed live online.



Apple is betting the success of the iPhone will aid the other new products.

While the new handsets are widely anticipated to be huge hits, the watch,

payments system and health apps are no sure thing.



Companies such as Samsung have also introduced so-called smartwatches that have

smartphone-like functions for checking messages and getting notifications.



None have gained widespread traction and the products have seemed more like

technology in search of a problem rather than solving a real need. Similarly,

technology that turns a smartphone in a wallet also hasn't become popular, even

with efforts by Googleand eBay's PayPal. Fitness-tracking devices like Fitbit

also have remained a niche products.



The iPhone 6 will come in gold, silver or space grey, and will be available in

Australia from September 19, costing $869 for the 16GB model, $999 for the 64GB

model and, for the first time, a new 128GB model for $1129.



iPhone 6 Plus, in the same colours, will cost $999, $1129 and $1249

respectively.Australian telcos are likely to announce plan prices later on

Friday.



They will compete with the Samsung Galaxy S5 (approximately $788 for 16GB model)

and the larger new Samsung Galaxy Note which does not yet have Australian

pricing.



Mr Schiller said the Apple devices would be available in at least 115 countries

by the end of the year.



With the new launch, Apple will cut the price of existing iPhone 5S and 5C,

starting at $749 for the 5S and $529 for the 5C.



Apple's move to larger screens comes as consumers are switching to handsets with

bigger displays to watch videos and browse the internet.



Mr Cook said theApple Paysystem would replace an "antiquated payment process"

with "an entirely new payment system" that allows consumers to touch their

phones to retail terminals.



The company posted an image of a leather billfold on its website with the words

"Wallet, your days are numbered."



The new payment system will be built into the new iPhones and the new version of

Apple's operating system, iOS 8. It will be available only for iPhone 6 and 6

Plus in the US from October.



iOS 8 will be available as a free software update starting on September 17.



AFP with Bloomberg, Fairfax Media



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





