                              569 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)



                             July 24, 2014 Thursday

                                 Early Edition



Investors, consumers on iPhone 6 watch; September launch



BYLINE: Jonathan Ratner, Financial Post



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4



LENGTH: 483 words





Apple Inc.'s fourth-quarter guidance may have come in lower than expected, but

since this is being attributed to the transition into new iPhones and other

product launches, nobody seems to mind.



The technology giant's September quarterly revenue outlook range was

US$37-billion to US$40-billion, below consensus of US$40.5-billion. But all eyes

on are the company's highly anticipated iPhone 6 launch, as several analysts

believe the smartphone will surprise investors on the upside.



Apple is expected to launch 5.5-inch and 4.7-inch screen size versions on Sept.

19, followed by new product categories later in the year.



"We believe the iPhone 6 and new products could lead to upside particularly in

the December quarter," RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani told clients,

raising his price target on Apple shares to US$110 from US$100.



The stock was up US$2.42, or 2.55%, to US$94.17 in Nasdaq trading Wednesday

morning.



Apple reported iPhone sales of 35.2 million with an average sale price of US$563

in fiscal Q3. The 6% quarter-over-quarter price decline suggests its product mix

has shifted slightly away from the 5s product line, and the company stated that

the 5c was the fastestgrowing iPhone.



Recent surveys by Canaccord Genuity indicate growing consumer awareness and

increased willingness to pay more for new larger-screen iPhones. As a result,

analyst T. Michael Walkley anticipates a very strong iPhone 6 upgrade cycle.



"We believe consumers slowed the pace of iPhone upgrade purchases during the

iPhone 5 and 5s product cycles, and we believe the extended replacement rates

combined with new larger-screen iPhones position Apple with its large installed

base for record iPhone 6 sales," he said.



Mr. Walkley also expects Apple will charge a premium for these larger-screen

iPhones, producing stable gross margin trends, but with a higher gross margin

dollar contribution due to an increasing revenue mix from higher ASP iPhones.



While Apple's overall iPhone shipments disappointed slightly, as total iPhone

sales grew 9%, it saw strong growth of 55% in BRIC countries. IPad sales were

also stronger in emerging markets, with Chinese growth in the 50% range and

Middle East growth in the 60% range.



Apple's results were also marked by impressive Mac sales and slower declines in

iTunes revenue. Based on developer earnings to date of US$20-billion from the

app store, along with other data points, J.P. Morgan analyst Rod Hall estimates

that iTunes digital content revenues declined by just 10% to 15% in the first

half of calendar 2014.



Mr. Hall also highlighted the fact that the sub-$1,000 laptop segment represents

US$63-billion in annual revenues and Apple still has virtually no market share

there.



Mac sales in Q3 came in at an impressive US$5.54-billion and management noted

that the strength was driven by portables and "very strong growth" for the

Macbook Air.



jratner@nationalpost.com



LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2014 Edmonton Journal

                              All Rights Reserved





