

Apple's newly announced iPhone SE, the successor to the iPhone 5s, will launch
in Singapore on March 31, marking a renewed attempt at the mid-range phone
market here.

Singapore will be one of the first 12 markets - including the United States,
China and Japan - to start selling the 4-inch iPhone next week.

Apple is taking pre-orders from today at prices starting at $658 for the basic
16GB model. The 64GB model goes for $828. Neither comes with telco contracts.

The iPhone SE has the same basic design as the iPhone 5s, which was launched in
September 2013, but sports the souped-up innards of the iPhone 6s launched last
year.

For instance, the iPhone SE has the same processor, and 12-megapixel rear and
5-megapixel front-facing camera, as the iPhone 6s. It supports the Apple Pay
e-wallet function, and is able to take ultra-high definition 4K videos and
moving images called Live Photos.

It is smaller than the 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch display sizes of the iPhone 6s and
6s Plus, respectively.

IDC Asia-Pacific research manager Kiranjeet Kaur said the new phone is Apple's
renewed attempt at the mid-range market. "Apple stopped shipping the iPhone 5s
to Singapore from the second quarter of last year," she said, adding that the
iPhone 5c, launched here in September 2013, was also unable to capture this
segment as it was regarded as too expensive ($848 for a 16GB model) for its
features and design.

Mr Clement Teo, senior analyst at market research firm Forrester, said the
iPhone SE will attract only a small group of users here. "Most people have
embraced the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus with enthusiasm."

Violin teacher Eileen Chai, 38, belongs to this group of users.

"A smaller phone is easier for me as I have small hands. It fits easily in my
pocket too," she said. She has been waiting for an upgrade to the iPhone 5s,
which she is using now.

Another iPhone 5s user, Ms Beatrice Tan, 24, said she wants a 32GB model, which
Apple is not offering.

The account executive said: "I would upgrade to the iPhone SE, but why is there
no 32GB model'"

Meanwhile, there is still demand for a second-hand iPhone 5s.

Mr Ian Tan, senior director for marketing at used-phones e-marketplace Andios,
said demand is as high as that for a used iPhone 6.

Andios has seen several hundred used iPhones transacted since last November.
Around half are the iPhone 6, while the rest are a mixture of iPhone 5 and 5s.

