                              574 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday

                                 FINAL EDITION



Plus-size iPhones live up to the hype;

In first test drive, bigger real estate comes in handy



BYLINE: Edward C. Baig



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B



LENGTH: 1318 words





Are the bigger iPhones worth all this big-time attention? The answer is a

resounding yes, a point emphasized by consumers who've preordered the 4.7-inch

iPhone 6 and 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus in record numbers. These are the phones

Apple devotees have been waiting for: iPhones that measure up to what's fast

becoming the new normal -- the large, modern smartphone display. Count me among

those glad they're here.



People have preordered on faith, since they haven't seen these super-sized

iPhones up close or experienced what they feel like in pockets and handbags. I

have and let me be reassuring -- you won't regret your decision, though going

big may require a small adjustment, and my experience wasn't totally

trouble-free.



The new phones are enclosed in sturdy anodized aluminum. And though the handsets

are bigger and heavier their predecessors, they're also thinner. The sleep/power

button has moved to the side. Each has the Touch ID fingerprint scanner

introduced on the iPhone 5s.



The 6 Plus is the first Apple phone to enter the phablet category popularized by

Samsung's Notes. Samsung has been running ads -- a bit defensively I think --

knocking the new iPhone as playing catch-up with even its older Notes models.

But while Samsung's phablets are equipped with souped-up styluses called the S

Pen for writing and other tricks, Apple eschews the pen.



Here's a closer look at the 6 Plus and the 6.



SIZING UP THE SIZES. The iPhone 5 and 5s really do look like a kid brother

placed next to the 6 or 6 Plus; the iPhone 4 or 4s models are practically

toddler-sized.



I prefer the 6 Plus because I like the biggest of the big screens, and like that

I have to squint less often. It felt fine in my jeans pocket, but won't fit

every snug purse or small pair of hands.



The 5.5-inch 6 Plus has an 88% larger viewing area than the 5s. The 4.7-inch

iPhone 6 has a 38% larger area. Both have splendid Retina HD displays, with

resolutions of 1334 X 750 and 1920 X 1080 respectively.



The screens accommodate an extra row of home screen icons. And when you're

checking your calendar, you can glance at seven days of appointments at once on

the 6 Plus in the weekly landscape view, compared with six days on the 6 or five

days on the 5.



It's harder (but not impossible) to use the iPhone 6 Plus one-handed, even with

Apple adding a gesture called Reachability which makes the top portion of the

display move down toward the bottom when you gently double-tap the home button.



It's also still a tad unnatural to hold a really large phone up to your ear

during a call. In that sense the 6 felt more comfortable.



Apple made other accommodations on the 6 Plus: When you rotate the phone to its

side, some apps display a two-panel view. On both new phones you have the option

of choosing a standard view with normal-size icons and fonts, or a zoomed view

that gives you bigger controls but less room for other stuff.



Developers may have to make some adjustments before their apps are iPhone 6

Plus- ready. The search icon inside the YouTube app actually touched the

Bluetooth icon and the battery gauge in the Apple task bar.



The rumored rugged Sapphire display didn't happen (though Sapphire covers the

Touch ID button and the camera lens), so if you're the type to protect your

phone with a case, you'll obviously have to spring for a bigger replacement.



CAMERAS. Larger displays double as larger viewfinders, a benefit to

photographers. You can use either volume button to fire off a picture, which is

nice. I generally found the 6 easier to maneuver, though the 6 Plus has an

optical image-stabilization feature that the 6 lacks, to reduce the shakes when

you're shooting video. Video I shot on the 6 Plus from a moving car came out

smooth. However, on the 6 Plus I once couldn't stop shooting a video, an

apparent bug. You can now shoot high-definition videos at a faster (60fps) frame

rate and also shoot time-lapse videos. And Apple has also improved the focusing

system. I was pleased with the quality of pictures and videos I shot.



Of note, selfie fans can now capture 10 photos per second as part of a burst

mode feature added to the front camera. I took advantage of a timer feature that

gives you three or 10 seconds to prepare for your close-up burst.



iOS 8. The operating system need not play second fiddle to the hardware; iOS 8

brings numerous improvements, starting with a better predictive Apple keyboard

you come to appreciate quickly. The ability to install third-party keyboards as

on Android phones is an added plus.



The new Health app is a useful repository for all sorts of health and fitness

data. I used it to display the number of stairs I climbed, a measurement made

possible by the barometer inside the new phones.



IOS 8 has also improved notifications and messaging. For example, you can tap

and swipe to add a recording to an outgoing text message that can expire in two

minutes. Also promising is a Family Sharing feature that lets you and other

members of the household share a calendar, photos and iTunes, iBook and app

purchases. You can make the kids ask before they buy. Expect frequent requests:

The App Store now has more than 1.3 million apps.



APPLE PAY. Can Apple get you to shop your way through a mall with a wave of your

phone? We'll find out come October, when Apple Pay debuts for the 6 and 6 Plus.



I got to demo Apple Pay but not test it in the real world with crowded shoppers.

The process certainly seems simple. In a store, you'll place the phone within

about an inch of a compatible terminal while pressing the Touch ID fingerprint

scanner to transact -- pretty robust security right there. There's no need to

unlock the phone.



Your credit cards are stored in the up-to-now seldom used Passbook app. Payment

info is kept secure inside a chip on the phone. The merchant never sees your

actual credit card number, and Apple is kept in the dark on what you bought or

spent. If your phone is lost or stolen you can remove your cards from Passbook

remotely through Find My iPhone. But there's no need to actually cancel your

credit cards.



BATTERY. Both new phones have bigger batteries, which should yield better

results than on prior iPhones. Apple is touting longer battery life on the 6

Plus compared with the 6, up to 14 hours watching video, vs. 11 hours. I didn't

conduct a formal test, but after a day of heavy mixed use, the battery on the 6

Plus pooped out about 7:15 p.m.



GROWING PAINS. With the 6 and 6 Plus, Apple ditched a 32GB storage model. If you

take lots of pictures and videos or download frequent apps, the 16GB entry

capacity may not cut it. Now the step-up is 64GB or 128 GB.



Inside is a new Apple-designed A8 chip and the phone is snappy. But I hit a few

snags, especially with the 6 Plus. A few times, the 6 Plus failed to rotate from

landscape to portrait or back (the rotation lock was unlocked). Once the Mail

app froze. Another time the 6 Plus restarted on its own. Reachability also

didn't work one time until I rebooted the phone. Hopefully this is an

aberration.



Notwithstanding such growing pains, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are smartphone

stars. Really big stars.



Baig is the co-author of iPhone For Dummies, an independent work published by

Wiley.



---



THE BOTTOM LINE



IPhone 6 and 6 Plus



www.apple.com



IPhone 6 is $199 (16 GB), $299 (64GB) and $399 (128GB) with two year contracts

from AT&T, Sprint and Verizon Wireless or $649, $749 or $849, contract-free from

T-Mobile.



IPhone 6 Plus is $299, $399 and $499 on AT&T, Sprint and Verizon with two-year

contracts, or $749, $849 or $949 contract-free from T-Mobile.



Pro. Large displays provide extra screen real estate. Touch ID. IOS features

such as Health app and redesigned predictive keyboards. Improved camera and

Photos app. Optical image stabilization (iPhone 6 Plus only).



Con. IPhone 6 Plus may be too large for some users. 6 Plus was buggy. You may

need to buy new cases or other accessories to accommodate larger displays.



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





