                              575 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                             October 3, 2014 Friday



Big fat iPhone 6 Plus leads to trouble in Trouserville



BYLINE: Patrick May



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 210 words





With the recent arrival of the new and larger iPhone 6 Plus, along with the

consternation it has caused among users unable to stick the thing in their

pockets, the fashion industry is agonizing over nothing short of the future of

pants.



As Yohana Desta at Mashable.com puts it, this is a very sobering moment for the

makers of khaki, cargo and capris:



Along with Samsung's mammoth Galaxy phones, Apple's phablet mega-sized phone is

starting to look like the future of mobile tech.



That's bad news for your pants. Gone are the days of casually stuffing your

palm-sized phone in your pocket. Phablets are too big for such a trend, causing

people to worry: Where do we put our phones now?



The New York Post summed it up this way:



Thinking about splurging on a new iPhone 6 Plus? You may want to make sure it

fits in your pocket first.



last month, retailers are considering enlarging the pocket sizes on pants to

accommodate the 5.5-inch "phablet."



In response, a slew of clothing designers have been brainstorming among

themselves to create pants that can accommodate the larger phones. Desta

collected this spellbinding list of who's doing what to solve the Great

Phablet/Pants Crisis of 2014:



Photo: Left to right: the iPhone 5, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. (Getty Images)



LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: CUPERTINO, CA - SEPTEMBER 09: Apple Senior Vice President of Worldwide

Marketing Phil Schiller announcees the new iPhone 6 during an Apple special

event at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts on September 9, 2014 in

Cupertino, California. Apple unveiled the two new iPhones the iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





