

CUPERTINO -- More than 4 million pre-orders for the new iPhones were placed on
the first day, shattering sales records for Apple and prolonging wait times for
its enthusiastic fan base.

In a statement issued Monday, Apple detailed the debut of the iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus, which went up for advanced sale online in the wee hours of Friday
morning. Although some customers will receive their devices this Friday, Apple
acknowledged that many will have to wait until October for the coveted packages
to arrive. In the meantime, the new phones, which feature larger screens, will
hit the shelves of local retail stores Friday morning.

"iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are better in every way, and we are thrilled
customers love them as much as we do," Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement.
"Pre-orders for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus set a new record for Apple, and we
can't wait to get our best iPhones yet into the hands of customers starting this
Friday."

Apple received 2 million pre-orders for the iPhone 5, the last model for which
it disclosed statistics on advance sales. The next yardstick for the new
iPhones' success will come opening weekend. Apple sold 9 million gadgets last
year during the first weekend of sales for the iPhone 5S and 5C.

Apple unveiled the iPhone 6, which measures 4.7 inches diagonally, and the
5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus last Tuesday at a star-studded event at the Flint Center
for the Performing Arts in Cupertino, along with a long-awaited smartwatch. An
Apple spokeswoman declined to breakdown the early sales figures between the
iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The iPhone 6 Plus appeared to sell out first on
carriers' websites, but that may be because supplies of the larger device are
more limited, said Ken Dulaney, an analyst at research firm Gartner.

Analysts predicted that consumers would flood stores when Apple finally matched
its peers with larger screens. Although the sales records make for good press,
consumers are easily frustrated by long waits, Dulaney said.

"That seems like a little bit of poor planning," he said. "When you announce the
device, you want to ship it."

Consumers have shown a willingness not only to wait for the new iPhones, but to
fork over more money for them. The iPhone 6 costs $199 with a two-year contract,
but the iPhone 6 Plus starts at $299 -- $100 more than the flagship device
fetched last year. It's favorable math for the Cupertino-based company, Dulaney
noted.

"These are good times for Apple," he said.

Contact Julia Love at 408-920-5536;follow her at Twitter.com/byJuliaLove .

