                              585 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                      September 8, 2014 Monday 3:30 PM GMT



What time is the iPhone 6 launch tomorrow? How to watch Apple's release event

online;

WITH just a day to go until Apple unveil the next-generation iPhone, here's

everything you know about the event and how to watch it.



BYLINE: By Mikey Smith



SECTION: NEWS,SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 1016 words





THERE'S just a day to go until Apple's biggest hardware event in years - the

iPhone 6 launch.



Rumours about the features, specs and style of the next-generation iPhone have

set the internet ablaze in recent weeks - fuelled by a series of leaked pictures

claiming to give a glimpse of the new device.



As well as revealing two models of iPhone 6 - with 4.7" and 5.5" screens -

there's widespread speculation Apple are gearing up to make their first move

into wearable technology tomorrow.



Many believe they're set to reveal an iWatch - which would act as a home

automation remote control and a health and activity tracker - at tomorrow's

event.



The best bit is you can watch the event as it unfolds in the comfort of your own

home.



Here's what you can expect from the launch event, and all the ways you can

stream it online.What can we expect to see at the keynote?



Everyone's fairly certain that Apple are going to launch the two iPhone 6 models

at tomorrow's event - but could they have a few surprises up their sleeves?



The cryptic invitations sent out to journalists last week carried the enigmatic

phrase "Wish we could say more."



This phrase could be taken in a number of ways - but many see it as a reference

to there being a few things kept under wraps. Most people now believe this will

be the revelation of a wearable device, the iWatch.



There's also speculation it could refer to improvements to Apple's voice command

system - Siri - or increased battery life.



The other big surprise being kept under wraps is the three storey structure

being built by Apple near the Flint centre. Nobody knows what's underneath the

big white box, but most believe it's a hands-on centre for journalists to have a

go on their new device.



Aside from that, the keynote's bound to see contributions from CEO Tim Cook,

Senior Vice Presidents Craig Federighi, Eddy Cue and Phil Schiller.



Design chief Jony Ive, who is in charge of the look and feel of both Apple's

hardware and iOS software, doesn't do the stage show, but he's bound to show up

in a few videos with his hypnotic, whispery English voice.When will the iPhone 6

launch be?



Apple will unveil the iPhone 6 on Tuesday, September 9th, at a major event in

the tech giant's home town of Cupertino.



They're holding the event at the Flint Centre for the Performing Arts, the venue

they used to launch the original Mac computer and the iPhone 5.



It's the first time in years that Apple have held an event at the Flint Centre -

they usually unveil hardware and software at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Centre

or at their own 'Town Hall' venue at their headquarters.



But the Flint Centre has a much higher capacity - approximately 2,405 seats -

than those other venues, suggesting Apple is looking to launch its new products

with a larger than usual bang.



The event kicks off at 10am California time, which works out to 6pm UK time.How

can I watch the event online?



You'll be able to watch the event through the iTunes app on any iPhone, iPad or

iPod Touch.



There'll also be a special event app icon appearing on the home screen of Apple

TV devices on the day of the keynote.



It'll also be streamed on Apple.com, but you'll need to have a Mac running at

least Snow Leopard and Safari 5.1.10 to watch. PC users are out of luck.



You can also follow all the events with the latest information and commentary

with our live blog. Watch out for details tomorrow.What will the iPhone 6 look

like?



The iPhone 6 is expected to have a more rounded body than the 5S - with a design

that harks back to the original first-generation iPhone.



A video has been released online which claims to show an entire iPhone 6

constructed from parts leaked from the production line.



iPhone 6 cobbled together from leaked factory parts



An alleged leaked schematic suggested the new phone will be 7mm thick - and the

4.7" model has a codename of N56.What new features can we expect?



The iPhone 6 will feature a new super-fast WiFi chip and an improved Touch ID

fingerprint sensor, according to reports.



It will also feature Apple's  next generation A8 processor, which should give

the smartphone a huge performance boost, according to tech website Venture Beat



Apple's new device is also expected to have a vastly improved camera, with a

13-megapixel sensor provided by Sony.



Apple is also understood to be working with Mastercard, Visa and American

Express to bring a contactless digital payment system to iPhone 6.



The new screen - on the 4.7" version, at least - is thought to have a higher

resolution than previous models.



The Retina screen on the current iPhone 5S has a density of 10.5 pixels per mm.

The 1704x960 display suggested by Feld & Volk would be a much sharper 16 pixels

per mm.            What about the iWatch?



Fans have expected Apple to get into the wearable technology business for a

while, and rumour has it they're going to bolster Tuesday's event by unveiling

the iWatch.



Not much is known about the iWatch, but it's thought it'll tie in closely with

Apple's new HeathKit activity and fitness tracking framework - collecting data

on the user's heart rate, motion and more.



It could also provide a bridge between Siri's voice command system and HomeKit,

Apple's new home automation system - allowing users to remote control smart

lightbulbs, door locks and appliances via the watch.



There's been speculation that HealthKit will be able to automatically put your

iPhone into Do Not Disturb mode when it recognises you're working out - and even

nag you if you haven't been to the gym in a while.How much will iPhone 6 cost?



Apple's pricing is usually kept fairly well under wraps - you can never tell

when they're going to pull a surprise price drop.



But if we base it on last year's pricing, the model with the smallest capacity

(16GB for the 5S) will cost £549, the next up (32GB) £629 and the biggest

storage (64GB) £709.



If Apple upgrade the maximum storage to 128GB as is rumoured, it's likely

they'll make the minimum amount 32GB.



That's all based on the current screen size - we're expecting the price to shoot

up for the 5.5" version, perhaps even more for the "premium" version with

Sapphire glass.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





