

Apple Inc.'s fourth-quarter guidance may have come in lower than expected, but
since this is being attributed to the transition into new iPhones and other
product launches, nobody seems to mind.

The technology giant's September quarter revenue outlook range was US$37-billion
to US$40-billion, below consensus of US$40.5-billion. But all eyes on are the
company's highly anticipated iPhone 6 launch, as several analysts believe the
smartphone will surprise investors on the upside.

Apple is expected to launch 5.5-inch and 4.7-inch screen size versions on Sept.
19, followed by new product categories later in the year.

"We believe the iPhone 6 and new products could lead to upside, particularly in
the December quarter," RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani told clients,
raising his price target on Apple shares to US$110 from US$100.

The stock closed Wednesday up US$2.47, or 2.61%, at US$97.19.

Apple reported iPhone sales of 35.2 million with an average sale price of US$563
in fiscal Q3. The 6% quarter-over-quarter price decline suggests its product mix
has shifted slightly away from the 5s product line, and the company stated that
the 5c was the fastest-growing iPhone.

Recent surveys by Canaccord Genuity indicate growing consumer awareness and
increased willingness to pay more for new larger-screen iPhones. As a result,
analyst T. Michael Walkley anticipates a very strong iPhone 6 upgrade cycle.

"We believe consumers slowed the pace of iPhone upgrade purchases during the
iPhone 5 and 5s product cycles, and we believe the extended replacement rates
combined with new larger-screen iPhones position Apple with its large installed
base for record iPhone 6 sales," he said in a research note.

Mr. Walkley also expects Apple will charge a premium for these larger-screen
iPhones, producing stable gross margin trends, but with a higher gross margin
dollar contribution due to an increasing revenue mix from higher ASP iPhones.

While Apple's overall iPhone shipments disappointed slightly, as total iPhone
sales grew 9%, it saw strong growth of 55% in BRIC countries.

iPad sales were also stronger in emerging markets, with Chinese growth in the
50% range and Middle East growth in the 60% range.

Apple's results were also marked by impressive Mac sales and slower declines in
iTunes revenue.

Based on developer earnings to date of US$20-billion from the app store, along
with other data points, JPMorgan analyst Rod Hall estimates that iTunes digital
content revenues declined by just 10% to 15% in the first half of calendar 2014.
The compares to estimates of a 20% to 25% decline in the previous six months.

Mr. Hall also highlighted the fact that the sub-US$1,000 laptop segment
represents US$63-billion in annual revenues and Apple still has virtually no
market share there.

Mac sales in Q3 came in at an impressive US$5.54-billion and management noted
that the strength was driven by portables and "very strong growth" for the
Macbook Air.

Apple cut its lowest Macbook Air price (11.6-inch screen) to US$899 on April 29,
marking the first time a new version of the laptop has been available for
substantially less than US$1,000.

Mr. Hall believes this propelled sales in the final two months of the quarter.

jratner@nationalpost.com

