                              598 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                        Progressive Media - Company News



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



Bendgate continues: UK robots return to test iPhone 6 bending



SECTION: MOBILE PLATFORMS AND INTEGRATION; Mobile Platforms and Integration



LENGTH: 325 words







HIGHLIGHT: Apple yet to comment on growing reports of iPhone 6 Plus unsolicited

flexibility.





UK firm SquareTrade, which recently issued this report testing the strength of

Apple's latest iPhones against their competitors, has called on its

mettle-testing robots once again to confirm reports of the iPhone 6 Plus

bending.



In what is now being dubbed 'bendgate', some iPhone 6 Plus owners are claiming

to witness their phones 'bend' in front pockets when seated for long periods of

time.



Reports first surfaced on the MacRumors website and numerous other blogs have

claimed that Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus is 'bending' in users' pockets.



SquareTrade's first iPhone 6 tests found that the iPhone 6 Plus was more robust

than a Samsung Galaxy S5, receiving a score of 5. The Galaxy S5 got a 6.5.



The test, carried out by robots that assess mobile phones on their size, weight,

panel strength, and drop endurance, gives marks out of 10 on a 'breakability

index', with a score of 10 signifying the highest risk.



SquareTrade said: "We've seen the reports in the last 24 hours of bendability

and we're keeping a very close eye on customer feedback. A "bendability test"

hasn't been part of our breakability testing to date because up until this week

we've never seen a phone thin enough to make this a potential issue.



"We've seen the volume of reports of bending today and the clear interest in the

subject. Because we're flexible, we're carrying out a further test later today

to investigate how much of an issue this might be for users. It's important to

stress that this won't have any comparative data. It'll be a view based on one

phone - no bend, no bias, no warp - just SquareTrade's opinion on how much of an

issue this might be."



Apple has yet to respond to the incidents, but that hasn't stopped competitors

jumping in to mock the firm. Chocolate teabreak advocates KitKat posted this

Tweet yesterday:



Some experts have suggested it is the combination of a large screen and

lightweight aluminium casing which is causing the phones to bend so easily.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





