                               5 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                    September 25, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



iPhone 6 Plus: $100 Costlier For Consumers To Buy-Just $15.50 More Expensive For

Apple To Make



LENGTH: 947  words





Thursday, September 25, 2014: For consumers opting to buy Apple Inc.'s iPhone 6

Plus rather than the iPhone 6, the additional 0.8 inches of screen size will

cost $100 extra. However, for Apple, the iPhone 6 Plus costs only about $16 more

to produce, delivering to the company an even heftier margin than normal for its

wildly popular smartphone line.



The bill of materials (BOM) of the iPhone 6 equipped with 16 gigabytes (GByte)

of NAND flash memory amounts to $196.10, according to a preliminary estimate by

the Teardown Mobile Handsets Intelligence Service at IHS Technology (NYSE: IHS).

The cost of production rises to $200.10 when the $4.00 manufacturing expense is

added.



The BOM of the iPhone 6 Plus amounts to $211.10, and rises to $215.60 with the

additional $4.50 manufacturing cost added. This is only $15.50 higher than the

total for the iPhone 6.



"Apple has always been adept at offering higher-end iPhone models with enhanced,

desirable features-and then pricing those versions for maximum profitability,"

said Andrew Rassweiler, senior director, cost benchmarking services for IHS. "In

the past, the premium versions of iPhone offered higher memory configurations

for additional profit. While Apple continues this memory strategy, the company

is also taking a similar approach with the iPhone Plus, structuring its pricing

to add bottom-line profit on models that have a very desirable feature: a large

phablet-sized display."



With a contract from a wireless operator, the 16GByte version of the iPhone 6 is

priced at $200, while the Plus model amounts to $300. The unsubsidized pricing

for the two phones is $649 and $749, respectively.



The table attached presents the preliminary BOM and manufacturing cost estimate

of the Phone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Please note that these teardown assessments

are preliminary in nature, account only for hardware and manufacturing costs,

and do not include other expenses such as software, licensing, royalties or

R&D.;



These findings are available in the "Teardown - Apple iPhone 6" report, from

Materials & Cost Benchmarking solutions at IHS.



Phablet fees



The most obvious difference between the two new Apple smartphone models is the

display, with the iPhone 6 sporting a 4.7-inch screen, and the Plus coming in at

5.5 inches. However, while the larger screen is more expensive, it doesn't

account for the entire cost differential between the two phones; the Plus also

carries higher BOMs for its enhanced camera and battery subsystems.



For both the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models, the screens feature in-touch

in-plane switching (IPS) liquid crystal displays (LCD) supplied by two sources:

LG Display and Japan Display. The displays likely employ Corning's Gorilla 3

glass, compared to Gorilla 2 in the iPhone 5S and 5C.



Because of its larger size, the display/touch-screen subsystem in the iPhone 6

Plus carries a cost of $52.50, compared to $45.00 for the iPhone 6.



Both displays are also more expensive than for the smaller, 4-inch display/touch

subsystem used in the iPhone 5S model, at $41.00, based on pricing from October

2013.



Battery boost



The larger form factor of the iPhone 6 Plus allows it to employ a bigger,

higher-capacity battery. The iPhone 6 Plus battery has a capacity of 11.1

watt-hours (Wh), compared to 6.91 Wh for the iPhone 6. Because of this, the

battery subsystem in the Plus is $1.00 more expensive than in the iPhone 6.



Also owing to their larger sizes, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus both have more

capacity than the 5S, which came in at just 5.92 Wh.



Furthermore, the camera of the Plus is $1.50 more expensive than in the iPhone

6.



Samsung and TSMC



In a major departure in component supplier selection from previous models, the

critical applications processor chip used in both the new iPhones is not

supplied entirely by Samsung.



The new models use the Apple-designed A8 processor, replacing the A7 employed in

the iPhone 5S. The A8 exhibits new markings that are not consistent with

previous A-series processors. IHS believes that Apple now is splitting its

orders for the A8 processor between semiconductor foundry Taiwan Semiconductor

Manufacturing Co. Ltd. (TSMC) and Samsung.



The A8 integrates twice the number of transistors as in the previous-generation

A7 processor used in the iPhone 5S, but the part is still smaller than the A7

due to the use of more advanced semiconductor manufacturing technology. With its

more advanced design and manufacturing, the A8 in the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

models costs $20.00, compared to $17.00 for the A7 in the iPhone 5S.



Sensor shift



The new-model iPhones also feature some key changes to the sensor/microphone

subsystem.



In the individual iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models analyzed, IHS identified a 6

-axis sensor supplied by InvenSense. Previous iPhones torn down by IHS used

accelerometers from Bosch Sensortec and Gyroscopes supplied by ST

Microelectronics. The new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus feature an accelerometer from

Bosch Sensortec and the 6-axis sensor from InvenSense. It may be possible that

these parts are multisourced, even though the small number of samples analyzed

by IHS does not reveal this.



The new iPhones also add a barometric sensor, marking the first time Apple has

employed this type of sensor in its smartphone line.



Despite some reports to the contrary, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus contain the

same AKM electronic compass used in previous models.



NFC champion



To support the new Apple Pay feature, the new iPhones add a near-field

communication (NFC) chip, another first for Apple's smartphones. The latest

phones include the PN65V NFC controller from NXP Semiconductors, as well as a

previously unseen NFC-booster integrated circuit from AMS.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





