                              601 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                              The Express Tribune



                           September 14, 2014 Sunday



Market capture: Consumers flock towards new iPhone



LENGTH: 491  words





Customers may have to wait three to four weeks to get their hands on Apple

Incorporation's iPhone 6 Plus, after a record number of orders for the company's

latest smartphones strained available supply. The new iPhone 6 goes on sale on

September 19 in the US but the company began taking online orders on Thursday.



While the larger 5.5-inch "Plus" models now display a wait time of up to a

month, the 4.7-inch version remains available for delivery, Apple's website

showed.



Verizon Wireless, ATandT and Sprint Corp, also showed shipment delays of up to

six weeks on their respective websites. Apple said the pace of orders has so far

outstripped any of its previous iPhones.



"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible, with a record

number of pre-orders overnight. Pre-orders are currently available online or

through the Apple Store App," said spokeswoman Trudy Muller.



Apple routinely grapples with iPhone supply constraints, particularly in years

that involve a smartphone re-design. The latest iPhones come with larger screens

and some analysts had anticipated that production issues may keep a lid on

initial runs. Its suppliers had scrambled to get enough screens ready because

the need to redesign a key component had disrupted panel production, said supply

chain sources last month.



It was unclear whether the hiccup could limit the number of phones available to

consumers, the sources said at the time. Apple declined to comment on supply

chain issues. In addition, Chinese customers may also have to wait until the

year-end before they can buy the iPhone 6.



Apple is yet to set a release date for China, the world's biggest smartphone

market. The company unveiled its latest iPhones along with a watch and a mobile

payments service on Tuesday. ATandT's chief executive of mobile and business,

Ralph de la Vega, told investors at a conference in New York that iPhone 6

orders have so far surpassed orders last year and the year before.



Chinese eye Hong Kong's grey market



Meanwhile, wealthy mainland Chinese looking to buy the new iPhone 6 next week

could expect to pay an eye-watering $2,500 for the handsets in Hong Kong,

following Apple's decision to delay the launch in China.



Hong Kong has long been a hub for resold and refurbished phones, and delighted

vendors there were coping with a flood of pre-orders from the Apple-obsessed

mainland.



The price, say sellers in the southern Chinese city, is a bargain  the phones

can then be resold on the mainland, where fans could pay up to $5,000 for a new

handset.



Massive queues and frantic trading were seen outside Apple stores in the

southern Chinese city on previous iPhone launches, with resellers buying units

from hundreds of new iPhone owners to sell on later at inflated prices on the

legal but unauthorised "grey market".



Published in The Express Tribune, September 14th, 2014.



LikeBusiness on Facebook, follow @TribuneBizon Twitter to stay informed and join

in the conversation.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





