                              603 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Here Are The Most-Talked About Apple iPhone 6 Rumours!



LENGTH: 275  words





The Apple iPhone 5S may have just started breaking records, but people are

already looking at the iPhone 6.



Wednesday, October 09, 2013: So while we wait till 28 October for Apple to

unveil its fourth quarter earnings report, it is fairly certain that it will be

driven by the iPhone 5S sales. The new smartphone has received criticism and

acclaim alike. While this continues, the rumours about the Apple iPhone 6 have

already started going around. Here are some of the top rumours about expected

features of the iPhone 6.



Solar Charging Touch Screen: In February, Apple has reportedly filed a patent

for technology, which allows solar charging to be integrated onto a touch

screen. If the company can develop this and use it in the iPhone 6, then it will

be the biggest advancement in mobile technology.



Camera: When it comes to the camera, Apple is in a way lagging behind the

competitors. Since the iPhone 6 is expected to be larger, the camera is also

expected to bring some big changes. Some say it will have something like the

Nokia Lumia 1020's 41 mega pixel camera. While that remains to be seen, but a 13

mega pixel camera should be added.



Sapphire Glass: There are rumours that Apple is planning to use Sapphire Glass

for the screen on the iPhone 6. If true, this would give a new meaning to

Apple's premium image and would make the screen miles stronger and durable than

any other in the market.



Processor: The Apple A7 has been a good innovation from the company, but with

the iPhone 6, Apple should definitely be coming up with an octa-core chipset.

Rumours are that Apple is planning to make an Octa-Core version for it's current

A7 processor.



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





