                              606 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                       July 14, 2014 Monday 12:23 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6 latest news: Release date of rumoured 'phablet' could be delayed

over production issues;

Suggestions that tech giant could make both new handsets available at the same

time look unlikely after a rumoured production delay



BYLINE: By Georgina Stubbs



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 315 words





iPhone 6 image leak



Fans of iPhone 6 are bracing themselves for a delay to the new gadget's release

date.



Apple were looking to go ahead with a single launch day, planned for both the

standard 4.7inch model and the larger 5.5inch, believed to be September 19.



But with mutterings of production issues with the bigger handset, this could to

be unlikely.



An industry insider and proven revealer of Apple's intentions, Ming-Chi Kuo, has

highlighted the issue responsible for the delays.



He said that the technology giant is already facing production snags with the

4.7inch model related to touch technology and the casing colouring of the

device.



His report said that these problems are exaggerated on the bigger model which

could push the launch of the phablet into early next year.



With gossip and speculation setting the social networking world alight - the

iPhone 6 really is the smartphone everyone has been waiting for.



Some of the features thought to be included on the new handset are a virtually

indestructible sapphire crystal display - according to a leaked video.



iPhone 6 sapphire display



Apple has used sapphire glass before in both the camera lenses and TouchID

sensors on the iPhone 5S, but if the video shows what it could do, the iPhone 6

will be the first smartphone to come to market using the mineral to make its

whole display.



It's expected that the glass - which represents a vast improvement in both

durability and thickness over the Gorilla glass in use on current models - will

eventually be used throughout Apple's iPhone, iPad and wearable devices.



There are also rumours the 5.5inch model will pack 128gb of internal storage,

more curved, stylish edges, and a smart locking system that will see the device

automatically unlock in a safe location like your home.



For all the latest Apple news on the iPhone 6 as it breaks click here.



Will Apple's iPhone 6 be the best phone out there?



LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





