

iOSphere rumors make it Christmas every day: They are the gift that keeps on
giving, no matter what time of year. This week, more "leaked photos" showing the
outside case of the iPhone 6, or perhaps the 5S, and revealing within (trumpet
fanfare, please!) fewer screws.

Also: how the iOSphere parses a press release and uncovers the hidden fact that
T-Mobile USA will offer iPhone 6 in 2013; NFC longings; and the magic of
no-contact-needed wireless charging.

You read it here second.

__________ __________ Two "leaked" photos, "which were found on the Web" and
purportedly show the housing of the Next iPhone, were posted by ETrade Supply, a
Hong Kong-based repair parts supplier.

There's already widespread acceptance that the seventh-generation Next iPhone
will not be "iPhone 6" but "iPhone 5S." Because of Apple's "traditional" naming
convention: 3G, 3GS, 4, 4S. That would be the four-year tradition.

"Found on the Web" is without doubt the "Best Worst Source for an iOSphere Rumor
in December." Ours not to reason why. Ours but to post and rumorize. The
pictures were apparently first posted in a site called iPhone5parts.net,
described as an online forum for Apple fans.

The photos reveal a phone that looks eerily like -- or as ETrade says "very
similar to" - the iPhone 5.

"From the background, it seems that the pictures were taken at the assembly line
of an operation stage," ETrade says, with the confidence common to iOSphere
rumors. The confidence seems misplaced: The background is a featureless green
surface. You can't even tell if it's a wall or a floor or a desk. And what the
heck does "operation stage" actually mean?

However. "However, the reason why we say it is a suspected iPhone 5s rear
housing is that the specific information below the logo, which are replaced by
'X'. Usually, the parts with 'X' stand for test prototype."

X marks the prototype. What could be simpler?

ETrade nevertheless is able to winkle out changes. "First, the 'iPhone 5s' has
two less screw holes on the left side which are used to fasten the LCD."
Doubtless another example of Apple's genius in reducing the bill of materials
cost for its product.

"Second, the position of 3 screw holes used to fasten the logic board has been
removed (not sure whether caused by the change of logic board)." It's not clear
if ETrade thinks the screws are evidence of "a" change in the logic board or
that the entire logic board has been changed.

Once it had given the customary "take all this with Andre-the-Giant-sized
pinches of salt," Macworld UK's David Price threw salt to the wind and got down
to brass tacks.  These changes "may suggest cosmetic or superficial changes from
iPhone 5 to iPhone 6 (sorry, 'iPhone 5S'), or they may suggest fundamental
modifications to the internal componentry and screen."

One or the other. For sure.

International Business Times' Louis Bedigan reports this rumor based on the
announcement by Deutsche Telekom that its subsidiary, T-Mobile USA, and Apple
signed a deal "to bring products to market together in 2013."

The announcement didn't mention "iPhone 6." In fact, it didn't mention any
specific product; just, you know, "products." But if you know how to interpret
what's not being said by reading between the lines, you can see what others
can't.

"No other details were announced, but tech bloggers are already speculating on
what this could mean for Apple and its product lineup in 2013," Bedigan wrote,
gracefully passing over his own modest contribution to tech speculation. "CNET
warns that the deal may not relate to the iPhone at all and could simply involve
the iPad."

Be warned, T-Mobile subscribers: You simply might get only the iPad.

"Right now the rumor mill insists that Apple will prematurely upgrade the iPhone
5 ... with a new model this winter [2013]," Bedigan writes.

"Prematurely upgrade" sounds rather like "prematurely gray" -- something you
don't want to happen until later; much later, in fact. Bedigan probably means
that the Next iPhone will be "occurring, growing, or existing before the
customary, correct, or assigned time."

Because history, all five years of it with six models, clearly shows what is
customary for the iPhone: They're announced in June or July. Except for the
first iPhone, which was announced in January. And the last two, which were
announced in September or October. So whenever they announce the next one, it's
guaranteed to be premature.

"If Apple wanted to bring the iPhone to T-Mobile in the near future, an upgrade
would be necessary," Bedigan declares. "While it could simply convert the
existing model (as it did with the iPhone 4 when it came to Verizon), Apple will
get more attention -- and likely sell more units -- if it provides T-Mobile with
an enhanced model."

So even though Apple just "simply converted" iPhone 4 to run on Verizon's
network, and sold millions and millions of them, it's somehow necessary for
Apple to "upgrade" or "enhance" the iPhone to sell it on T-Mobile's network.

One suspects that most T-Mobile customers who are interested in the iPhone would
be happy to have even an "un-enhanced" iPhone 5, especially if it supports
HSPA+42.

"Of course, Apple cannot simply enhance the iPhone for one carrier; it must
provide the new version to every carrier," Bedigan writes. "This might be the
real source of the iPhone 5S rumors."

The real source of the iPhone 5S rumors is everyone with access to a website, a
keyboard, and a Deutsche Telekom press release that fails to mention the word "
iPhone."

You can't trust Apple. Let's get that out there right up front.

"Apple is known to backtrack on its plans, or even to distort reality simply to
shift attention away from its actual plans," writes Filip Truta at
Softpedia.com. "The iPad mini is a good example of that."

And how. Remember the late Steve Jobs saying 9.7 inches was the perfect size for
a tablet screen? And now they have one with a 7.9-inch screen?

Ditto for near-field communication, a short-range wireless technology touted
endlessly for years as enabling the Magic of Contactless Purchases and the
Digital Wallet: Just wave your NFC smartphone and buy, buy, buy!

So when Apple marketing supremo Phil Schiller tells the world in September 2012
that "It's not clear that NFC is the solution to any current problem. Passbook
does the kinds of things customers need today," you know he's either
backtracking or distorting reality or even telling the truth. One of them, for
sure.

But Truta says wireless chipmaker Qualcomm will change all that. That's because
Qualcomm "just announced a new Near Field Communication (NFC) chip that makes
perfect sense for the next-generation iPhone 6, or even the rumored iPhone 5S."

And if Schiller and his boss Tim Cook don't know that, they can just ask Truta.
Or read the Qualcomm press release.

"Qualcomm confirmed that its QCA1990 SoC (system on a chip) is the industry's
smallest, ultra-low power NFC package 'with an overall footprint that is 50
percent smaller than current NFC chips available in the market,' said the press
release," notes Truta, making it sound as if he had personally hounded a hapless
Qualcomm exec, ambushed him, backed him into a corner, hammered him with
questions until, broken and sobbing, this wretch confessed that "Yes, YES!!! It
has an overall footprint that is 50%smaller than current NFC chips!" instead of
just quoting from the company's press release.

"Apple is widely believed to release an incremental iPhone 5S this summer,
staying in line with tradition (iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4S)," Bedigan writes.
Tradition: It's how we keep our balance.  The incremental, premature, virtually
identical iPhone 5S. With NFC. And a few missing screws.

A recently published patent application shows Apple is looking at wireless
charging for its mobile devices. And you know what that means: iPhone 6 will
have wireless charging.

But it's not just any wireless charging, like Nokia uses for some of its Lumia
smartphones. In the Nokia system, you have to physically put your phone on top
of the charging pad, so they're actually touching.

With Apple's system, they won't have to touch. Your iPhone 6 can charge even if
it's three (3!) feet away.

"That's right - no contact required," writes TechRadar's Clint Demeritt, who
noticed the published application and linked to it.  The awesomeness lies in
using "near field magnetic resonance (NFMR)." Demeritt doesn't spend much time
explaining what this actually is. Basically, NFMR creates a low-density magnetic
field between two coils, one a power source and the other a power capture
device. They oscillate ("resonate") at the same frequency, transferring the
energy. One example of resonance is the energy transferred by a singer's voice
to a glass: the glass picks up the energy, oscillates at the same frequency and
eventually shatters.

A key development in this area is the work by MIT's Dr. Marin Soljacic, who was
able to separate the two coils over much longer distances than anyone had
thought possible. Soljacic's breakthrough, dubbed "highly resonant magnetic
coupling," is being commercialized by Massachusetts-based WiTricity. More
details of this approach, and examples of how it can be widely applied, are in
our January 2010 interview with company CEO Eric Giler. The company is releasing
a technology demonstration kit designed for engineers.  "Being able to charge
devices from a meter away is a notable advancement and may help proliferate the
technology," Demeritt writes. "At the very least it means devices won't have to
crowd around and touch a physical object to charge."

That crowding thing. What a drag. Very notable to be able to set your iPhone 6
down three feet from the charger. Think how our Digital Life will change.

And the patent application also is a morale booster. "The patent should give
hope to those who were disappointed by the iPhone 5," Demeritt writes. "Wireless
charging was on the wish list of many Apple fans during the media hype lead-up
of the latest iPhone." The Disappointed: their name is legion.

Demeritt says "the patent is meant to tackle the 'unwieldy' configuration of the
many wired chargers and power sources needed for multiple wireless devices. If
Apple can cut through that clutter it would make charging iPhones, iPads and
iPods together a lot simpler."

Not just simpler, a lot simpler. A lot simpler than this, which is taken from
Apple's support document on charging the iPhone:  "To charge the battery, choose
one of the options below: "For the quickest charge, connect the device to a
power outlet using the USB cable that came with the device and an Apple USB
power adapter.

"Connect the device directly to a USB port on your computer (not an external
keyboard) using the USB cable that came with the device ...

"Connect the device to an externally-powered USB hub."

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.
Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnww Email: john_cox@nww.com



