                              612 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                             March 1, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor round up for the week ending March 1;

The telepathic iPhone, fan art fantasies, roaming LTE



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1434 words





The iOSphere raised the word "intuitive" to new heights for the iPhone 6,

seizing on an Apple patent that would introducemind-reading to the mobile

experience.



The iPhone will use sensor data to figure out what you want to do and then do it

for you. All that's missing now is a quad-core morality processor to ensure that

iPhone 6 does what's truly right for us.



[RELATED: 11 fun facts about Apple] [NEWS: What is so infinitely cool about

Mars?] Also this week: fan art fantasies and the prospect of a global LTE iPhone

roaming hither and yon, and free, free, free at last!



You read it here second.



__________ "It just looks weird to me, like being born with a navel under your

armpit."





~John Brownlee, Cult of Mac, commenting perhaps too vividly on iPhone 6 fan art,

the equivalent of visual rumors, that moved the home button from the front to

the side of the iPhone.



__________ iPhone 6 will read your mind A new U.S. patent application by Apple

reveals a system that gathers up sensor data on stuff like light and noise

levels, temperature, pressure, movements, location, and probably the phases of

the moon, hands it to the special "situational awareness module" for some

algorithmic magic, and makes a sophisticated guess about what you want to do

next you're your iPhone.



Then, instead of you having to press a button or an icon, swipe a setting,

select from a drop-down list, and so on, iOS will have already done all that for

you. This is what the patent and lots of bloggers and tech sites refer to as a

"heightened user experience."



The idea is that the invention could predict "a user's operational desires," and

then take action without the user having to do anything.



An IDG News Service story noted that the invention goes hand in glove with a

mobile device's "hold switch," which ensures that "no accidental input takes

place while [the device is] in a bag or pocket, for example. "Apple's invention

could include an automatic hold feature that would switch between the input and

hold modes based on the sensor output. For example, if the ambient light level

surrounding the device is low, it's likely that the user has placed it in a

pocket or bag, and therefore the auto hold feature would be activated."



At International Business Times, Kristin Dian Mariano quickly included the new

invention in a story that otherwise recycled tried and true predictions that

have been around for years in some cases. The situational awareness patent is

one of the "Top 5 iPhone 6, 5S Features Confirmed by Apple's Patents."



Not implied, hinted, suggested, intimated or insinuated. Confirmed. Her other

"top features" include no-blur photos, fingerprint sensor, laser projected

keyboard, and "non-touch" wireless charging.



The full patent application, published by the US Patent and Trademark Office

this week, is officially titled "Electronic device with automatic mode

switching."



But that sounded pretty boring to the iOSsphere.



IPhone Canada's headline proclaimed the "intuitive iPhone," which sounds much

better than the story's actual description of a "situational awareness handset."

Apple Insider described future iPhones that would "anticipate user needs." The

Android Guy blog sees it as "the patent to create thinking phones."  But

Slate.com got it exactly right, with a video titled "An iPhone That Tries To

Read Your Mind", noting that some people think our phones already know too much

about us "but Apple has even nosier plans for the future."



You've been warned.



iPhone 6 and companion phones revealed in fan art But that makes it sound

juvenile. To give it the appropriate degree of gravitas, we need to use "concept

art" or "rendering."



First up is homage by the Russian site AppleInsider.ru, which has a slick

YouTube video, complete with a hammering guitar score, on what the iPhone 6, as

well as the "iPhone mini" (or iCheapo) and apparently a third iPhone, will look

like if Apple's designers telepathically absorb the concepts in the concept art

and apply them to the Next iPhone.



You can find the video here.  Cam Bunton, at Today's Iphone, knows that this is

a "just" a mock-up but he can't seem to stop talking about it as if it were

real.



"Unlike any other iPhone to have existed, it also features stereo speakers on

the back, covered by individually machined holes in the glass panel. Although a

different shape to the 5, it does look incredibly similar with its two-tone

aluminum and glass design...Somehow, despite having a larger display, the

chassis is shorter, thinner and narrower than the iPhone 5."



He regains his sense of proportion by the end of his post. "In all seriousness,

I do hope none of the site's readers go along with their claim that this is the

iPhone 6. And instead - like us - digest it as what it really is: a concept,

mocked up quite well."



This is probably a forlorn hope.



Secondly, we have the "bizarre but beautiful" (as Cult of Mac described them)

art by Peter Zigich, whose design includes moving the home button to the side,

making models wider and longer, with a displays that look like multi-colored

cobblestoned courtyards.  Cult of Mac's John Brownlee was underwhelmed. "It just

looks weird to me, like being born with a navel under your armpit," he writes.



That's an image that will stick in your mind for the rest of your life.



iPhone 6 will be able to call on any LTE network anywhere in the world Qualcomm

this week announced a new package of chips - the RF360 Front End Solution - that

sits "in front of" its multi-mode, multi-band LTE modems to handle a variety of

tasks for any LTE, 3G/2G network. Apple uses Qualcomm's 28-nanometer MDM9615 LTE

baseband chip for the iPhone 5. So iOSphere bloggers and tech sites were quick

to conclude this means that 1) new iPhones being released in 2013 will

incorporate the RF360 and 2) the phones will be able to work on any LTE network

around the world.



This Qualcomm infographic about the RF360 shows its components and its

relationship to the Qualcomm modem (or Snapdragon processor with paired modem).



The components include the antenna matching tuner, envelope power tracker and

power amplifier and antenna switch (Qualcomm also made improvements to these,

such as reducing power demand and head, and improving signal quality). LTE

networks use different frequencies and there's no common or global band that

allows an LTE phone designed for a given band to be used in different regions.

Handset makers have to incorporate different front-end components for the same

phone to be used on different LTE bands. If you have an iPhone 5, you have one

of three models, with different RF components depending on your carrier's LTE

(and GSM and WCDMA) frequency bands.



Qualcomm is now offering a single set of front-end and customizable components

to handle most of these different frequencies.



The RF360 will start to appear in new phones in the latter half of 2013.



"Because it is a new technology and will no doubt be pricier than existing

solutions, it is probably initially going to be in high-end phones only. iPhone

5S anybody?" was the summary by Pocket-Lint's Rik Henderson. If the integrated

package reduces the bill of materials for phonemakers, and simplifies

manufacturing, the RF360 may actually be cheaper for the phone makers.



A thread at the AppleInsider forums proclaimed "New Qualcomm LTE chipset could

bring truly global iPhone with support for China Mobile."



It's a bit more complicated than that, as GigaOM's Kevin Fitchard noted in his

assessment of the Qualcomm announcement. The new Qualcomm technology brings us

"one step closer to a global 4G phone" (not just a global iPhone).



"This technology will be a key element in creating the future universal LTE

phone, but -- before you get too excited -- it's not the only necessary

element," Fitchard writes. "Other components in the RF chain such as the antenna

will need to catch up before a device could feasibly work on every LTE network

in the world. Smart antenna makers like SkyCross and Ethertronics have designed

antennas that can support a dozen bands or so, but they're not quite ready for

40."



"But Qualcomm EVP and co-president of mobile and computing technologies Murthy

Renduchintala said that the RF360 would allow device makers to make far fewer

variants of their phones," Fitchard writes. "In order to cover all of the

world's LTE networks, a vendor is faced with the prospect of designing as many

as 10 different devices. The capabilities of RF360 could cut that number down to

as few as three, he said."



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.



Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnww Email: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





