                              614 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Shares sink despite strong iPhone sales;

Doubt continues to mount about future of Apple Watch



BYLINE: Jon Swartz, @jswartz, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B



LENGTH: 379 words





iPhone sales may be up, but Apple stock is decidedly down after it reported

fiscal third-quarter results that included a tepid financial outlook.



Sales of the phone, especially the 6 and 6-Plus models, propelled another

blowout quarter for Apple, allowing it to post a 33% jump in revenue, to

$49.6billion, and profits ($1.85 per share) that surpassed analyst estimates by

4 cents.



But the quarterly forecast contained a sales view that didn't wow investors.

Shares dove more than 6% in after-hours trading, to $122.11 per share. Apple

reported after the markets closed. Apple expects revenue of $49billion to $51

billion in its current quarter, shy of the $51.1billion expected by analysts

polled by Thomson Financial.



"To a degree, there are unrealistic expectations from the outside," Gartner

analyst Van Baker says. "It is increasingly difficult for Apple to surprise,"

which could lead to similar problems for the company in coming quarters, Baker

says.



iPhone led the way, again, with shipments of 47.5 million units -- some analysts

had projected 48 million to 50million.



While there is little doubt about the strength of iPhone, the mystery remains

over Apple Watch. Again, Apple  did not disclose shipments of Apple Watch,

raising a red flag among some analysts that the device is not selling as well as

Apple hoped. Analyst Toni Sacconaghi Jr., like others, estimates Apple shipped 3

million watches.



The quarter underscored dueling narratives: The astonishing strength of iPhone 6

and 6-Plus sales and mounting doubt over the long-term sales cred of Apple

Watch. This has led some industry experts to ponder if Apple is becoming a

one-trick pony for products. iPhone has loomed large over the Cupertino,

Calif.-based company: 70% of Apple's sales last quarter came from the device,

and that is likely to continue as iPhone users upgrade to the 6 and 6-Plus

models.



There also appears to be a healthy number of "switchers" from other platforms to

iPhone, as well as vibrant sales in China and other growing markets.



The larger-screen iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus have cut into iPad sales while many

consumers have shied away from Apple Watch since it largely duplicates the

functions of the iPhone. Sales of iPads fell for a fourth consecutive quarter,

down 18% to 10.9 million.



LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo DALE DE LA REY, AFP/Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





