                              61 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                               The New York Times



                           September 26, 2014 Friday

                              Late Edition - Final



Apple Responds to Complaints of Bending in iPhone 6 Plus



BYLINE: By MIKE ISAAC



SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2



LENGTH: 497 words





Updated, 8:59 p.m. |



Social media channels have overflowed this week with commentary on whether

Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus bends under pressure, particularly in a pants pocket.



Turns out actual complaints to the company, at least so far, are much less

prevalent.



''With normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six

days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone

6 Plus,'' Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, said in a statement. ''IPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus meet or exceed all of our high quality standards to endure

everyday, real life use.''



The statement comes after some early adopters complained that the new iPhone 6

Plus, which is significantly larger than previous generations of the iPhone, was

permanently bending from simply being carried in a pocket for long periods of

time.



After one new iPhone 6 Plus owner on Tuesday complained that his phone warped

after sitting in his front pants pocket during a long drive, the story was

quickly picked up by technology blogs and news outlets.



Lewis Hilsenteger, who runs Unbox Therapy, a YouTube channel dedicated to

showcasing the latest tech hardware, filmed himself straining to bend an iPhone

6 Plus with his bare hands. The video has been viewed more than 25 million times

in less than two days.



Apple performs ''rigorous tests throughout the entire development cycle

including three-point bending, pressure-point cycling, sit, torsion and user

studies,'' according to Ms. Muller. ''IPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus meet or exceed

all of our high quality standards to endure everyday, real life use.''



As Apple has grown bigger and more successful, it has also become a bigger

target for criticism. The company says it sold more than 10 million iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus smartphones over the first three days of release, a new record for

the company.



Some of the attention is self-inflicted, however. In 2010, early buyers of the

iPhone 4 reported problems with the device's cellular antenna, which caused

dropped calls due to the design of the phone. An Apple executive responsible for

the project left the company over the incident.



And this week, Apple released a software update to the iPhone that was supposed

to fix some early bugs in an updated version of its mobile operating system, iOS

8. The update made some users' phones unable to make or receive calls, and also

rendered the touch identification technology software useless, according to

reports.



Apple quickly withdrew the software update about an hour after it was released

on Wednesday.



On Thursday evening, Apple issued another update to its operating system, along

with a mea culpa: ''We apologize for inconveniencing the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus users who were impacted by the bug,'' the company said in a statement.

Fewer than 40,000 iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus users were affected by the previous

faulty update, according to Apple.



This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in

print.



URL:

http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/09/25/apple-responds-to-complaints-of-bent-

iphones/



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company





