                              624 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                        Whittier Daily News (California)



                           September 19, 2014 Friday



Thousands line up for Apple s iPhone 6 release at Los Angeles-area stores



BYLINE: Melissa Masatani



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 1178 words





Hundreds of iPhone fans lined up at Apple stores around the Southland in hopes

of getting their hands on either an iPhone 6 or an iPhone 6 plus. Some even

camped out overnight.



By mid-day, many locations sold out of the new Apple smart phone



and some customers were turned away feeling left out of the celebration.



The lucky ones who were able to buy a phone were happily showing off their new

devices Friday morning.



I m talking to you on my new iPhone 6,  said a delighted Mark Rutta, vice

president of Reebok Swim.



He arrived at the Westfield Topanga Apple store about 7 a.m. Friday to pick up

the new iPhone 6 that he had pre-ordered.



It s a tradition. Whenever Apple introduces a new product, Rutta, an Encino

resident, joins the throng waiting to get their hands on it.



There were probably 100 people in line by the time they opened up. And the line

went past the food court and down to Nordstroms. I ve never seen anything like

it before,  he said.  It s a really nice experience. You meet a lot of wonderful

people.



The phones, which have bigger screens, longer battery life and the latest

operating system, iOS 8, were announced Sept. 9 alongside a new smartwatch and a

mobile payment offering.



Desire for the phones isn t just limited to customers in the United States.



Lavina Moran traveled to Rancho Cucamonga from New Delhi, India, and was hoping

to buy up to five iPhone 6 units on Friday. He said the phone was not slated for

release in India until October but that by selling two or three of the phones he

would recoup his airfare.



All the previous iPhones have proved that they are the best smartphones in the

market,  Moran said.  They work, they do whatever you need to do and they change

your lifestyle and change the way we used to live.



In Australia, the first country where the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus went up for sale,

more than 1,400 people lined up outside Apple s flagship store in Sydney on

Friday morning, according to technology news site ZDNET.



Consumers in Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore

and the United Kingdom can also buy the devices on Friday, before Apple opens up

sales in more than 20 additional countries on Sept. 26. But it is unclear when

the new iPhones will be released in China as Apple is still waiting for the

approval it needs from government regulators there. It s an issue Apple must

resolve quickly as 15 to 20 percent of its iPhone shipments are sent to China,

said IDC analyst Ramon Llamas.



If we go through the start of Chinese New Year and there still aren t any iPhone

6 or 6 Pluses to be found, we ve got a problem,  he said.



The iPhone 6, which measures 4.7 inches diagonally, costs $199 with a two-year

contract, while the 5.5 inch 6 Plus starts at $299.



Customers in and around Los Angeles sought ways to capitalize on their new

possession by selling.



Among those looking to score was Apple iPhone 5s owner Julie Yarnell of Rancho

Cucamonga, who was convinced by friends to make a profit off of selling the

iPhone 6 plus, which was going for around $1,500 to $2,000 on eBay and

Amazon.com. Yarnell had spent about $808 on a phone without a provider contract.



My friends talked me into it,  Yarnell said.  They said,  Julie, use your credit

card, you re going to make money.  I m hoping it goes well. I ve never done

anything like this. People buy cars and houses and flip them. It s essentially

what people do with iPhones. I figure it s worth a shot.



There may be customers closer to home.



In Pasadena, Rancho Cucamonga and Manhattan Beach, frustrated buyers were turned

away after 10 a.m. as the supply of phones dried up.



About 600 people were estimated to be in line at 10:45 a.m. at the Manhattan

Beach Apple Store, police said, with an approximate wait of six to eight hours.

However, dozens of angry customers left the line as the store ran out of the 6

Plus less than an hour later.



Lamar Taylor, who paid a friend $200 to spend the night on the sidewalk for him,

arrived about 7:30 a.m. to take over.



If you don t get it today, there s a good chance you won t get it for a month.

Plus, I like new tech,  the Hawthorne resident said.



The line, however, wasn t moving. A veteran of standing in line on the first day

of new Apple products, Taylor said the process at Manhattan Village was slower

than normal.



It s worth it,  he said.  Anybody else who is going to be watching this, teasing

us, making fun of us, they won t have the phone or another month, we ll have

ours today.



Theodore Woodard of Carson said about 100 people were in line when he arrived at

the Manhattan Beach store Thursday night. After a night without sleep, he was

not happy. He said  it seemed like 1,000 people  cut in line in front of him,

Making it bad for everyone else.



It s not fair and I don t like it,  Woodard said.  This is the first time I ve

ever done something like this, but it will be the last as well.



Earlier, the atmosphere was lively at most stores, with customers bringing

folding chairs, snacks and entertainment to pass the time. At the Victoria

Gardens store, a group of friends were inching toward the front of the line with

an E-Z Up tent, while one customer had a beanbag chair in line at the Cerritos

Center Apple Store.



Duarte resident Christine Gosdanian joined the Pasadena line around 9:20 a.m. as

she tried to trade in her daughter s iPhone 4s for an iPhone 6. She said it was

her first time waiting in line and that she had to leave by 1:30 p.m. to pick up

her children from school.



It seems kind of ridiculous to be honest,  Gosdanian said.  It s just a phone.

Her lock screen isn t even working. It s been a hassle for her. She s been

living with it for the last month.



Union protesters were chanting outside the Pasadena store, though that did not

deter the customers who joined the line, which stretched across three block

lengths at one point.



I ve never done it before, I wanted to see what it was all about,  said Rene

Villa of Covina.  When you re in line with other people, everyone is as excited

as you are. You have a lot to talk about.



The 24-year-old had been waiting in line since 3:30 a.m. and said the process

went quickly and smoothly. However, 29-year-old Ryan Brown of Pasadena had been

waiting in line since noon Wednesday to buy the 6 Plus in gold and said the

atmosphere was different from previous iPhone releases.



It was very unorganized (this year),  Brown said.  I ve been out here three

years straight. It used to be very good   the camaraderie, your interactions,

lots of nice meetings. You share stories, food. This year, there was a lot of

malaise.



More than 4 million pre-orders for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were placed the day

they became available online last week, twice the volume Apple saw for the

iPhone 5. If supplies don t run out, analysts predict that Apple will sell more

than 10 million iPhones this weekend, up from 9 million during the opening

weekend for the iPhone 5s and 5c last year.



Staff writers Zen Vuong, Neil Nisperos, Beatriz Valenzuela, Larry Altman,

Gregory J. Wilcox and the San Jose Mercury News contributed to this report.



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





