                              629 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                      January 16, 2015 Friday 6:30 AM EST



Next-Generation iPhone Features Start Pouring In!



BYLINE: Sanchari Banerjee, EFY News Network



LENGTH: 328  words





In the forthcoming iPhones, Apple will use Force Touch technology, which is

already used in the Apple Watch.



Friday, January 16, 2015: It has not been a long time when the world was abuzz

with excitements surrounding the new Apple iPhones, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.

Apple smartphones are always overwhelmed by rumours and leaks ahead of their

final launch. Now it's time to begin speculations about the successors to iPhone

6 and 6 Plus, as rumours about the same have already started pouring in.



A Taiwanese website UDN have cited some supply chain sources in a report that in

their next-generation iPhone, the Silicon Valley-based company will use a

two-lens system in the camera. With the dual lens set-up, the next-generation

iPhone will be able to capture more light which means better photos can be

produced. The camera in the iPhone will be equipped with optical zoom features,

which means photos clicked by digital zoom-powered cameras will lag behind the

snaps, clicked by the new iPhone, as per quality-level.



In the forthcoming iPhones, Apple will also use Force Touch technology, which is

already used in the Apple Watch. This technology enables the touchscreen

differentiate between light taps and long ones. So users will be able to

interact with their iPhones in several ways. The touch sensors in the new

iPhones will also determine health factors of the users, like blood pressure

level and pulse rate. The supply chain sources, who have not been named, have

also revealed that the current screen sizes will be maintained in the new

iPhones - ranging between 11.94-cm (4.7-inch) to 13.97-cm (5.5-inch). The report

has not mentioned anything specifically about the rumoured 10.16-cm (4-inch)

iPhone 6S model. The next-generation iPhone is also said to be having an

upgraded storage option to 32GB, from the current 16GB. The 32GB variant was

removed this year from the company line-up, and 16, 64 and 128 GB versions were

made available for the customers.



LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





