                              62 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                           September 28, 2015 Monday

                                  EAST EDITION



Retail Lines Light For Apple's iPhone 6S Better Camera Biggest Draw Analysts

still expect sales over the weekend to top iPhone 6's record last year



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ



SECTION: A; Pg. A05



LENGTH: 716 words





Lines outside Apple stores were considerably shorter for this year's iPhone

launch compared with those from the last few years.



The line at the Apple store in Reston, Va., had about 75 people less than 30

minutes before opening Friday. That's about a quarter of the size of the line a

year ago for the iPhone 6 launch.



Dakota Wolf, visiting from Phoenix, was near the front of the line for the

iPhone 6 S retail launch Friday. He summed up the lack of enthusiasm among

customers.



"It's not that big of a change," he said of the iPhone 6 S. "I don't know why

I'm here frankly."



The iPhone 6 S series phones feature a pressure-sensitive display, a faster

processor, improved cameras and the Live Photos feature that adds motion to

still pictures. The phones come in four colors (silver, gold, space gray and

rose gold) and three data-storage configurations (16 gigabytes, 64 GB and 128

GB).



The improved cameras and 3 D Touch display are the biggest selling points of the

iPhone 6 S and iPhone 6 S Plus, according to a survey of 38 buyers in the Reston

line.



Of those polled, 37% said the better cameras were the most-desired feature of

the iPhone 6 S series.



The iPhone 6 S has a 12-megapixel rear camera, vs. 8 megapixels on last year's

model. It shoots 4 K ultra-high-definition video for the first time. The phone

has a 5-megapixel FaceTime camera that uses the Retina Display as a flash for

taking better selfies. Last year's iPhones had a 1.2 megapixel FaceTime camera.



The 3 D Touch display ranked No. 2, with 29% saying it was their top reason for

buying the iPhone 6 S.



"It will bring a whole new level to how you interact with the phone," Henrique

Cunha of Campinas, Brazil, told IBD. "I think that will be better explored with

new apps."



The No. 3 feature is the new rose gold finish, with 21% saying it was their main

reason for buying the new handset.



Other selling points cited included the speedier A9 processor and greater

durability with the 7000 series aluminum case.



Of those polled at the Reston store, most (87%) planned to buy the 5.5-inch

iPhone 6 S Plus, and the minority planned to get the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 S.



Customers grumbled about the lack of choices in flash memory data storage. Most

(71%) planned to get a midrange phone with 64 gigabytes of storage. Some 26%

planned to get top-of-the-line models with 128 GB of storage. Just 3% were

interested in the low-end model with 16 GB of memory.



Many iPhone buyers interviewed wondered why Apple didn't bump the low-end model

to 32 GB.



S&P Capital IQ analyst Angelo Zino said he expects Apple to sell 12 million

iPhones during the first weekend of retail availability. That's up from last

year's record first-weekend sales of 10 million.



Zino rates Apple stock a strong buy.



The iPhone 6 S series phones launched in 12 countries vs. 10 for the iPhone 6.

The additional two countries are China and New Zealand. Apple and its partners

started taking pre-orders for the new handsets on Sept. 12.



The iPhone 6 S launch at Apple's flagship New York City store on 5 th Avenue

drew about 650 people in line at 8 a.m., compared with last year's record 1,880

for the iPhone 6 launch, Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said in a research

report Friday. Two years ago, the iPhone 5 S launch drew 1,417 to the New York

City store at open.



"We view the shorter line as generally in line with our expectations, for three

reasons," Munster said. "First, China was added as a launch country for the

first time, reducing iPhone resellers in line. Second, "S' cycles have

historically had shorter lines than their respective number-change cycles.

Third, Apple continues to promote pre-orders/online sales."



Munster is forecasting opening weekend iPhone sales of 12 million to 13 million

units this year.



He rates Apple stock as overweight, with a price target of 172. Apple closed

Friday at 114.71, down a fraction.



The new 6 S handsets face difficult sales comparisons to the iPhone 6 launch,

which unleashed a pent-up demand for larger-screen iPhones.



"It is understandable why investors are concerned about growth into the tough

comps, but we continue to believe that 3% growth during the iPhone 6 S cycle is

achievable compared to the Street's flat projection," Munster said.



FBR analyst Daniel Ives said initial demand for the iPhone 6 S appears "very

strong."



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





