                              632 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                            March 11, 2014, Tuesday



iPhone Air: Latest iPhone 6 concept video has fanboys fired up;

Slick video conjures up thinner, lighter Apple iPhone with bigger screen



BYLINE: Bob Brown



LENGTH: 305 words





With rumors heating up that Apple will announce an iPhone 6 by year-end, concept

designers are working their fingersto the bone and YouTube is lighting up with

their videos.  The latest attention-getting concept design video comes from Sam

Beckett, a British graphic designer who The Huffington Post says has a strong

track record when it comes to predicting features in new iPhones, as he did with

the iPhone 5 and iOS7.



+ Also on NetworkWorld: Hottest iPhone 6 "iPhoney" concepts + In his video,

Beckett portrays a smartphone that is 8% larger than the current high-end iPhone

5S and boasts a 4.7-inch screen with 1920x1080 pixel resolution. At 7mm thin,

the concept phone is 0.6mm slimmer than the 5S. The phone's exterior shimmers

with a sapphire crystal display, replacing the old Gorilla Glass, and ups the

camera from 8mp to 10mp. One other nice detail: Beckett includes on the screen

the Healthbook app Apple is said to be working on.



Beckett suggests Apple will stop naming its iPhones by number and shift to the

iPhone Air moniker, along the lines of what it's done for its Macs and iPad

tablets.



One reason Apple watchers like this concept design (it's "amazing," exclaims

one) is that it isn't too out there. 9-to-5 Mac, for example, says: "There are a

lot of very silly iPhone 6 concept images and videos around, from convext curves

that maximize reflections and vulnerability to damage, to completely transparent

phones (invisible batteries and circuit boards are the new black, apparently).

This concept by Sam Beckett isn't terribly exciting, but it is likely reasonably

close to what we might expect Apple to do ..."



Hopes are high for the next iPhone: Crazy big numbers are being bandied about in

the rumor mill, with some even suggesting 90 million iPhone 6 (er, iPhone Air)

smartphones could be ordered this year.







LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2014 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





