                              633 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                    September 17, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Apple iPhone 6 Plus Vs Samsung Galaxy Note 4



BYLINE: Kamya Kandhari, EFY News Network



LENGTH: 423  words





Confused about which one to go for? Here we have a brief comparison between the

two to help you out.



Wednesday, September 17, 2014: The most awaited iPhone 6 Plus is a large display

phone as against any of the older Apple phones. It boasts of a 13.97-cm

(5.5-inch) screen and is expected to give a tough competition to Samsung, Sony

and HTC.



As always Apple and Samsung had gone neck to neck to cater their customer needs.

If we go further with the detailed comparison of two smartphone giant's latest

editions, we will have lot to discuss about.



Here's the list of few odd features:



Display



Samsung Galaxy Note 4 has 14.48-cm (5.7-inch) display, which at times gets tough

to be used by one hand. Whereas, iPhone 6 Plus offers a sleek and compact look

and the large display certainly add on to its attractive looks.



Resolution



The Galaxy Note 4 is with a QHD display, which makes the display produce more

than 500 pixels per inch. On the other hand, Apple is yet to deliver the best

pixel rating. iPhone 6 Plus as it is comes with only a 720p full HD display.



One-Handed Usage



iPhone 6 Plus is although not easy to use with one hand but knowing that Apple

has evolved its own unique way to overcome the flaw. By simple double tapping on

the home button would allow the top end of the screen to pop up.



Going on the same line, Galaxy Note 4 with 14.48-cm (5.7-inch)is almost

impossible to be operated by one-hand.



Battery life



The new iOS is used in iPhone 6, which is more powerful and efficient processor.

It will allow the phone to last more than a day. However, the company says that

the battery life of the iPhone 6 Plus is in a speculative phase. On the other

hand, Samsung Galaxy Note 4 is taking a lead with its 3,220mAh battery and Ultra

Power Saving Mode that is reportedly stretching 10 per cent more energy to the

device's promised 24-hour battery life.



Outer Display



In terms of build, Samsung is sticking to its faux leather plastic material

while Apple is keeping its premium build quality by covering its iPhone 6 Plus

with solid aluminium.



Technology



If we talk about the camera-technology, Samsung Galaxy Note 4 has set off iPhone

6 Plus with its 16MP rear facing camera and 3.7MP front shooter. On contrary,

Apple iPhone 6 Plus comes with 8MP shooter with Dual LED flash and 1.2-megapixel

front camera.



Operating Systems



Apple iPhone 6 Plus will run on iOS 8, which is the latest software update for

Apple's stellar software. Meanwhile Note 4 will run on 4.4 KitKat out of the box

since it will be out in the market ahead of Android L launch.



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





