                              636 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                             July 26, 2013, Friday



Newest iPhone 6 concept: 3-in-1 device morphs from smartphone to phablet, to

iPad;

Foldable iPhone 6 design would blur lines of smartphone, tablet



BYLINE: Bob Brown



LENGTH: 226 words





The latest iPhone 6 design concept making the rounds envisions the next Apple

smartphone being capable of morphing intoa phablet, then into a mini iPad

tablet.



The concept, from Pritesh Chavan of Yanko Design, is aimed at putting the focus

back on the user, not the device. According to Yanko Design: "For a twisted

moment, the focus has shifted from the human experience to the gadget

experience. The disconnect of emotions is creepy and alarming!"



[IPHONEYS: The iPhone 6 & iPhone 5S edition] [iPhone 6 rumor rollup for week

ending July 19] The latest scuttlebutt has Apple delivering an iPhone 5S later

this year, with the blockbuster iPhone 6 coming next year.



But who really knows, aside from Apple.



Most likely it won't look like Yanko's latest vision, but it's fun to look at

anyway.



Yanko's concept shows the devices shifting from a 4.2-inch smartphone screen to

a 5.8-inch phablet-like screen for chatting/making presentations, and then to a

7.5-inch iPad tablet form. All have 16:9 aspect rations.



The device's exterior would be made largely of one-atom thick graphene that's

"100 times stronger than steel." Surround sound edge speakers would really let

you blast the volume on the device. The 3-in-1 offering would have one dedicated

camera.



Bob Brown tracks network research in his Alpha Doggs blog and Facebook page, as

well on Twitter and Google +.







LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





