                              639 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                        Contra Costa Times (California)



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



Apple grapples with gaffes after iPhone launch



BYLINE: By Julia Love jmlove@mercurynews.com



SECTION: NEWS; Business



LENGTH: 761 words





CUPERTINO -- Just a week after its new iPhones were greeted with rave reviews

and record sales, Apple has been beset by a rare bout of bad publicity.



First, reports surfaced that its new iPhones were at risk of bending. Then the

company was forced to yank a bug-riddled update for iOS, its operating system

for phones and tablets. That left the valley's consummate perfectionist doing

damage control at an inopportune time, with customers flooding into stores to

check out the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The missteps helped send its stock

lower by nearly 4 percent Thursday and may nick Apple's reputation for polished

devices that work right out of the box, analysts say.



"They seem to be scrambling over at Apple to try to get things right," said

analyst Matt Margolis of PTT Research.



Apple's public relations arm sprang into action after the gaffes. The company

apologized for glitches in the iOS update, which was shelved a little more than

an hour after its release Wednesday after users complained they were unable to

make calls or use the fingerprint sensor. Apple said fewer than 40,000 users

downloaded the software, and late Thursday the company released a new update.



Meanwhile, the company is standing by its hardware, downplaying reports that its

new phones can become bent if people sit with them in their pockets. Social

media sites were teeming with photos of warped phones -- particularly the iPhone

6 Plus -- branded with the hashtag "bendgate." But despite the flurry of posts,

Apple said it had heard from just nine people complaining of a bent iPhone 6

Plus.



"With normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare," an Apple spokeswoman said

in a statement.



Finding flaws in new Apple products is a popular parlor game in Silicon Valley,

and several analysts said they suspected complaints about bent phones were

overblown. Though Apple enjoys a sterling reputation, its past is not without

trouble. Users complained of dropped calls and poor reception with the iPhone 4

because of the design of its antenna, and Apple led some drivers astray when it

swapped out Google Maps with its own mapping software in 2012.



"Neither of those tainted Apple's reputation, and I do not think this will,

either," Carolina Milanesi, chief of research and head of U.S. business at

Kantar Worldpanel ComTech, wrote in an email.



But the botched software update may be more troubling. Apple released iOS 8.0.1

to address several bugs in iOS 8, but the fix had far more serious problems.



"The quality control is not where it should be," said analyst Bob O'Donnell of

TECHnalysis Research.



And users may be sensitive to any imperfections in the 6 Plus, which costs $750

without a contract. Like last year's iPhone 5S, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are made

with an aluminum shell, most likely chosen because it is lightweight and

inexpensive, said Robert Ritchie, a materials science and engineering professor

at UC Berkeley. Although aluminum is very malleable, it can be strengthened

considerably when it is alloyed, said Ritchie, noting that most commercial

airplanes have aluminum shells.



"It certainly works for aircraft," Ritchie said. "It should work for an iPhone."



But users can exert more force with a bigger device, upping the odds of a bend,

Ritchie said. The screen on the iPhone 6 Plus measures 5.5 inches diagonally, up

from 4 inches for the iPhone 5S.



"It's not surprising that this could happen if it wasn't designed properly,"

Ritchie.



Ritchie added that aluminum alloys are typically treated with heat during

manufacturing to boost their strength. A glitch in that process might be a more

likely explanation for the reports of bending, given Apple's sophisticated

design, he said, meaning manufacturing can be tweaked to resolve the problem.



Users who accidentally bend their iPhones will be covered by SquareTrade, a

company that sells device warranties, spokeswoman Jessica Hoffman said. But so

far, the company has not heard any complaints of bent iPhones, though it has

received dozens of claims stemming from drops and spills, Hoffman said. In an

informal office test of the 6 Plus, a body builder on SquareTrade's staff easily

bent the 6 Plus, but Hoffman said she couldn't dent the device.



As phones become thinner and lighter, bendability is likely to be a new test for

devices, said John Jackson, an analyst at IDC. But he expects Apple to weather

it.



"In past instances we've seen consumers vote with their wallets, and Apple

appears to have enough good will to withstand this," he said.



Contact Julia Love at 408-920-5536; follow her at Twitter.com/byJuliaLove .



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2014 Contra Costa Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





