                              643 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday



Apple faithful await the next big thing;

may unveiled not be Wednesday big enough



BYLINE: Jon Swartz



SECTION: ; Pg. Z5



LENGTH: 551 words





The set-top current box. Apple TV



SAN FRANCISCO Apple's gleaming new iPhones, a rumored iPad and a refreshed Apple

TV set-top device are sure to give the company a jolt of momentum as it steams

into the holiday shopping season.



Sales for the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus alone are expected to pack a

financial wallop after they are formally announced at a gala press conference

here Wednesday - though nowhere on the scale of the massively popular iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus, say analysts such as John Butler of Bloomberg Intelligence.



Slam-dunk growth rates of 30% for the iPhone 6 family are "mathematically

unsustainable," says Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Bernstein Research. He

forecasts iPhone sales will rise 3%, to 237.6 million units, in the fiscal year

starting in October.



The iPhone phenomenon underscores the impact breakthrough technology has on the

fortunes and historical course of Apple, a company built on powerhouse products

such as Macintosh, iPod, iPhone and iTunes. It's an essential piece of the

corporate narrative and culture.



Once the dust and hype from Wednesday settle, the proverbial questions will be

uttered: Where is Apple's next big thing, and when can we expect it?



In the eight years since Steve Jobs introduced the world to iPhone, the company

has had a successful run that few - if any - can match. During that magical

financial run, Apple racked up record profits, its stock soared and the

company's market value topped $700 billion at one point, making it the most

valuable company ever. Apple is sitting on more than $200 billion in cash and

investments.



IPhone led the way: Unit sales grew more than 30% in each of the past three

quarters, compared with the year-ago period. Fiscal third-quarter iPhone sales

soared 35% from the prior year, yet were short of out-sized expectations.



Indeed, analyst Gene Munster expects will eventually sell 180 million iPhone 6S

models, eclipsing iPhone 6.



But Apple is still awaiting a market-shifting product that redefines a category.

The jury is out on Apple Watch,which has been met with mixed reviews. A onetime

shooting star, iPad, is slowly fading away. Rumors of car-related technology

could electrify interest and sales, though it might be more than a year away.



"What is the next home run?" says Jerry Kim, an assistant professor of

management at Columbia Business School. "The longer that takes, the more worried

people get."



The success of iPhone has "made Apple a one-product company," he says.



Apple derives nearly two-thirds of its revenue from iPhone sales, and newly

released research from Localytics shows iPhone 6 makes up 30% of iPhone's

installed base.



It's a dilemma most companies would love to have. Apple is clearly in an

enviable position, with the runaway success of iPhone, Kim and others point.

But, he adds, "It's hard to see how (Apple) can maintain growth momentum.

Android will have 80% of global market share in five years, and should do well

in India, Africa and other areas where most of that growth will take place."



When Apple introduced iPhone 5S, another interim model with modest improvements,

in September 2013, unit sales improved 7%.



Still, Apple's latest iPhones are sure to sell well - especially in the U.S.-

and get some assistance from the other products expected to be introduced on

Wednesday.



LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





