                              645 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                     September 22, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST



With iPhone 6 Debut, iPhone Unlockers Rake In Big Business



LENGTH: 427  words





Monday, September 22, 2014: Demand is sky high for Apple's (NASDAQ: AAPL) iPhone

6 released today, considered the most substantial upgrade and redesign of

Apple's flagship phone for several years- and third party unlockers are

reveling.



Third party unlockers are amassing record profits in a lucrative industry that

is shrouded in mystery and conducted in an underground virtual bazaar and hidden

underworld.



"We are unlocking on average 2,000 iPhones a day this month- a 2,000% increase

from a typical average of 100 a day- with a record 3,700 iPhone unlocks

performed just the day before the launch of the iPhone 6," says Troy Alvarez,

Co-Founder of iPhone Unlock Guys, a Los Angeles-based iPhone and mobile phone

unlock and jailbreak company.



"The level of interest in the iPhone 6 is massive. We haven't seen anything

quite like this since the original iPhone came out back in 2007."



While the size of the mobile phone unlock industry is hard to gauge due to its

long time secrecy and grey market status, especially in the U.S., Troy estimates

it to be upwards of 2 Billion annually.



Customers need to unlock their phones with third party unlockers for a variety

of reasons- travel overseas and use of local carrier SIM cards, cutting out

exorbitant carrier roaming fees; or switching to another carrier or pay as you

go plan.



Unlocked phones can be used internationally by inserting any compatible SIM

card, and command greater resale value.



Many consumers are taking advantage of trade-in deals with carriers, Apple, and

large electronics trade-in dealers like Gazelle, uSell, and iCracked.Others

looking to get the most cash for their old devices are selling them on

Craigslist and eBay.



Gazelle for example, is offering up to $325 for an unlocked 64 GB iPhone 5S in

mint condition.



The most popular unlocks are AT&T iPhone unlocks and the newly introduced iCloud

bypass unlocks, which remove iCloud locks on iOS 7 devices including iPhones,

iPads, and iPod Touch models.



Mobile phone unlocking has long been a grey area legally in the U.S., with the

Library of Congress banning unlocks after Jan.26, 2013 after refusing to grant a

DMCA exemption.



Mobile phone unlocking is now completely legal, after President Obama signed

into law the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act in July,

allowing consumers to unlock their devices and allowing bulk unlocks of devices.



With today's release of the iPhone 6, the excitement in the unlock community is

palpable, and Troy expects even more business in the months ahead as consumers

unlock their new iPhone 6.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





