                              656 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          Pretoria News (South Africa)



                           September 26, 2014 Friday

                                   E1 Edition



iPhone 6 glitches leave Apple's chief red faced;

Software update iOS 8.0.1 causes problems



BYLINE:  Tim Higgins |and Adam Satariano|San Francisco



SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 19



LENGTH: 895 words





APPLE chief executive Tim Cook called the introduction of the iPhone 6 and 6

Plus over the weekend the "best launch ever". But he may have spoken too soon.



Just three days after announcing that Apple had sold a record 10 million new

iPhones over the opening weekend, Cook was faced with multiple snafus related to

the bigger-screen handsets. The company pulled a new mobile-software update,

dubbed iOS 8.0.1, after the program caused some people to lose cellular service

on Wednesday, and promised a fix soon. Scores of consumers also took to social

media to criticise the 6 Plus and how it could bend if sat on or if enough

pressure was placed upon it.



The stumbles blemished what had been a carefully choreographed product unveiling

that was meant to put Cook's stamp on Apple.



Executives at the company had for months teased the introduction of the new

iPhones before debuting them on September 9. The devices had spurred a frenzy of

demand, with pre-orders topping 4 million, the record weekend sales and a

thriving gray market in China and elsewhere.



Now Cook's roll-out of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus is marred, recalling incidents

that the chief executive has faced with other product debuts. Last year, Cook

apologised for the iPhone's warranty and repair policies in China after

receiving criticism from state-run media over customer service in the market. In

2012, Cook also said he was sorry for Apple's malfunctioning mapping software,

which was faulted for misguided directions and inaccurate landmark locations.



"I just wish that Tim Cook had a better handle on things," said Jason Nochimson,

34, an iPhone 6 owner who spent two-and-a-half hours on Apple's customer support

line after downloading the software upgrade on Wednesday and finding it stopped

his cellular service. "I was worried that my daughter's school was going to call

me... and I wasn't going to be able to get them."



Apple said in a statement that it had devised a workaround for iPhone 6 users

who lost voice service or other features. Users can reinstall the previous

version of iOS to restore past functionality and Apple plans to release a new

version of the operating system, iOS 8.0.2, in the next few days.



"We apologise for the great inconvenience experienced by users," Apple said.



The new iPhones are crucial to Apple. The devices generate more than half of the

company's annual $171 billion (R1.9 trillion) in revenue and precede a swath of

other products, including new iPads, an Apple Watch and a mobile-payments system

called Apple Pay.



Yet while Cook deals with consumer criticism over his handling of the iPhone

roll-out, the issues may have little impact on Apple's sales. Demand for the new

handsets has the company poised to sell more than 61 million iPhones in the

December quarter, surpassing last year's record 51 million sold, according to

Barclays.



Sales are also set to pick up - not decelerate - as the new iPhones become

available in more countries. On September 19, the first day the handsets went on

sale in stores, Apple rolled them out in 10 countries. The company is set to

introduce the gadgets in another 22 countries today. In total, the iPhones will

be in 115 countries by the end of the year, Apple has said.



"It will do nothing; I don't suspect it will dampen any demand," Tim Bajarin at

Creative Strategies, said about concerns over bending phones and iOS problems.



Apple shares are up 27 percent this year.



Still, some consumers are thinking twice about buying the devices in the wake of

Wednesday's snafus. After having problems with Apple's software upgrade to his

old iPhone, James Zahrt, a customer since 1989, decided to put off a new

smartphone purchase.



"I was going to order one immediately", but now "I'm going to wait", said Zahrt,

58, who'd had troubles with his iPhone 4s's alarm clock working properly since

downloading Apple's iOS 8 software last week. "I think the bugs need to be

worked out on this thing."



The popular tide turned against the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus earlier this week

when reports began emerging that the 5.5-inch screen larger model was bending

when people sat on it. Rivals including BlackBerry chief executive John Chen

took a jab at the iPhone on Wednesday, saying he "would challenge you guys to

bend our Passport" device.



That was followed by reports from users that the iOS 8 software upgrade, which

had been issued to address previous software bugs and add the health and

fitness-monitoring application HealthKit, was causing some customers to

experience dropped cell service.



Nochimson, the customer who spent two-and-a-half hours on the phone with Apple

customer service, said his representative was unaware there would be a software

update.



"He told me that he was not made aware that Apple was releasing 8.0.1 today

[Wednesday]," Nochimson said. "It was a shock to him... He said typically when

they do software updates they know about it days in advance so they're ready for

it."



Frustrations about iOS 8 had been mounting before Wednesday, with user

complaints that their devices' battery life seemed to dwindle after downloading

the software, along with data showing applications were more likely to crash

with the operating system.



While glitches weren't unusual for software updates, Apple attracted more

attention, Frank Gillett at Forrester Research said. "They inspire a lot of

positive and negative passion." - Bloomberg



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: PN





                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





