

In a big leak this week, a video of Sapphire crystal display screen of 4.7 inch
has been posted by Marques Brownlee on YouTube. The short 5 minute video shows
the display screen that is rumoured to be used in the upcoming iPhone 6.

The video has appeared just after Sonny Dickson posted pictures of display glass
covers in both black and white of the upcoming iPhone with a display size of 4.7
inch, via 9to5 Mac.

The iPhone 6 display grabbed by Brownlee appears same as that leaked by Dickson.
Sonny Dickson also posted a short video today showing the display panel and its
strength when bended. Watch the video '(Sapphire) iPhone 6 Glass Bending'

The display screen is a sapphire crystal display that is almost paper thin, and
transparent.

If we look at the leak from May, when picture of a dummy of the iPhone 6 was
posted by the French site Nowhereelse, claiming it will be 6mm in thickness,
packed with a thinner and lighter 2mm battery inside.

The display panel makes us believe that Apple is actually going for a thinner
iPhone this year. The iPhone 5S launched in 2013 was 7.6mm thin. It is however,
not confirm if the new iPhone will be 6 mm in thickness or even thinner.

Durability

Talking about 'Durability', Brownlee plays with the display and tests it against
knife, keys. The sapphire crystal display successfully resists all scratching
and stabbing. The display also perfectly bends, without a scratch or blemish.
But whether Apple has been able to develop curved batteries and other parts for
a curved iPhone, is yet to be known.

"It's almost impossible to scratch the screen with any regular use" says
Brownlee.

iPhone 5 and 5S already uses Sapphire

As of now iPhone uses a sapphire lens in its camera. Remember the purple haze
shade in images in different lighting conditions.

In September end 2012, Techcrunch found that in cases where the bright light
source is outside the frame, a purple tint is showing across the image. READ -
Apple explains iPhone 5 camera fault

What are Sapphire Crystal display screens?

This display screen uses a material called Aluminium oxide compound (AL2 O3)
that makes the beautiful gemstones used in jewelry.

The Sapphire display screens "provide a new level of performance in terms of
durability and improve the user experience by delivering a crystal clear viewing
surface free of scratches throughout  the useful lifetime of the device," says
GT Advanced Technologies. This company showcased these strong display glasses
for phones at the Mobile World Congress in 2013.

In 2013 Pocketnow posted a video about how string the sapphire crystal display
are and how they can be used in phone displays making them resist scratches.
Watch the video 'Sapphire Screen: The Making of A Scratch-Proof Smartphone
Display'

Apple and its Sapphire Crystal display screens?

This companywent into partnership with Apple  in 2014, to open a sapphire plant
in Mesa, Arizona, a MacRumours news report said. This joint effort will "be able
to produce anywhere from 9% to 16% of sapphire displays for Apple's next
generation iPhone", the report claimed.

An analyst Matt Margoils, however looked at the sapphire furnace and chamber
systems ordered by the company and estimated that the company will be able to
produce enough number of display panels for the new iPhone.

If the leaks come out to be true, we are getting an truly indestructible iPhone
6 this year.

