                              678 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                        St. Joseph News-Press (Missouri)



                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Dozens line up for iPhone 6



BYLINE: Jennifer Hall, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.



SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS



LENGTH: 263 words





Sept. 20--Dozens of people lined up for the new iPhone 6 Friday.



AT&T unveiled what some consider the biggest advancement in iPhone history.

Customers started camping out at the store in The Shoppes at North Village

shortly after 10 p.m. Thursday. The store opened at 8 a.m. Friday.



"We knew we were in for a big day when, last Friday, that was the first day for

presale orders, and we set a record for iPhones on any single day," said Michael

Chambers, regional director of external affairs for AT&T. "And that was the

first day it was available."



The company released two models of the newest phone. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus, which includes iOS 8, feature 4.7- and 5.5-inch displays with innovative

technology. Apple designed the new phones with advanced iSight and FaceTime HD

cameras, advanced speed and efficient wireless technologies and Apple pay.



It was all too tempting for Emily Hendricks. She and her mother got in line

outside the store at The Shoppes at around 5 a.m.



"She's a die-hard Apple fanatic," Ms. Hendricks said of her mother. "I have to

admit, I love the phones, too. I just like the simplicity of them and

everything."



AT&T would not disclose how much inventory their stores will have, but Mr.

Chambers said he anticipated the North Shoppes location would sell out by noon

on Friday.



Jennifer Hall can be reached at jenn.hall@newspressnow.com Follow her on

Twitter: @SJNPHall.



___ (c)2014 the St. Joseph News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) Visit the St. Joseph

News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) at www.newspressnow.com/index.html Distributed by

MCT Information Services



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



ACC-NO: 20140920-JM-Dozens-line-up-for-iPhone-6-0920-20140920



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: JM





                      Copyright 2014 St. Joseph News-Press





