                              692 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

                               Australian Edition



New Apple models have time on their side



BYLINE: Chris Griffith



SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 458  words





TRUST in Apple's brand and its innovative skills should see the new Apple Watch

become a major success, analysts say.



Apple yesterday announced two larger iPhone models, the iPhone 6 with a 4.7-inch

screen, and the iPhone 6 Plus with an even larger 5.5-inch display. It also

launched an Apple Watch that monitors activity and health and relays

notification information from a connected iPhone, among a swag of applications.



Both iPhone 6 models have fine screen resolutions, Apple's new faster A8

processor, and near field communication chips that let the phones be used for

mobile payments.



An M8 co-processor that remains on even when the phone is asleep manages

activity monitoring sensors. The sensors include a barometer that measures

activity-related altitude changes such as when climbing steps.



The release of both iPhone models a year after the iPhone 5S launch could not

have come quickly enough for Apple, which has risked losing market share to

updated models by rival Android competitors such as Samsung, LG and Sony.



The two iPhones will sell from next Wednesday and pre-orders begin tomorrow.

Figures by Australian market research firm Telsyte published in June found that

Apple risked losing almost half its potential iPhone 6 customer base if it

pumped out another iPhone with roughly the same screen size as the iPhone 5 or

5S with a 4.0-inch display.



With larger iPhone models now announced, Telsyte managing director Mr Fadaghi

yesterday predicted Apple would sell about 1.5 million iPhone 6 units by year's

end - about 100,000 a week for the rest of the year.



But he said Apple's Australian pricing, where only the iPhone 6 16GB model comes

in below $999, might be a problem.



Apple Watch features a rectangular display with curved edges, a choice of

leather, rubber and metallic bands, and there are three variants: a standard

Apple Watch, a sports version and a premium Apple Watch Edition with 18 carat

gold. The watch comes in two sizes.



Its most ingenious feature is a "digital crown", which looks like an old

fashioned circular watch winder. It works differently with different apps.



For example, it zooms the screen in and out when a user views a map. It also

lets a user select their choice in a drop-down menu, or select the home screen

of apps. A wearer also can interact with the watch by tapping or pressing the

screen, or by using Apple personal assistant Siri's voice recognition

capability.



Mr Fadaghi said Telsyte believed Apple Watch would help the company attract and

retain new iPhone customers.



Another research firm, Forrester, said that once fully launched, Apple Watch

would dominate the wearables market through next year.



But Apple chief executive Tim Cook said the watch would not sell until next

year.



PERSONALâ[#x20ac][0/00]OZ P10



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





