

Apple Inc. violated the design patents of a Chinese device maker and may have to
halt sales of its latest iPhones in Beijing, the city's intellectual property
authority ruled. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus infringe on Shenzhen Baili's
patent rights because of similarities to its 100C phone, the Beijing
Intellectual Property Office wrote in its decision. Apple, whose iconic gadgets
helped define the modern smartphone industry, said it's appealing the ruling and
is continuing to sell various iPhone 6 models during the process.

"IPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus as well as iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus and iPhone SE
models are all available for sale today in China," Apple spokeswoman Kristin
Huguet said in an emailed statement. "We appealed an administrative order from a
regional patent tribunal in Beijing last month and as a result the order has
been stayed pending review by the Beijing IP Court."

While the decision covers only Beijing, future lawsuits against Apple could take
the case as a precedent, potentially influencing the outcomes of litigation
elsewhere in China.

Baili is one of scores of smartphone brands trying to cash in on the country's
mobile boom.

Xu Guoxiang, the inventor who holds the patent and listed as a Baili
representative, did not answer calls seeking comment.

Tim Long, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York, said he doesn't think
the impact of the Chinese ruling is meaningful.

"We believe there have been several prior cases against U.S. companies ruled in
favour of local companies by lower courts that were later overturned by higher
courts," Long wrote in a note to clients.

"We have seen dozens of court decisions banning different smartphone products
over the years in many different countries. We are not aware of one ever that
has resulted in an actual injunction." The ruling by the agency - which
administers matters involving patents in Beijing - is the latest in a series of
setbacks for Apple in its largest market after the U.S. Its book and movie
services were blocked in April for violating foreign publishing regulations. In
2013, state media accused the company of shoddy customer service and inadequate
warranties, prompting an apology from Apple CEO Tim Cook.

Last month, it lost its fight to keep the "iPhone" exclusive to its products
after a Beijing court ruled that a little-known accessories maker can use the
label for a range of wallets and purses. And in 2012, Apple paid US$60 million
to Proview International Holdings Ltd. to settle a dispute over the right to the
iPad name in China.

Apple has relied on the world's second-largest economy to sustain its pace of
growth, though it has begun to experience a slowdown. For the three months ended
March 26, revenue in Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, fell 26
per cent to US$12.5 billion. Cook has pledged to continue investing despite an
economic deceleration. Bloomberg !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All
rights reserved.

