                              696 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                            August 30, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending August 30;

A muted rainbow, Labor Day madness, plastic, The Cook Legacy



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1216 words





The iOSphere was brightened by a gray beam of light this week: new photos

showing a new color. Though a better name,a more Appleish name, is "graphite."



That's a fourth color for the soon-expected iPhone 5S or 6, along with the jazzy

champagne and traditional slate and eggshell.



Also this week, a resurrected rumor fingers Labor Day as The Day, for the

announcing of the Next iPhone(s), even though Apple seems to be running late

with the invites; the future of plastic bodies for more iPhones and iPads; and

the Human Fly on the Wall explains what Steve said to Tim.



[MORE: 12 crazy good iOS photography apps RELATED: Network World First Look:

Apple's iOS 7] You read it here second.



iPhone 6 or 5S will be a rainbow of colors...a muted rainbow In addition to the

wildly exciting gold, or "champagne" iPhone, we now look forward to the sleek

gray, or "graphite," iPhone, based on still more photos posted by the world

famous Sonny Dickson, of Australia. The photos purport to show a grey-bodied

iPhone "5S", some with a variety of internal components also displayed.



If true, buyers of the rumored iPhone 5S will be able to choose the high-end

iPhone in traditional slate and white, plus champagne and graphite. That much

choice could overwhelm the iOSphere.



Some of the photos reveal the front and back of the graphite phone along with an

array of internal but unidentified components.



In this photo, the third from left is apparently a home button assembly, which

may or may not have an integrated fingerprint scanner somewhere.



iPhone 6 to be released on Labor Day, September 2 Just in time for the holiday,

a recycled rumor claims that Apple will announce the iPhone 6 or whatever it's

called on Labor Day, Tuesday, Sept. 2. Or possibly today or tomorrow.



"Word is going around that Apple may announce the Apple iPhone 6 before the end

of August or early September," writes Mike Johnson at Auto-O-Mobile, without

bothering to give any evidence regarding just where the word is going around.



He makes a passing reference, but no link, to "IBT" which apparently means

International Business Times, a hotbed of rumor mongering.   The only problem

with this idea is that 1) Apple hasn't invited anyone to a Sept. 2 announcement

event; 2) issuing an invite today would miss a lot of people who are already

zipping off on one of the most heavily traveled U.S. holidays; and 3) it's

just...dumb.



Auto-O-Mobile's bio of "Mike" is this: "Mike is the man who reviews gadgets that

aren't mainstream or products that can't exactly be classified as consumer

electronics e.g. portable talking toilets. It's always interesting to read about

the crazy products we have here in Asia that just don't get as much publicity as

they warrant."



This best kind of parody is the unintentional, self-induced kind.



iPhone 6 will be the next Plastic Wonder of the Techworld "Can you imagine the

iPhone 6 encased in a unibody plastic material on its release date?" asks Erik

Pineda, in an International Business Times post. "This possibility is hinted in

Apple's new job listing that specifically hunts for engineers with years of

expertise in plastic moulding."



Pineda picked this up from 9to5Mac, which picked it up from MacRumors, which saw

several Apple job listings that mentioned the word "plastic." Decoding and

demystifying Apple job listings is an iOSpherian skill rivaled only by the

Sight, practiced by Sybill Trelawney, professor of Divination at the Hogwarts

School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.  Pineda figures that since the plastic-bodied

iPhone 5C is already, like, done, then Something Else is afoot for these

positions.



"With the 5C eliminated, the iPad 5 and iPad Mini 2 come to mind though leaked

specs of the two tablets so far suggest they are draped in metal case just like

the previous builds," he writes.



What could be left? We're glad you asked.



"It is the phablet-size iPhone 6 then that emerges as the likely recipient of

Apple's growing interest in developing plastic-based materials for its gadgets,"

Pineda triumphantly concludes.



QED, baby.



9to5Mac's Jordan Kahn isn't quite so triumphantly certain but he clearly thinks

the job openings show or suggest or hint or indicate that Apple wants plastic

for more than internal parts that no iGadget owner is every going to see.



"While we know the current iPhone and iPads do use some internal plastic parts,

the job listing also makes mentions of aesthetic requirements as well as

experience in 'plastic materials and design for manufacturing in terms of

geometry and cosmetic quality,'" he writes. "That could be a hint the position

will involve more than just the design of internal plastic parts."



As of this posting, there are three job openings that "could be a hint,"

including "Sr. Materials Engineer - Plastics," "Plastic Tooling Engineer," and

"MDE - Adv. Plastic Tooling and Process." There's no indication whether these

are brand new jobs that didn't exist before, or additional positions related to

plastics, or replacements for existing jobs that have become open.



iPhone 6 and iOS 7 will be the "start of Tim Cook's CEO legacy" "A year and a

half in, and the Tim Cook-era Apple has finally pulled back the curtain on a

product which wouldn't have been if the late Steve Jobs were still running the

company," writes Will Stabley, of the eponymous StableyTimes, a "new kind of

news."



"iOS 7 is a left turn, a change in software design philosophy which follows a

corresponding change in software design architects and accompanies a similarly

new fangled iPhone 6," Stabley declares. "If Jobs had remained in charge at

Apple he'd have continued finding a way to keep the peace between the widely

hated Scott Forstall, whom he valued greatly, and the rest of Apple's leadership

team. Forstall would have remained in charge of iOS design. And the product we

now know as iOS 7 would have had the same name but been an entirely different

product. Actually iOS 7 would have looked pretty much like the last six

versions."



Why iOS 7 is a "left" instead of "right" turn isn't made clear. For all anyone

really knows, it could still represent a direction that Jobs was involved in

setting before he died.



"Jobs told Tim Cook to do whatever he thought was right, rather than trying to

guess what Jobs would have done," Stabley assures us. Stabley may be the Human

Fly of the iOSphere, since most of his observations about what Jobs told Cook

could only have been made by the proverbial fly on the wall.



"Cook did what he felt he had to do, and as a result, Apple has made one of its

biggest left turns in years with iOS 7 and the iPhone 6, more so out of

personnel reasons than strategic ones," Stabley writes. "Its success or failure,

still dependent on the public's fondness for or rejection of the new interface,

is the first move Cook has made which defines his tenure."



The success or failure of Cook's decisions is separate from the decisions, or

moves, themselves. And Cook has made plenty of them since becoming Apple's

president and CEO. What seems to define his tenure above anything else is his

appreciation of kind of company that Jobs created: a company that's perfectly

capable of taking left, or right, turns on its own.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





