

You finally have your hands on a shiny new iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus.

But if you are one of the lucky ones who will be changing their email signature
to reflect your purchase, you should be as ready as possible to share your
experience on social media. So here are 6 tips to get social on your shiny new
6.

1. More icons. Four more, to be exact. These taller iPhones get an additional
horizontal row, but you still only get 4 icons per row. It means faster access
to the social platforms you share the most, but remember that the icons you
choose to display on your iPhone say a lot about your personality. I'm still
figuring out how I'll organize my new larger screen (I went with the Plus.)

2. Bigger screens mean bigger experiences. So if you didn't love Pinter-est on a
4-inch iPhone, you might love it on a 4.7-or 5.5-inch. Some apps will look the
same or similar, but a new size gives app developers a chance to show off what
they can do. Some people are already calling the iPhone 6 Plus the mini iPad
mini, so think about how that experience could translate into your social media
use and enjoyment.

3. App developers have more freedom in iOS 8: The latest operating system comes
pre-installed on your new iPhone. This means the people who create apps can do
more with Apple's ecosystem. So while we won't know all the possibilities right
away, it means you might see greater sharing abilities to other social
platforms. Remember ages ago back in iOS 6 when Twitter and Facebook were baked
in for the first time? That's still there, but it only gets better from here.

And that brings me to a very important point:

4. Update your current apps: iOS updates mean updated apps. You might have your
iPhone set to do this automatically, but if you don't you need to check the
updates. Also remember that iOS 8 will work with some previous iPhones, so
update even if you aren't upgrading right now.

5. Search the social networking section of the App Store. I try to tell you
about all the new and cool platforms, but I'm constantly amazed by the things
that slip under the radar. Some of these end up being big players. WhatsApp is
my favorite example of this. I remember "discovering" it, and now Facebook has
paid billions to own it.

6. Be careful. People have always used their iPhones while out and about, but
you need to watch your surroundings. There are people out there who would rather
steal yours than wait in a long line. So while a new iPhone with new social
media choices is exciting, always use common sense before tweeting and sharing.

I can't wait to put my new iPhone through the paces, and I'm sure we'll find out
new things together.

What questions do you have about social media?Tweet them to @scottkleinberg with
hashtag #SoSocial.He might select yours foruse in a future column.

