                              705 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             The Advocate (Burnie)



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday

                         Advocate First Edition Edition



Oliver's stake out lands him iPhone 6



BYLINE: MARK ACHESON



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 228 words





IF BURNIE'S Contel Communications was a chocolate factory then Coastal lad

Mitchell Oliver scored the golden ticket.



It was hard to ignore the Burnie larrikin who sat proudly at the front of

yesterday's early morning queue - a crowd of about 30 waited for the store's 8am

opening to get the new iPhone 6.



Mr Oliver was perched on his abnormally large camping chair since 6am to get his

hands on the new device.



"I lined up for when the iPhone 5 came out and I was the first one down here,"

he said.



"I've always liked the iPhone and I'll stick with the iPhone.



"A lot of my friends, they've gone Samsung, HTC and Sony, but I've just stuck

with iPhones."



Mr Oliver received his "ticket number one" and was in the door at 8am on the

dot.



With some speculation around what the new phone offers compared to its

counterparts, Mr Oliver wasn't too phased.



"It's what people prefer," he said.



"Your preference can be an iPhone with the iTunes or your preference can be a

Samsung with the android sort of thing, but I'm used to the iPhone and how it's

set up, so for me to change would be more of a hassle.



"I don't think I'll change, I'll stick with Apple."



Mr Oliver can now proudly boast he's one of the first in Burnie to get his hands

on an iPhone 6.



"If someone has got an iPhone I like to say 'are you a four dog, are you a six

dog or five dog?"' he said.



"So I'll be a six dog now."



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: NUMBER ONE: Mitchell Oliver, of Burnie, is thrilled to be first in line

for the new iPhone 6. Picture: Grant Wells.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





