                              708 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                            November 16, 2014 Sunday



Few Apples a day keep hawkers in pay;

Two months after launch, there's still a roaring street trade in iPhones



BYLINE: Denise Tsang, Alan Yu and Jennifer Ngo



SECTION: NEWS; Local (Hong Kong News); Technology; Pg.3



LENGTH: 381 words





Resellers of Apple's iPhone 6 are still doing a roaring trade on the streets of

Hong Kong more than eight weeks after the smartphones went on official sale in

the city.



When Apple started selling the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus on September 19, resellers

were buying and selling them for premium prices outside the Apple stores in

Central, Causeway Bay and Kowloon Tong. Today, although demand has slowed, there

is still money to be made for some street resellers, as supply from Apple stores

is limited.



On the doorstep of the Apple Store in the upmarket International Finance Centre

shopping mall in Central, Mr Fang, as he asked to be identified, says he has

earned an average of HK$30,000 a month since the iPhones went on sale. That's

enough to keep him trading the smartphones until Christmas, he says.



"Business is all right, but it's not particularly lucrative," said Fang, a man

in his 40s originally from Beijing. He said in a typical trade he would offer a

vendor a premium of about HK$700 for an iPhone 6, which costs HK$5,588 from the

Apple store. He would then resell it for about HK$200 profit.



On average, he said, he made a sale about every two hours, each day for the past

two months. He added that the gold-coloured iPhones, a favourite with

mainlanders, were worth more. The latest iPhones did not go on sale on the

mainland until October 17.



Lau Chi-kong, of G-World Mobile, who sells parallel imports,  blamed the rampant

hawking of iPhones on the limited supply from Apple, which had kept demand high.



He said his business was suffering as "[hawkers] don't have to pay rent, they

are everywhere, and all they have to do is pay a little more [than us]".



Apple declined to comment. Its online store releases  a limited number of the

iPhone 6 and 6 for sale, but they are usually snapped up within minutes.



In front of the Apple store at Hysan Place in Causeway Bay, there are constantly

about 50 hawkers - mostly Putonghua speakers - sitting on footstools and

displaying suitcases containing new iPhones. They deal only in cash.



A security guard at the  store said he had seen many people buy iPhones at the

store and resell them immediately outside. "How many Hong Kong people actually

use the iPhones they just bought? It looks like something like 10 or 20 per

cent," he said.



LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



NOTES:                  {+$}30,000                ; The amount, in HK dollars, a

hawker of iPhones claims to earn each month



GRAPHIC:                  Potential buyers look at what's on offer from iPhone

hawkers outside the Causeway Bay Apple store.                    Photo: Edmond

So



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





