                              709 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                           The Advertiser (Australia)



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

                               Advertiser Edition



Watch out - Apple is taking on a big wrist



BYLINE: ROD CHESTER NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY WRITER



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 462  words





APPLE yesterday launched a war on three fronts, with two big-screen iPhones to

tackle the phablet threat, a tap-and-touch payment system to replace your wallet

and a wearable device it hopes will rule them all.



Apple chief executive Tim Cook, who took over after the death of Steve Jobs

three years ago, used the words "one more thing", which Apple fans have craved

since first hearing it at the launch of the iPad, in a presentation that the

Cupertino company sees as another potential turning point.



After years of rumours that Apple was working on a wearable device, the Apple

Watch was finally unveiled yesterday.



It will come in two sizes, a 38mm and a 42mm watchface, and three models, all of

which have interchangeable bands.



While the details of the new iPhones have been widely leaked, there were some

surprises including the name of the biggest phone in the Apple family: the

iPhone 6 Plus.



The iPhone 6 is a 4.7-inch (12cm) phone and the iPhone 6 Plus is a 5.5-inch

(14cm) phone and both allow Apple to follow the market trend of bigger is

better.



The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus will both have Near Field Communication, or

NFC, a wireless communication system that some Android phones embraced years ago

which enables people to pay for goods with a tap-and-touch of their phone at

check-outs.



Apple hopes the deals it has made with American Express, Visa, and MasterCard,

the major US banks and a string of retailers will be enough for Apple Pay to

take off. The payment system begins in the US next month but there are no

details yet when it might be released in Australia and what banks, credit cards

and merchants will be involved.



After the unwanted media coverage of leaked naked celebrity photos - reportedly

stolen from iCloud - Apple was eager to point out that the payment details will

not be stored in the cloud.



Eddy Cue, Apple senior vice-president of internet software and services, said

that when you use Apply Pay, the person at the check-out won't get to see your

credit card number or security code, meaning your private information is more

secure than using a traditional card now.



Also, Mr Cue said, Apple would not receive information on your purchase. No

record would be sent to Apple about the purchase, the price or where you bought

it.



When shopping with the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, you'll need

to log into the phone to prove your identity.



The iPhones will go on sale in Australia from September 17. Prices for the

iPhone 6 will range from $869-$1129 for a 16GB to 128GB phone and $999-$1249 for

a 16GB to 128GB iPhone 6 Plus.



They will also be available from Telstra, Optus and Vodafone with pre-orders

from tomorrow.The watch will go on sale in the US early next year, with no word

on Australian availability and pricing.



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





