

SEE MORE Bendy phones B6

--------------------

THE queue for the new iPhone 6 was as good a place as any to get some work done
as the clock ticked towards a minute past midnight.

Lower Hutt resident Ben Vaughn wasn't going to miss the chance to get his hands
on Apple's latest release last night.

The 27-year-old, who had nestled into one of the bean bags at the front of the
queue outside Vodafone's flagship store on Lambton Quay at 5pm, hasn't missed a
single iPhone release since 2008. "I was in the queue for a 3G, 3GS, 4, 4S, 5,
5s and now the 6," Vaughn said.

The comfort of the bean bag also helped him be productive as he counted down
until the doors opened. "I'm doing some work."

However, it was 18-year-old Dannie Barker of Paraparaumu, who was in
pole-position to get her hands on the first iPhone 6 sold in Wellington.

Supported by her mum, the iPhone and Apple fan was keen to upgrade the "old
brick" she was being forced to use.

"I had to sell my iPhone 5c to pay for this one," she said.

Dannie's brother was also queuing - nearly 650km away.

Dedicated mum Debbie said: "I've got my daughter in a queue in Wellington and a
son in a queue in Auckland. They are great kids and have worked hard to buy an
iPhone."

The Barkers were an iPhone family and did not want to have to wait months before
owning the latest model. "I'm also the ride home," Debbie said.

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were launched in 10 "first wave" countries, including
the US and Australia, a week ago. New Zealand is one of more than 20 countries
in the second wave.

International demand for the new devices has been high, with Apple booking a
record 4 million pre-orders on the first day they could be produced, and
reporting sales of more than 10 million in the first weekend.

Among changes from earlier models, the phones have larger screens - the iPhone 6
a 4.7-inch display and the 6 Plus a 5.5-inch.

--------------------

CAPTION:

Irresistible call: Dannie Barker, 18, is all set to get her hands on the first
iPhone 6 sold in Wellington. The Paraparaumu resident arrived at Vodafone's
Lambton Quay store at 2.30pm yesterday to be the first in line for Apple's
latest release.

Picture: MAARTEN HOLL/FAIRFAX NZ

