

APPLE'S enormously popular iPhone and iPad have changed the way we live.

More than 200,000 downloadable apps are available, ranging from games and GPS
navigation tools to handy programs that remind you where you parked your car,
putting power at users' finger tips.

Technology reporter GREG THOM gives you 50 of the best.

APPS TO SAVE YOU MONEY

1. Mortgage Saver, iPhone - Free

Compares your loan repayments resulting in possible savings in interest and loan
term reductions.

2. Who2Call, iPhone - Free

Allows Vodafone and 3 customers to see which of their contacts are on the same
networks and therefore who they can call free.

3. MotorMouth, iPhone - Free

Tracks down the cheapest fuel in your area.

4. Car Inspector, iPhone - Free

Info on scores of vehicles rated by the NRMA Insurance Research Centre and
ANCAP.

5. Skype, iPhone - Free

The ability to make free computer phone calls via the internet is now available
to mobile phone users.

6. ShowerTime, iPhone - $2.49

Water saving app that does everything, including calculating the amount of water
used and the cost of each shower.

7. MeterRead, iPhone - $3.99

Electricity use monitoring tool.

8. 101 Best Ways to Save Money, iPhone - $1.19

Puts a host of money saving plans at your fingertips, from the family car to
food, phone bill, clothing and travel.

9. Money Tips, iPhone - Free

Simple app that pops up a new money saving tip each time you open it.

10. Penny Saved, iPhone - Free

Designed to allow users to work out what they really need, as opposed to what
they want.

GAMES

1. Angry Birds, iPhone/iPad - $5.99

This No.1 ranked game of bird v pig mayhem has proved so popular, a movie
version is in the offing.

2. Real Racing, iPhone/iPad - $12.99

Fast paced racing game designed by Melbourne based Firemint.

3. Flight Control, iPhone/iPad - $5.99

Deceptively simple, highly addictive air traffic control game.

4. Fruit Ninja, iPhone/iPad - $5.99

Earn points slicing and dicing your way through an avalanche of fruit.

5. Pac-Man, iPhone/iPad - $5.99

One of the classic video games is given a new lease of life.

6. FIFA 10, iPhone - $8.99

Great graphics and superb "finger flick" controls bring the world game to life.

7. Tap Tap Revenge 3, iPhone - Free

Tap along with some of the biggest bands in the world from the Black Eyed Peas
to Metallica, in what its designers claim to be the most downloaded music rhythm
game on the iPhone.

8. Osmos, iPhone/iPad - $5.99

Described as a cross between Asteroids and a lava lamp, this mesmerising
experience features "addictive physics based gameplay, fluid multi touch
controls and lush flowing visuals".

9. Call of Duty World at War: Zombies, iPhone/iPad - $12.99

Action-packed first-person shooter that combines two of the hottest franchises
in town - best selling video game series Call of Duty and the undead.

10. Bejewelled 2, iPhone - $3.99

World's No.1 puzzle game. Race against the clock to match multiple cascading
gems on screen.

JUST FOR FUN

1. Lightsaber Unleashed, iPhone - Free

Turns your phone into a Star Wars-style light sabre.

2. Golf Piano, iPhone/iPad - $12.99

Play your favourite songs on a virtual on-screen keyboard to the sound of golf
tee offs, monster putts and wayward water shots.

3. Tap Fish, iPhone/iPad - Free

Turns your phone or iPad into a virtual aquarium.

4. Air Hockey, iPad - Free

Classic two-player game involving finger-controlled pucks slapping a disc to
attempt to score a goal.

5. Jiggle Balls HD, iPad - $2.49

Play around with the laws of physics as you flick, juggle and rotate balls on
screen.

6. Pocket Pond, iPhone/iPad - Free

Beautiful to look at, ultra-realistic interactive fish filled pond.

7. Ageing Booth, iPhone - $1.19

Find out what your friends will look like in years to come.

8. Kitty Plus, iPad - $1.19

Puts a virtual cat in your lap. Stroke the fur-filled screen and be rewarded
with a purr.

9. iGlass 3D, iPhone - $1.19

Very clever glass blowing simulation in which users can manipulate molten glass
on the end of a pipe before baking it in a virtual oven.

10. Pinball HD, iPad - $1.19

Turn your iPad into a pinball machine.

BRAIN FOOD

1. Scrabble, iPad - $12.99

The classic word based board game is tailor-made for the iPad. Players can even
use their iPhone as a virtual tile rack, 'flicking' their letters onto the iPad
board.

2. 3D Brain, iPhone/iPad - Free

Use the touch screen to rotate, zoom and learn more about 29 areas of the brain,
from what happens following an accident to the vital role played by

each region.

3. iBooks, iPhone/iPad - Free

Provides digital access to thousands of books from free classics to
best-sellers.

4. Exoplanet, iPhone/iPad - Free

Interactive, daily updated database of newly discovered planets outside our
solar system presented in stunning 3D.

5. Brain Toot, iPhone - $1.19

Fun way to challenge and stimulate your grey matter in just few minutes each
day, via six brain training games.

6. Globe for iPad, iPad - Free

Interactive geography app which shows the countries of the world on a 3D globe
you can manipulate and rotate.

7. Word of the Day, iPhone - $0.99

New word and its meaning every day.

8. iThesaurus, iPhone - free

Great way to expand your vocabulary.

9. iFact, iPhone - $1.19

More than 4000 random facts from the entertaining to educational.

10. Brain Trainer, iPhone - Free

Fun way to give your grey matter a workout. Designed by some of the world's
leading neuroscientists.

USEFUL STUFF

1. Flashlight, iPhone - Free

Turns your iPhone into a handy torch.

2. G-Park, iPhone - $1.19

App designed to ensure you never lose your parked car again. Add a photo, notes
on where you parked and use a compass and Google maps.

3. Shop Savvy, iPhone - Free

Consumer shopping comparison tool that allows users to use their iPhone camera
to scan the bar codes of products, compare them to others online and get the
best deal possible.

4. Metlink, iPhone - Free

Ultra-useful tool allowing commuters to do everything from check public-
transport timetables, plan their journey and find the nearest stops via GPS.

5. Tom Tom, iPhone - $89.99

Turns your phone into a GPS enabled satnav device. Not cheap, but at least you
won't get lost.

6. Pocket Weather, iPhone/iPad - $2.49

Up-to-the-minute weather info direct from the Bureau of Meteorology.

7. AroundMe, iPhone - Free

Incredibly useful app that allows users to quickly find everything from the
nearest bank, petrol station or hospital.

8. Shazam, iPhone - Free

A worldwide hit that allows users to point their phone at a music source to
identify and buy the song.

9. Drink, iPhone - $4.99

Features more than 100 of the city's hottest, hippest and coolest bars.

10. Epicurious, iPhone/iPad - Free

Food lovers' dream featuring more than 28,000 recipes, an interactive shopping
list and cooking guide.

heraldsun.com.au

Gallery: Check out Apple's new range of iPods

