                              720 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                              May 27, 2011, Friday



iPhone 5 rumor rollup for week ending May 27;

Panic, British journos, disguises and curves define week in iPhone 5 scuttlebutt



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1231 words





The anticipation of iPhone 5, iOS 5 or Something Big Anyway is mounting as

Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC),which starts June 6, draws nearer.



This week: There will be no iPhone 5 launch at WWDC because of a fire at one of

Apple's partner assembly plants, triggering panic among bloggers; there will be

an iPhone 5 launch at WWDC because Apple is inviting British journalists and

casting a TV commercial; iPhone 5 is already out there being tested but you

can't tell because it looks just like the existing iPhone 4; and you will be

able to tell because iPhone 5 will have a concave glass screen.



There is no, zero, nada chance of iPhone 5 being released in June, BeatWeek

assures us. Why, you ask? Because of an explosion and fire a week ago at the

Foxconn manufacturing plant where the iPhone, and the iPad, are built. The fire

"should put to bed the pipe dream that saw Apple somehow introducing the iPhone

5 a mere six weeks after first shipping the white iPhone 4," BeatWeek sneeringly

concluded.



But just to cover all the bases, BeatWeek also said, "But even if Apple were

planning to secretly launch the iPhone 5 in June, those plans would certainly

have to be scuttled after the factory damage."



The use of the word "certainly" when it comes to rumors and unfounded

speculation is always good for a laugh.



MORE IPHONE 5 RUMOR ROUNDUPS: May 20, May 13, May 6 Gizmodo had a brief official

statement from Foxconn, which didn't do much to clarify exactly what had blown

up and burned, how bad the damage was, or whether there really would be any

impact on either current iPad 2 shipments or on the iPhone 5 rollout.



The prospect of delay panicked some folks, like Derick Lemay, at The Red 99. The

despair was almost palpable in his post: "All we can hope is that Foxconn can

get their plant up and running as soon as possible. Otherwise we may not be

seeing a new generation iPhone at all in 2011."



2011: The Year of the Lost iPhone.



But by last Sunday, two days after the fire, MacRumors was linking to a

reassuring China Times story (in Chinese) which claimed that "sources" were

saying that "production of iPad 2 would not be delayed and related iPhone

devices [could this be iPhone 5?] and new iPad products would still be in mass

production in the third quarter."



We know this because 1) Apple is inviting British journalists to the WWDC in San

Francisco, and 2) a casting call was posted on Craigslist looking for actors to

appear in an iPhone 5 TV commercial.



U.K. tech site Mobile Pig tackled the issue head-on: "If you believe the rumours

currently fizzing down Britain's broadband pipes, Apple has pretty much put the

kibosh on iPhone 5 -- at least for 2011."



That statement actually qualifies as a separate rumor all on its own.



"But if that's the case," Mobile Pig triumphantly asked, "why is Apple's public

relations department -- specifically the team dedicated to all things iPhone --

reaching out to selected British journalists in an effort to persuade them to

attend Apple's WWDC developer jamboree on 6-10 June?"



That was pretty conclusive for James Isabel, at The Appera. Isabel dismissed the

rumor that WWDC will focus only on the software, iOS 5, but not the iPhone 5

hardware. He wrote, "I doubt this is a simple software reveal judging by the

magnitude of people they're inviting. I'm betting on iPhone 5 [insert excited

emoticon here]. Also, even though Steve Jobs is on leave, I'd expect him to be

at the keynote on June 6."



Plus there's the TV casting post at Craigslist. MacRumors noted that it appeared

Wednesday, May 25, but apparently only for a couple of hours, seeking male and

female actors for a commercial for "iPhone 5" to be filmed in L.A. with payment,

oddly, in British pounds sterling. MacRumors couldn't find any online

information on the contact or production company. The site noted that it was

similar to a casting call in New York in April. Real? A mistake? A hoax? Who

knows? Who cares?



ITPortal admitted that it didn't know if the casting call was genuine, but

couldn't resist adding that if it was genuine, "then the iPhone 5 could indeed

be launched at WWDC 2011."



"On the other hand," according to GizmoCrunch, "it could just be the work of

Apple PR to build up hype for the phone which is not expected to launch this

summer." Creating hype for iPhone 5 must be the world's easiest job, because

thanks to ITPortal, GizmoCrunch and a zillion other websites, Apple PR doesn't

actually have to do anything.



That's what GizmoCrunch concluded after reading TechBuffalo's exclusive account

of how the iPhone 4 was secretly brought to Verizon's network. That would be the

"insider" account based on one, repeat one, source "close to the action." No one

referred to the "iPhone" but the "Acme"; it was being tested six or seven months

before the actual release; employees had to sign a four-page non-disclosure

agreement, and enter a unique PIN every 12 hours to confirm they still had the

phone, and so on.



Even though TechBuffalo's story never mentions "iPhone 5," GizmoCrunch sees a

connection: The Verizon iPhone was being tested at Verizon stores and in the

field, but "due to the fact that [the Verizon iPhone] resembled the AT&T version

it went unnoticed."



(It's not real clear how that would work, between two Verizon employees: "Hey,

watcha got there?" "Oh, it's the Acme." "Really?



Gee it looks just like the AT&T iPhone." "I didn't notice." "Oh, me either.")

Unfazed, GizmoCrunch optimistically asks, "So what does all this mean as the

Verizon iPhone 5 release date nears?" And they have an answer. "For one, it

could mean that the Verizon iPhone 5 is already undergoing field testing and may

be under our very eyes."



Winner of the Most Convoluted Rumor of the Week goes to iFan, which on Monday

published a picture, from a Chinese website, of what purported to be a "white

iPhone 5's backplate with even more evidence of the [previously rumored]

separation of the camera and the flash components."



By early the next morning, iFan had a new post, about how commenters to the

first post had detected a reflection in the picture, revealing another iPhone 5

taking the photography. They say you can make out the Apple logo, and the widely

separated flash and camera components (which are close together in iPhone 4).



Then, iFan asked not one but two Adobe Photoshop wizards to manipulate the

original image, a process that TFTS.com called, without a hint of irony,

"forensic tech voodoo." Their conclusion: It's an iPhone 5!



DigiTimes claims that unnamed sources say that Apple has bought 200-300

expensive glass-cutting machines to fashion curved glass screens for iPhone 5.



"That would seem to fly in the face of recent reports that the iPhone 5 would be

very similar to the iPhone 4 in appearance," observed 9to5 Mac.



No fooling.



PC Magazine notes some phones already have a concave screen, including Samsung

Nexus S. "The concave glass display of the Nexus S is often praised for feeling

more comfortable when holding it up to your face. In fact curved glass displays

are more about aesthetics and "perceived usability" (as Engadget notes in its

review for the Nexus S) than any actual change to display quality," according to

the post.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.



Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnww Email: john_cox@nww.com Blog RSS feed:

http://www.networkworld.com/community/blog/2989/feed







LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2011 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





