

Resellers of Apple's new iPhone 6  models still doing a roaring trade on the
streets of Hong Kong, more than eight weeks after the smartphones went on
official sale in the city.

When Apple started selling the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus on September 19, resellers
were buying and selling them for premium prices outside the Apple stores in
Central, Causeway Bay and Kowloon Tong. Today, although demand has slowed, there
is still money to be made for some street resellers, as supply from Apple stores
is limited.

On the doorstep of the Apple store in the upmarket International Finance Centre
shopping mall in Central, Mr Fang, as he asked to be identified, says he has
earned an average of HK$30,000 a month since the iPhones went on sale. That's
enough to keep him trading the smartphones until Christmas, he says.

"Business is all right, but it's not particularly lucrative," said Fang, a man
in his 40s originally from Beijing. He said in a typical trade he would offer a
vendor a premium of about HK$700 for an iPhone 6, which costs HK$5,588 from the
Apple store. He would then resell it for about HK$200 profit.

On average, he said, he made a sale about every two hours, each day for the past
two months. He added that the gold-coloured iPhones, a favourite with
mainlanders, were worth more. The latest iPhones did not go on sale on the
mainland until October 17.

Lau Chi-kong, of G-World Mobile who sells parallel imports,  blamed the rampant
hawking of iPhones on the limited supply from Apple, which had kept demand high.

He said his business was suffering as "[hawkers] don't have to pay rent, they
are everywhere, and all they have to do is pay a little more [than us]".

Apple declined to comment. Its online store releases  a limited number of the
iPhone 6 and 6 Plus for sale, but they are usually snapped up within minutes.

In front of the Apple store at Hysan Place in Causeway Bay, there are constantly
about 50 hawkers - mostly Putonghua speakers - sitting on footstools and
displaying suitcases containing new iPhones. They deal only in cash.

A security guard at the  store said he had seen many people buy iPhones at the
store and resell them immediately outside. "How many Hong Kong people actually
use the iPhones they just bought? It looks something like   10 or 20 per cent,"
he said.

