                              729 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                      Northern Territory News (Australia)



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

                                 NTNews Edition



At last that 'one more thing'



BYLINE: By ROD CHESTER in Sydney National technology writer



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 605 words





Apple's new varieties full of byte APPLE yesterday launched a war on three

fronts, with two big-screen iPhones to tackle the phablet threat, a

tap-and-touch payment system to kill your wallet and a wearable device it hopes

will rule them all.



Apple chief executive Tim Cook, who took over after the death of Steve Jobs

three years ago, used the words "one more thing" that Apple fans have craved

since first hearing it at the launch of the iPad in a presentation that the

Cupertino tech company sees as another potential turning point.



While the details of the new iPhones have been widely leaked, there were some

surprises including the name of the biggest phone in the Apple family: the

iPhone 6 Plus.



The iPhone 6 is a 4.7-inch phone and the iPhone 6 Plus is a 5.5-inch phone and

both allow Apple to follow the market trend of bigger is better.



The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus will both have Near Field Communication, or

NFC, a wireless communication system that some Android phones embraced years ago

which enables people to pay for goods with a tap-and-touch of their phone at the

check-out of bricks and mortar stores.



The idea of using your phone at the check-out is not new but Apple is hoping the

deals it has made with American Express, Visa, and MasterCard, the major

American banks and a string of retailers will be enough for Apple Pay to take

off.



The payment system begins in America in October but there are no details yet

when it might be released in Australia.



Apple Pay puts Apple in direct competition with services like PayPal and Google

Wallet.



Users will pay by holding a phone close to a contactless reader with their

finger on the touch ID fingerprint system. It's also set to work with the Apple

Watch.



"Apple Pay will forever change the way we pay for things," said Mr Cook. After

years of rumours that Apple was working on a wearable device, the Apple Watch

was also unveiled yesterday.



The Watch will come in two sizes, a 38mm and a 42mm watchface, and three models,

all of which have interchangeable bands and will target consumers across a wide

range, from those wanting an activity tracker to those looking for an up-market

timepiece.



The iPhones will go on sale in Australia from September 17, with prices for the

iPhone 6 ranging from $869-$1129 for a 16GB to 128GB phone and to $999-$1249 for

a 16GB to 128GB iPhone 6 Plus.



The Watch will go on sale in the US early next year, with no word on Australian

availability and pricing.



5 THINGS APPLE DIDN'T TELL US - The Apple Watch has a battery that recharges at

night by touching a magnet to the back of it. Just how often it will need

recharging is anybody's guess. Our guess is every night.



- When does the Apple Watch come to Australia? It will be after Christmas but

how about early January? Nothing says Australia Day like a new smartwatch -

perhaps with an esky and thongs app.



- What will Apple Pay mean to Australians?



Apple has announced a bunch of US retailers and banks but no details of when it

will come to Australia and how it will work.



- Is an eight megapixel camera the ultimate in an iPhone camera? While the

iPhone 6 Plus, in particular, has some great new features, including a super

slow-mo rate and optical image stabilising, Apple is continuing to stick with an

eight megapixel camera. As Apple would say, it's not the size of your

megapixels, it's how you use them.



- While we were given stats on battery usage, one thing you can never learn in a

product launch is what battery use is like in real-world examples.The iPhone 6

and 6 Plus were said to have a battery life equal if not better than the iPhone

5S. Is that going to be good enough?



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Northern Territory News





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





