                              732 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                            Business World (Digest)



                           September 26, 2014 Friday



Apple react to bendy iPhone 6 claims;

iPhone 6



LENGTH: 435 words







HIGHLIGHT: Apple Inc broke its silence on complaints about bending iPhones,

hours after withdrawing a glitch-ridden software update as the company struggles

to restore momentum to the rollout of its latest phones.





Apple Inc broke its silence on complaints about bending iPhones, hours after

withdrawing a glitch-ridden software update as the company struggles to restore

momentum to the rollout of its latest phones.



"With normal use, a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six

days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone

6 Plus," Apple spokeswoman Trudy Muller said in an email.



Apple shares closed down nearly 4 percent at dollar 97.87 on Thursday, wiping

out nearly dollar 23 billion in market value.



The new phones face criticism over their bendability, dubbed "bendgate." Social

media and online forums have been abuzz with comments about how the new phones

can bend when placed in back pockets or while wearing skinny jeans. Apple said

its iPhones feature stainless steel and titanium inserts to reinforce

high-stress locations and use the strongest glass in the smartphone industry.

The only way an iPhone may have bent is if someone put it in their back pocket

and sat on the phone for a very long time, said Laban Roomes, chief executive

officer of Goldgenie, which customizes and gold plates iPhones. Apple was also

forced to withdraw a faulty update to its latest operating system after some

users of its new phones complained of call service disruptions. Apple released a

new software update late on Thursday to fix the problems, which it said affected

fewer than 40,000 devices. "I do believe this speaks to execution issues at

Apple," said JMP Securities analyst Alex Gauna. "At the end of the day I believe

this too shall pass, but we are noting with concern that the miscues pile up."

Apple said on Monday it had shipped 10 million units of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.

Users of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus also complained about the inability to use the

fingerprint-reading Touch ID after updating to iOS 8.0.1. Some users had

complained of "sluggish Wi-Fi and dwindling battery life" after moving to iOS 8,

Time magazine reported earlier this week. (http://ti.me/1pqlCPt) On Thursday,

Apple issued a step-by-step guide for users to reinstall iOS 8, launched last

week, through the latest version of iTunes. The health app will not work for now

and will be fixed in the next software update, the company said. Customers

might, however, hope for replacements for their bent iPhones, depending on

whether their devices passed an inspection, tech news website the Next Web

reported, quoting an Apple support executive. (http://tnw.co/1rlv7mW) "It's not

game over for Apple, but nor should we give them a pass on this," Gauna said.

(Reuters) For more visit www.businessworld.ie



LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





