

Even without Apple being at the gigantic Consumer Electronics Show this week in
Las Vegas, it proved to be a treasuretrove of iPhone 6 revelations for those
with the wit to look beneath the surface of things.

Things like IGZO screens. And Gorilla Glass 3.

Also this week: The sky darkened under the crisscrossing trajectories of
contradictory speculation: The Next iPhone would be smaller and cheaper; and
bigger and cheaper; and bigger and more expensive. Or something.

IN THE NEWS: Will Apple introduce a lower-priced iPhone?

You read it here second.

__________ __________ And they didn't even realize it! Not so sharp, after all,
apparently.

GottaBeMobile's Adam Mills found Sharp's booth, at the Consumer Electronics Show
(CES), where the company was proudly showing its IGZO display technology. (You
can check out GottaBeMobile's video, which shows a prototype tablet sporting the
prototype display.) "Sharp not only showed off flexible displays like Samsung,
but maybe more importantly, the company showed off its IGZO display technology,
the same technology that has been rumored to be coming with the next iPhone
model, presumably called the iPhone 5S or the iPhone 6," Mill announced, just in
case you weren't au courant with the IGZO rumors, which are almost as tediously
repetitive as the rumors that Apple's next iWhatever will have a fabulous
Liquidmetal body.

IGZO displays can be brighter, higher-than-1080p resolution, and much more power
efficient than conventional displays, according to Sharp, which with several
other display vendors is a major supplier to Apple.

In a few sentences, possibly using copy/paste or a macro, Mills deftly summed up
months of rumors about the next iPhone. And then he ruined it all at the end.

"Keep in mind, Apple rumors often don't pan out so it's possible that Apple will
go in a different direction with the new iPad and the new iPhone in 2013," he
wrote.

No one has yet connected the dots between another CES reveal and the Next iPhone
: TrackingPoint's Precision Guided Firearm (PCWorld has details), which marries
a high-tech digital scope and sensors with a custom-built Surgeon Rifles
bolt-action long rifle. Among other things, the PGF uses Wi-Fi to display its
high-tech in-scope image and data on its accessory iPad mini. Using the Next
iPhone and a new software protocol, iShoot, to remotely control the rifle,
upload photos and video to iCloud, and automatically sync calendars with your
local butcher is an obvious next step.

If only we could have CES once a month instead of once a year.

Jonathan Leggett, of USwitch.com, was hanging around in Vegas, too, and took
note of Corning's announcement that a "new strain of Gorilla Glass purported to
be three times tougher than the version currently in service on top-end
smartphones, paving the way for a new generation of more robust handsets."

And one Very Special New Generation Handset in particular.

According to a March 2012 post by 9to5Mac's Seth Weintraub, Apple and Corning's
relationship has been "shrouded in mystery."

The glassmaker was never mentioned in Apple marketing material and "even isn't
included in Apple's supplier lists," he wrote.

But on March 2, 2012, "Apple released its US Jobs report which included the
following info: 'Corning employees in Kentucky and New York who create the
majority of the glass for iPhone...,'" Weintraub noted.

"Debuted at the Consumer Electronics Show this week, Gorilla Glass 3 has been
conditioned to be less brittle than ever before thanks to an ion-bonding
treatment and some clever atomic jiggery-pokery that we're not even going to
pretend to understand," Leggett wrote, with disarming humility. (But the neat
British-ism "jiggery-pokery" usually suggests trickery or underhandedness rather
than manipulation.) With somewhat less humility, Leggett didn't hesitate to draw
the obvious conclusion.

"With rumours indicating that Samsung could opt for a plastic screen for its
next kit - possibly even a flexible one - we think [GG3 is] most likely to debut
on the sixth-gen iPhone," he declared. "Especially given that Gorilla Glass has
featured in every iPhone since the iPhone 4 dropped back in 2010."

Without a trace of irony, a BGR post this week says that a "new report adds
weight to recent rumors" that Apple will launch more than one iPhone model by
mid-2013.

The "report" is that treasure trove of firsthand, in-depth knowledge called the
Note to Investors, this one by stock analyst T. Michael Walkley, of Canaccord
Genuity. In the note, Walkley "sees," according to BGR's Zach Epstein, "Apple
launching a new 'higher-end iPhone' sometime in the June quarter, and a low-end
model could be in the works as well."

Whoa. Not just a cheaper iPhone 6-or-whatever but also a more expensive one!

According to BGR, Walkley wrote, "We believe Apple could launch a higher-end
iPhone model by the June quarter versus its more typical September/October
timing for a new iPhone launch. We also believe Apple could potentially launch a
lower-end iPhone focused on more price-sensitive pre-paid markets, as we believe
consumers in markets such as China, Latin America and Eastern Europe would have
very strong demand for a more affordably priced 3G iPhone."

Walkley clearly is willing to take the Rumor Games to the next level, since
among the most fecund of recent rumors has been the one insisting that Apple
must, must introduce a less expensive version of the iPhone, or face Collapse,
Failure, Utter Destruction, and the End of the World. [See "Will Apple introduce
a lower-priced iPhone?"] Probably the more expensive Next iPhone will have a
much larger screen, in super high-def with IGZO, a quad-core processor, bigger
battery, a kaleidoscope of colors, and Gorilla Glass 3 if not 4. Oh yes: and NFC
contactless payments.

For a long time, the Rollup has boycotted any mention of "concept art," a.k.a.
"fan art," that purports to show what the Next iPhone will look like, based on
current rumors, febrile imagings, or certain organic chemical agents. Or some
combination thereof.

But when Macworld Australia's Ashleigh Allsopp headlines her post, "Is this what
Apple's iPhone 6 will look like?" we'll make an exception.

Although she doesn't answer the headline's question, we will boldly go where so
far no one apparently has and say, "Uh, no."

"New images of a potential iPhone 6 design have been created based on an alleged
test prototype, sporting a similar shape to the latest iPod nano," Allsopp
reveals.

The renderings are the latest by a talented Italian designer, Federico
Ciccarese, with the Twitter handle @ciccaresedesign, a website where he posts
these illustrations, and an acknowledged need for some work assignments.

Ciccarese mentions something about his newest creations being based on some
iPhone test prototype, but in practice it looks like he just "grew" the iPod
nano into the Next iPhone. And added something called "iOSX," a hybrid blend of
iOS and OS X.

And this is what he comes up with.  Here is his previous rendering of the
expected iPhone 5, and you can judge for yourself how closely that resembled the
final product.  This is getting confusing, even by the standards of iOSphere
rumoring: smaller and cheaper; bigger and more expensive; bigger but cheaper;
more expensive but smaller. All of the above.

A characteristically brief and anonymously sourced story at International
Business Times repeated the rumor that "according to supply-chain sources,"
Apple will introduce a low-cost version of iPhone for China and similar markets,
in the latter half of 2013. So far, so yawn.

But there was this little iOSphere twist: "Some sources claimed that they have
seen the sample of the low-cost iPhone, which will come with a larger display
..." So the intensely rumored "iPhone mini" moniker refers to the phone's price,
not its dimension.

The reasons for the cheaper but bigger iPhone 6? "Growing sales of the iPad mini
... may have served as an impetus for Apple to roll out a low-cost iPhone ..."
And "Qualcomm's recent launch of its latest family of Snapdragon chipsets ...
for the entry-level to mid-range smartphones may pave the way for Apple bringing
out the low-cost iPhone ..."

The latter reason is a bit odd, verging on a technical non sequitur. Because
Qualcomm offers the ARM-based Snapdragon as a mobile system on a chip, with the
processor integrated with a bunch of other components. With the iPhone 5's A6
chip, Apple apparently has for the first time custom-designed its own ARM-based
main processor, manufactured by Samsung. Apple does use Qualcomm's mobile data
modem chipsets, but not the Snapdragon.

"You'd think if Apple wanted to make a low-cost iPhone, it would be small,"
wrote Dave Smith, at International Business Times, after reading the DigiTimes
account of unsupported anonymous speculation. "An 'iPhone nano,' if you will."
(Smith must have been watching Frederico's design blog!) You would think that.
But you would be wrong. Apple is, after all, magical.

"If DigiTimes' sources are correct, Apple's "low-cost iPhone" could easily look
like a Galaxy S3 smartphone, and given its 'low cost,' it might even compete
with Samsung's prices, too," Smith concluded.

So if DigiTimes' sources are correct, Apple is going to imitate the Galaxy S III
and voluntarily start a price war with Samsung.

DigiTimes and various stock analysts agree, according to Smith: "Apple wants to
sell a lower-priced iPhone. Whether the 'iPhone 6' will be bigger or smaller has
yet to be determined; Apple simply wants it to be cheaper." Clearly. "The
obvious explanation: A cheaper iPhone -- easily the company's most popular
product -- would help Apple penetrate some key markets, particularly those
Eastern, lower-income areas like China and India."

We can hear Apple CEO Tim Cook now, the new Colossus gazing to the East and
crying out, "Give me your tired, your poor, your lower-income huddled masses
yearning to buy an Apple iPhone, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send
these, the phoneless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my cheaper iPhone 6 beside the
golden door."

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.
Twitter: @johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com



