

Today the news which is making rounds on the Internet is the latest figures
about the launch of Iphone 6, According to the Cupertino giant the company has
sold over 10 million new Iphone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models in just three days
after the launch on September 19.

But the handset maker might just lose the war against Google and Xiaomi this
time. Well, we do know Apple handsets will be one of the best-sellers of the
year in 2014 but with Google's new baby Android One and Xiaomi that are
targeting markets at budget price points, Apple's premium phones could see a
tough competition this year.

We are trying to understand why and how.

Okay Apple sold 10 million handsets in 3 days, so what?

Apple iPhone with iOS 8 are in huge demand no doubt, but the sale comes from the
US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico,
Singapore, and the UK. They are yet to strike the emerging markets like China
and India where it sold good number of handsets last year.

According to Curt Prins, a Mobile Strategist, Apple's primary market is US,
which controls 42 percent of Smartphone sales. The US market is saturated with
Smartphones where roughly 75 percent of Americans own one. To increase the
numbers Apple needs to concentrate on emerging markets, where the new phones are
delayed.

1. Apple has left the emerging markets unattended

If we are looking at India in flash sale of 40,000 Xiaomi RedMi 1S handsets,
this company also called the 'Apple of China' is able to sell off the stock in
less than 5 seconds. That's quite a feat you would agree.

Curt Prins hopes high about the Android One with which Google now targets to
sell 2 million smartphones by year's end in one country alone- that is India.
That's not all, there are other below 5K phones in this market which are all
ready to replace the feature phones in Indian market.

Note that feature phones are still dominating the Indian market with 71% market
share of mobile phones. This overall market stands at 63.21 million units at Q2
2014 according to IDC.

In Q1 2015, more companies will come up with Android One phones in the market
with better specs. By this time we have Mozilla (this is yet to reveal initial
sale figures) and Datawind with free lifetime Internet connectivity for sale. We
do  not know whether they will achieve staggering sale, but the sale will
definitely go in Android's favor.

According to a report in PTI today, Asia Pacific today accounts for about half
of global Smartphone connections, in which China alone has, the world's largest
smartphone market, with more than 629 million smartphone connections. This
country is also not on Apple's radar for selling iPhone 6 in the first round of
sales.

China is followed by US (196.8 million connections), Brazil (141.8 million) and
India (111 million connections), according to PTI. Does this give some insight
on the competition Apple could face?

2. Apple will skip the major festival season sale in India

When we talk about India, we have two major sale seasons (could be three festive
seasons) coming up - (1) Diwali in October, Chirstmas (2) New Year in December
end (3) since the GOSF online shopping festival was organized in middle of
December last year, we expect GOSF this year too in December.

Out of these three festive seasons, the main gift season is Diwali when people
buy new consumer durables. Apple might miss this year's Diwali season, when
Samsung HTC, LG and more will get their best products to the stores. Samsung is
getting the Galaxy Alpha (look alike of the iPhone 5S from last year) for the
season which if prices well, could make a dent into Apple Smartphones sale
figures.

The year end that will come in India and China is expected to marked by GOSF in
India and new year sale in China. After missing the main sale season in Indian
Apple will need to pin hopes to the year end sale in Indian and China.

3. In China it could be a close battle with Xiaomi

According to figures from April 2014 (CounterPoint Research) Xiaomi RedMi 1S was
the best selling handset in China, followed by the iPhone 4S and 5S. In May 2014
the RedMi 1S skipped to the number 9th position while Apple moved to the top
position. The Mi3 from Xiaomi stood at number 4 position.

According to a report in Gizbot by volume the RedMi 1S is more popular than most
of the other smartphones in the world, in Q2 2014. This has been shown in the a
new research from Strategy Analytics' Country Share Tracker (CST).

Samsung Galaxy S4, S5 also are good selling smartphones in China.

Note that Xiaomi is one of the fastest-growing tech companies in the world
according to research firm Canalys in June this year.

4. With Android One and other Android phones, the makers are multiple

Apple's biggest drawback is that the handset is manufactured by one
manufacturer- Foxconn. Foxconn is the only supplier manufacturing the 5.5-inch
iPhone 6 Plus and is responsible for most of the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 units, a Wall
Street Journal reported last week.

Though the iPhone 6 maker is churning out 140,000 iPhone 6 Plus and 400,000
iPhone 6 every day, this is not the model that Android One follows or, cheap
Android handset makers follow.

Google is working with partners in India who are known to get the hardware done
at Chinese factories and then re-brand them in India. While this makes them use
chips that are cheap and not great performers as Apple's they do come in cheap.
Cheap to the extent that you can but one such phone and an Xbox One in the money
you wish to put in to purchase an iPhone. (This is based on speculation that
Apple iPhone 6 won't come cheaper than INR 50K, in which amount you can buy a
RedMi 1S from Xiaomi - INR 5,999 and Xbox One from Microsoft - INR 45,990)

5. Apple iPhone 6 are premium phones, no more

The new iPhones this year do not really bring much design innovation or boast
unique features, which otherwise is the 'USP' of Apple. It sports a mediocre
design, which resembles some of the Android phones.

If Apple goes to a premium unlocked price point that takes it above INR 50K,
Google will Have Motorola phone, HTC will have the 64-bit Snapdragon powered
Desire 820q pegged against the iPhone 6.

Micromax has got its Canvas Gold, Canvas Nitro cheap phone with premium looks,
Samsung has got Galaxy Alpha with iPhone 5S like looks, HTC has its One M7 and
M8 and Lg has its LG G3 this year for the market, which will be cheaper than the
new iPhones. And yes, Google is also expected to get the Nexus 6 this year in
October.

How the market will behave in case Apple decides to launch the handsets with
carriers at subsidized price point, it is difficult to say how the market will
respond. But be sure the war between iOS 8 and Android is no more between Apple
and Samsung - there is Google and Xiaomi in the race too.

