

Riverside, CA,  June 03, 2016 --(PR.com)-- EMPIRE Cell Phone Accessories is
proud to announce the launch of its newest phone case series, the MPERO SLIM
SHOCK Flexible Bumper Protection Case Series for the iPhone 6/6s, iPhone 6
Plus/6S Plus, and iPhone SE. Available in time for Father's Day, this new phone
case series is available today online and in their Riverside, CA Retail
Showroom.

This phone case may be slim, but it was made for protection. On the interior of
the SLIM SHOCK, there are hundreds of circular shock absorbing spacers that
create a cushion of air for an additional layer of protection. The corners of
phones are extremely vulnerable, and easily broken upon impact, that's why the
SLIM SHOCK is designed with bumpers around the edges to prevent serious damage
from clumsy drops or accidental falls. The ribbed sides of the case are
ergonomically designed for a comfortable grip. The case comes in clear, as well
as translucent tints of gold and pink for those who want to add a hint of color.

The MPERO SLIM SHOCK Series case for the iPhone 6/6S, iPhone 6 Plus/6S Plus, and
iPhone SE are available today on empirecase.com for $8.99 each. Additional MPERO
SLIM SHOCK Series cases are available for Samsung Galaxy S7, Samsung Galaxy S7
Edge, Samsung Galaxy Note 5, Samsung Galaxy Grand Prime, and Samsung Galaxy J1
(2016).

About EMPIRE

Launched in 2011 by a cell phone case designer who was fed up with limited cell
phone case options, EMPIRE believes that every cell phone user is unique and has
a right to a case that suits them perfectly. That's why designer Laura Land and
her team spend three months each year researching current trends and styles
before designing each year's collection of cases. Available for all major brands
and styles, EMPIRE offer everything from striking solids to bold designs for men
and women. With a goal to offer high quality at low prices, EMPIRE focuses on
bundle sales and always offers free worldwide shipping on all orders. To learn
more or find your perfect case, visit www.empirecase.com today.

