                              742 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Scottish Star



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Scotland



THE WARP FACTOR OF IPHONE 6;

Owners going around bend



BYLINE: JEFF FARRELL



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20



LENGTH: 280 words





FUMING iPhone 6 owners have blasted the gadget for being "bendy".



People who shelled out around £600 for the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus have

found that the smartphones "warp" in their pockets.



One user raged his handset "bent" after "a day of dancing, dining, and driving

to a wedding", while a tech website said Apple had "sacrificed durability" with

the slimline look.



Tech journalist Russell Holly, who put the "thin and light" smartphone to the

pocket warp test, found "problems" with it.



He said: "This is potentially a very serious issue. "Unfortunately, it looks

like Apple has sacrificed durability in exchange for that thin profile and

impossibly light experience.



"A phone should be capable of surviving more than the pressure of fabric against

your skin." Users yesterday posted "cringeworthy" photos of the damaged gadgets

online, including one with cracked screen.



And another tech website found the "warping issue" on a "small but growing

number" of iPhone 6 mobiles.



Buyers took to Twitter to rant about the pricey gadgets. One tweeted: "Do Apple

ever launch a phone without a hitch?" But while the tech giants have yet to

comment over "Bendgate", TV football presenter Gary Lineker, 53, claimed the

iPhone 6 range offered nothing new compared to Apple's last effort, the iPhone

5. The ex-England striker said: "Aside from being larger, the iPhone 6 is no

different. And mine freezes constantly."



The moans come as the firm revealed it sold a record 10million of the gadgets

over a few days after its weekend launch.



Apple boss Tim Cook, 53, said: "Sales exceeded our expectations for the launch

weekend and we couldn't be happier."



Startech: Page 37 news@dailystar.co.uk



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: FURIOUS: Twitter moan and a cracked screen¦ CRUEL TWIST: The iPhone 6

fails the 'bend test'



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot





                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





