

Double benefit for buyers as flash drive for iPhones, iPads gets a design
overhaul and price cut

SanDisk has relaunched the iXpand Flash Drive, the mobile storage device
designed to help people transfer data from an iPhone or iPad while on the go.
The device is available with a storage capacity of up to 128GB. The iXpand Flash
Drive features a new, modern design that fits with most iPhone and iPad cases, a
USB 3.0 connector for faster transfer speeds to Mac or PCs, and a completely
redesigned app to easily manage photos, videos and music.

The iXpand Flash Drive will initially be exclusively available at Amazon.in for
a period of 30 days and then extended to other channels in a phased manner. The
iXpand Flash Drive is available in 16GB, 32GB, 64GB and 128GB capacities, at
Rs.3990, Rs.4990, Rs.6990 and Rs.9990, respectively. The drive is compatible
with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 5s, iPhone SE,
iPhone 5c, iPhone 5, iPad Pro (12.9-inch), iPad Air 2, iPad Air, iPad mini 4,
iPad mini 3, iPad mini 2, iPad mini and iPod touch (5th generation) running iOS
8.2 or later.

According to a recent consumer survey on the 'Storage Consumption needs of the
Indian consumer' conducted by AMI for SanDisk India, many iPhone users are
looking to free up more space on their phones. "People are using their mobile
phones to capture tons of photos and videos, and about 70% of iPhone users in
India run out of memory every week and end up deleting files," said Rajesh
Gupta, Country Manager - India & SAARC, SanDisk Corporation.

"Our line of mobile storage offerings can immediately help them free up space.
With the new iXpand Flash Drive, people can spend more time using their iPhone
to capture what they love, and less time worrying about how and where to
transfer these photos and videos," he further added.

The iXpand Flash Drive allows users to automatically back up their camera roll
and contacts, and watch popular video formats straight from the drive. The new
drive also includes encryption software that password-protects files, allowing
people to share their content while keeping sensitive files secure across
devices.

The product features a redesigned app, the iXpand Drive app, which offers new
features and an improved user experience. Giving users the option to save space
instantly, the app now has a camera function so users can shoot and save photos
or videos directly to the drive instead of on their iPhone or iPad. The app also
allows users to automatically back up content from popular social networking
sites, as well as play back music within the app.

Pricing and availability

The iXpand Flash Drive features a two-year warranty5 and will initially be
exclusively available at Amazon.in in capacities of 16GB, 32GB, 64GB and 128GB
at Rs.3990, Rs.4990, Rs.6990 and Rs.9990, respectively. The drive is compatible
with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 5s, iPhone SE,
iPhone 5c, iPhone 5, iPad Pro (12.9-inch), iPad Air 2, iPad Air, iPad mini 4,
iPad mini 3, iPad mini 2, iPad mini and iPod touch (5th generation) running iOS
8.2 or later.

