                              753 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                       March 21, 2016 Monday 12:24 PM GMT



New iPhone SE, iPad Pro, and Apple Watch? What to expect from the Apple Event in

March 2016;

The tech giant will be unveiling new products at its next presentation



BYLINE: Ben Travis



SECTION: TECH AND GAMING



LENGTH: 359 words





The time has come for Apple to announce a new range of products - with a new

iPhone and iPad among the expected reveals.



The tech giant is holding their latest Keynote event on Monday in Cupertino,

California, and plenty of rumours are swirling about what could be unveiled.



Here are a few suggestions of what we might see.



Read more



iPhone SE: Apple expected to announce new smaller handset in March



1) A new, smaller iPhone



If the rumours are to be believed, Apple are about to release the iPhone SE,

which stands for Special Edition.



While the iPhone 6 and 6S models were considerably larger than previous

versions, it seems that a new update more similar to the iPhone 4 and 5 is on

the way. It will be a cheaper option than the 6S and 6 Plus, but will still

include the up-to-date A9 chip.



2) A new iPad Pro



There's a lot of speculation about the arrival of a new iPad - which is likely

to be another iPad Pro, but will be more inthe style of the iPad Air 2.



It's expected to feature a 9.7-inch screen, which is smaller than the most

recent Pro model, which was firmly pitched for high-end businesses and creatives

as a laptop alternative.



Fake Play-Doh fingerprint 'fools security scan to hack into iPhone 6'



3) A new Apple Watch - or maybe just accessories



It's a year since the Apple Watch launched, and the consensus seems to have been

that while the wearable device was impressive, like the iPhone it would

considerably improve with updates.



Read more



Is this Apple's new iPhone?



Here's how to find a secret emoticon keyboard for your iPhone...



Fake Play-Doh fingerprint 'fools security scan to hack into iPhone 6'



The arrival of a new Apple Watch model shouldn't be ruled out - after all, the

time between the release of the original iPhone and the iPhone 3G was only a

year - but even if a new version doesn't surface, there should be an

announcement of new accessories and apps.



We won't know for sure until the event takes place on Monday, March 21 at 5pm UK

time. The Keynote can be streamed on Apple devices and on Apple's Safari web

browser.



LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2016 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





