                              756 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                               walesonline.co.uk



                    September 18, 2014 Thursday 3:58 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6 launch: Fans start queuing for latest smart phone two nights

before launch;

Queues are starting to form in Cardiff ahead of the new phone going on sale

tomorrow morning



BYLINE: By Cathy Owen



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 473 words





A group of friends will be queueing in Cardiff for two nights in a bid to get

their hands on the new iPhone 6.



Sascha Lopez, 24, Jamie Edward, 23, and Simon Williams, 24, all from the Swansea

area, started camping outside the capital's St Davids shopping centre at

lunchtime on Wednesday - nearly 48 hours before the new phone went on sale.



It means they are guaranteed to get into the centre's Apple store at 8am

tomorrow when they go on sale for the first time.



It is Sascha's third time to camp out for the latest Apple upgrade, but a first

for Jamie and Simon.



Apple CEO Tim Cook reveals the iPhone 6, the Apple Watch and Apple Pay



And they are not the only ones, self-employed builder Andy Walford, 40, from mid

Wales has been sleeping outside the Bullring outlet in Birmingham to get his

hands on one too.



Sascha said: "This is the third time I have camped out for a new phone. They

always have extremely limited stock so if you don't want to have to wait weeks

to get your hands on a phone this is the only way to do it.



"The new iPhone 6 is gorgeous piece of equipment. It is an unparalleled piece of

art."



The three friends invested in some blow up sofas after the first uncomfortable

night camped outside the shopping centre.



Andy in Birmingham said: "The pre-orders were snapped up online so quickly

compared to other times so that caused me to come down.



"Once I get it at 8am, I'm going home and straight to bed."



The demand for the phones have beaten all previous records with more than four

million units sold as pre-orders in the first 24 hours of going live, double the

number for the iPhone 5 when it first went on sale to pre-order.



The number of orders appears to have caught the technology giant off-guard, as

the firm stated that some devices might not reach customers until next month.



Apple CEO Tim Cook, who unveiled the new smartphones on stage in Cupertino

earlier this month, said the figures showed the enduring popularity of the

iPhone.



He said: "iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are better in every way, and we are

thrilled customers love them as much as we do. Pre-orders for iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus set a new record for Apple, and we can't wait to get our best

iPhones yet into the hands of customers starting this Friday."



Stuart Miles, CEO and founder of technology website Pocket-lint, believes that

customers are still drawn to Apple because of the way its products are designed.



"It's clear that people still very much love Apple products and that they really

do want a much bigger screen on their phones, and with four million units

already sold, and presumably thousands more to be sold over the weekend, the

excuses people had for leaving for Android are dwindling fast. It's also clear

that customers, when they can afford it, are happy to pay for design and build

quality over just getting something on the cheap."



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM





                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





