

Apple will release its newest products, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, in Hong
Kong and eight other places around the world tomorrow.

Pre-orders for the smartphones - the company's thinnest yet and with the largest
displays to date - hit a record four million in the nine markets last Friday.

Ahead of their release, the                South China Morning Post briefly
tested both devices using SmarTone Telecommunications' 4G mobile network.

I have been a satisfied iPhone user since Apple first partnered with mobile
network operator Three Hong Kong in 2008 to release the iPhone 3G in the city.

The new phones are solid and smooth to the touch. As Apple brings back its
curved design, gone are the edges found on the previous iPhone models.

The larger of the new models takes getting used to and is a tad slippery at
first. A protective case to provide a better grip is recommended.

The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch display that offers 38 per cent more viewing area
than the iPhone 5s' 4-inch screen, according to Apple. The iPhone 6 Plus has a
5.5-inch display, with 88 per cent more viewing area than the iPhone 5s.

Riding the MTR and using the new phones with one hand, I had no problem
navigating from Twitter to LinkedIn, Gmail and the mobile SCMP site even while
answering phone calls. Using the iPhone 6 Plus, I read a Jo Nesbo novel as
easily as I do on my iPad.

The volume buttons on the left-hand side of the new iPhones have a thin,
elongated design, which make them easy to find and use. The on/off button has
also been moved from the top of the phone to its right-hand side, which is
conveniently within reach even with the jumbo-sized iPhone 6 Plus.

My next test was to try putting the devices comfortably into my front right
jeans pocket, which is where I usually carry my phone. I had my reservations,
but this proved no problem.

The iPhone 6 is 6.9 millimetres  thick and the iPhone 6 Plus 7.1mm. These
figures compare favourably with the iPhone 5s, which is 7.6mm thick. .

The user-friendly "reachability" and "display zoom" features are a welcome
addition to the large-display devices.

The reachability feature shifts the page on-screen down so a user's thumb can
access elements previously out of reach. Double-touch - not double-press - the
home button to activate the feature. With display zoom, users can increase the
size of what is seen on the  screen.

So which new iPhone model should you choose? The most convenient path is the
iPhone 6, but I suggest trying out the iPhone 6 Plus at your mobile service
provider's shop to get used to the size. Or not.

Available in grey, silver and gold, prices for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
start from HK$5,588 and HK$6,388.

