                              760 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                      November 11, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Beware Samsung, LG! Apple is going for flexible screen iphones next year



LENGTH: 513  words





In the month of April this year when Apple was looking for OLED Engineers, we

expected that the company is "planning to explore the possibility of flexible

screen displays". Recently with the Korean competitors launching their curved

screen (phone) products in the market, Apple seems to have come in open

challenging its competitors.



Apple looking for OLED Engineers, iPhone 6 might sport a flexible display?



Apple deciding to go big, iPhone 6 to have 4.8 inch display



Latest news from Apple points to bigger and curved screen display iPhones as

soon as 2014. According to a news report in the Bloomberg, a person familiar

with the Cupertino giant's plan, has said that two models have been "planned for

release in the second half of next year would feature larger displays with glass

that curves downward at the edges." The person declining to be identified

because the details aren't public, mentions the report.



The two phones will sport a display screen of 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches, and

will make the larges iPhones from Apple. This year's iPhone carries 4 inch

retina display. The handsets are still in development and plans haven't been

completed yet. The source indicated a launch towards the third quarter of next

year.



Though it is too early to comment on this, we can understand that the estimated

launch date will come to October 2014. That's almost the same time Apple took

the iPhone 5 line up further with a iPhone 5C and iPhone 5S. If we consider that

Apple will launch a new phone in the middle of the year (that could be the

iPhone 6) and goes for a product launch with hardware upgrades, we can see an

iPhone 6S that will sport a curved display.



Revealed: Samsung's plans for new products in 2014, 2015



Micromax Canvas octa-core phone will hit market in 2014



In early September this year we heard rumours about bigger Apple iPhones. As per

a news report in the Wall Street Journal, says Apple has "begun evaluating a

plan to offer iPhones with screens ranging from 4.8 inches to as high as 6

inches, people familiar with the matter say".



Apple testing iPhones with 6 and 4.8 inch display, what will Samsung do?



It is important to note the industry competition on flexible screen products.

Early in year 2013 LG and Samsung introduced curved screen TVs at the

International Consumer Electronics Show. Both planned to become the first, but

Samsung launched its curved TVs few hours earlier than LG. Later during the

middle of this year LG launched first flexible screen display for phone. By the

end of this year (October) when Apple launched the iPhone 5S Samsung announced

its Galaxy Round and LG announced G Flex.



World's first curved TV makes appearance, courtesy Samsung



CES 2013: LG reveals curved OLED TV with Paper Slim design



World's first curved screen TV readies for pre-order, will cost about 7 lakh



LG beats Samsung this time, brings flexible display for borderless phones



Who's more curvaceous? LG G Flex or Samsung Galaxy Round



Samsung announces world's first curved phone, Galaxy Round



LG answers Galaxy Round, announces G Flex as first 'real' curved smartphone



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





