                              761 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday



Apple debuts smartwatch, two new iPhones and mobile payments



BYLINE: By Julia Love, Jeremy C. Owens and Troy Wolverton Staff writers



SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; Personal Technology; News; Local; Business



LENGTH: 1008 words





CUPERTINO -- Apple CEO Tim Cook debuted Apple's first new product category

Tuesday since the introduction of the iPad tablet computer, showing off a new

smartwatch along with two iPhones and a mobile-payments offering built in to the

new devices.



Apple's smartwatch -- called simply the Apple Watch -- has a new user interface,

with Cook declaring, "What we didn't do was take the iPhone and shrink the user

interface and strap it on your wrist."



It will come in three different basic forms: Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport and

Apple Edition, with the last one available in 18-karat gold; Apple Watch will be

a standard offering, while the Sport edition will be sturdier. The wearable

computer will be highly customizable, with different sizes for the watch face

and bands of different colors as well as leather and metal, with a starting base

price of $350. The device will go on sale in early 2015.



Users will interact with the Apple Watch through a dial on the side, using it to

scroll up and down and zoom in, or through its touchscreen, which is made of

synthetic sapphire Apple has been manufacturing in Arizona. The device will have

access to Apple's voice-detection technology Siri, allowing users to guide

through interactions with voice commands, and a series of gestures can help

control basic functions as well.



The watch -- which must be used in tandem with an iPhone 5 or later -- can

record users' vitals, with sensors detecting bodily actions such as pulse rate,

and record them with HealthKit, Apple software introduced earlier this year at

the Worldwide Developers Conference. More functionality will quickly be on the

way: Outside developers received access to build apps for the watch through new

software called WatchKit.



With its customizable form and different possible tasks, the Apple Watch can be

a different device for different users' needs, Cook said, calling it "the most

personal device Apple has ever created."



"I use mine to control the Apple TV, another team member uses his as a remote

for his iPhone camera," the CEO divulged.



Apple introduced two new, larger iPhones that will function with its smartwatch

-- the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which Cook described as "the best phones you

have ever seen."



"Today, we are launching the biggest advancement in the history of iPhones,"

Cook said.



The iPhone 6 Plus will be 5.5 inches diagonal, a size in between a smartphone

and tablet that has proved especially popular in Asia, and the iPhone 6 will be

4.7 inches, still larger than the iPhone 5S and 5C, which Apple will continue to

sell at lower prices.



The larger form factor will give the iPhone 6 Plus a larger battery and

therefore longer battery life: Apple said that the iPhone 6 will have about 14

hours of talk time, in line with the previous iteration, while the iPhone 6 Plus

will have 24 hours of talk time.



One of the smartphones' big advances is Apple Pay, a mobile-payments offering

that utilizes near-field communications to get rid of credit cards' "outdated

and vulnerable magnetic stripe," as Cook described them.



Instead of using physical cards, Apple's iPhone will connect to users' payment

options, while not storing credit card numbers or security codes. The Apple

Watch will also take advantage of the technology, which needs NFC reading

devices at registers to work properly -- the service starts with 220,000

contactless machines in place at retailers, along with Apple partners such as

McDonald's, Walgreens and Disney.



Apple software leader Eddy Cue stressed the security and privacy of Apple's

payments option, which will link with American Express, Visa and Mastercard.



"Apple doesn't know what you bought, where you bought it, or how much you paid

for it," Cue said.



Both new iPhones will be offered in black, gray and gold. The smaller iPhone 6

will have a price tag starting at $199 with subsidies from wireless carriers,

ranging up to $399 for a phone with 128 GB of memory; the iPhone 6 Plus will

range from $299 to $499 with a two-year contract. Apple will begin selling the

phones on Sept. 19 in the United States and eight other countries, and wants to

roll out sales to more than 100 countries by the end of the year.



The two new iPhones will arrive with Apple's newest mobile operating system, iOS

8, which will roll out on Sept. 17, marketing guru Phil Schiller announced.

Apple previously showed off the new features of iOS 8 at its Worldwide

Developers Conference.



The biggest disappointment for Apple fans who didn't receive an event invitation

was the company's live stream of the event, which malfunctioned from the very

beginning and never delivered a consistent view of Apple's event. Those

fortunate enough to establish a solid connection to the live stream by the end

of the two-hour-long event were treated to a performance from legendary rock

band U2, which announced its new album will be released immediately for free on

iTunes.



Ahead of the event, throng of reporters and invited guests amassed outside the

Flint Center on Tuesday morning, near a gleaming white structure Apple built,

snacking on breakfast burritos and juice as Apple employees in crimson shirts

with tiny, black Apple logos directed them. Among the VIPs photographed outside

the event were Apple cofounder Steve Wozniak and Twitter CEO Dick Costolo, while

No Doubt lead singer Gwen Stefani tweeted a picture of herself and rapper Dr.

Dre and said they were on their way to the event.



Anticipation for Apple's event has been higher than even the heavily hyped

debuts of the past few years, amid expectations for Apple's first new product

category since the iPad.



"They might be rewriting the history books, as they did for tablets and

smartphones," Matt Margolis, an analyst at PTT Research, said.



Investors excited for Apple's latest gadgets have pushed the company's stock to

new heights in the past month, topping records set amid the release of the

iPhone 5 in 2012, but shares dipped 0.4 percent to $97.99 after Apple's event

Tuesday.



Contact Jeremy C. Owens at 408-920-5876; follow him at Twitter.com/jowens510 .



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the Apple Watch at the Flint Center

Tuesday morning, Sept. 9, 2014, in Cupertino, Calif. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News

Group)

Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the Apple Watch at the Flint Center Tuesday

morning September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News

Group

Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the Apple Watch at the Flint Center Tuesday

morning September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News

Group

Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the new iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus during at

the Flint Center Tuesday morning September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California.

(Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group

Apple CEO Tim Cook acknowledges a standing ovation after introducing the Apple

Watch, a product he revealed during a media event at the Flint Center Tuesday

morning September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News

Group



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





