                              765 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                       May 28, 2014 Wednesday 4:18 AM GMT



Apple's iPhone 6 to be launched on September 19th?: 'Date leaked by German phone

firm';

Support reps at Deutche Telekom have reportedly been told the date of the hotly

anticipated release



BYLINE: By Sam Adams



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 205 words





Could Apple be planning to launch its new iPhone 6 on September 19th?



The date was reportedly leaked by staff at German phone firm Deutsche Telekom.



Support reps at the company are said to have been told the date of the hotly

anticipated release, according to the website apfelpage.de.



Although it is highly unlikely Apple revealed a specific launch date to phone

firms so far in advance, it fits with the US company's tendency to release its

new phones on a Friday.



September 19th falls on a Friday this year.



Last year, for example, the iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c were both released on

Friday, September 20th - while the year before the iPhone 5 was released on

Friday, September 21st.



Germany is usually one of Apple's initial launch markets for iPhones, along with

several other nations, including the UK.



The French website, nowhereelse.fr released the video below showing what it

claims is a 'dummy' iPhone 6 handset.



It is believed a total of 80 million iPhone 6 handsets would be produced this

year.



Industry watchers have said increasing the iPhone's screen size from 4 inches

would help Apple regain market share from competitors such as Samsung, who they

say have responded to consumer desire for more screen size.



iPhone 6 dummy video



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





