                              769 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                            Business World (Digest)



                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday



Apple set for slowest ever iPhone sales growth;

Apple set for s...



LENGTH: 483 words







HIGHLIGHT: Apple Inc is expected to report iPhone sales increased slightly more

than 1 percent in the holiday quarter when it announces earnings on Tuesday, its

slowest growth ever and far from the double-digit growth investors have come to

expect.





Apple Inc is expected to report iPhone sales increased slightly more than 1

percent in the holiday quarter when it announces earnings on Tuesday, its

slowest growth ever and far from the double-digit growth investors have come to

expect.



The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, which boasted record weekend sales when they launched

in September, are now facing weak demand, according to analysts, because they

have fewer distinguishing features than their popular predecessors.



The new iPhones also face tough comparisons with the strong sales of their older

siblings.



Apple tapped into a crucial market when it unveiled its bigger-screen 6 and 6

Plus phones in 2014, grabbing the attention of Asian customers, who had

previously lapped up phablets from players such as Samsung Electronics. "Apple

has become a victim of their own success as the blockbuster iPhone 6 product

cycle was hard to replicate as many customers are either buying an older,

cheaper iPhone 6 or waiting for the iPhone 7," FBR Capital Markets analyst

Daniel Ives said. China, the company's fastest-growing market, may also have

weighed on first-quarter results, as a slowdown in the country's economy forced

consumers to tighten their purse strings. Analysts estimate Apple sold 75.5

million iPhones in the October-December quarter, a 1.3 percent increase from a

year earlier, according to research firm FactSet StreetAccount. This compares

with a nearly 46 percent year-over-year jump in iPhone sales in the first

quarter of 2015. The slowest growth in quarterly iPhone sales so far has been

6.8 percent, in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, according to data from

Statista. To make matters worse, Apple is expected to forecast a drop in iPhone

sales for the March quarter - the first time that sales will fall since the

iPhone was launched in 2007. This was foreshadowed by disappointing

March-quarter forecasts from the company's Asian suppliers such as Taiwan

Semiconductor Manufacturing Co and Largan Precision Co Ltd. Apple is expected to

sell 54.6 million iPhones in the March 2016 quarter, according to FactSet. The

company sold 61.2 million iPhones between January and March, 2015 - a 40 percent

year-over-year increase. Analysts said the company will have to wait until the

launch of the iPhone 7, expected later this year, to return to growth, as buyers

upgrade to the latest version. Analysts, technology blogs and company watchers

say the iPhone 7 could include waterproofing, wireless headphones and use its

new force touch technology to kill off the home button. Apple shares closed down

1.98 percent at dollar 99.41 on Monday. They have fallen nearly 10 percent since

the start of October, steeper than a 2.2 percent decline in the S&P 500 index.

Out of the 50 brokerages that cover Apple, 43 have a "buy" or higher rating on

the stock. Their median 12-month price target is dollar 141.50. (Reuters)

Source: www.businessworld.ie



LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





