                              774 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday



MAGID ON TECH: Tech test pits iPhone 6 against LG G3



BYLINE: By Larry Magid Daily News Columnist



SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local



LENGTH: 543 words





There have been a lot of great things written about the iPhone 6 Plus and, I

agree, it's an excellent phone. But there are plenty of other great phones on

the market and the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are not necessarily the best choice for

everyone.



For the past week I've been carrying an iPhone 6 Plus in one pocket and an LG G3

in another and I can see how each would have its fans and detractors. Both are

excellent phones.



Of course, if you love iOS or all things Apple, then the iPhone is your personal

winner. Only an iPhone can run Apple's operating system, so your decision is

easy. But if you're open to Android -- which has finally matured into an

operating system that's truly competitive with iOS -- then the G3 has some

hardware features that might win you over.



It starts with the form factor. While both phones have essentially the same size

(5.5-inch) screen, the iPhone is considerably taller and slightly wider (though

a little thinner). Personally, I much prefer the size of the G3. It fits better

in my hand and is less prone to slipping than the iPhone, yet delivers the same

amount of screen real estate.



Technically, the G3 has a higher screen resolution (1440 x 2560 pixels vs.

1920-by-1080) but both screens look great. I'm not sure why, but I actually

prefer the iPhone's screen slightly over the G3, despite the lower resolution.



When it comes to storage, Apple gives you a choice of 16, 64 or 128 gigabytes,

while LG comes only with 32 GB but has a MicroSD slot, making it easy and

affordable to add up to 128 extra GB for about $100, making the G3 a better

value for those who want to store plenty of music, video, apps or photos on

their phone.



If you judged the camera purely on resolution, the LG with its 13 MP camera

would win over the iPhone's 8 MP camera, but that's not the whole story. Apple

has done an amazingly good job with its camera both in terms of ease of use and

image quality. Based on my tests, I'd have to call it pretty much a tie when it

comes to camera quality. Neither can replace a high-end SLR camera, but both can

take very good snapshots and decent video under a range of lighting conditions.



Call quality of course depends on your carrier, but both phones sounded pretty

good in my tests.



The iPhone has "Touch ID" and the LG G3 doesn't, so when it comes to being able

to use your fingerprint to sign into the phone, there's no competition here. I

really like Touch ID and would love to see something like it on all phones. I

give Apple credit for doing it right. It takes a while to train the iPhone 6 and

6 Plus to recognize your fingerprints but, once it does, it recognizes them

almost every time. Touch ID will be particularly important once Apple rolls out

its Apple Pay service by allowing users to verify a purchase with the touch of a

finger.



As per price, the G3 is available unlocked for $580 (from AT&T) vs. $750 for the

least expensive (16 GB) iPhone 6 Plus. If you're willing to sign a contract, the

prices are the same ($199) on AT&T and Verizon Wireless.



Personally, if I were to buy an iPhone, I'd be more likely to get the regular 6

because it feels better in the hand. But if you want the larger screen size in a

more compact case, take a look at the G3.



Email Larry Magid at larry@larrymagid.com



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





