                              785 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                            August 6, 2015 Thursday



Top 5 online rumors of latest iPhone



LENGTH: 548  words





Apple Inc is expected to unveil its next-generation iPhone in September. As

usual, rumors have gone viral as unsubstantiated stories constantly swirl around

the Internet.



According to data released by Canalys, a mobile market research firm, one in

three smartphones shipped in China was from Xiaomi Inc or Huawei Technologies Co

Ltd in the second quarter. Apple came in third, followed by Samsung and Vivo.



During the same period, shares of the California kingpin fell 2.36 percent to a

six-month low. The stock also fell below its 200-day moving average for the

first time since September 2013.



UBS analyst Steven Milunovich said in a note that the "key investment debate is

whether iPhone shipments can grow in fiscal 2016".



Here we feature some of the hot topics to have been discussed online:



Release date



A member of staff at a China Mobile shop explains a function of the iPhone 5s in

Beijing January 17, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



"The new iPhone will go on sale via telecom carrier Vodafone on September 25,"

said UK-based tech website Mobile News, citing a leaked internal e-mail sent

from Vodafone.



According to the e-mail, the operator outlined pre-launch information, including

that they will begin taking pre-orders from September 18.



Spy shots



Australian website macfixit.com.au, posted photos on Monday which appear to be

the new iPhone 6S Display Assembly. [Photo/macfixit.com.au]



Photos, believed to have been leaked from Apple's original equipment

manufacturer in China, were posted on Sina Weibo, China's Twitter-like social

media platform. [Photo/Sina Weibo]



Slimmer



Exploded view of the Apple iPhone 6 Plus after a product teardown by iFixit in

Australia September 19, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Taiwan-based Digitimes reports that Apple will adopt 0.4t (with a dimension of

3x0.85x0.4mm) LED chips for its backlight units, in order to make its iPhone

even thinner than the previous generation.



The report suggests that Apple will use 0.4t LED chips from Japan-based Nichia

and Toyoda Gose.



Rose gold, Force Touch



A customer holds an iPhone 6 (right) and iPhone 6 Plus after the phones went on

sale in New York, September 19, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Tech website Apple Insider reported on May 12 that Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI

Securities, who has a solid track record on Apple leaks, issued a new research

note that revealed a number of changes planned for Apple's so-called "iPhone

6s".



He said Apple will offer a new rose gold option, though he didn't indicate how

much the high-end luxury model might cost.



Force Touch, a technology that can enhance user experience due to more input

methods and support of handwritten signatures, will be the biggest upgraded

selling point, but also one of the main bottlenecks in the supply chain.



New Chip



The internal parts of a suspected next-generation iPhone. [Photo/9to5mac.com]



According to 9to5mac.com, one of the main upgrades to the next iPhone's internal

parts will be a redesigned wireless system featuring a new Qualcomm-made LTE

chip.



"The new device will include Qualcomm's MDM9635M chip, also known as the '9X35'

Gobi modem platform," said the report.



This new chip promises significant performance improvements over the "9X25" chip

found inside the current iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, capable of delivering up to

twice the theoretical LTE download speeds.



LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





