
DATELINE: Washington


The Institution of Engineering and Technology has issued the following news
release:

Apple says it sold more than 10 million iPhones in the first weekend after its
new models went on sale on Friday.

Chief Executive Tim Cook said the company could have sold even more iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus models if it weren't for the supply constraints the company tends
to face in years that involve a re-design, with screen production a major
concern this year.

Analysts had estimated first-weekend sales of up to 10 million iPhones, after
Apple booked record pre-orders of 4 million on September 12, the day pre-orders
opened.

"Despite the supply chain constraints around the iPhone 6 Plus and tightness
around certain models of the iPhone 6, we believe (Monday's) strong print
demonstrates that Apple executed extremely well in the face of severe supply
constraints," Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White wrote in a note.

First-day pre-orders of the new phones, which went on sale in 10 countries, far
surpassed the two million first-day pre-orders for the iPhone 5 model two years
ago.

"While our team managed the manufacturing ramp better than ever before, we could
have sold many more iPhones with greater supply and we are working hard to fill
orders as quickly as possible," Cook said in a statement.

Last year, Apple sold 9 million iPhone 5S and 5C models in 11 countries,
including China, in the first weekend they were available. Sales of the latest
models in China, the world's largest smartphone market, have been delayed by
regulatory issues.

Apple sold 5 million iPhone 5 handsets, 4 million iPhone 4S models and 1.7
million iPhone 4 units during the first weekend.

The company said last week that many US customers would have to wait until next
month for their new iPhones due to strong demand. The new iPhones will be
available in 20 more countries on September 26.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

