                              789 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 therecord.com



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



Apple CEO goes from record sales to iPhone stumbles



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 960 words





SAN FRANCISCO - Apple chief executive officer Tim Cook called the introduction

of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus over the weekend the "best launch ever."



He may have spoken too soon.



Just three days after announcing that Apple had sold a record 10 million new

iPhones over the opening weekend, Cook was faced with multiple snafus related to

the bigger-screen handsets.



The company pulled a new mobile-software update, dubbed iOS 8.0.1, after the

program caused some people to lose cellular service on Wednesday, and he

promised a fix soon. Scores of consumers also took to social media to criticize

the 6 Plus and how it can bend if sat on or if enough pressure is placed on it.



The stumbles blemished what had been a carefully choreographed product unveiling

that was meant to put Cook's stamp on Apple. Company executives had for months

teased the introduction of the new iPhones before finally debuting them on Sept.

9. The devices had spurred a frenzy of demand, with pre-orders topping four

million, the record weekend sales and a thriving gray market for the smartphones

in China and elsewhere.



Now Cook's rollout of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus is marred, recalling incidents

that the CEO has faced with other product debuts. Last year, Cook apologized for

the iPhone's warranty and repair policies in China after receiving criticism

from state-run media over customer service in the market. In 2012, Cook also

said he was sorry for Apple's malfunctioning mapping software, which was faulted

for misguided directions and inaccurate landmark locations.



"I just wish that Tim Cook had a better handle on things," said Jason Nochimson,

34, an iPhone 6 owner who spent 2 ½ hours on Apple's customer support line after

downloading the software upgrade yesterday and finding it stopped his cellular

service. "I was worried that my daughter's school was going to call me today and

I wasn't going to be able to get them."



Apple said in an emailed statement that it has devised a workaround for iPhone 6

users who lost voice service or other features. Users can reinstall the previous

version of iOS to restore past functionality and Apple plans to release a new

version of the operating system, iOS 8.0.2, in the next few days.



"We apologize for the great inconvenience experienced by users," Apple said in

the statement.



The new iPhones are crucial to Apple. The devices generate more than half of the

company's annual $171 billion in revenue and precede a swath of other products,

including new iPads, an Apple Watch and a mobile-payments system called Apple

Pay.



Yet while Cook deals with consumer criticism over his handling of the iPhone

rollout, the issues may have little impact on Apple's sales. Demand for the new

handsets has the company poised to sell more than 61 million iPhones in the

December quarter, surpassing last year's record 51 million sold, according to

Barclays.



Sales are also set to pick up - not decelerate - as the new iPhones become

available in more countries. On Sept. 19, the first day the handsets went on

sale in stores, Apple rolled them out in 10 countries. The company was set to

introduce the phones in another 22 countries on Friday. In total, the iPhones

will be in 115 countries by the end of the year, Apple has said.



"It will do nothing, I don't suspect it will dampen any demand," said Tim

Bajarin, an analyst at Creative Strategies Inc., about concerns over bending

phones and iOS problems.



Still, some consumers are thinking twice about buying the devices in the wake of

the lastest miscues. After having problems with Apple's new software upgrade to

his old iPhone, James Zahrt, a customer since 1989, decided to put off a new

smartphone purchase.



"I was going to order one immediately" but now "I'm going to wait," said Zahrt,

58, of Mt. Prospect, Ill., who's had troubles with his iPhone 4s's alarm clock

working properly since downloading Apple's iOS 8 software last week. "I think

the bugs need to be worked out on this thing."



The popular tide turned against the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus earlier this week

when reports began emerging that the larger 5.5-inch screen model was bending

when people sat on it. Rivals, including BlackBerry CEO John Chen, took a jab at

the iPhone. He said he "would challenge you guys to bend our Passport" device,

referring to the new Passport smartphone launched on Wednesday.



That was followed by reports from users Wednesday that the iOS 8 software

upgrade, which had been issued to address previous software bugs and add the

health and fitness-monitoring application HealthKit, was causing some customers

to experience dropped cell service.



Nochimson, the customer who spent 2 ½ hours on the phone with Apple customer

service, said his representative was unaware there would be a software update.



"He told me that he was not made aware that Apple was releasing 8.0.1 Thursday,"

Nochimson said. "It was a shock to him that that happened. He said typically

when they do software updates they know about it days in advance, so they're

ready for it."



Frustrations about iOS 8 had been mounting even before Wednesday, with user

complaints that their devices' battery life seemed to have dwindled after

downloading the software, along with data showing applications were more likely

to crash with the operating system. According to Crittercism Inc., an analytics

firm, iOS 8 causes apps to crash about 3.3 per cent of the time, or 67 per cent

more than last year's version.



While glitches aren't unusual for software updates, Apple attracts more

attention, said Frank Gillett, an analyst at Forrester Research.



"Apple is a bit of lightning rod or a focus because as a company, they inspire a

lot of positive and negative passion and also because they are now this company

with a global brand and global reach," he said.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





