

iOS 8

Both iPhones come with iOS 8, which has many news features.

One of these upgrades is the built-in predictive QuickType Keyboard. It was
quite good in predicting what I wanted to type, making it faster for me to write
text or e-mail messages.

You can also install third-party predictive keyboards such as SwiftKey (free) or
Swype ($1.28). Once you download the keyboards, go to Settings >General
>Keyboard >Keyboards. At Add Keyboard function, you will find SwiftKey or Swype
available.

Android users who are reading this are probably laughing now as they have had
this feature for a long time. But better late than never. I found Swype to be
really superb, as it allows me to slide my finger across the virtual keyboard
instead of typing letter by letter. And it almost always got me the word I
wanted and predicted the next one intelligently.

You can now record and send audio or video messages within iMessages. You can
set these audio and video clips to expire after two minutes. Listening to the
audio clips is particularly cool, as you can just put the headset to your ear to
hear the message instead of tapping a play button.

For iPhone 6 Plus, the icons in the Home screen will rotate to match the
orientation of the display in landscape mode. In this mode, iPhone 6 Plus apps
such as iMessages and Mail will show two panels: one, a list of messages; and
the other, the selected message.

The Health app, which relies considerably on third-party apps for information,
is hampered by delays till the end of the month because of a bug in the
HealthKit framework.

Certain features, such as Continuity, will come in handy only when the new OS X
Yosemite launches. Continuity lets you continue typing an e-mail message or
viewing a website when you switch from iPhone to Mac, for example.

Display

The iPhone 6 features a 4.7-inch Retina HD display with a screen resolution of
1,334 x 750 pixels and a pixel density of 326 pixels per inch (ppi).

The iPhone 6 Plus has the same display as its sibling. However, it is
substantially bigger at 5.5 inches and has a resolution of 1,920 x 1,080 pixels.
This gives it a pixel density of 401ppi, the highest ever in an iPhone.

Its rivals the Samsung Galaxy S5 and the upcoming Samsung Galaxy Note 4 have
432ppi and 550ppi respectively.

Apple said the Retina HD displays are made of ion-strengthened glass, which is
more resistant to scratching and shattering.

Both displays use the same technology that is supposed to give you a better
viewing experience, with deeper blacks and sharper text.

Dual-domain pixels ensure colour accuracy from corner to corner for a wider
viewing angle, while an improved built-in polariser lets you see the screen more
clearly when you are outdoors in sunlight.

Both displays looked sharp. I saw very little colour or brightness shift when
viewing both displays from the side. Even when you are outdoors, you will be
able to see what is displayed clearly.

Because the iPhone 6 Plus has a bigger screen, its display looks brighter and
sharper even though it has the same brightness level and its pixel density is
only marginally higher than that of the iPhone 6. Photos and videos all look
much better on this display than on the smaller iPhone.

I think the bigger screen of the iPhone 6 Plus accentuates the whole viewing
experience. In addition, the extra real estate provides ample space for virtual
buttons while leaving enough to display the main action.

Design

The flat sides and chamfered edges of the iPhone 5/5s are things of the past. In
the new iPhones, the front glass panel curves around the edges for a smooth and
seamless meeting with the rounded edges of the anodised aluminium shell, a
perfect union of glass and metal.

The rear sheds the two-tone look of its predecessors for a more uniform colour.
Only the antenna band is slightly different in colour.

The Sleep/Wake button has migrated from the top to the right side of the device,
for easier access with your right thumb.

The volume buttons, which were round in the iPhone 5s, are now elongated like
those found on the iPad Air. Rounded edges make it comfortable to hold either of
the new iPhones in your hand.

However, the iPhone 6 is much better for one-hand operation for most people.
Being smaller, it lets you access the buttons more easily.

While it may not be as easy to use the iPhone 6 Plus with one hand, a feature
that Apple terms Readability lets you move the screen down by double tapping the
Home button for better one-hand operation.

Some of my colleagues who handled the iPhone 6 Plus had trouble reaching the
Home button to activate this feature. I think most people may end up using the
iPhone 6 Plus with both hands.

Speed

With an upgraded 64-bit A8 chip, both new iPhones operate much more speedily
than earlier models when you open apps, browse the Internet or view photos and
videos.

In the Geekbench 3 benchmark tests, the iPhone 6 scored 1,625 (single-core) and
2,921 (multi-core) while the iPhone 6 Plus scored 1,621 (single-core) and 2,914
(multi-core). So it is a tie in terms of performance. Where it took 20sec to
load Infinity Blade III on the iPhone 5s, both the new iPhones loaded the game
in about 9sec.

Camera

Both the new iPhones have the same 8-megapixel f/2.2 rear camera and can shoot
slow-motion video at 240 frames per second (fps), instead of the iPhone 5s
camera's 120fps.

Pictures and videos shot by both new iPhones were sharp with crisp details, even
in the darker areas of the image.

The iPhone 6 Plus has an optical image stabiliser which reduces the effect of
camera shake. This is more effective than the digital image stabiliser of the
iPhone 6. As a result, action videos shot with the iPhone 6 Plus look more
stable and less jerky than those shot with the iPhone 6.

I found the autofocusing to be faster in the iPhone 6 Plus than the iPhone 6.
This was especially so when shooting in dim conditions.

Battery life

Apple has not specified the capacity of the battery. But iPhone 6 Plus is
supposed to provide 24 hours of 3G talk time (16 days on standby), while the
iPhone 6 is supposed to have 14 hours of 3G talk time (10 days on standby).

In my tests, which included viewing Facebook and Twitter updates, e-mail
messages and sending WhatsApp messages, I found that you would probably need to
charge your iPhone 6 by the time you get home from work, whereas you should only
need to charge your iPhone 6 Plus when you go to bed.

In our intensive battery life test in which a 720p video is looped at full
brightness and full volume with Wi-Fi on, the iPhone 6 lasted 6hr 55min, while
the iPhone 6 Plus lasted 7hr 35min. In the same test, the iPhone 5s clocked 6hr
45min.

If your hands are of average size, the iPhone 6 should suffice. But if you
prefer a larger display and a longer battery life, the iPhone 6 Plus is a must.
If you are undecided, go and handle both iPhones at a shop before you make your
choice.

