                              800 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           October 11, 2014 Saturday



Apple to start midnight sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in India for first

time



BYLINE: Writankar Mukherjee & Gulveen Aulakh



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 509 words





KOLKATA| NEW DELHI: With record pre-launch orders for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus, Apple will start midnight sales for its devices in India for the first

time, in line with the practice it follows elsewhere.



The phones are to be launched in India on October 17. More than 5,000 of the new

handsets have been reserved at Apple stores, multi-brand retail chains and

e-commerce sites in the last two days, according to three senior trade

executives. Sales to those who have booked the phones will start midnight at The

MobileStore, UniverCell, Planet M Retail and Sangeetha Mobiles outlets besides

Apple stores.



"The craze about iPhones is for the first time felt in India like in the West,"

said Himanshu Chakrawarti, CEO, The Mobile Store. "The exclusivity to own the

first lot of iPhones before others is huge, much like when a Salman Khan movie

releases or how consumers used to rush at midnight to buy the first lot of Harry

Potter books."



Videocon-owned PlanetM Retail's chief executive Sanjay Karwa said the midnight

launch will ensure traditional offline retailers have the advantage over online

retail, which is creating market disruptions. "Midnight launch is a new concept

in India and Apple's move will ensure brick-and-mortar customers receive the

handset first.



We will keep a few of our stores open past midnight to fulfill all orders, since

getting permission for that is also a hassle," Karwa said. Trade sources said

Infibeam, Apple's sole authorised online seller for iPhones in India, has

clocked the highest number of bookings - in excess of 2,000 - with big demand

from companies and smaller towns.



The maximum orders are for the 128 GB iPhone 6 priced at Rs 71,500. Infibeam.com

co-founder Neeru Sharma declined to confirm the numbers, but said there had been

unprecedented demand for the new iPhones and that it will try and ensure

deliveries in metro cities and towns on October 17 itself. Last year, Apple's

iPhone 5s had around 2,000 bookings in India, where the concept of pre-order is

still new.



Rival Samsung took pre-launch orders for its Galaxy S4 and S5, with those for

the S5 at about 2,500, according to trade sources. An email sent to Apple did

not elicit any responses as of the press time. Apple has assured retailers that

it will ensure sufficient inventory for all pre-ordered units on the launch day.



The concern that there could be a shortage due to strong demand in the West

remains. Also, the launch date of the new iPhones in India coincides with that

in China, a far bigger market for smartphones and Apple. Only 29% of more than

900 million mobile phone subscribers in India have smartphones, while in China

the user base is around 500 million.



Infibeam's chief executiveofficer Vishal Mehta said there could be a

demand-and-supply-gap for the new iPhones due to a high demand. The 4.7-inch

iPhone 6 starts at Rs 53,500 while the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus starts at Rs

62,500. Globally, Apple sold a record 10 million units in three days after the

launch on September 19 in 10 markets.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





