                              801 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                           August 31, 2016 Wednesday



Five years after Apple co-founder Steve Job's death, here's a look at the key

innovations in the iPhone;

Much had been said about how Apple will fare after the death of co-founder and

CEO Steve Jobs. With the new iPhone speculated to be announced on September 7,

Apple's current CEO Tim Cook seems to have fared well in the post-Jobs era, even

though failin...



BYLINE: Sumit Chakraborty



LENGTH: 704  words





Much had been said about how Apple will fare after the death of co-founder and

CEO Steve Jobs. With the new iPhone speculated to be announced on September 7,

Apple's current CEO Tim Cook seems to have fared well in the post-Jobs era, even

though failing on some accounts. Steve Jobs as a CEO was known to be a notorious

perfectionist. Five years ago on August 2011, Jobs, owing to his ill health,

reluctantly stepped down as the CEO and handed over the reins to then COO Tim

Cook.



At the time when Jobs died, Apple was worth $ 350 billion and now it is well

past the half a trillion dollar mark. When it comes to iPhones, it can be said

Steve Jobs took bigger risks to introduce a single new product packed with

innovations, Cook has focussed on building on earlier success. Jobs idea was to

build vertically while Cook's has been horizontal. When Cook took over the reins

after Jobs' death, Apple had produced a single iPhone and one iPad. There were

varieties only in the iPod and some in the laptops and desktops. But when it

came to iPhone, Cook started with the iPhone 5C has and offered consumers a

wider range of iPhone choices. Apple has sent out media invites for an event

scheduled on September 7, 2016, where it will likely announce the iPhone 7 and

7S with better camera functionality and better hardware while the design will

probably be the same as iPhone 6 and 6S.



Currently, there are three models Apple has on offer - iPhone 6s, 6s Plus and

SE, before the speculated announcement next month. The range is not just on the

iPhone but also on the iPad there are four variants in different sizes which

range in different sizes - iPad Pro 12.9, iPad Mini 2 and others. When it comes

to the innovations in the operating system department, Cook has taken measures

to innovate development kits from all sources possible, which was not the case

in the Jobs era. The development kits range from photos, maps, Cloud among many.

Steve Jobs treated program codes of the company very discreetly and secretly.

Cook, in turn, has given access to Apple ecosystem to developers so that they

can build for them. There is no block in the iOS ecosystem. When Cook launched

the iPhone 5 it was an impressive update with a faster processor, a larger and

brighter display and LTE networking support. It was much thinner than the

earlier versions.



When Cook launched the iPhone 6, it was a large phone. It was much larger than

Steve Job's 'perfect size' of 3.5 inches. The biggest misfire that happened,

which broke the iPhone 6 was the iOS 8.0.1 update. It was especially disastrous

because it broke the image of an iPhone of 'it just works'. Then Siri which was

one of a kind concept got overtaken by Microsoft's Cortana and Google Now. Apple

infamously made mistakes with iOS 6's built-in Maps feature, for which Tim Cook

had to publish a public apology letter. The only place where the iPhone lacked

was that with the advancement of other tech companies, it missed out on a good

story describing why the phone better than its earlier version or any other

smartphone in the market. While the iPhone 4 had Retina Display, with which it

improved upon the display resolution, the 4S had Siri the voice activated

assistant. Both of these attracted worldwide attention and captured the

imagination of consumers.



The new iPhones didn't have a comparable sales pitch and it is not surprising

after Job's death. The biggest strength in the previous versions was that Jobs

understood the fact that people did not really understand specifications but

would rather know what they can do with the hardware. His products were

dramatically more useful, as he gave great terms for the products even if there

weren't many. But Tim Cook, on the other hand, has packed powerful hardware with

lower prices, as seen with the iPhone 5 and iPhone 6. But he doesn't have a

story to tell. Apple has smart engineers, so like the previous versions, it can

be expected that iPhone 7 will also prove to be a good product and will be

bought by Apple lovers. It remains to be seen if even with the profits, will

Apple turn out to be like any other tech company or will it provide more vision

to its products rather than just introducing cheaper and faster hardware.



LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





