                              803 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)



                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday



Always wait before updating software



BYLINE: The Lowell Sun



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 456 words





By Norm Morin



Have you been waiting for a new Apple iPhone or just a software update?



Shortly after the new iPhone software release, 8.0, was available to the public,

Apple released a software update, 8.01. But the update was quickly recalled. The

update caused iPhones to disconnect. The iPhone became an unPhone!



New software for older iPhones and a new iPhone were the big news last week. A

lot of people were disappointed to discover their iPhones had no cell service if

they updated to the latest and greatest release of software. Many times a new

and improved software release that was intended to fix a particular problem

breaks something else. This was the case with release 8.01. It is usually a good

idea to wait a while before loading a new software release on your iPhone. Let

someone else be a guinea pig.



Quality control is a major consideration when developing a product. QC is not a

glamorous job, but it is a very necessary function that gets overlooked. It is a

dirty job, but someone has to do it. When testing new software, it seems that

there are an infinite number of combinations to verify. There may have been more

attention paid to the changes to resolve problems than overall verification of

the new software.



New iPhone users were also shocked by news of bent iPhones. The two new iPhone

models are bigger than the older models. It is more difficult to shove an iPhone

in tight pants. The larger iPhone is subject to more stress than a smaller phone

that floats in a pocket.



Apple installs stickers in iPhones to indicate if the phone has been subject to

moisture. Will apple install bend indicators in iPhones? It might seem humorous

but an iPhone that has been stressed by being flexed could have less resale

value.



The current trend of cell phones: bigger is better. Apple resisted the trend for

a little while, but this new iPhone has followed the crowd. The iPhone 6 is

bigger than the older, standard iPhone and the iPhone 6-plus is even bigger than

the iPhone 6.



Using a larger cell phone requires more attention and most likely two hands. It

is very difficult to type one-handed with a larger phone. Using a cell phone

while driving is not an easy task. A larger phone makes a difficult task even

more difficult. Will the larger cell phones be the cause of more traffic

accidents?



It is nice to have one device that does it all but it might make sense to have a

smaller phone. If someone occasionally needs a larger screen on their portable

computing device, an iPod might fit the bill. Does a smart phone satisfy all of

your portable computing needs?



Norm Morin is founder of NKC Systems, a computer repair and consulting firm.

Call 978-453-1355; visit 155 Broadway Road, Dracut; or email

techside@nkcsystems.com



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





