                              807 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                              June 28, 2015 Sunday



Samsung challenges Toshiba for iPhone chips



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 559 words





Samsung Electronics is challenging Toshiba to supply of flash memory chips for

Apple's next iPhones - tentatively named the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6 Plus - as

Apple moves to increase the storage capacity of its flagship products.



"As Apple plans to increase its shipments of the mid-range iPhone models with

larger capacities amid growing consumer demand for data-intensive features,

including cloud services, Samsung Electronics is in talks to sell more of its

flash chips for the next models," a source close to the deal told The Korea

Times, Sunday.



He said no agreement had yet been made because negotiations over pricing and

guaranteed shipments were still underway.



In digital devices, NAND flash memory chips are considered critical as they have

been used to reduce the cost per bit and boost maximum chip capacity so as to

compete with magnetic storage devices. This chip also is suitable for

mass-storage devices.



Apple is expected to release two new iPhone versions in September.



Samsung's chip factory in Xian, China, is testing the stability and durability

of its latest NAND chips before initial shipment, another source said.



"Samsung intends to increase the sale of 64-gigabyte (GB) NAND chips as Apple,

which has three storage models - 16GB, 64GB and 128GB - is impressed with the

healthy sales of its iPhones with 64GB storage capacity in its target markets

such as China and Europe," the source said.



Samsung's move comes as its semiconductor business is on a bullish track in

terms of profit increases in DRAM and NAND memory chips. Samsung is doing well

in DRAMs to help smartphones improve writing and data-processing speeds.



But Samsung's business with Apple in NAND chips has not been strong because

Apple's iPhone 6 model used 64GB NAND chips supplied by Toshiba, SanDisk and SK

hynix, according to a report by Credit Suisse.



SK hynix handled NAND chips with 16GB capacity for the iPhone 6, while Toshiba

of Japan supplied the Apple device with the largest capacity, 128GB.



The main reason Samsung lost Apple in NAND chips for the iPhone 6 was over

price.



"For the current iPhone 6 models, Toshiba, SK hynix and SanDisk are the top

three suppliers, with the portion of 50 percent, 30 percent and 20 percent. But

Samsung is trying to get a share," the source said.



Samsung expects, given the choice between the larger screen iPhone or a 64GB

iPhone, the suggested retail price would have minor differences, meaning the

resumption of Samsung's NAND business with Apple "does make sense."



Experts said Apple's strategy was to push iPhone users to its iCloud service

when they needed more storage.



"The belief is more and more as we use iCloud services for documents and our

photos and videos and music, that perhaps the most price-conscious customers are

able to live in an environment where they don't need lots of local storage

because these services are lightening the load," Apple Senior Vice President of

Marketing Phil Schiller said recently in a podcast hosted by Daring Fireball's

John Gruber.



Sean Yang, assistant vice president of DRAMeXchange, a leading tracker of DRAM

and NAND memory markets, said recently: "Supply of NAND flash will exceed demand

throughout the first half of the year. The situation will get better for

manufacturers of memory chips in the second half, when Apple introduces its

next-generation smartphones and tablets."



LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2015 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





