

You've fallen behind in what could be the race of your life.

Your never-ending quest to keep up with the rest of humanity is at risk of a
major fail. You might be ostracized for years to come. Your admission into the
cool kids' club could be revoked.

The subject, of course, is your outdated smartphone. Say you have an Apple
iPhone 4 or 5 model, and you feel phone envy, wrought from digital-age peer
pressure.

The iPhone 6 has been around for a while (what were you waiting for, an engraved
invitation?), and the 7 is due in a couple of months.

But word is leaking out that the  iPhone 7 won't be much of an improvement over
the 6. Speculation has it that the iPhone 8 will be the next game changer from
the folks in Cupertino -- or not -- but that may not arrive until late 2018.

There's one consolation. While you're beating yourself up over the fact you're
too lame to visit your local AT&T or Verizon in a timely fashion, you'll be
pleased to know recent incarnations of the smartphone, whether Apple or Android,
haven't improved much.

"The updates to the iPhone have been rather conservative," said Mike Gikas, the
senior electronics editor for mobile technology at Consumer Reports.

You have several choices. And remember, don't let them bamboozle you. The
customer is always right.

First, you can always switch brands. For those of you who have been loyal to
Apple, there's more Androids now than there are of you. IDC says cheaper
Androids now command more than 83% of the global market, vs. slightly more than
15% for Apple. In the U.S., the share is nearly 63% Android to more than 36% for
Apple.

Analysts say the technology strides that both are making are slowing down.
Still, say you want to stick with Apple and are noticing your friend's bigger
screen. The first thing to do is look at the main difference between the iPhone
5 and the iPhone 6. The 6 has a bigger screen, longer battery life, faster speed
and can be waterproof. If that's enough, great.

But don't buy just yet, analysts say. Wait until the iPhone 7 is released, then
watch for discounts on the latest models of the 6, known as the 6 S. The price
should drop about $100 or more, analysts say, and could get as low as $200.

"The price for it will drop significantly," Gikas said. "And it will do 95% of
what you want your phone to do for the next 3-4 years."

Still, there may be parts of the iPhone 7 that will impress you more. While
Apple has kept the features of that model under wraps, speculation says it could
improve home automation, feature a virtual assistant and have other features.

"It's very likely you're going to see a completely new design," said Brad Akyuz,
research director at NPD Group. He later added: "If the iPhone is not much of an
improvement over the 6 S, the market will react negatively."

Now, if you want to wait for what could be the next big thing, an iPhone 8 may
be your ticket to technological paradise. Some company watchers speculate Apple
could release the iPhone 8 in 2017, marking a short life span for the iPhone 7
and "revolutionizing" phones with its next iteration.

Some, though, don't want to speculate on what Apple will produce -- the company
remains tight-lipped on that, says Anthony Scarsella, mobile phone research
manager for tech analysis group IDC.

"No one really knows what Apple's going to do," Scarsella said. "They don't say
until the last minute."

