                              818 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                              Gloucestershire Echo



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Gadget fans flock to store as latest iPhone hits the shelves



SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 31



LENGTH: 474 words





MOBILE phone shops across Gloucestershire have reported record customer numbers

as the long-awaited iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus hit the shelves on Friday.



While iPhone mania may not have hit the county as hard as other parts of the UK,

where people have been camping outside for days to get their hands on the latest

tech giant Apple has to offer, it certainly has proved just as popular as its

predecessors.



"There's buzz since opened at morning and witnessing demand for devices" A

spokesman for mobile company Virgin said it had sold a large amount of both

headsets by noon at its Gloucester store on King's Walk. "We have seen quite a

lot of trade for the iPhone today," he said. "The iPhone plus has proved more

popular at the moment because it is a cross between the iPad and an iPhone. "We

have all had a look at it and customers have been trying it out at our live

model and are really impressed." Senior account director for 3, Pippa Ellis,

said the reaction to the phone had been "fantastic" at its store on Cheltenham

High Street. "There's been a real buzz since the doors opened at 8am Friday

morning and we're witnessing huge demand for the new devices, which is great,"

she said.



"Customers have been able to test-drive the new iPhones in store."



Apple officially announced the eighth generation of iPhone at a special event in

Cupertino, California, alongside its new smart watch. The smartphone is proving

popular despite its £539 price tag for its smallest model with 16GB memory.



While the hi-tech handsets may have led the mobile market in recent years, Apple

will face a fight to keep hold of the highly lucrative market with competitors

HTC, Samsung and Sony all bringing advanced models to the table.



Some fans were so keen to get their hands on the new iPhones, they began camping

outside the Apple store in Regent Street, London, on Monday. Around 30 or so set

up camp outside the store the day before the release, with tents, tables and

chairs and even bottles of wine. On Monday, Apple announced a record number of

first day pre-orders of the two handsets, with more than four million in the

first 24 hours.



a real the doors 8am Friday we're huge the new PIPPA ELLIS The iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus are available in 10 countries, including the UK, the US, Australia

and Singapore, and a further 20 by next week.



Both handsets will be available in new sizes for the first time, with the iPhone

6 offering a 4.7-inch screen, while the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen Apple

has ever produced for a smartphone at 5.5inches. The phone is available in space

grey, silver or gold and boasts a 1,334 by 750 resolution screen, an eight

megapixel camera and the latest Apple interface processor, the iOS8.



"There's been a real buzz since the doors opened at 8am Friday morning and we're

witnessing huge demand for the new devices" PIPPA ELLIS



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: GLE





                      Copyright 2014 Gloucestershire Echo

                              All Rights Reserved





