                              823 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            October 23, 2015 Friday



Apple iPhone 6S review



BYLINE: Anupam Saxena



SECTION: REVIEWS



LENGTH: 2070 words





With the iPhone 6S, Apple is trying hard to change the perception that its new

flagship is merely an iterative update to its predecessor. So much that its

tagline for its new iPhones is 'the only thing that's changed is everything.'

The phone brings some brand-new features such as 3D Touch and takes one of the

biggest leaps in terms of camera hardware. We try to find out if the iPhone 6S

is the best smartphone money can buy...



Looks just like the iPhone 6



The iPhone 6S looks exactly like the iPhone 6. It's slightly thicker and heavier

but you won't really notice it. However, Apple's played the colour card and

introduced a new rose gold variant, which is essentially a light shade of pink

with a gold tint, for people who really want to tell the world it's the new

iPhone.



It also sports the same metal and glass build with rounded edges and curved

front glass panel but Apple claims to have used stronger materials including

7000 Series aluminium for the body and the strongest cover glass used on any

smartphone in the world. It's probably a confidence building measure after the

company was embroiled in the 'bendgate' controversy with its iPhone 6 Plus

buckling to external pressure and bending as evident from the large number of

videos that appeared on the internet. Of course, we never bend other phones to

check if they deform and treated the iPhone 6S the same way.



We think iPhone 6S is still the perfect phone if you're looking for a device

that's optimized for one-hand use. If you like the iPhone 6 design, there's

nothing that's going to prevent you from appreciating the 6S' form. The phone

even supports the same cases.



Same old display



iPhone 6S retains the iPhone 6's 4.7-inch display that sports 750x1334p

resolution packing in 336 pixels per inch. While you're unlikely to notice any

pixilation or distortion unless you look really closely, we still feel Apple

could have used a full-HD display. The display is perfectly readable under

sunlight and has wide viewing angles thanks to dual-domain pixels. Colour

reproduction is also good along with deep enough black levels. The screen also

boasts of a fingerprint-resistant oleophobic coating to prevent smudging.



The new display also integrates sensors that can recognize different levels of

force for the new 3D Touch feature (more on that later).



Unique software features - 3D Touch & Live Photos



iPhone 6S comes with iOS 9, the latest version of Apple's mobile operating

system. Interestingly, some features of the OS are limited to the iPhone 6S and

6S Plus - 3D Touch and Live Photos.



3D Touch is a new way of interacting with the phone's touch screen and is an

enhanced version of Force Touch which was first seen in the Apple Watch. Just

like you pinch the screen to zoom in or double tap to zoom out on most phones,

with 3D Touch you press the screen forcefully for previewing content and even

harder for viewing it. Apple calls the two touch levels peek and pop. The

feature has been implemented in most built-in apps including Photos, Phone,

Messages, Camera and Mail, and in third party apps like Facebook, Instagram,

Zomato and Paytm. Apple has also put a new taptic engine that offers haptic

feedback (a subtle vibration) when you peek or pop.



There are a few major applications of 3D Touch on iPhone 6S - for instance you

can preview emails, messages or pictures with the peek gesture and open them

with a pop. You can firmly swipe from the left edge to go the multitasking view

and don't need to double tap on the Home button. You can also use the software

keyboard as a trackpad to navigate around a document by a forcefully tapping on

the keyboard. The Notes app is also able to distinguish between force touch and

normal touch and lets you switch to a darker drawing mode when you choose the

former.



One interesting application is home screen quick actions that let you go to a

particular section of the app without opening it. This means you can force tap

on the camera app shortcut to go directly to the selfie mode or post a tweet

quickly by going directly on this screen. More third party apps are integrating

this feature but we feel it could have been made more useful by eliminating the

need to go inside the app. For instance force tapping on Facebook and selecting

the Update status message could bring a small box that lets us update the status

or force tapping on Music could show playback controls.



Live Photos



Another fun feature is Live Photos. Think of having the option of shooting a

3-second animated GIF with sound each time you shoot a still. So you can see

your kid in action each time you play the photo. Yes, the camera covers some

action even before you hit the shutter button. Live Photos play when you tap

hard on the screen. You can also set Live Photos as your wallpaper and play them

by force tapping on the screen.



You can share Live Photos using iMessage, iCloud Photo Sharing, or AirDrop, as

well as other Apple devices, including Apple Watch. Shared elsewhere, Live Photo

is sent as a still photo, or if you decide to edit it. Apple says it will be

coming out soon with new API for Live Photos, so that developers can add

app-to-app sharing of Live Photos too. So it's just a matter of time before you

can share Live Photos on Facebook and WhatsApp.



We found playing with Live Photos fun and they make for livelier and creative

wallpapers. While a number of phones including the Lumias and HTC One devices

have been offering a similar feature, Apple's implementation has made it easy to

discover and use.



Other iOS 9 features



iPhone 6S runs Apple's iOS 9 that introduces some new features and upgrades to

system apps. The biggest update that iOS 9 brings to the iPhone is

'intelligence,' part of which is the Proactive Assistant that offers contextual

information based on your email, calendar and usage pattern.



For instance, if you have a meeting scheduled in your calendar, it will remind

you before time and even offer an update on traffic conditions. It adds events

to the Calendar from emails and suggests actions when you connect an accessory.



Another feature is enhanced search and a better Siri (Apple's voice assistant)

experience. Siri also offers search suggestions including nearby places,

frequently used apps and people and local news. It's also able to search inside

third-party apps, do math and conversions and display sports scores and weather

forecasts. A lot of these features are unavailable in India as Apple doesn't

offer directions on maps and information related to places of interest so we

couldn't really use them. Deep linking or the ability to display content from

apps does work to some extent. For example, searching a restaurant will display

its Zomato listing if you've browsed through it in the past.



A new low-power mode reduces or turn off non-essential tasks such as visual

effects and automatic downloads. The phone also won't check for new mail or

update content for apps in the background as often in that mode. We found that

this mode does stretch the battery at the cost of being up to date with

notifications.



Visually, there's not much change but the app previews in multitasking view now

appear as stacked cards, allowing you to flip through them.



Overall, iOS 9 is more about fine tuning iOS 8 and making the experience more

stable. Sadly, you'll still need to rely on Google's third party apps for key

features including maps and navigation, in India. Even Spotlight Suggestions and

enhanced search are not available in the region.



(##include msid=29593805,type=9 ##)



Consistently good camera



We all know Apple was never too obsessed with megapixels but the iPhone 6S is a

major upgrade after many years, progressing to a 12MP sensor on the back and a

5MP selfie camera.



Does it lead to any improvement? Well, compared to photos shot with the iPhone 6

which features an 8MP camera, pictures taken with the 6S are brighter, colours

are more vivid and you'll even notice some more detail. However, it's not a huge

leap as the iPhone 6 camera is already one of the best in business. Compared to

other smartphones, we'll still say that Samsung's new Note phone and S6 edge+

give tough competition but the iPhone's USP is its consistency. You can just

take the phone out and shoot without bothering to tinker with any settings.



Sadly, the iPhone 6S doesn't feature Optical Image Stabilisation which is only

in the Plus variant. This could have made low light shots even better and

reduced shake in videos.



A big addition to the iPhone 6S is support for 4K recording - the ability to

shoot video in resolution four times higher than full-HD. Remember that these

videos do look better than full-HD but take up more space on the phone. Also,

only a few screens support 4K playback at this point in time. You're better off

using full-HD if it's for personal use and you don't have a 4K device.



The iPhone 6S also uses the phone's screen as a front flash for selfies shot in

low light conditions. Again, this is not the first time we're seeing this

feature but selfies shot in the dark do look natural and consistently lit up

when you use this feature.



Great performance



Most iPhone users don't upgrade phones for better processors or RAM alone, but

Apple claims the new A9 processor that powers iPhone 6S is almost 90% faster

than the iPhone 6 in graphics rendering and 75% in overall use.



We noticed minor differences in app launch times and while switching between

apps. According to reports, the new iPhone comes with 2GB RAM, which is double

the system memory of last year's models. We did notice some minor difference in

multitasking capabilities - apps running in the background launch faster when

you fire them up and Safari doesn't refresh as frequently.



Games such as Infinity Blade III and Asphalt 8 run smoothly without any stutter

or lag whatsoever and showcase the graphics prowess of the iPhone 6S.



The Touch ID fingerprint sensor is twice as fast. So, you can unlock your phone

and get to the home screen faster if you use this feature.



The phone has an upgraded Wi-Fi and cellular antenna and we did notice that it

loads pages faster compared to the iPhone 6 on the same network connection. It

works with Airtel's 4G network without any issues and delivers decent speeds.



Apple claims the talk-time and standby time of iPhone 6S remain the same. And

that is despite the new A9 processor and 4K video recording capability. In our

use, we got about 12-12 hours of standby with 6 to 7 hours of usage. Our usage

included checking our Twitter account every now and then, clicking some

pictures, receiving emails on three accounts and making calls for at least two

hours. If you play video for longer periods, the battery depletes even faster.

There's not much difference in the battery backup if you compare the phone to

the iPhone 6 and that's not really a good thing.



So should you take the leap of faith?



On the surface, the major features the iPhone 6S offers is 3D Touch and Live

Photos but it does come with remarkable improvements in build quality, a faster

processor and fingerprint scanner, upgraded camera and better connectivity. At a

starting price of Rs 62,000 for 16GB, the iPhone 6S is anything but affordable

so it's certainly not for everyone.



For iPhone 6 users, it's not a major upgrade. But if you find the new features

like 3D Touch interesting and have a lot of cash to shell out, then we'd say

nothing should hold you back.



However, if you're looking to buy your first (or second) iPhone and want to save

some cash, we feel the iPhone 6 is the perfect device offering a great window to

Apple's software ecosystem and some useful features that you'll need. The same

also holds true if you are looking to cross over from the Android world.



Is the iPhone 6S the best smartphone available at the moment? In our opinion,

the iPhone 6S offers a great smartphone experience and the key here is

consistency and stability. Having said that we'd never buy the 16GB version

especially with Live Photos that take up double the storage space and 4K videos.

So the next best thing is the 64GB version that costs Rs 72,000. This price is

outrageously high especially when rivals like Samsung's Galaxy S6, Google's

Nexus 6P and Sony's Xperia Z5 deliver a premium experience at a much lower

price. And it's not just about hardware specifications; Android has reached a

point where it's not just a highly customizable OS meant only for power users.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





