                              829 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Queues, anger, cash-ins ... it's another iPhone launch



BYLINE: Jennifer Ngo, Chris Lau and Bloomberg



SECTION: NEWS; Local (Hong Kong News); Technology; Pg.3



LENGTH: 470 words





Apple's new iPhones hit the shelves yesterday, with speculators cashing them in

for up to double the original price.



The launch got off to a chaotic start in Hong Kong, with labour groups

protesting about working conditions in the mainland  factories that make the

phones, and walk-in buyers at stores complaining bitterly upon being  told they

could not make purchases.



At Apple's Festival Walk store in Kowloon Tong, more than 100 people had queued

overnight, only to be told that the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus would only be

available to those who had pre-registered - walk-in customers would not be

entertained.



"They could've told us last night when the mall closed," said 31-year-old

cleaner Tony Ku.



He claimed that Apple Store employees and security staff at the mall had told

those waiting outside on Thursday that they could queue until the mall opened

yesterday.



But when they filed in at 6.30am, Apple staff announced that no iPhones would be

sold to walk-in customers. Store manager Patrick Wong said: "We had no idea

there were people queuing up outside."



Pre-registered buyers, who were limited to two phones, were applauded by staff

as they picked up their new gadgets. Many sold them on to speculators outside,

many of them from the mainland, who in turn hoped to resell them for a profit.



The phones went on sale yesterday in Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan,

France, Germany and the United Kingdom, before being rolled out in Puerto Rico,

Canada and the US. But licensing problems on the mainland  meant it was not

included in the opening, unlike last year's iPhone 5s and 5c launch.



The iPhone 6 Plus had the best resale value, fetching HK$13,000 to HK$17,000 -

double Apple's price. The iPhone 6, with a smaller screen, was fetching around

HK$8,000, said one buyer,  who admitted most of the phones would be heading

north.



One store on online purchasing site Taobao boasted one-day delivery in the

vicinity of Beijing, charging 16,888 yuan (HK$21,267) for an iPhone 6 Plus with

128GB memory. The website said it had Hong Kong and US versions.



About 30 people representing nine labour groups staged a protest against

mainland sweatshop factories at the IFC store.



Some  dozen protesters from Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehaviour

held up signs that said "iSlave 6. Still made in sweatshops", and "Throw Away

the Bad Apple."



Buyers speaking Cantonese with mainland accents could be seen gathering next to

Sin Tat Plaza, a popular mobile gadget hub, in Mong Kok.



Their presence attracted new owners of the phones looking for the best re-sale

deal.



In Japan, dozens of Chinese people were waiting outside Tokyo's flagship Apple

store in glitzy Ginza.



"I'm queuing because it's not sold in China yet," said Chen Manyan, a

21-year-old tourist from Fujian  province, adding: "It's expensive, though."



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



NOTES:                  {+$}17,000                ; The top resale price, in HK

dollars, for an iPhone 6 Plus, in Hong Kong, twice Apple's price



GRAPHIC:                  A big queue of people lined up outside Studio A in

Tsim Sha Tsui in the hope of buying a new iPhone.                    Photos: Sam

Tsang, Felix Wong

                 Newly bought iPhones were quickly sold on for fat profits

(above left) while some people were upset at missing out on a purchase.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





