                              82 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                             July 26, 2013, Friday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending July 26;

Apple iPhone 6 scuttlebutt includes: Ignoring iPhone 5S, canceling iPhone 5,

Killer Patents, plastic



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 2505 words





Perhaps the iOSphere is exhausted or suffering a post-adrenaline crash, but some

this week have actually suggested thatconsumers will ignore iPhone 5S, setting

their hopes on the Radically New and Innovative iPhone 6 in 2014.



Analysts and pundits seem nearly paralyzed with dread at the prospect that

buyers will not be lining up at Apple retail stores to buy the 2013 iPhone. How

could the world have come to such a pass?



And this despite the promise of still more Killer Features for the Next iPhone,

which were revealed this week thanks to new published Apple patent applications,

although the applications nowhere mention the iPhone 5S or iPhone 6.



Also this week: surprising, not to say stupid, speculation that once Apple

announces the Next iPhone, including the new Plastic iPhone, it will cancel

iPhone 5; the awesome spectacle of a rumor being born before your eyes and then

strangled; and new iPhone 6 fan art that finally reveals a use for flexible

displays.



You read it here second.



__________"The consumer reaction to iPhone 5S is, of course, unknowable at this

point, but we worry this could be the first iPhone launch that doesn't generate

lines on launch day."~ Chris Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group, and Chief iPhone

Worrier, who fears that having sold millions of innovative iPhones ever year

since 2007, Apple will succeed finally in launching one that consumers don't

care about.__________ iPhone 5S will be greeted without the usual lines of

buyers outside stores If an iPhone is announced and no one lines up to buy it,

is it really an iPhone?



"Call it blasphemy, but Apple's next-generation smartphone could be the first

iPhone model to debut without the usual lines of buyers outside stores on launch

day," declares Patrick Seitz in a post at Investors.com.

http://news.investors.com/technology-click/072513-665112-apple-customers-might-w

ait-for-iphone-6-to-upgrade.htm [IPHONEYS: The iPhone 6 & iPhone 5S edition] And

it's not just his opinion. There's a stock analyst, Chris Caso, of Susquehanna

Financial Group, who share his opinion.



In fact, Caso seems deeply, deeply worried.



"The consumer reaction to iPhone 5S is, of course, unknowable at this point, but

we worry this could be the first iPhone launch that doesn't generate lines on

launch day," Caso wrote in a Note To Investors this week.



That's because they'll be so disappointed in the 5S that they'll decide to wait

until the Majorly Upgraded iPhone 6 is released in 2014.



"The iPhone 5S is expected to be an incremental release, with the same look as

the current iPhone 5 but with new components and features," according to Seitz,

who shows just how conventional Conventional Wisdom really is. "The most talked

about potential feature is a fingerprint-reader for security and perhaps mobile

payments."



Frankly, The Rollup is quivering...just quivering...with anticipation over this

most-talked-about fingerprint reader. If that doesn't spell "breakthrough killer

awesome magical feature" what does?



"Apple's next major update won't be until the iPhone 6, which could ship in

early 2014, Caso says. That phone is likely to feature a bigger display to

compete with handsets from Samsung, HTC and others that have 5-inch screens."

That makes perfect sense. The world's best selling smartphone model needs to

compete with all those other models that are each selling fewer units than Apple

is.



According to Seitz' post, Caso believes that the "most compelling" iPhone

feature that Apple could offer is a larger screen.



"My thesis is that it comes next year, earlier in the year rather than later in

the year," Caso says. "And that's the real reason to own Apple stock."



The Rollup's thesis is that we are fortunate that Caso isn't designing Apple's

iPhones.



Caso is something of an Industry Worrier. In December 2012, he infected

BusinessInsider's Jay Yarrow with worries about sales of the iPhone 5. Yarrow

sounded close to despair in his post. "Apple's stock is down today, and the

reason seems to be another brutal report about the state of iPhone demand," he

began.



"But there's something about Caso's report that's stronger than the other

reports we've read," he continues. "Maybe it's that he's more through and

convincing. Whatever the case may be, it sounds really bad for Apple."



Really bad. Really, really bad for Apple.



"From our perspective, the difference seems to be that Caso isn't alone in his

call. Lots of analysts are worried about iPhone 5 production and demand."



Lots of analysts. Lots and lots of them.



Caso's report then was especially worrying to Yarrow because it was different.

The difference is, first, that it's stronger than the other reports and, second,

because it's...uh, just like the other reports.



The only problem with this worry is that it was, and is, completely unfounded.

Because people, who aren't analysts and bloggers, have been buying iPhones in

very large numbers.



The iPhone 5, announced in September 2012, was widely and wildly trashed by

bloggers, tech sites, analysts for looking so much like the iPhone 4S and

lacking stuff like near-field communications and a 5-inch screen and mobile

payments and a quad-core processor. It seemed like everyone was unhappy with

it...except for the millions and millions of people who bought it. And the other

millions who went out and happily bought iPhone models that were one and two

years old - iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S.



Apple, almost alone of the smartphone makers, seems to have created a product

that people value and trust, less for some shallow idea of "innovation" and more

for its reliability, beauty, quality, and capacity to do the jobs for which

people "hire" it.



IPhone 4S and iPhone 5 were slammed by media and analysts for lacking

innovation. Yet both of those have gone on to be their best-selling iPhone

models.



Seitz concludes his post with this: "Apple late Tuesday, however, reported

better-than-expected June-quarter results [and record iPhone sales for Q3], and

shares rose 5.1% on Wednesday."



Doh.



iPhone 5S, iPhone 6 will have Killer Patented Inventions Here's the clickbait

headline at International Business Times: "3 Likely Killer Features for iPhone

6, iPhone 5S Release Date: Precognitive Battery Use, Smart Call Management &

Dual-Sensor Camera."



And here's how IBT's Erik Pineda launches his post:  "New patents from Apple,

approved and under processing, gave hints on upcoming power features that both

the iPhone 6 and iPhone 5S will showcase on release date, likely to be

integrated with the recently revamped iOS 7."



Of course, these patents, like all the others, do no such thing.



Pineda, as is typical for IBT, grabs his information from an AppleInsider post

by Mikey Campbell. Pineda finally mentions that website but doesn't link to

Campbell's post or, as Campbell does, to the actual patent application.  The

first thing one notices in just glancing at the application is that it was filed

in January 2012. Apple may indeed implement this battery optimization invention

in a future iPhone, but it's not going to be in the 2013 iPhone. Quite apart

from the time and effort required to make any invention reproducible

cost-effectively on a mass scale, each iPhone is in development for years, not

months.



Campbell gives a straightforward account of the invention described in Apple's

application. "To help reduce power consumption, Apple proposes a system that can

compare the estimated time period a user will spend on their device with battery

reserves, determining whether the device has sufficient power to last for said

period. If the battery does not have sufficient power, the system will adjust

"one or more characteristics" to conserve energy."



IBT ransacks other recent patent applications and AppleInsider posts in the same

way, noting one invention that lets users "actively engage on social media

activities even in the middle of active call but the conversation must be put on

hold prior to sharing moments captured in images. File sharing is also

possible." OK. We can see how that works: talking on your phone while

simultaneously updating your Facebook page or tweeting. Somehow.



Pineda: "Basically, the system allows access of contents in a given handset

during active calls, opening up a gateway for the following: pictures, music,

videos, status updates, upcoming calendar events and location information while

talking...."



Glad we cleared that up.



Yet another is an invention "that will employ multiple sensors in capturing

high-quality images with fewer flaws. The invention is described as 'a unique

technology that can interleave imaging data from two or more imaging sensors,

resulting in higher quality photos than a setup with a single sensor.'" Killer

inventions each and every one, for sure. Just don't expect them as features on

the 2013 iPhone.



iPhone 5S, and "plastic iPhones" release will lead to canceling of the iPhone 5

Breaking with past practice, Apple plans to announce the iPhone 5S along with

its new line of "plastic iPhones" and scrap the iPhone 5, instead of continuing

to offer one version of it at a discount.



At least that's how MacRumors' Richard Padilla interprets a barflegabbing Google

Translation of a post at Korea's ETNews.com.



"Apple has been presumed to be discontinuing the iPhone 4 and 4S in order to

make way for an all-Lightning [dock connector] iPhone lineup...," according to

Padilla. The fate of the current iPhone 5 has, however, not been the subject of

much discussion as it has remained unclear whether the new lineup of iPhone 5S

and plastic iPhone would leave room for Apple to continue offering an iPhone 5

model."



In just two sentences, Padilla presents a mare's nest of casual and confident

assumptions, all largely unexamined in the rest of his post. The reason that

it's not been the subject of, from the rollup can tell, any discussion until now

is that it doesn't make a whole lot of sense.



The Google Translation of the ETNews post in Korean is here.



Based on the translation, Padilla writes that "Apple will be discontinuing

production of the iPhone 5 in the fall, instead putting all of its efforts

towards the iPhone 5S and the rumored entry-level plastic iPhone." Presumably

because there's no "room" - whatever that means - for continuing a lower-priced

iPhone 5 if you have those cool low-priced Plastic iPhones that the world's

value-conscious proletariat is so anxiously awaiting.



Yet, for its current fiscal year, Apple's iPhone sales have been buoyed by

strong (surprisingly strong, to many) sales of iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S,

especially in emerging markets, according to Apple CEO Tim Cook, in the

company's recent third quarter earnings conference call.



"Apple already sells millions of discounted smartphones, said Michael Levin,

co-founder of Chicago-based Consumer Intelligence Research Partners (CIRP):

They're the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S," reports Computerworld's Greg Keizer.  CIRP

surveyed 500 U.S. Apple customers in July and found that nearly half of the

iPhones bought between April and June were the older iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S

models. "Together, the two accounted for 48% of all iPhone purchases, with the

remainder going to the flagship iPhone 5," according to Keizer.



"Eighteen percent of all Apple smartphones sold were the iPhone 4, a 2010

smartphone that Apple and its U.S. carrier partners give away when customers

sign a two-year contract. Almost double that -- 30% -- were iPhone 4S

smartphones, a 2011 model priced at $99 with a contract, half the $199 of the

subsidized iPhone 5."



As Levin says: "We don't understand the call for a lower-priced iPhone, at least

in the U.S. You can't get lower than zero."



Quite.



MacRumors' Padilla recounts that the ETNews post "claims that the in-cell

technology used on the iPhone 5's touchscreen is 'not suitable for low-volume

production,' contributing to Apple's decision to stop production on the phone

and focus all of its efforts toward producing parts for newer products."



We're not sure what ETNews or Padilla mean by "low-volume" production, but based

on this past year's success of the iPhone 4 and 4S, Apple could confidently

expect to sell millions more units of iPhone 5, the most popular iPhone model

yet released, in the year following the release of the 2013 iPhone. Even if the

Next iPhone has all the Killer Features that the technorati lust for, it still

wouldn't obsolete the iPhone 5, or even the iPhone 4S.



The quality of those handsets, and their continuing desirability, is revealed in

the trade-in programs offered by Apple's retail partners: those programs, as

Apple CEO Tim Cook acknowledged in the most recent earnings call, are lucrative

for retailers because the older model iPhones retain so much of their value in

the eyes of buyers.



Apple began discounting the older iPhone models starting in 2009. In the

Computerworld story, CIRP's Levin says "In October 2012, just before the launch

of the iPhone 5, so-called 'legacy' [iPhone] models accounted for 32% of all

iPhone sales. Since then, the legacy share has reached or neared 50% in

subsequent surveys."   "The legacy iPhones are still quite compelling," Levin

argued.



Quite.



iPhone 6 fan art gossip "reveals" foldable form factor "[C]onsumers love to

drool over gossip and today Pritesh Chavan's concept iPhone 6 will surely make

you crazy, if not insane," writes Anuj Bhatia in a post at Gizbot. "The first

and foremost, would you like to buy a 3-in-one Apple device? A good look at the

concept gives you an idea of what the future looks like."



[Latest Apple iPhone 6 concept design: 3 devices in 1] If there's one thing that

iPhone fan art is good for, it's giving us an idea of what the future looks

like.



And here it is, the iPhone that looks like a baked falafel sandwich, and folds

out into two additional screen sizes. We knew those flexible screens would

eventually be good for something.



iPhone 6 or 6/7 is actually the Plastic iPhone Although not rising to the level

of watching a star being created in the Carina Nebula, you can see a rumor being

born from other rumors over at the iMore forums.



Earlier this month, the French tech site, Nowhereelse.fr, created a stir (as

noted by MacRumors among many others) when it published photos showing what

appeared to be the rear shell of the rumored low-cost plastic iPhone, in a

rainbow of colors.  For one member of iMore's forum, it was like, well, like an

asteroid through the window.



"It just came to me like an asteroid through a window," wrote boovish, an "iMore

Beginner." "Is it so crazy that this [the plastic phones above] could be the

iPhone 6/7? It would be like the 3G/S but it would come in a whole bunch of

different colors to match iOS 7's Crazy color scheme."



The idea apparently struck boovish's fellow posters as exactly that: so crazy.



"That would be a HUGE backwards leap. NO WAY Apple goes this route," replied

rdiddy_25.



Fausty82 was blunter. "I'm calling BS on this ... just not going to happen."



Boovish deserves an "A" for effort, though.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





