                              830 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                            August 1, 2013, Thursday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup for the week ending August 2;

Apple iPhone 6 rumors include: 3-lens camera, fingerprints, iCheapo, LiquidMetal

redux



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 1593 words





Patents, or patent applications, had the iOSphere swooning and agog over the

prospect of a camera with not one or eventwo lenses, but three. Which obviously

must be better than a camera with only one, or even two lenses.



Also this week, code sleuths uncover references in the iOS 7 beta software of a

fingerprint sensor integrated with the home button; a report on alleged labor

abuses at factories owned by an Apple assembler reveals details on what could be

a plastic-bodied cheap iPhone; and we are promised that the iPhone 6 will be

arrayed in LiquidMetal, and yay, even Solomon in all his glory was not so

arrayed.



You read it here second.



iPhone 6 will have a camera with not one, not two, but THREE lenses This begins

with a straightforward account by AppleInsider's Mikey Campbell of a new Apple

patent, not a patent application, published by the U.S. Patent and Trademark

Office.



Although widely headlined as a three-lens camera, the actual patent seems more

focused on three sensors, with the triple lenses being in a sense the means to

the end: which is to improve photo accuracy.



[IPHONEYS: The iPhone 6 edition] According to Campbell: "In most embodiments,

the luminance sensor is flanked on two sides by the chrominance sensors. This

positioning allows the camera to compare information sourced from three

generated images. For example, an image processing module can take raw data from

the three sensors, comprising luminance, color, and other data, to form a

composite color picture.



The resulting photo would be of higher quality than a system using a single

unified sensor."



For clickbait websites, such as HighLightPress, the new patent is almost

automatically associated with the Next iPhone or Almost Next iPhone. In an

emblematic iOSphere post, Sullivan Davis blathers on about the importance of

"about mold-breaking innovation and satisfying consumer demand before the

punters even know what it is they want" and "as far as mold-breaking features go

that are already making waves, new-generation camera technology seems to be

topping the table," which is a mixing of metaphors so skilled that it leaves the

reader dizzy.



"This of course hasn't escaped the attention of Cook and Co., which apparently

has led to Apple looking into triple-lens technology for the new camera to

feature on the iPhone 6," Sullivan assures his readers, without of course a

shred of evidence. "A recent patent filing suggests that the new triple-lens is

destined to make an appearance on a 2014 iPhone, given the fact that the iPhone

5S is already said to be in full production in the Far East."



Mashable's Pete Pachal goes even further in his post. "Should we look forward to

a tri-sensor camera in the rumored iPhone 5S? It's unlikely to be implemented

that quickly (although the patent was originally filed in 2010), but perhaps

some of the tech will find its way into consumers' hands in future models."



iPhone 6 will have fingerprint sensor in home button The latest beta release of

Apple's iOS 7 firmware has revealed what many believe is conclusive evidence

that the next iPhone will incorporate a fingerprint sensor into the device's

home button. (And likely for the iPad, which we mentioned in our latest "iPad 5

Rumor Rollup.")  This is actually Bad News for all of those who have clung and

no doubt still cling to the conviction that Apple must or should eliminate the

home button entirely.



The evidence is some code strings in the beta software, sent to 9to5Mac, and

then posted via Twitter, by Hamza Sood @hamzasood who found them in the beta 4

release of iOS 7. Marc Gurman posted the information at 9to5Mac.  You can find

the full details in our coverage, "Latest iOS 7 beta reveals possible

fingerprint sensor for iDevices."  A separate source told Gurman that the

"user-interface for the fingerprint scanning system has been complete[d]. This

person also says that the technology is focused around unlocking the phone, so

it is unclear if it is built for a payment system (as rumored) in the next

iPhone."



The fingerprint scanner has been enthusiastically predicted for at least 12

months, ever since Apple acquired Florida-based AuthenTec in July 2012 for $326

million. The company specialized in a range of mobile security products and

technologies apart from, and in tandem with, its fingerprint scanner. The real

question, to which Gurman alluded, is whether Apple intends the scanner mainly

as a device lock or as the foundation for a range of new or expanded secure

services in the future, including mobile payments.



Cheap, plastic iPhone now being produced, according to labor abuse report The

cheap, plastic iPhone is in production, according to details contained in the

just-released report on labor practices at the Chinese manufacturing plants

where it's being assembled.



The rights group, China Labor Watch, used undercover workers to report on

practices at three Pegatron Group plants on mainland China. The overall thrust

of the report -- as even its title makes clear "Apple's unkept promises: cheap

iPhone come at high costs to Chinese workers" -- contrasts the cheap iPhone with

the high costs - through scores of alleged illegal or unethical labor practices

- that Pegatron and Apple are imposing on workers.



Our full coverage of the report and the possible confirmation of an impending

low-cost iPhone is online.  One worker describes his experience of a day on the

assembly line as follows: "The task on my assembly line is to assemble back

covers. The assembling of other parts of the cell phone, including the final

assembly into a finished product, is assigned to different production

facilities, each facility partitioned off by heavy curtains so that workers in

different departments are isolated from one other. Today's work is to paste

protective film on the iPhone's plastic back cover to prevent it from being

scratched on assembly lines. This iPhone model with a plastic cover will soon be

released on the market by Apple. The task is pretty easy, and I was able to work

independently after a five-minute instruction from a veteran employee. It took

around a minute to paste protective film on one rear cover. The new cell phone

has not yet been put into mass production, so quantity is not as important. This

makes our job more slow paced than in departments that have begun mass

production schedules."



For many in the iOSphere, CLW report confirms what they've long rumored,

suspected, or insisted upon: that Apple must produce a cheaper iPhone in order

to compete with the rising tide of cheap Android phones in key markets.



But if the iCheap is simply iPhone 5 with a plastic case, it won't be much

cheaper at retail then the iPhone 5, certainly not enough to compete purely on

price with much less expensive, low-end Android phones.



And Apple and its retailers have been selling millions of discounted, older

iPhone 4 and 4S units, which effectively constitute "lower cost" models. And a

consumer survey released this week found very high customer satisfaction with

both of these phones, one three years old, the other nearly two.



But the CLW undercover workers apparently saw something. To know what that was,

and whether it constitutes a final 2013 Apple product, we'll just have to wait.



iPhone 6 is a phablet that will have a "virtually indestructible shell" The

stuff people come up with.



"On its release date, the phablet-sized iPhone 6 will be likely wrapped in a

virtually indestructible shell with futuristic handset body build, thanks to new

Apple patents that point to the use of liquid metal materials and solid-state

battery for future iOS devices," declares Erik Pineda, in an over-the-top post

at International Business Times.  To come up with this fantasy, Pineda first

blended two newly announced Apple patent applications, one for "3-D structures"

made of a liquid metal alloy, the other for a charging system for solid state

batteries, and then just made stuff up.



LiquidMetal is a startup and an alloy. Since 2010, when Apple licensed its

technology, this Wondrous Material has been rumored to be the next Big Thing for

iPhone. But so far it hasn't made much of an appearance except as the casing for

a SIM card.



Essentially LiquidMetal allows for stronger, lighter objects. The key challenge

is to turn it into a large-scale industrial manufacturing process. As far as we

know, that hasn't been done yet and likely won't be for another two or three

years at best.



The LiquidMetal patent application referred to by IBT was described, not very

clearly, by PatentlyApple. Even if you also don't actually understand what's

going on here, it's clear that what Apple invented was some method for creating

three-dimensional structures with plastic or with alloys that are like

LiquidMetal. One suggested use is to create speaker covers for a mobile phone.

That's right: speaker covers.



The second patent application is for a technique to charge solid state

batteries.



PatentlyApple links to the Wikipedia entry on these batteries, with the

explanation that they "are easy to miniaturize and can be constructed in thin

film form." And the batteries seem to be smaller and lighter than comparable

lithium-ion batteries.



So that's cool and solid state technology may offer a way to boost battery life

in a future iPhone. But there's nothing in any of this that even hints that

these two patents will be implemented for the iPhone 6, even if you believe the

iPhone 6 is due out in 2014.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network

World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





