                              831 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Book your iPhone 6 from September 19



LENGTH: 507 words





As early as September 20, Apple fans in the UAE can start ordering the new

iterations of the iPhone -- which is actually a day after its initial release in

the United States and the United Kingdom.



At least this time, you won't have to shell out an outrageous amount of cash

just to be among the first to get your hands on Apple's newest handsets; all you

have to do is be patient for just under three weeks more -- and be proud that

the UAE and Middle East are now among the first to receive these devices.



As early as September 20, Apple fans in the UAE can start ordering the new

iterations of the iPhone -- which is actually a day after its initial release in

the United States and the United Kingdom.



The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus' "expected availability [is] 20th of September",

according to UAE-based online retailer JadoPado. Full specifications are cited

for each model, but no prices were mentioned as at Press time. JadoPado founder

Omar Kassim had earlier said he expects a price premium of "around eight to 10

per cent" over retail prices in the US.



The UAE's two telecommunications companies have also bared their plans for the

new devices.



Etisalat had said via Twitter that the iPhones would be available on September

26. On the other hand, du, in a statement to Khaleej Times, said that it will

offer them beginning September 27 -- the day Gitex Shopper begins -- and

pre-orders will be accepted starting September 19. Both firms did not provide

any price information.



Apple's only official channel in the UAE -- store.apple.com/ae -- says that

unlocked iPhone 6 and 6 Plus will be "available to order from September 27".



The website will sell the iPhone 6 for Dh2,599, Dh2,999 and Dh3,399 for the

16GB, 64GB and 128GB models, respectively, while the iPhone 6 Plus will have

price tags of Dh2,999, Dh3,399 and Dh3,799.



Curiously, over at popular online selling site Souq.com, there has so far been

no posting about the new iPhones.



Ashish Panjabi, chief operating officer of Jacky's Electronics, said the

retailer expects official stock of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus to arrive in time for

Gitex Shopper, which runs until October 4.



"Our suppliers are working with us to ensure we meet these timelines and it is

our endeavour to guarantee as much as we can for this vital sales period," he

said in response to e-mailed questions from Khaleej Times.



"We applaud Apple in their efforts to recognise the importance of major sales

events like Gitex Shopper and festivals like Eid [Al Adha]."



Nadeem Khanzadah, head of retail at Jumbo Electronics, also lauded the fact that

iPhones will be made available in the UAE at a much earlier period compared to

its previous launches.



"It will be the first time ever that the iPhones will be available in the UAE

within a week of the US launch, which just goes to show the increased importance

Apple is beginning to attach to the Middle East market," he said in a statement.



Khanzadah further said that Jumbo would start pre-orders "within a couple of

days once we receive confirmed allocations".



-- alvin@khaleejtimes.com



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 44





   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





