                              834 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                   City A.M.



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Review: the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus;

Apple's brace of new devices are a major departure from the iPhone 5. Steve

Dinneen weighs up the relative pros and cons - and likes what he sees...



BYLINE: Steve Dinneen



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18



LENGTH: 941 words





T he new iPhone 6 is rubbish. Nah, just kidding. It would be great if it was,

though. It would make my life more fun if I could spend the next 600 words

telling you what a great steaming turd Apple has created and how it makes me

feel physically sick just to look at it. But I'm afraid I'm going to be singing

from the same hymn sheet as everyone else: it's great. One of the nicest phones

ever made. Damn you Apple.



Below I'll be looking at both the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and the 5.5-inch 6 Plus.

I'll start with the smaller of the two.



IPHONE 6 First impressions: it's a beautifully designed phone - impossibly thin

at just 6.9mm, and a complete rethink from the straight edges of the iPhone 4

and 5. This one is all smooth curves, a little like the rear of the iPad Air.

Even the glass curves into the chassis, giving it a sensual, pebble-like feel.



It's quite a bit bigger than the iPhone 5, although when you hold it, it somehow

doesn't feel as hefty as it actually is - it manages to squeeze in a lot of

screen inches without feeling unwieldy. And what a screen it is. In terms of

pure resolution, it's not the highest out there, but you'd be hardpressed to

notice. It's crisper than ever, with the icons appearing to hover just above the

device (aided by the iOS display).



Layout-wise it's business as usual, except the lock button has shifted to the

side because your thumbs won't stretch all the way to the top.



What's that you say? You thought Apple would only make phones you can fully

control with one hand? Well, you're right, it did say that, and it pushed the

idea to its logical conclusion with the monolithic iPhone 5. And in that respect

there is an element of rolling with the punches with the iPhone 6. Apple's "our

way or the highway" philosophy has been eroded by commercial imperatives. The

market - that's you and I - demanded bigger. We went out and bought Samsung

Galaxy S4s and 5s, and HTC Ones, and one or two even bought Nokia Lumias. So

here we are with a 4.7 inch iPhone.



A neat trick to overcome that onehanded problem is a new feature that allows you

to double tap the home button to make the screen drop down within reach - you're

left with a rather inelegant black space at the top but it fixes a niggling

issue.



As far as the innards go, the new A8 chip seems like the business - scrolling is

fluid and heavy-duty apps run flawlessly. It'll be interesting to see how far

developers can push the hardware over the coming months.



Another improvement is the camera, which features an overhauled sensor, lens and

aperture, giving you more vivid colours and less noise in low light. Autofocus

is faster and there's also a 240fps slow-motion feature - twice as slow as on

the last iPhone. In real terms, the pictures I took are marginally better,

although more adept photographers may notice more pronounced results.



And then, of course, there is the battery life. Will it really last a whole day?

Well... just about. If you're a heavy internet user you might struggle but Apple

reckons it's good for 11 hours of wi-fi usage, which should see most people

through to a nightly re-charge.



IPHONE 6 PLUS So, on to the iPhone 6 Plus, which, with a 5.5 inch screen, is

gigantic - even bigger even than the 5.3 inch Galaxy Note, the device to which

it surely owes its existence. It's every bit as handsome as the regular iPhone 6

- a shade thicker at 7.1mm, with a slightly higher screen resolution that my

eyes aren't sharp enough to pick up on - and while the extra weight is

noticeable, it's certainly not clunky.



I reviewed the iPad Mini when it launched and struggled to work out quite when I

would use it: it doesn't fit into a regular jacket pocket, so if I want to take

it out, I need to carry a bag, in which case I may as well go for the regular

iPad. The iPhone 6 Plus is the device I wanted the iPad Mini to be - even when

carried in your trouser pocket you won't notice it most of the time (I've been

doing it all week and haven't seen any sign of bending or warping, by the way).



If you're a heavy mobile video consumer then the Plus just makes sense - the

massive, razor sharp Retina display plays HD movies brilliantly, and the

experience is a million miles from watching films on the previous generation of

iPhones. With both devices offering up to 128GB of storage, using your iPhone as

a portable video library is now a viable option.



The only extra hardware packed into the Plus relates to the camera: digital

image stabilisation, which means slightly better quality pictures, especially in

low light.



CONCLUSION Apple has released two great phones, both of which represent a

sea-change in terms of design, especially with those massive screens. Apart from

that it's business as usual: faster and thinner with more bells and whistles -

they will keep all but the most ardent Apple-haters happy.



EE is offering a £41/month deal with £100 to pay upfront, including 2GB of data.

Log on to www.shop.ee.co.uk TOPiPHONETWEETS Stephen Fry @stephenfry Just adore

apple-haters. Imagine if people talked about Mercs or BMWs with such spewing

bile! Funny old world.



Apparently legal not to buy 1 Lydia Burrell @LydiaBurrell they call it 6 Plus

but it''s 5.5 inches? sounds like my ex boyfriend COPYRIGHT 2014 LYDIA BURRELL

Max Silvestri @maxsilvestri I bet nobody breaks their iPhones reaching out the

window to use Apple Pay at the McDonald''s drive-thru. Yeah, definitely nobody.



Olivia Wilde, actress @oliviawilde Great, Apple announced more products for me

to become entirely emotionally dependent on.



Tim Cook, Apple CEO @tim_cook I''m backstage and this is my first tweet from my

iPhone 6. It''s amazing. You''re going to love it.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: CAM





                            Copyright 2014 City A.M.

                              All Rights Reserved





