
DATELINE: Kansas


Sprint Corporation has issued the following Press release:

OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), August 17, 2015 - Sprint (NYSE:S) unveils a
simple, yet powerful offer for iPhone fans today: iPhone Forever, only from
Sprint. Anytime customers don't have the latest iPhone, they are eligible to
upgrade.

iPhone Forever

Starting today, new and upgrade eligible Sprint customers can get iPhone for
just $22 per month with iPhone Forever. Anytime customers don't have the latest
iPhone, they are eligible to upgrade. They bring their iPhone, upgrade on the
spot and away they go. It's that simple. iPhone Forever is available on any
eligible Sprint rate plan and upgrade eligibility is always included in your
price. Qualified customers can get1 a 16GB iPhone 6 model at Sprint branded
retail stores, Sprint.com, 1-800-Sprint-1, Best Buy and Target.

Trade-in Offer

Through Dec. 31, 2015, customers on any other carrier or existing Sprint
customers who are upgrade eligible and turn-in any smartphone will get a
promotional rate of just $15 per month on a new iPhone. When they upgrade to the
latest iPhone after Dec. 31, their monthly lease rate returns to current lease
pricing, $22 per month.

Special Promotion - $15 Limited Time Offer

New or existing customers who are upgrade eligible can bring in any smartphone
and get a 16GB iPhone 6 model and their monthly rate will be reduced to just $15
until their next upgrade. As a special promotion, customers who get iPhone 6 and
upgrade before Dec. 31 continue with the discount price of $15 until their next
upgrade.

Three Key Steps

1. Get a 16GB iPhone 6 model for $22 (or the $15 special promotional price with
trade-in) when you activate on any individual unlimited plan or family share
pack plan.

2. Upgrade to the latest iPhone by the end of the year and keep the $15 a month
special promotion price.

3. At your next upgrade, the monthly cost is $22. (Excludes taxes and service
plan charges.)

Stuck in a contract with another carrier? Not anymore. Sprint will pay off your
old phone and contract so you can switch. It's that easy.

"We asked ourselves, 'What could we do that would move our customers forward
with the latest and greatest technology every day?' said Marcelo Claure, Sprint
CEO. "We decided: How awesome would it be if anytime customers don't have the
latest iPhone, they are eligible to upgrade, and have it be as simple as handing
us your existing iPhone and picking up a new one - all included in your monthly
rate."

Sprint iPhone Forever offer beats the competition because it's (a) forever and
(b) less expensive.

iPhone Forever Unlimited Comparison

For more information on $15 iPhone Forever, go to www.sprint.com/iphoneforever,
call 1-800-SPRINT-1, or visit your local Sprint retail store, Best Buy or
Target. Customers also can get their new phone delivered and set up for free
with Direct2You.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

