                              837 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                               walesonline.co.uk



                     September 9, 2014 Tuesday 8:56 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6 Plus launch: Long-awaited new smartphone and Apple Watch are

unveiled;

Launch is hailed as 'biggest advancement in the history of the iPhone'



BYLINE: By Agency Staff



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 652 words





Apple has introduced a new bigger iPhone for the first time, called the iPhone 6

Plus.



At an event in California on Tuesday, CEO Tim Cook said: "Today we're launching

the biggest advancement in the history of iPhone."



The new iPhone 6 Plus comes with a 5.5-inch screen, compared to the four-inch

screen of the current generation iPhone 5s.



Apple also introduced the iPhone 6, which is also larger, now coming with a

4.7-inch screen. Both devices also have what Apple call "ion-strengthened glass"

screens.



The larger of the two new devices, the 6 Plus, also allows for apps such as

Messages and Mail to be displayed in landscape orientation for the first time.



The firm also confirmed a new processor chip, the A8, which will be used to

power new apps and games, with partnerships with game studios including Disney

and EA also confirmed on stage by Apple's Phil Schiller.



The Cupertino-based technology giant had been expected to announce two new

iPhones, with speculation and alleged leaks appearing online over the last few

weeks.



The new iPhone devices will ship on September 19, with the company's new mobile

operating system, iOS 8, becoming available on iPhone 4s and above from

September 17.



Mr Schiller confirmed that the new iPhone 6 will be priced at $199 (£123) for

the 16GB model, going up to $399 (£248) for the 128GB model. The iPhone 6 Plus

will start at $299 (£185).



Apple has also announced plans to enter the payment market.



"Our vision is to replace the wallet and we're going to start with payments",

said Mr Cook.



He also called magnetic strips on credit cards "outdated and vulnerable" before

introducing Apple's take on the area.



"We love this kind of problem. This is what Apple does best. We've created a new

payment process and it's called Apple Pay," he added.



The new software uses the fingerprint scanner on your phone and native payment

apps to allow users to pay for products by touching their iPhone to payment

outlets.



It uses near-field communication (NFC) technology, used in existing contactless

payments, and the company's own Passbook app to secure your details.



The Find My iPhone app would be used to track and suspend your account if the

device is stolen.



"We are not in the business of collecting your data", said Apple, confirming

that all Apple Pay transactions are not logged by the company.



Major retailers have already signed up to use Apple Pay in their stores,

including Toys R US and Staples.



Online, it is also possible to pay within some apps. For now, the technology is

just been introduced in the US.



Apple has also entered the smartwatch market for the first time, with the Apple

Watch.



"I am so excited and I am so proud to share it with you this morning. It is the

next chapter in Apple's story," said Mr Cook.



"Apple Watch is most personal device we've ever created."



The Apple Watch was described as a comprehensive health and fitness interface,

and the traditional watch crown, which Apple calls the Digital Crown, is used to

control the interface.



Mr Cook compared it to the innovation of the mouse on the Mac, and click wheel

on the iPod. The crown can be used to scroll through lists as well as zoom in on

images and maps.



A huge array of designs and straps were shown on-stage, before the audience rose

to give Mr Cook a standing ovation. "It's incredibly customisable", he said. The

Apple Watch works directly with iPhone, but has its own native version of iOS.



Rivals Samsung launched their first smartwatch last year, and currently have

several on the market. This is Apple's first piece of wearable technology and

also follows on from Google introducing their Glass headset, and Android Wear

smartwatches.



The Apple Watch has a flexible Retina display, and the screen can sense force

used when tapping it. Apple also confirmed that the device will come in two

sizes.There are three collections of the Apple Watch - Apple Watch, Apple Watch

Sport and Apple Watch Edition.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM





                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





