                              839 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            January 30, 2015 Friday



iPhone 6 'shortage' in India, Apple diverts supply



BYLINE: Writankar Mukherjee



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 449 words





KOLKATA: Smartphone retailers in the country are once again unable to meet the

demand for iPhone 6 as its supplies have fallen by 50% in the last three weeks

with Apple diverting stocks to the US, Europe and China.



The 16GB and 64GB models of iPhone 6, which together currently account for

almost 70% of iPhone sales in the country, are the least in supply, three senior

executives of Apple's trade partners told ET.



The executives, who requested anonymity, said Apple's distributors have informed

the trade that supplies will normalize in about a month once Apple is able to

normalize its channel inventory in its top markets.



An email sent to Apple did not elicit any response till Wednesday press time.



Himanshu Chakrawarti, CEO at The Mobile Store, confirmed a shortfall in

supplies. "Apple's iPhone 6 continues to rock and sells much more compared to

iPhone 6 Plus in India, but supply side has not been able to match up to the

demand," he said. "We hope supplies will normalize in another 30-45 days," he

said.



A senior executive with a leading electronics chain said the short supply of

iPhone 6 has hit retailers as they operate on thin margins after the company

recently cut margins by 1%. "The only way we can make money on iPhone is by

fulfilling all orders, which now is not happening due to the short age," the

person said.



Apple CEO Tim Cook in the firm's first quarter earnings call on Tuesday had said

that there has been a decline of two lakh units in iPhone channel inventory

during the December quarter, compared to an increase of about one million

iPhones during the year-ago period. He said Apple has not been able to reach

supply demand balance until this month.



Apple on Tuesday reported $18-billion net profit in the first quarter, the

biggest quarterly profit ever by a public company, led by a 46% year-on-year

increase in sales of iPhones to a record 74.5 million-plus units. The company's

revenue increased a record 30% to $74.6 billion. Apple CFO Luca Maestri said in

the earnings call that while iPhone sales grew strongly across markets, unit

sales were up by 44% in the US and 97% in the BRIC countries.



As per estimates by Counterpoint Research, Apple sold half a million iPhones in

India in the quarter to December compared to one million units sold in the full

fiscal to September 2014. While Apple India initially struggled to meet

supplies, it had normalized supplies in December and till early in January .



Apple India has also just appointed Brightstar in India for handling general

trade in the North. Redington and Ingram Micro are the other iPhone distributors

in India.



Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>



And like us on Facebook >>>



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





