                              83 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                        St. Joseph News-Press (Missouri)



                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News



                           September 15, 2014 Monday



iPhone 6 reveal comes with praise, criticism



BYLINE: Shea Conner, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.



SECTION: LIFESTYLE



LENGTH: 846 words





Sept. 15--Apple's new pair of iPhones definitely got bigger, but whether they

got better is entirely up for debate.



When they hit stores on Sept. 19, the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will

certainly offer improvements over the generation of iPhone 5 models. The 6 and 6

Plus will respectively have 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch displays, larger than the

current 4-inch screen. Notably, both phones will be thinner than the iPhone 5,

with a rounded, more comfortable design. They'll also boast longer battery life.



Both also will have a brand-new 8-megapixel camera, which now has phase-detect

autofocus, a feature that's only recently come to digital cameras without

mirrors. The camera will perform far better in low light, and the iPhone 6 Plus

will shoot video at up to 240 frames per second for creating super slow-mo

shots. The front-facing camera was also given some major upgrades.



Of course, the reason many Apple lovers will make the upgrade is because the

iPhone will run on the clean and basic but advanced iOS 8.



Apple plans to sell the larger 5.5-inch model starting at $299 with a two-year

carrier contract, higher than the $199 price for its current high-end iPhone 5S.

The company says the 4.7-inch iPhone will start at $199 with a contract.



"Today, we are launching the biggest advancement in the history of iPhone,"

Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said at the unveiling event on Sept. 9, in which

the Apple Watch smartwatch and the pay system Apple Pay also were announced.



Like any big Apple rollout, however, criticism didn't trail far behind. Many

felt that the iPhone 6 was merely playing catch-up with large smartphones like

the Samsung Galaxy Note 4. Some even joked that the new iPhone 6 had almost

identical specifications and features as LG's Google Nexus 4, which was released

nearly two years ago.



There was definitely some truth behind the snide remarks.



The lack of a large screen was becoming a liability for Apple as it tried to

keep its grip on the high-end smartphone market. According to market research

firm Canalys, phones with screens larger than 5 inches accounted for nearly 40

percent of global smartphone shipments in the second quarter of 2014, up 19

percent from a year earlier.



Apple's main smartphone rival, Samsung, pushed aggressively into larger-size

smartphones, using its bigger screens as a key differentiator from the iPhone.

According to Canalys, Samsung is the leading seller of smartphones with screens

of 5 inches or larger, grabbing 34 percent of the market.



So now we arrive at the billion-dollar question: Can the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus reach past the Apple loyalists and regain dominance in the smartphone

market? Here's a sample of what consumer technology experts have had to say.



David Pogue, Yahoo! Tech: "The Android/iPhone religious war will certainly

continue. Each of these ecosystems locks you in, making you grouchy about the

opposing camp's attractive features. But if it's too inflammatory to say that

the iPhone 6 looks fantastic, let's at least say this: Apple fans who'd been

looking longingly at the big-screen progress in Android phones will no longer

feel left behind."



Jean-Baptiste Su, Forbes: "'No one's going to buy a big phone,' mocked Steve

Jobs when asked about large smartphones at a press conference. ... Needless to

say, there's one thing I think we can all agree on: Steve Jobs is probably

rolling in his grave right now."



Rob Enderle, technology analyst: "The iPhone 6 is an attractive me-too product,

but nothing to pull you across. There's no revolution here and Apple is losing

its innovative soul chasing after Android and Windows rivals with bigger-sized

iPhones, while still lagging on fundamental features like screen and camera

resolutions and inductive charging."



Angela Watercutter, Wired: "Amidst all the hoopla over the new iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus and their motion processors, faster CPUs, and larger screens, it

was also announced that Apple's latest smartphones would have a much better

camera. And while that's great news for those looking to take less-wack selfies

at the bar, the new video features that come along with it mean something else:

a high-quality camera filmmakers -- and those who aspire to be -- can keep in

their pockets.



Jan Dawson, Jackdaw Research: "The new phones should dramatically expand the

size of the opportunity for the iPhone, which has been artificially limited by

its small screen size. The iPhone will now definitely have its largest quarter

ever."



Eugene Kim, PCMag.com: "Apple was obstinate in the face of market forces for

years, but with the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, it appears ready to admit that people

want bigger phones. Samsung had a healthy head start, and it certainly has a

winner in the Galaxy S5. We're not calling this one until we get the new iPhones

into our labs."



Shea Conner can be reached at shea.conner@newspressnow.com Follow him on

Twitter: @stjoelivedotcom.



___ (c)2014 the St. Joseph News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) Visit the St. Joseph

News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) at www.newspressnow.com/index.html Distributed by

MCT Information Services



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



ACC-NO: 20140915-JM-iPhone-6-reveal-comes-with-praise-criticism-0915-20140915



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: JM





                      Copyright 2014 St. Joseph News-Press





