

CUPERTINO, Calif. -- After three years as chief executive of Apple, Timothy D.
Cook is starting to crystallize his vision for the company.

Apple on Tuesday introduced a highly anticipated smartwatch, which combines
health and fitness monitoring with mobile computer capabilities like maps. The
company also introduced two iPhones with larger screens.

The smartwatch, named the Apple Watch, is a miniature computer strapped around
the wrist and is the first product made under Mr. Cook's leadership that
branches Apple into a new type of product: a device in the growing field of
fitness-tracking computers that can be worn on or around the body.

Although the Apple Watch is the company's first wearable computer, it enters a
crowded field. Samsung, Pebble and Sony lead the pack of companies producing
these new devices, and sales are growing quickly. But the devices are nowhere
near as popular as smartphones. IDC, the research company, estimates that 19
million smartwatches will ship in 2014, much lower than the 1.2 billion
smartphones that it expects will ship this year.

And despite the fanfare with which the news media has greeted Apple's first
wearable device, analysts have expressed mixed views about its potential to
become mainstream. Can the smartwatch be a late entrant to a market but
eventually dominate as Apple did several times before under its former chief,
Steven P. Jobs?

''Jobs made that work with the iPod,'' said Carl Howe, an analyst at the Yankee
Group. ''He certainly made it work with the iPhone. Question is, Are they going
to be able to do the same thing with a watch? I wouldn't bet against them at
this point.''

Mr. Cook said in an interview that the new watch indicated that the company was
still innovative.

''For us, it's never been about being first. It's been about being the best,''
he said. ''And I think we just launched the Apple watch that is sort of in a
category by itself that will redefine what people expect of products in the
category.''

The new iPhones are significant upgrades for Apple's smartphone lineup, still by
far the company's largest source of profit. They cater to a growing appetite
among consumers for bigger screens, similar to what happened with televisions.

And they are a rare instance of Apple's following market trends instead of
creating them; Samsung, Apple's chief rival, has captured a major share of the
smartphone market with large phones.

Apple displayed the products in front of a packed auditorium here at the Flint
Center for the Performing Arts, the same spot where the company introduced the
Macintosh in 1984.

Apple said that to use the Apple Watch, someone must also use one of its more
recent iPhones.

The watch will have a strong focus on health. An app called Fitness tracks
statistics for different exercises, like bicycling or running, an accelerometer
tracks movements and a heart rate sensor helps measure the intensity of
workouts.

The watch has a rectangular screen for a face with a flexible display and comes
in two sizes. A crown on the side acts as a digital dial, which can be turned to
zoom in; tapping the crown returns to the main menu. The watch can be attached
to six strap styles, like stainless steel and leather.

The smartwatch can run various apps, like a calendar, map navigation and a music
player.

The smartwatch will rely on so-called inductive charging to replenish the
battery. Some consider it a form of wireless charging, but technically, it still
requires a magnet that attaches to the back of the watch from another device.

The watch will take advantage of Siri, Apple's tool for controlling the device
with voice commands. Pushing on the crown activates Siri, and a command like
''What movies are playing nearby?'' will prompt the watch to load show times for
nearby theaters.

Apple also said it would release a tool kit for software developers to build
apps for the watch. It said many companies had already made such apps, including
W hotels, Pinterest and BMW.

James McQuivey, a consumer technology analyst at Forrester Research, said the
Apple Watch had already accomplished one thing, even though the device will not
be in stores until 2015.

''It has firmly established the smartwatch as a category, one with unique
properties requiring a unique solution, as opposed to a miniature smartphone
pushed down onto your wrist,'' he said.

Apple said that there would be three versions of the watch -- Apple Watch, Apple
Watch Sport and Apple Watch Edition -- and that pricing would start at $350.

Employees working on the project, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, have
said that Apple wanted to introduce the product last year, but had to wait until
this year to finish developing the hardware and software and to give developers
time to make apps for the device.

Mr. Cook said Apple took its time to figure out how to devise a software
interface that made sense on a small screen, among other challenges.

''You don't want a phone strapped to your wrist. That's not what the consumer
wants,'' he said.

The two new iPhones, the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus, measure 4.7 inches and
5.5 inches diagonally; the most recent iPhones measure 4 inches.

Both iPhones have an aluminum back. Despite larger screen sizes, the bodies are
thinner than those of past iPhones.

To deal with concerns that a bigger phone will make using the phone with one
hand difficult, Apple created the feature Reachability. Double tapping the
physical button makes the picture slide down so that a user can reach over with
one hand to tap something.

The processor inside the new iPhones is about 25 percent faster than the
previous version, Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing, said. The iPhones
have slightly better battery life than the previous iPhone, and they include new
wireless capabilities to get faster Internet speeds from cellular networks.

In addition, they support making phone calls over a Wi-Fi network and have an
improved camera with a sensor that reads light and does quicker autofocus.

The starting price of an iPhone 6 with a contract is $200, while that for an
iPhone 6 Plus is $300. They go on sale Sept. 19.

With the new iPhones and watch, Apple is moving deeper into the world of mobile
payments. Apple demonstrated Apple Pay, a feature that allows users to pay for
things in retail stores with the devices. The feature relies on near-field
communication, or N.F.C., a technology that lets devices exchange information
wirelessly over very short distances.

After rising initially, Apple shares ended the day down slightly.

The set of products should be the first of more to come this year. In May, Eddy
Cue, Apple's head of Internet services, said the products that the company
planned to introduce this year made up the ''best product pipeline that I've
seen in my 25 years at Apple.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/10/technology/apple-aims-for-the-wrist-with-a-sma
rtwatch-while-making-the-iphone-6-larger.html

