                              842 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday

                               Townsville Edition



Fanatics line up for their fix of new iPhone6



BYLINE: JANE ARMITSTEAD



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39



LENGTH: 277  words





THE scenes in Townsville phone stores weren't as manic as those down south, but

some desperate residents were still willing to queue for hours to be the first

owners of the iPhone 6.



Shoppers waited outside Stockland's Telstra Shop from 5.45am yesterday with

about 180 people lining up across five Telstra stores in Townsville to get their

hands on Apple's long-awaited products.



Stores sold out of the iPhone6 Plus early in the day with a dozen people put on

the waiting list, but as of yesterday afternoon there were still iPhone 6s in

stock.



Telstra North Queensland area general manager Rachael Cliffe said it was the

biggest iPhone launch they had seen in Townsville.



"The customer demand has been huge," she said.



"Our Willows store has been massive. We had up to 80 people lining up this

morning." Townsville resident Ben Vincent, 25, has purchased every iPhone on

launch day and yesterday was no exception.



The soil tester took the day off work to get the iPhone 6 Plus, his seventh

iPhone in six years."If I know I want something, I have to have it," he said.



"I waited about an hour for the store to open at 8am and was one of the first to

get the phone.



"I wanted to be there on opening day because if I missed out today, I would have

to wait another month for them to get more stock in." The iPhone 6 series, with

bigger screens, faster processors and improved cameras, has been touted as the

biggest shake-up of the iPhone in a few device generations.



Ms Cliffe said the 64GB silver iPhone 6 was the most popular product behind the

iPhone 6 Plus.



Mr Vincent said he was more than satisfied with the product. "It looks really

good and it is easy to use," he said.



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





