                              844 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             June 18, 2016 Saturday



Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus might be banned in China



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 338 words





NEW DELHI: In another setback for Apple in China, the country's intellectual

property authority has ruled that the the company's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus handsets

have infringed design patents of a Chinese OEM. The Cupertino-based tech giant

might be asked to stop sales of its iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in the country.Beijing

Intellectual Property Office declared that both the iPhones infringe on patent

rights owned by Shenzhen-based firm Baili. The regulator ruled that Apple's

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus handsets are an exact copy of Baili's 100C phone.



Apple is yet to release an official statement on this claim."Baili is just

another smartphone brand in China. The patent reportedly belongs to Xu Guoxiang.

Meanwhile, Apple can appeal the ruling. "Apple can try to stave off a sales ban

by appealing in several venues, including the Beijing Higher People's Court and

the Supreme People's Court. If the position by the Beijing IP office is upheld

and Apple doesn't appeal further, then in theory they wouldn't be able to sell

the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus," Bird and Bird partner and IP specialist Ted

Chwu said in a Bloomberg report .In April, Apple's iTunes Movies and iBooks

service were banned in the country on demand from the State Administration of

Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television.The two Apple services competed

directly with Chinese firms. According to the New York Times, the official

scrutiny might be driven by government's desire to support domestic companies.

In May, Chinese court ruled against Apple in a case it brought against a small

maker of "iPhone"-branded leather goods. Manufacturer Xintong Tiandi registered

the word as a trademark for use on leather goods in 2007 and has been producing

wallets, handbags and phone cases emblazoned with it ever since.The Beijing

municipal higher people's court reportedly ruled that Apple had failed to prove

that the iPhone brand was "familiar to the public and widely known" in China

before the leather company registered it.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





