                              847 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday



Wolverton: Apple Watch underwhelms



BYLINE: By Troy Wolverton Mercury News Columnist



SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; Personal Technology; News; Business; High-Tech;

Opinion; Science and Tech; Columnists



LENGTH: 838 words





SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 9/13/2014, pg. A4)

A graphic on the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus incorrectly stated the prices and

storage capacity of the iPhone 6. There is no 32GB version of the iPhone 6, but

there is a 64GB model for $299 and a 128GB model for $399.



CUPERTINO -- On Tuesday, I got some time to do something people have been hoping

to do for years: spend some time with Apple's new smartwatch.



Apple Watch will not go on sale until early next year, but I tested out some

demo units at Apple's big reveal at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts on

Tuesday and talked to company representatives about it.



Based on that, I've got some informed first impressions and some thoughts about

whether this gadget, like the iPhone and iPad, will become a must-have device

for a mass audience.



First off, the basics: Apple Watch is a kind of portable computer that you wear

on your wrist. You can use it to view alerts sent from your phone, get

directions, send short messages or keep track of your pulse rate and physical

activity. Oh, and it will also tell time.



My overall thoughts: Apple clearly has thought a lot about wearable devices, and

its new Watch has some impressive features. But it's not as sleek as I expected,

nor as capable. And it seems really overpriced for what it is.



In creating Apple Watch, the company obviously spent a lot of time thinking

about the fashion business. Apple Watch will come in two different sizes,

presumably for male and female wrists. Apple will offer it with three different

case materials, each one in two different finishes. And consumers can choose

from six different types of straps in a rainbow selection of colors.



But in some ways the design of Apple Watch is very conventional and even

pedestrian. At about a centimeter thick, it's fatter than I expected and nowhere

near as sleek as the new iPhones. Turned off, its small, squat, flat design

almost looks boring. It certainly doesn't scream out -- or even whisper -- that

it's a cutting-edge device.



Besides fashion, Apple seems to have spent a lot of time thinking about what

consumers might want to do with a smartwatch and paying attention to its rivals.

Like other smartwatches, Apple Watch will be able to track users' workouts and

monitor their overall physical activity. It will also be able to show them

alerts, such as when they have an upcoming appointment.



But it has the potential to do a lot more because Apple is opening up the device

to outside developers. Apps for your phone will be able to send alerts to Apple

Watch right when it launches. Developers will also be able to offer features for

the Watch that complement and extend their iPhone apps. Tim Cook, for example,

mentioned that one Apple executive is already using his Watch as a viewfinder

for his iPhone's camera. Later next year, developers will be able to create full

apps for the device, the company says.



Apple's decision to open up the iPhone to outside apps helped spur its

popularity. Opening up the Apple Watch could have similar benefits, allowing

consumers to find their own individual killer apps.



Unfortunately Apple Watch suffers from several shortcomings, big and small.



Its first big problem is that it isn't a stand-alone device; you can't do much

with the Apple Watch unless it's connected to a smartphone. And not just any

smartphone; it has to be connected to an iPhone.



About the only things you can do with Apple Watch without an iPhone is check the

time and use it as a kind of enhanced pedometer.



That need for an iPhone link is likely to greatly limit its appeal. Even if you

already own an iPhone, you may wonder why you need to buy an extra device,

especially when you're generally going to have to continue to carry your phone

around with you.



The other big problem with Apple Watch is its price, which starts at $350. That

might be reasonable if the watch could replace a phone, but it's a high price to

pay for what is basically a phone accessory. It's also likely to be a high

hurdle for many young people, especially since many of them have yet to be

convinced that they need to wear a watch at all.



Apple Watch also has some smaller problems. For one, its screen is generally

turned off. To turn it on, you press a button or raise the watch to your face.

That's annoying; if the primary purpose of a watch is to tell you the time,

you're going to want to be able to see that by just glancing at it.



One other problem has to do with the interface Apple created for it. The app

icons on the display are tiny! If you use reading glasses, you may need to pull

them out to distinguish particular programs.



Some of these problems aren't unique to Apple Watch; they plague other

smartwatches, making it hard to create a product that is a must-have for most

consumers.



Apple Watch obviously will benefit from the company's huge fan base and Apple's

marketing prowess. But at least at first glance, I wasn't convinced it's a

device that most people need -- or may even want.



Contact Troy Wolverton at 408-840-4285 or Twitter.com/troywolv.



LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the Apple Watch at the Flint Center

Tuesday morning, Sept. 9, 2014, in Cupertino, Calif. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News

Group)

Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the Apple Watch at the Flint Center Tuesday

morning September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News

Group

Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the Apple Watch at the Flint Center Tuesday

morning September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News

Group

CUPERTINO, CA - SEPTEMBER 09: A video about the Apple Watch is shown during an

Apple special event at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts on September 9,

2014 in Cupertino, California. Apple unveiled the Apple Watch wearable tech and

two new iPhones, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty

Images)

CUPERTINO, CA - SEPTEMBER 09: Apple CEO Tim Cook talks about the Apple Watch

during an Apple special event at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts on

September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California. Apple unveiled the Apple Watch

wearable tech and two new iPhones, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. (Photo by

Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





