                              848 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                           September 20, 2013 Friday



Apple iPhone weekend sales may hit 6-8 million



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 389 words





NEW DELHI: Apple is set to launch the recently-unveiled iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C

in 11 markets on October 20 and analysts have said it could notch record sales

over the first weekend itself.



The company has always broken previous records with each new iPhone launch,

though last year's sales missed the estimates. Now, analysts have given their

predictions for weekend sales of the two new iPhone models and it remains to be

seen if Apple can outsell iPhone 5.



According to KGI Securities analyst Mig-Chi Kuo, Apple is likely to sell

approximately 6-8 million iPhones over the first weekend since they hit the

shelves. He has also predicted the cheaper iPhone 5C will outsell its more

expensive sibling, accounting for 55-65% of the total sales. However, he says

that the manufacturer will not reveal exactly how many units of each handset it

sells.



Piper Jeffrey analyst Gene Munster, however, expects Apple to sell fewer units

this weekend. According to him, the company will only be able to notch sales of

5-6 million units for both the models.



In his research note, Munster wrote, "While the 5-6 million range may be viewed

by some as a disappointment given that it will include China as a launch country

for the first time, we believe our survey work suggests that demand is healthy,

but slightly below where demand was for the iPhone 5 last year, which included a

new form factor."



Last year, Apple launched only one model - iPhone 5 - and sold 5 million units

on the first weekend. This is the first time the company has released two

smartphones together.



While pre-orders for the cheaper iPhone 5C began on September 13, Apple this

time did not disclose the number of pre-orders it received on the first day. The

Cupertino-based company has released pre-order figures for the first day for the

past three years. However, Munster has put iPhone 5C pre-order estimates at 1

million units, which is half of the advance bookings made of iPhone 5 on the

first day.



In an earlier research note, Munster wrote, "We believe people who followed tech

closely and were interested in the announcement panned the 5C, but as more

normal people became involved in the conversation, it appears that colour

matters to consumers and the 5C could be more popular among the total consumer

base than some may have expected."



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





