                              852 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                               The Times (London)



                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Scotland



China lifts iPhone sales to an even higher level



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 42



LENGTH: 249 words





Apple has smashed its iPhone sales record after selling 13 million of its newest

handsets in the first weekend after their launch (James Dean writes).



Sales of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus comfortably beat the record of ten million

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus handsets sold during launch weekend - defined by Apple as

the first three days of sales - in September last year.



Unlike last year, China featured among iPhone launch countries this year. Daniel

Ives, a senior analyst with FBR Capital Markets, said that Chinese sales

appeared to be "white hot".



The iPhone is by far the biggest part of Apple's business, with sales accounting

for nearly two thirds of revenue in the most recent quarter.



Apple shares touched nearly $135 in April amid soaring optimism about iPhone 6

and 6 Plus sales. They were trading down by 1.5 per cent at $113 yesterday

afternoon.



IHS Technology predicts that Apple will sell 236 million iPhones this year, up

by nearly a quarter on last year. However, Ian Fogg, an IHS analyst, suggested

that Apple could have trouble sustaining momentum next year. "Apple is going to

have to find a way to reinvent the iPhone and it is hard to find something that

is radically new," he said.



During the launch weekend this year, Apple sold the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in 12

countries with a combined population in excess of two billion, according to Walt

Piecyk, of BTIG.



The upgraded iPhones feature touchscreens that detect how hard they are being

pressed, which opens up new ways of navigating.



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: The Chuckle Brothers joined iPhone fans keen to get the latest

modelMIKAEL BUCK/O2



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: TIM





                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





