

Samsung, Amazon, Google, Microsoft and numerous other companies have introduced
tablets to compete with Apple's iPad, but last week someone finally introduced
what could be the iPad killer.

That someone was Apple with its new iPhone 6 Plus. The phone's 5.5-inch screen
has a bit less screen real estate than the 7.9-inch iPad mini or 7-inch Android
tablets from Samsung and others, but unlike those tablets, the iPhone fits into
most pockets and, because its your phone, you're likely to have it with you
almost everywhere you go.

I don't yet have one of the new iPhones, but I do have a Samsung Galaxy S5,
which is a half-inch (diagonally) smaller than the 6 Plus and even that does a
pretty good job replacing a tablet. I do own an iPad mini, a full-sized iPad and
a couple of Android tablets, but I rarely use them since when I'm home or in a
hotel room I usually have my laptop handy and when I'm out and about, I always
have the phone and rarely bother to carry a tablet.

Given a choice, I'd prefer to read a book using the Kindle app on a tablet, but
I find myself doing most of my reading on my phone, simply because I always have
it with me. The convenience of having an entire library in my pocket outweighs
the minor annoyance of having to advance from page to page more often than if I
were reading on a larger screen. Admittedly, a tablet's on-screen keyboard is
bigger and better than a phone's, but -- given a choice -- I always opt for a
laptop or attach a physical keyboard. And while a phone is far from the ideal
platform to watch video, it's certainly possible. My daughter brings her 4-inch
screen iPhone with her to the gym on most days and is content watching Hulu on
its small screen to stave off boredom while she works out on the elliptical
machine.

While the 6 Plus is big as phones go, it's not the biggest on the market.
Samsung's Galaxy Note 3 and 4 are 5.7 inches and there are several Chinese
Android phones with 6 and even 7-inch displays.

OnePlus One oneplus.net ) is starting to develop a following because it offers
an unlocked large-screen (also 5.5 inches) phone for the same or less than
locked phones from Apple and Samsung. It has the same (1080 by 1920) resolution
as the new iPhone 6 Plus and also has an 8-megapixel camera with autofocus and
image stabilization, though -- regardless of resolution -- it's hard to beat
Apple's excellent cameras. It's not quite as thin as the 6 Plus (0.28 inches vs.
0.35 inches), but it's actually slightly lighter (5.71 ounces vs. 6.07). The
OnePlus One (unlocked) starts at $299 for 16GB and $349 for 64GB compared to
$300 for a locked 16 GB 6 Plus on a contract ($749 unlocked) and $400 for locked
64 GB model ($849 unlocked).

While much of the excitement at last Tuesday's Apple announcement focused on the
phones and the new Apple Watch, I was much more interested that Apple is now
including NFC ( near-field communication) on its new phones and is launching its
own Apple Pay payment service with support from Visa, MasterCard and American
Express and a large and impressive roster of brick-and-mortar and online
merchants including McDonald's, Subway, Whole Foods, Walgreens, Macy's and
Target.com .

McDonald's will even accept Apple Pay at its drive-through windows and if you
don't want to drive yourself, Uber will charge your ride to Apple Pay from
within its own app. Some worry about Apple's security, especially after those
nude celebrity photos were lifted from iCloud (due to passwords being
compromised, not a hack on Apple's servers), but Apple Pay and other reputable
mobile payment services are a lot more secure than credit or debit cards,
especially in the U.S. where most cards still don't have chips and don't yet
require a PIN (personal identification number), which means they can be cloned
or easily used if lost or stolen.

Apple Pay assigns a unique Device Account Number that's stored on a dedicated
chip in the iPhone. (Apple says "numbers are never stored on Apple servers") and
if you lose your phone you can disable payments from Apple's Find My iPhone
webpage.

Just as Apple's iPod wasn't the first digital music player, its iPhone is not
the first smartphone or the iPad is not the first tablet, Apple Pay isn't the
first mobile payment service. Google beat Apple to that market with Google
Wallet and Softcard (which recently changed its name from Isis for obvious
reasons) was launched last year with the support of AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon
Wireless.

Neither Google Wallet nor Softcard have seen widespread adoption but,
ironically, Apple's entry into this field could help them by popularizing mobile
payments.

And because all three companies use the same NFC technology, together they will
encourage more merchants to employ NFC point-of-sale systems to accept payments
from any NFC-equipped phone.

If Apple can develop an ecosystem for mobile payments like it did for digital
music, it could be music to the ears of the entire digital payment industry by
legitimizing and popularizing a technology that, eventually, could make debit
and credit cards go the way of CDs.

Contact Larry Magid at larry@larrymagid.com Listen for his technology chats on
KCBS-AM (740) weekdays at 3:50 p.m.

