                              855 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday



Top Five things to Expect at the Apple Preview



LENGTH: 487  words





Apple is all set to reveal the new iPhone 6, the wearable that everyone wants to

know about and potentially successors for the iPad, MacBook Pro and Mac Desktop.

If WWDC was about software that got everyone excited, we can only imagine what

sort of excitement Apple's hardware is going to generate but it isn't in any

[...]

The post Top Five things to Expect at the Apple Preview appeared first on

tbreak.ae.



Apple is all set to reveal the new iPhone 6, the wearable that everyone wants to

know about and potentially successors for the iPad, MacBook Pro and Mac Desktop.

If WWDC was about software that got everyone excited, we can only imagine what

sort of excitement Apple's hardware is going to generate but it isn't in any

safe spot yet. Expectations on the software giant are high and their security is

under scrutiny recently. That being said, Tim Cook's got a lot to show for, so

here's five things you can expect at tonight's preview.



The iPhone 6 in two different flavors



If the leaks, in several, are anything to go by, then you would have probably

learned everything about the new iPhone before it gets unveiled today. Leaks are

common place but the iPhone's leaks make it the worst kept secret about the

device that got an unofficial spec sheet and a look at the software.



People who have already revealed the device have specified that the new iPhone

runs noticeably faster. But how fast is fast? It's packed a new A8 processor

running at 2 GHz. The current iPhone 5s runs on a 1.3 GHZ A7 processor. Rumors

that aren't quite as much rumors indicate that the iPhone 6 will have two

different versions catering to a phablet market and mobile. The smaller variant,

the 4.7 inch will be called iPhone 6 and the 5.5 inch, the iPhone 6L. Both

devices have slimmed and curved edges and the biggest news it generated for a

while is that it now comes with Sapphire coated crystal displays.



We've seen videos how it resisted scratch marks and physical damage to an

extent. It's too early to say if this might be the best durable iPhone yet.

Hardware indicates that the rear camera will have a 10 MP resolution with a f

1.8 lens and if the patent they've recently filed holds true, then the iPhone 6

may be the first device of its kind to have interchangeable lenses. There's no

word, however if the smaller phone will have reduced specs.



Bigger phones mean better batteries and rightly so. The 5.5 inch has a 2,915 mAh

battery and the smaller device may well have a 1,900 mAh battery. Keep in mind

that the 5C has a 1,570 mAh battery. The charging cable is also rumored to be

reversible so it can be plugged in from both sides. This should end battery woes

for iPhone users but one can never be too sure.



Expect pricing to be around $800 for the 4.7 inch variant and a higher price

markup for the 5.5 inch a lot more, touching just about $1000



The post Top Five things to Expect at the Apple Preview appeared first on

tbreak.ae.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2014 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





