                              856 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)



                            October 23, 2016 Sunday



After a month, users review Apple's iPhone 7, iOS 10



BYLINE: ERIK HOGSTROM erik.hogstrom@thmedia.com BY ERIK HOGSTROM

erik.hogstrom@thmedia.com



SECTION: D; Pg. 6



LENGTH: 477 words





iPhone and iPad users have had a month to become accustomed to the iOS 10 system

upgrade for their devices, and the iPhone 7 smartphone debuted a month ago, too.



Bailey Theisen, 19, of La Motte, Iowa, has had iOS 10 on her iPhone 6 for more

than a month.



"It has a lot of cool updates," Theisen said. "I like all the new things with

messages. You can hold down the 'send' button and send it different ways."



Message senders have delivery options that include "loud," "gentle," "slam" and

"invisible ink."



iPhone users who updated to iOS 10 noticed one change immediately. Instead of

swiping the screen to unlock the phone, users must depress the start button.



Depress the button too long, though, and the voice-control app Siri appears.



Swiping a locked screen with iOS 10 now pulls up the smartphone's camera.



"I still do that sometimes," Theisen said.



Other changes in the operating system include additional emojis for messages and

a new interface for the native maps app.



Clarke University President Sister Joanne Burrows acquired an iPhone 7 when the

battery died on her previous smartphone, an iPhone 6.



"I don't know that I notice much of a difference," Burrows said of the new

device. "It's a little bit lighter and it's annoying that it's just enough

different that I can't put it in my iPhone 6 case. It's just another way for

them to make you buy something new."



Burrows has noticed there is a difference with photo quality of the iPhone 7's

camera.



"It's got an amazing camera," she said. "The pictures are clearer - you can just

see it."



iPhone 7 and 7 Plus came with faster processors and longer battery lives but

dispensed with the analog headphone jack that had been included on smartphones

for decades.



Burrows doesn't miss the headphone jack.



"They send you new earbuds that have the right jack and they include the adapter

for whatever other headphones you've got," she said.



Burrows said the longer battery life also means she doesn't need to use the

iPhone 7's jack for charging as much.



The iPhone 7 is Burrows' third version of the Apple smartphone.



"I had an Android to start with, but then the folks here said, 'You really to

get an iPhone.'"



Hannah Thorson, Clarke's web and social media manager, has an iPhone 6 and

upgraded to iOS 10.



"I personally love the iMessage," Thorson said. "I like the ability to interact

with group messages. You can 'like' certain messages or 'laugh' at them."



iMessage also now boasts a "handwritten" feature: Users tap on the iMessage text

field, then turn the device in Landscape mode to reveal a blank page with

pre-written options or users can write their own "handwritten" messages.



"I like that there are new emojis but some of them have changed - the looks of

them have changed," Thorson said. "I also use the notes app a lot. Now, you are

able to share and collaborate with other people, like you can share a grocery

list."



LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





