                              858 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                               Los Angeles Times



                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday

                                  Home Edition



Apple looks to new iPhone to revive sales;

Analysts wonder if the device will come with enough fresh features to excite

customers.



BYLINE: Tracey Lien



SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 1



LENGTH: 1014 words



DATELINE:  SAN FRANCISCO





There's nothing a new iPhone can't fix. At least that's been true in the past

for Apple Inc., which has for years used its marquee product to smash sales

records, renew consumer excitement and reinforce its place as the most valuable

company in the world.



But after Apple sales slumped this year for the first time in 13 years, analysts

and industry experts are questioning whether the iPhone 7 -- which Apple is

expected to announce Wednesday in San Francisco -- will stimulate growth like

its predecessors.



"The big question for the industry is whether this upgrade cycle will offer

enough features and functionality to get consumers to go to the next version of

the iPhone," said Daniel Ives, senior vice president of corporate development at

mobile tech firm Synchronoss Technologies. "Consumers used to upgrade their

smartphones every 2.5 years, but now we're seeing an elongated upgrade cycle."



Analysts predict that the new iPhone line won't be revolutionary -- its sizes,

shapes and design are expected to closely resemble the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus. But customers can look forward to an improved "home" button and a dual

lens camera, which would give the iPhone camera better low-light capabilities

and improved depth of field.



"They're going to be attacking the highest end of the photography market," said

Horace Dediu, an analyst and fellow at the Clayton Christensen Institute think

tank. "Apple more or less vanquished point-and-shoot cameras with the iPhone 5,

so now we're moving into higher performance."



Another change that has kept the rumor mill churning is the predicted

disappearance of the 3.5-millimeter earphone jack. Industry insiders surmise

that Apple will replace its standard earphones with ones that plug into the

company's proprietary lightning port, which doubles as a charging outlet. Or

they may forgo the cord completely -- a shift that could nudge the entire

industry toward Bluetooth earphones.



Such a transition could be good news for Beats, the headphone company Apple

acquired in 2014 for $3 billion, because it's well-positioned to sell headphones

compatible with Apple's technology.



"There are companies now making wireless in-ear earbuds that have biometric

sensors in them, so it could lead to a big leap in functionality," said Dan

Ward, co-founder of mobile app development firm Detroit Labs. "Apple has focused

a lot on health and wellness, so it might open up an entirely new product

opportunity."



The loss of the jack could also shave millimeters off future phones, leading to

slimmer, lighter products.



The change is likely to upset some customers, though, who have already shelled

out for wired headphones from third-party vendors such as Bose and Sennheiser

that promise improved sound quality. If the predictions are right, they'll need

to switch models or use an adapter.



In a survey that customer-acquisition firm Fluent conducted in late August with

a sample of 1,735 adults, 64% said the loss of the headphone jack was a drawback

rather than an improvement because they already own non-Apple headphones that

use the jack.



"It bums me out," said Russ Frushtick, 32, a New York video producer.



Though he has used iPhones since the iPhone 3, Frushtick has eschewed Apple

headsets for a pair of wired earphones from Bose. "The headphones that come

packed in with iPhones are designed to be nice enough and good enough for people

who don't really care about sound quality," he said.



If the iPhone 7 rumors are true, Frushtick would have to use an adapter with his

current pair, or he'd have to invest in a wireless pair, which doesn't interest

him.



"I already have a full slate of devices I have to charge every evening," he

said. "I don't want to add headphones to that list."



Others have also expressed disappointment at the rumored news, which could mark

the end of users conveniently using the same pair of earphones between their

laptops, iPhones and other audio devices.



Still, though backlash is inevitable whenever companies announce change, Ives

said Apple hasn't yet taken a wrong step with iPhone.



The decline in phone sales has less to do with lack of consumer confidence, and

more to do with market maturity, said Ives, who notes that the smartphone market

in the U.S. has become saturated. Many customers aren't upgrading because

they're happy with their older phone models, which, although good from a

customer-satisfaction standpoint, doesn't bode well for Apple's bottom line.



The iPhone accounted for 64.9% of Apple's revenue in its fiscal second quarter

this year and 56.7% in its third quarter. During its third quarter last year,

iPhones accounted for 63% of the company's revenue.



Apple released a lower-cost, 4-inch iPhone this year called the iPhone SE in a

bid to win market share in developing countries, the results of which are yet to

be seen. But in markets such as the U.S. and Europe, the premium line of iPhones

such as the iPhone 6 and, soon, the iPhone 7, remains the company's cash cow.



As the smartphone market matures, Apple must persuade existing customers to fork

out the money for an upgrade or to make the switch from Android devices, which

is no small feat, considering that Android phone makers such as Samsung have in

recent years offered premium products such as the Samsung Galaxy S to compete

with the iPhone. (Samsung now faces its own challenges after issuing a recall of

its flagship phone amid reports of the phone's battery catching fire during

charging.)



With strong competition from Samsung, a crowded smartphone market and customers

increasingly pleased with the gadgets they already own, investors are

understandably nervous about Apple's growth prospects. The company's stock took

a 5.4% hit in January after it first reported revenue growth slowing and iPhone

sales stagnating.



Still, many are banking on the iPhone 7 reinvigorating the market.



"If you look at Apple's track record, the bets they've made have usually paid

off," Ives said. "There's careful innovation and development behind everything

they do, and that's why they are who they are."



--



tracey.lien@latimes.com



Twitter: @traceylien



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN THE U.S., the premium line of iPhones such as the iPhone 6

and, soon, the iPhone 7, remains Apple's cash cow. Above, Apple's logo at a

conference in June.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Gabrielle Lurie AFP/Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times

                              All Rights Reserved





