                              860 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                     August 27, 2014 Wednesday 11:31 AM GMT



iPhone 6: Leaked photo confirms launch date and changes to controls on Apple's

new device;

A picture of the next-generation smartphone's instruction sheet appears to

confirm both the date it'll be launched and a change to the iPhone's buttons



BYLINE: By Mikey Smith



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 327 words





New leaked photos of the iPhone 6 instruction sheet appear to confirm the date

on which Apple will launch the new smartphone, and details of changes to its

controls.



The pictures show a card similar to the one included in the packaging of

previous iPhones features a diagram of the device's front panel, with its screen

locked, and were posted online by French tech rumours website nowhereelse.fr.



The date on the screen - which has signified the date and time of hardware or

iOS launch events in previous versions - reads 9.41am, Wednesday, 9th September.



That date matches earlier rumours about the date of the iPhone 6 launch event.

Apple launch events usually begin at around 9am in San Francisco.



The diagram also appears to confirm that the lock button has moved from the top

of the device to its right hand side, just above the sim drawer.



This is consistent with some previously leaked images, which showed a button on

that side of the phone.



One diagram claiming to have been leaked from inside the Chinese factory

constructing the iPhone 6, showed both a button on the side and one on the upper

left of the casing.



However, it has been suggested that this schematic may have shown a prototype

model, and other leaked photos have shown no upper button at all.



The  iPhone  6 is expected to feature a new super-fast WiFi chip and an improved

Touch ID fingerprint sensor.



It will also feature  Apple's  next generation A8 processor, which should give

the  smartphone a huge performance boost, according to reports.



Apple's new device is also expected to have a vastly improved camera, with a

13-megapixel sensor provided by  Sony .



It's thought the 4.7" iPhone 6 will hit stores as soon as a week or two after

it's unveileled in September. The widely expected 5.5" version could be released

later either due to manufacturing delays or as a deliberate move to prevent

comptetition between models.



Will you be buying the iPhone 6 on launch day?



iphone 6 rumors



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





