                              864 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                       January 4, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



iPhone Recovery Tool Now Is Introduced To Recover Lost iPhone Data



LENGTH: 439  words





Monday, January 04, 2016: The iPhone recovery tool is now being introduced to

recover lost iPhone data for users



The aim of the company is to help all users in the fast recovery of a deleted

data brought by any unexpected incident.



Dr. Fone for iOS and iFonemate are the two of the iPhone data recovery

software's that can be found on the site. These are both functional in the

recovery of all lost data. The former is the most professional and most popular

one that enables the recovery of lost data from iPad, iPod Touch and iPhone.

This is also useful in the retrieval of lost data from iCloud backup or iTunes

backup. Almost seventeen types of data such as notes, contacts, photos, messages

and more are recovered by the software.



Among the key features of the tool include of the compatibility with iTunes

12.2.1, Windows 10, iPhone 6 Plus New Icon and iPhone 6, selectively recover and

preview data, recovery of data from iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPod Touch 4 and iPad

1, iMessage or Freely read recovered text and quick fix iPhone operating system.



As per the system requirements of the tool, these include of Windows 8.1, 8.7,

XP, Vista for thirty-two bit and sixty-four bit and Mac OS X 10.10, 10.9, 10.7,

10.6 and 10.8 for thirty-two bit and sixty-four bit. The recovery tool is easy

and convenient to use and has gone through a series of tests. The lost messages

from the Facebook Messenger are only recovered by the use of iOS device recovery

mode.



The recovery tool has its set of advantages such as a well-organized and simple

interface, fast recovery of lost data and preview of lost data.



The iFoneMate also belongs to the iPhone recovery tool and is capable of

recovering messages, notes, contacts, reminders, WeChat Messages, WeChat

Contacts, Notes, calendar messages, Safari Bookmark and WhatsApp. There is also

a chance to extract notes and contacts from iCloud backup or iTunes to iPad,

iPod Touch and iPhone.



As per the highlights of the recovery tool include of the retrieval of thirteen

types of data from the iCloud backup or iTunes, recovery of notes and contacts

to iPod Touch, iPad, iPhone, recovery of lost data due to virus infection,

deletion and any other circumstance, support of iOS devices such as iPhone 6s

Plus/6S, versatile file preview, file filter options and file search and

compatibility with iOS 9.



The advantages include of a free version available for users. This is also a

simple to useful recovery tool and this supports the most updated iOS 9 and

iPhone 6/6 Plus and iOS 9.



It is expected that more users will be interested in using the iPhone data

recovery software for their ease and convenience.



LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





