                              866 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                          The Guardian - Final Edition



                          September 27, 2014 Saturday



Apple's 'bendgate' and software glitches knocked it down, but it will get up

again: Despite internet chatter, sales of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus dwarf reported

problems



BYLINE: Charles Arthur



SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 45



LENGTH: 991 words





Tim Cook's smiling face was splashed on the cover of Bloomberg's Businessweek

magazine on Monday. Inside, Apple's chief executive enthused about the launch

this month of new, bigger iPhones and the iWatch. One suspects, however, that

his grin had disappeared by the end of this week.



First, reports surfaced on social media suggesting that the thinner iPhone 6 and

the slightly larger iPhone 6 Plus could be bent in trouser pockets. Actual

numbers of people affected by, for instance, inadvertently sitting on their

mobiles were not forthcoming. But the discussion spread worldwide, amplified by

a video in which one blogger managed to bend the large iPhone 6 Plus, apparently

using only his hands. "Bendgate" became an internet meme, even meriting

discussion on BBC Radio 4's Today programme.



To add to its hardware hassles, Apple then created a hassle of its own on

Wednesday when it issued a minor software update for its iPhones and iPads to

tidy up after the release on 17 September of its annual major iOS update.



However, the 8.0.1 revisions killed mobile connectivity and the

fingerprint-operated unlocking system on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. Other devices

were unaffected, but Apple apologised for the "great inconvenience" and released

8.0.2 yesterday to fix the problems. It said only 40,000 owners had been

affected.



By midweek, Apple seemed to be spiralling into a publicity black hole. It was

reminiscent of the furore that followed the September 2012 launch of its Maps

product, which had substandard coverage of many parts of the world; or the

release in 2010 of the iPhone 4, which lost connectivity if you held it

left-handed, blocking its external antenna. With the latter, Steve Jobs, the

Apple co-founder, cut short his holiday to hold a press conference. He insisted

the problems were overblown, but offered iPhone 4 owners a free protective case

to reduce the problem.



Cook's Apple is a different beast from Jobs', though. With Maps, Cook penned an

apology and fired the executives responsible. This time round, Apple has

apologised for the software update but has hit back at claims that the phones

could be bent by normal use. It said that just nine people had complained about

their phones bending. It was not clear what those owners had done, but the

industrial aluminium alloy used to make the devices is one of the strongest

available, from a formula also used in bridges and cranes.



The iPhone 6 Plus, dubbed a "phablet" because it is a hybrid of the tablet and

the smartphone with its 5.5 inch screen, might bend if you sit with it in a

front or back pocket. However, as Apple showed journalists at the testing

facility near its Cupertino headquarters this week, it is tested for precisely

that scenario - and worse. "It's extremely rare (for bending) to happen in real

world use," Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing, said.



The nine complaints are dwarfed by the 10m iPhone 6 and 6 Plus phones sold in

their first three days on sale in just 10 countries. The question remains,

however, whether this week's welter of bad news will damage Apple. So far, the

financial community doubts there will be a long-term impact. No analyst is

downgrading estimates of how many handsets Apple will sell after this week.

Having sold 51m phones in the 2013 Christmas quarter, some think the figure

could hit 60m for the final quarter of 2014, with the 6 Plus doing particularly

well in China.



"Like any new consumer technology product, the iPhones and software therein come

with issues that are revealed in the days following a release," said Kevin

Restivo, of research company IDC. "Like the iPhone 4 antenna issues that

affected few users, the iOS 8 update and bending phone problem will soon be

forgotten."



In fact, Restivo added, "when competitors pounce on Apple for minor though

pertinent issues, it only serves to reinforce the iPhone maker's leadership

position."



Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's smartphone analyst, chimed in: "This is particularly

true when the device sets record sales. All devices have problems. Some are more

exposed due to their volumes."



Indeed, Apple is not the only company that has had problems with its phones, nor

even with its phones bending in use. Sony and Samsung have experienced the

latter. But because Apple chooses to attract as much attention to its device

launches as possible, and because those devices sell in large numbers, they are

the object of focused attention - by users, rivals and those who dislike Apple.



Under that microscope, any flaw becomes a reason that this time, finally, Apple

will fail. In 2010, it was the antenna; in 2012, the Maps software; in 2013,

claims the new TouchID system could be "spoofed" by laser-printing your

fingerprint on to a transparency film. Yet none has stopped it selling more and

more handsets, and grabbing more share of the mobile phone market's sales.



As Ross Rubin of Reticle Research told the Associated Press, the iPhone 6 Plus

is "a large, thin device. That's not to say customers should treat it gingerly,

but it's still an electronic product and it's an investment, and it should be

treated as such."



Apple's stock fell sharply on Thursday from a high of $102.87, just short of its

all-time high of $103.30, to begin trading just below $100 early yesterday.

However, analysts still expect Apple to perform strongly.



"Earnings is what drives the stock the most," said Walter Piecyk of US-based

financial researcher BTIG.



"It's too early to say what the impact's going to be (of the hardware and

software problems), but it does not appear to be something that would impact the

company's ability to deliver on earnings."



Cook might be smiling again when Apple announces its quarterly results next

month. But this week has been a reminder that Apple's position is not

unassailable.



Captions:



Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus on sale in Tokyo. Some analysts think Apple

will sell 60m phones in the final quarter of 2014 Photograph: Yoshikazu

Tsuno/AFP/Getty



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





