

Apple stock is treading water ahead of the company's iPhone 6 S launch next
Friday, Sept. 25.

Apple shares fell a fraction Friday, closing at 113.45.

Analysts seem split over whether the company can increase iPhone unit sales with
its ninth-generation smartphones. Apple will face tough year-over-year
comparisons because last year's iPhone 6 launch unleashed pent-up demand for
larger-screen iPhones.

This year's models have the same screen sizes (4.7 and 5.5 inches) with improved
components (faster processor, better cameras, pressure-sensitive display, etc.).

RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani says iPhone unit shipments will
increase in the December quarter, eclipsing the previous record of 74 million
units from the year-earlier quarter.

"The big debate among investors has been: Will Apple go ex-growth in the
December quarter? We think it's unlikely, as we expect Apple to ship 75 million
to 80 million iPhone units in the December quarter," Daryanani said in a
research note Friday.

He cites the timing of the iPhone 6 S launch. This year, Apple will have only
two days of iPhone 6 S sales in the September quarter vs. 9 days of new iPhone
revenue in the year-ago period.

"This will essentially drive an extra week of high unit sales in the December
quarter this year," he said. "At minimum, given the extended lead times for 6 S
Plus, this should add 2 million to 2.5 million incremental units in the December
quarter ($1.5 billion to $2 billion in revenue)."

RBC is modeling for Apple to sell 45.2 million iPhones in the September quarter,
up 15% year over year. It sees Apple selling 76 million units next quarter, up
2%. RBC sees modest growth in iPhone unit sales the following two quarters.

Daryanani rates Apple stock outperform, with a price target of 150.

Thursday, Pacific Crest Securities analyst Andy Hargreaves said near-term
expectations for iPhone sales are "unrealistically high."

Moreover, a number of Apple users say their mobile devices have crashed after
attempting to install the new iOS 9 operating system, Reuters reported Friday.

Disgruntled Apple iPhone and iPad users have taken to social media to complain
about their experiences with the new operating system, which was released
Wednesday.

