                              871 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)



                           September 19, 2014 Friday



Yorkers have mixed reactions about new iPhone



BYLINE: By CANDY WOODALL 505-5437/@ydbiz



SECTION: NEWS; Business



LENGTH: 277 words





News reports and photos Friday morning showed eager fans lining up outside of

Apple stores and other retailers to get their fingers on the new iPhone 6.



But long lines   and a high inventory of phones   were hard to come by in York

County.



"Good luck finding people in York who want to dish out that kind of money for a

new phone," said Rob Erwin, a West Manchester Township resident.



Prices range at various retailers and increase or decrease based on storage,

trade-ins and phone service plans.



For example, a new iPhone 6 with 16-gigabytes of storage is $649.99 at Verizon

without a contract or financing plan, or $199.99 with a two-year contract.



Cynthia Zborowski said she and her husband couldn't wait to get their new phones

at the local Verizon store on Friday morning. With an upgrade and new plan, she

expected to spend about $300.



"It's well worth it," the Manchester resident said. "I really like the bigger

screen and clearer picture."



The iPhone 6 has a 4.5-inch touchscreen, and the iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch

screen   which seems "a million times bigger" than her older model's 4-inch

screen, Zborowski said.



While some York County residents left the Verizon store at 2196 White St. in

West Manchester Township with phones in hand, others were disappointed they

couldn't buy them yet.



Heather Backus was surprised when she left Walmart at West Manchester Mall.



"They don't have the new phones in the store yet, but you can get an old iPhone

for 97 cents. I'm thinking of getting those as Christmas presents," the West

York resident.



To learn more about the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, visit www.apple.com.



Reach Candy Woodall at cwoodall@yorkdispatch.com



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: A customer looks at the screen size on the new iPhone 6 Plus while

waiting in line to upgrade his iPhone at a Verizon Wireless store in Flowood,

Miss., Friday, Sept. 19, 2014. A small line of people began an overnight wait to

insure they were able to purchase the specific model they sought. (AP

Photo/Rogelio V. Solis)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 York Newspapers, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





