                              872 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          Nikkei Asian Review (Japan)



                           October 30, 2014 Thursday



iPhone 6 Plus teardown shows continued use of Japanese parts



LENGTH: 776 words





TADASHI NEZU and TADASHI NAKAMICHI, Nikkei Electronics staff writers and HIROKI

YOMOGITA, Nikkei staff writer



TOKYO -- Pry open Apple's newest and biggest smartphone, the iPhone 6 Plus, and

what you find are circuit boards jampacked with components no bigger than grains

of salt. Those capacitors and other tiny components continue to be a strength of

Japanese manufacturers. But a deeper look makes it clear that Japan's component

makers also played supporting roles in many of the new features that are the

main selling points of the new smartphone, such as the camera's robust image

stabilization.



The Nikkei Electronics office of Nikkei Business Publications tore down an

iPhone 6 Plus to see Apple's design concepts for the new smartphone.



The 5.5-inch screen of the iPhone 6 Plus is a big step up from the 4-inch

screens of its predecessors, and gives a bright, sharp picture. But the new

smartphone goes beyond that to offer a variety of new features, and the number

of parts has gone up accordingly.



Better together



The brain of the device is Apple's new A8 processor. Nikkei Electronics thinks

that this chip was made by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (TSMC), the major

Taiwanese semiconductor foundry, using CMOS (complementary metal-oxide

semiconductor) technology with a 20-nanometer circuit linewidth process. That is

a more advanced technology than was used to make the chips for previous iPhones

and it gives the smartphone higher performance and the ability to accommodate

more graphics processing features.



Fomalhaut Techno Solutions also did a teardown of the iPhone 6 Plus and counted

more than 1,100 parts, which is 300 more than the iPhone 5s. One reason is the

need for more components around the processor to counter noise and enable the

capture of higher-resolution images. The iPhone 6 Plus also has far more

components like filter circuits to separate out wavelengths, making it better at

handling the different frequency bands used for high-speed Long-Term Evolution

wireless communication in different markets around the world.



Two-thirds of the additional components are extremely tiny parts measuring just

0.4-by-0.2mm, and basically all of these so-called 0402 components are  made by

Japanese companies, according to Fomalhaut Techno Solutions director Minatake

Kashio.



It is fair to say that Japanese electronic component manufacturers like Murata

Manufacturing, TDK and Taiyo Yuden provide the foundation for the high

performance of the iPhone 6 Plus.



One other noteworthy Japanese-made component making its debut on the iPhone 6

Plus is the optical image stabilization actuator that is used for the

8-megapixel camera. This high-performance actuator, normally used in camcorders,

is one of the special features of the new smartphone and it appears that Mitsumi

Electric and Alps Electric are the exclusive suppliers.



New clues



Apple's penchant for style shines through in the Apple logo on the back of the

handset. On earlier generations of the iPhone, this logo is drawn by processing

the surface of the aluminum material used for the body. But on the 6 Plus, it is

formed from a separate piece of stainless steel with a mirrorlike finish. Making

and attaching this extra component certainly involved added steps, and one can

infer that Apple took the trouble in order to make its logo look more

attractive.



But the Apple logo-shaped hole in the center of the stainless steel suggests

there may be another reason for all this. It may be that this logo and its hole

are the fruits of a process of technological trial and error. As one analyst

speculated, this hole initially may have been there to attach the antenna for

near-field communications. Another possibility is that it is there to support

wireless battery charging in the future.



The teardown showed that Apple continues to use the same lineup of manufacturers

for iPhone components such as the communications processor and the lithium-ion

battery.



On the other hand, the total number of companies supplying parts for the iPhone

may be trending downward. Apple switched to the use of a module integrating the

filters and amplifiers with the high-frequency circuits for capturing LTE

signals, and other circuits in the iPhone 6 Plus are made by fewer manufacturers

than in previous generations. As the processors and other chips become more

integrated and incorporate analog components, even fewer manufacturers may get a

bite of future Apple business.



So manufacturers of electronic components will continue to develop new products,

but with an eye out for the direction Apple is taking in its product planning.



LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc.





