


HIGHLIGHT: Eager Apple fans will line up this weekend to experience the new
iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, and investors will be watching for clues about how well the
new models will sell.


For Apple, the unveiling of the new iPhones is like the debut of a blockbuster
movie. Eager fans are expected to line up this weekend to be the first to
experience the new gadgets. And investors will closely watch first-weekend
sales, in much the same way movie producers track box office numbers.

Expectations for this year's batch of iPhones are generally high. The two new
models - the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus - releasing Friday are significant
upgrades, with much larger screens than past models. They cater to growing
consumer demand for bigger screens on smartphones.

Most of the people lining up for new iPhones this weekend will probably be the
Apple customers who are most enthusiastic about having the next shiny new
iThing. But if history is a measure, first-weekend sales are a strong indicator
of overall demand for Apple's phones.

In 2012, Apple sold five million iPhone 5 smartphones in the first three days
they were on sale. Then during the holiday quarter, the most lucrative period
for Apple and tech companies in general, Apple sold about 48 million iPhones,
compared with 37 million in the same period a year earlier.

Last year, Apple sold nine million of its iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C devices in the
first three days they were on sale. Then over the holiday quarter, Apple sold 51
million of them.

So if the new iPhones with larger screens bring in big first-weekend numbers,
that could indicate another immensely profitable holiday quarter for Apple.
Analysts' predictions, however, are mixed.

Maynard Um, a financial analyst for Wells Fargo, expects this weekend's iPhone
sales to be high. He said that based partly on the four million early online
orders for the new iPhones, Apple should sell them in the "low teens" of
millions, which would be much higher than first-weekend sales for past models.

Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, has lower expectations,
because the sales number will depend largely on how many iPhones Apple can make.

 He believes that Apple will sell from 7 million to 8 million new iPhones this
weekend. Many people who ordered the devices online have reported estimated
delivery times of up to a month. That suggests Apple may be facing tighter
supply constraints for the new iPhones compared with past models, Mr. Sacconaghi
said. He also noted that unlike last year's iPhones, the latest ones will not
initially go on sale in China, the largest smartphone market in the world.

Gene Munster, an analyst for Piper Jaffray, offered an even lower estimate of
6.5 million units. Like Mr. Sacconaghi, Mr. Munster said the number of iPhones
that Apple can sell this weekend will depend on the number it can provide to
retailers. And multiple signs point to a tight supply.

That, Mr. Munster said, is why first-weekend numbers may no longer be a reliable

 indicator of overall demand for iPhones. "The trouble is, they've gotten so big
in so many retail points that the speed of which they fill up those retail
points adds a lot of confusion to the opening number," he said.

A clearer indicator of consumer demand at this point may be the four million
early online orders for new iPhones. That number signals strong interest without
ties to issues like limitations in supply, Mr. Munster said.

