                              879 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                           September 19, 2014 Friday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



Apple Chip Suppliers Feel iPhone Love; New Products Give Big Boost; Avago,

InvenSense, NXP, Maxim, Synaptics among firms seen in coveted roles



BYLINE: MICHAEL PERRAULT



SECTION: INTERNET & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A04



LENGTH: 820 words





When Apple fans get their first up-close looks at the new iPhone 6 smartphones,

a bevy of chipmakers hope that the fans will like what they see.



Just which chipmakers have components inside the new products won't be entirely

known until sales start on Friday and research firms do their first tear-downs.

Apple, as per its custom, declined to identify any suppliers.



But analysts say that likely suppliers include InvenSense, Avago Technologies,

Maxim Integrated Products, NXP Semiconductors and Synaptics.



The same chipmakers also are seen as supplying parts for the new Apple Watch,

which will start selling next year.



And some are helping enable Apple Pay, the new pay-by-smartphone payment

technology.



Skyworks Solutions and RF Micro Devices, along with Avago, could provide the

latest radio-frequency chips to enable new audio/voice technology and other

iPhone 6 features, John Vinh, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, told

IBD.



Chips by Dutch firm NXP almost certainly help provide the near-field

communications, or NFC, technology in the iPhone 6 for the Apple Pay feature,

Doug Freedman, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, told IBD.



Apple Pay lets consumers wave their phones in front of in-store readers to pay

for purchases rather than having to swipe credit cards. Apple has stressed that

Apple Pay will be secure.



"Apple demonstrated how touch ID is required in Apple Pay as a way to

authenticate," Vinh said. "We believe this will drive further adoption of

fingerprint sensors with other (smartphone and mobile device makers)."



Synaptics makes chips that enable users to unlock their mobile devices with a

fingerprint, so Vinh says Pac Crest views the advent of Apple Pay "as a

long-term positive for Synaptics."



RF Micro is expected to have a bigger role in the iPhone 6 than in earlier

models, Brean Capital analyst Mike Burton said in a recent research note.

Reports of this bigger role have lifted RF's stock, he says.



RF Micro stock is up more than 130% in the past year.



On Tuesday, Burton raised earnings estimates for RF Micro, citing the company's

greater contribution in coming quarters from the new iPhone 6 models.



VoLTE Another Opportunity



Apple also is providing voice over LTE (VoLTE) and voice-over-Wi-Fi

capabilities, enabled by wireless chips and designed to improve voice quality

when making phone calls, says Freedman, with Avago, and possibly others,

providing chips to enable it.



Analysts say that InvenSense looks to be the supplier of the new iPhones' motion

sensors. These chips let iPhone users move the phone vertically or horizontally,

and the display stays level.



InvenSense sensors are expected to be in the Apple Watch as well, analysts say.



STMicroelectronics, whose motion sensors were in earlier  iPhones and iPads, was

likely beat out by InvenSense, Credit Suisse analyst Achal Sultania said in a

research note.



Apple Watch also features a heartbeat sensor, which Vinh says is likely provided

by Maxim. If Maxim supplies biometric sensors for Apple Watch, as well as an

audio amplifier in the Apple Watch and both the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus,

Maxim could see more than $100 million in incremental sales, Vinh says.



Apple will continue to use Corning's Gorilla Glass instead of sapphire in cover

plates for its new  iPhone 6 models, analysts say.



Some observers had expected Apple to move to sapphire -- which is more expensive

but stronger and more scratch-resistant -- from GT Advanced Technologies.



Instead, GT will supply a sapphire display only for the Apple Watch, a much

smaller contract than if it also supplied the iPhone 6 models, said Goldman

Sachs analyst Brian Lee in a research report last week.



"In our view, this is disappointing from both a timing and volume perspective

for GT Advanced, and so we significantly cut our estimates and price target,"

Lee wrote. Goldman cut its price target to 14 from 20 and downgraded GT Advanced

stock to neutral.



Corning has introduced three versions of Gorilla Glass since 2007, with

improvements in screen durability, image clarity and touch performance, Corning

executive James Steiner said in a recent company blog post extolling the virtues

of his Gorilla Glass vs. sapphire.



GT Advanced has a multiyear agreement with Apple to help it develop a sapphire

manufacturing facility in Mesa, Ariz.



But analysts are divided as to what the agreement means for GT Advanced as a

supplier in Apple products.



GT Advanced declined to comment on its role in Apple products.



But in a Q2 earnings conference call with analysts, GT Advanced CEO Tom

Gutierrez said that the company "continues to expect more than 80% of the (2014)

year's revenue to come from our sapphire segment."



Gutierrez said that Apple's fourth and final pre-payment for the Mesa effort of

$139 million, due in October, is contingent on achieving "certain operational

targets" that GT Advanced expects to hit.



"We remain very positive about our sapphire business," Gutierrez said.



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2014 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





