

Click for image

Recent reports at 9to5Mac claim Apple plans to introduce a 4-inch iPhone 5se at
its event on March 14. Would an iPhone 5se replace the entry-level $450 iPhone
5s, or would it be a full-featured, full-priced member of the iPhone family?

Considering this rumored iPhone alongside what's selling, and in light of
Apple's product history, suggests the company would favor releasing a premium,
albeit smaller-sized, iPhone.

Let's start with the features that 9to5Mac has told us about:


     ·    Elegant, smooth rounded edges and form like the iPhone 6 and 6s.



     ·    Same color options as the 6s line: silver, space gray, gold, and rose
          gold.



     ·    Same 8-megapixel rear camera and 1.2-megapixel front camera as the
          iPhone 6.



     ·    Support for larger panoramas and autofocus for video recording.



     ·    Barometer for tracking elevation in the Health app.



     ·    An NFC chip for Apple Pay.



     ·    The A8 and M8 chips from the iPhone 6, or possibly the A9 with
          integrated M9 from the 6s.



     ·    Bluetooth 4.2, VoLTE, and 802.11ac Wi-Fi chips.



     ·    Live Photos



     ·    Always on Siri


What would iPhone 5se pricing look like?

The iPhone 5se could just be a refresh of the iPhone 5s with the smooth-rounded
design of the iPhone 6 and 6s, but priced at $450. Right now, Apple sells the
best iPhone, the 6s, for $650; the one-year-old iPhone 6 for $550; and the
two-year-old iPhone 5s for $450. An iPhone 5s refresh would position the new
phone as the value-priced bottom end.

The reported 5se features are identical to last year's iPhone 6, except for its
size. Repackaging the iPhone 6 into a 4-inch form factor would harmonize the
design of the new iPhone with the iPhone 6 and 6s. The iPhone 6 has moved very
far down the manufacturing learning curve, so an iPhone 5se could be priced
lower than the 5s and remain profitable, making it more competitive against
lower-priced Android phones.

The iPhone 5se will also fill the 4-inch screen size gap. For some people, a
small screen is a desirable feature. People with smaller hands need a smaller
phone for one-handed use. Others prefer a smaller phone that is easier to stow
in a pocket or purse.

How pre-owned iPhones could compete with lower-priced Android phones

A newly designed, low-cost iPhone doesn't ring true with Apple's history. Apple
experimented and failed with the value-priced iPhone 5c, which its loyal fans
seemed to regard as "not really an iPhone."

Apple does, however, need a lower-cost iPhone option to compete with the
lower-cost Android phones that are often available at a 40% discount to the
iPhone. BMW and Mercedes wouldn't compete with low-cost imports by building a
value-priced Chevy.

Instead, Apple could match less-expensive Android alternatives with
lower-priced, refurbished iPhone 6s phones that it gets in return from customers
who signed up for its new one-year upgrade plan. It could be similar to the BMW
or Mercedes certified pre-owned automobile program.

One-year iPhone upgrade plan could be key

The introduction of one-year upgrade program would make this kind of approach
work brilliantly. During the first year, the consumer pays $324, half the retail
cost of the iPhone 6s. The reconditioned returns could be resold for $450, $200
less than the newest iPhone.

Apple will effortlessly sell millions units of the iPhone 7, when it eventually
releases it, to customers who have signed up for it sight unseen, through the
one-year upgrade plan. Apple will simply notify them to roll-over to another
two-year installment-purchase agreement and renew the one-year upgrade option,
giving them the choice of shipment or pick-up at an Apple store.

Why Apple may announce a full-priced iPhone 6se in March

A couple of small tweaks to the features that 9to5Mac reported paints an
entirely different picture, though.

If Apple designed the iPhone 5se with an A9 processor, a fingerprint sensor, the
12-megapixel 1.22µ pixel camera, and 3D Touch (all from the iPhone 6s), it could
offer the new, 4-inch phone that it could sell at full-price. It might more
aptly be called the iPhone 6se instead of 5se.

Introducing an entry-level, low-priced phone cuts across Apple's grain. The real
need for an entry-level iPhone will be met with discounted new production of
older models and certified pre-owned iPhones.

