                              887 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             January 5, 2014 Sunday



iPhone 6 to come in two screen sizes: Report



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 288 words





NEW DELHI: iPhone is once again in the rumour mill, with speculation mostly

centred around the upcoming model's screen size.



The latest report on iPhone 6 comes courtesy Chinese microblogging platform

Weibo, where a user called C Technology has posted that the model will come in

two screen sizes - 4.7-inch and 5.7-inch. Citing Foxconn executives, the post

says that the two models will feature eye scanning biometric technology, along

with the Touch ID fingerprint scanner.



The report also says that the screen size of the upcoming iPhone phablet may

vary. The Wall Street Journal has earlier reported that Apple is experimenting

with an iPhone with 6-inch display.



An earlier report by Chinese technology website Digitimes also says that the

next iPhone will have a 4.7-inch screen and may be unveiled as soon as May 2014.

This model will be developed using the 20nm processer by Taiwan Semiconductor

Manufacturing Company.



It is expected that the upcoming iPhone 6 will have a 64-bit A8 processor,

scratch-resistant sapphire glass body, wireless charging and built-in solar

panel.



Wells Fargo analysts have downgraded the Apple stock from 'Outperform' to

'Market Perform' over concerns about the price of iPhone 6. The investment bank

is concerned that the profit margins of iPhone 6 would be lesser than that of

current and previous models since the component cost would be higher. After the

downgrade, Apple shares fell 1.4%.



Apple is also expected to unveil the iPad Pro tablet with a 12.9-inch

high-resolution screen this year, which will be aimed at students and business

users and replace the Macbook Air. Other rumoured products in the company's 2014

lineup include a smartwatch and a HDTV.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





