                              888 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                               India Retail News



                     November 15, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



Incase Releases iPhone 6 Collection for Holiday Season



LENGTH: 313  words





Nov. 15 -- US-based Incase issued the following news release:



In time for the holiday season, Incase, the original product design company

dedicated to the Apple experience, announces the launch of its iPhone 6

collection.



The inaugural product offering will be comprised of four key products that

display the design excellence Incase is known for.  Form follows form is the

basis of Incase's design philosophy, integrated into each of its new iPhone 6

products.



"Incase was founded as the original Apple accessory brand, so we know the Apple

product line inside and out," said Tony Held, Incase co-founder and CEO. "We've

always prided ourselves on thoughtful products that create a better experience,

so we're confident that iPhone users will love our newest collection of products

for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus."



Quick Snap, MSRP $29.95



The epitome of ease, the Quick Snap attaches easily and securely in one step.

Hardshell construction and a variety of textures provide additional grip, while

raised edges provide an additional element of glass protection.



Halo Snap, MSRP $29.95-$34.95



Offering a protective hardshell, the Halo Snap features a textured,

polycarbonate back plate for enhanced grip. Raised rubber sidewalls on the

case's perimeter provide maximum protection for the iPhone glass.



Leather Zip Wallet for 6 Plus, MSRP $69.95



Constructed of premium full grain American leather, the leather zip wallet

protects your iPhone 6 and carries key essentials all at once via the dedicated

card compartment and low profile design.



Sports Armband, MSRP $39.95



Redesigned for the iPhone 6, the sports armband is the ideal training partner.

The touch sensitive screen cover delivers sweat-proof protection while the

perforated flex band enhances breathability and security.  For extra safety in

dark conditions, Incase equipped the armband with reflective details.



Source: Incase



LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





