

On the heels of a major launch of large-screen iPhones, Apple has scheduled an
October 16 event to update its iPad line, technology news website Re/code
reported Friday.

The event also will include a look at next-generation software for powering
Macintosh computers, Re/code said, citing unnamed sources.

The gathering is to take place in an auditorium at Apple's headquarters in the
California city of Cupertino, according to the report.

Apple did not reply to an AFP request for comment.

If the report is on target, the iPad event will take place a day before Apple
begins selling its latest iPhones in China.

Apple launched the large-screen iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus on September 19 and
has rolled the smartphones out to an array of countries, but not China where it
took some time to clear licensing hurdles.

Apple's revenue in Greater China -- which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan -- is
second only to the United States, and chief executive Tim Cook has said he
expects it to become the company's biggest market in time.

Apple, which popularized tablets with its iPad, remained the largest single
global vendor in the second quarter but its market share fell to 26.9 percent
from 33 percent last year, as Android makers boosted their share, according to
the research firm IDC.

- iPhone 6 sales soar -

The first day of global sales for the phones was a huge success, with Apple
breaking its sales record for an opening weekend of a new iPhone model,
delivering 10 million in three days and boasting it could have sold more if it
had them.

Both new iPhones have larger screens as Apple catches up with the "phablet"
trend pioneered by competitors such as Samsung, which has had success with its
Galaxy Note series.

The iPhone 6 has a screen of 4.7 inches and the 6 Plus is 5.5 inches, reflecting
a growing preference for big screens on smartphones.

Main rival Samsung has long had a range of larger handsets, which are popular in
Asia.

Apple made a rare apology last week for a software bug in a freshly released
version of iOS mobile operating system that saw iPhone users lose service, and
sought to quell a storm over reports that its new handsets are susceptible to
bending.

Apple downplayed reports on bending of its newly released oversize iPhone -- one
analyst described the damaging claims as "a black eye" for Apple --- saying it
had only received nine complaints about the matter.

The statement said that "with normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and
through our first six days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted
Apple with a bent iPhone 6 Plus."

Apple released fully updated iOS 8.0.2 software to fix trouble with the original
version of the mobile operating system for its gadgets.

gc/rl

Apple

