
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 27 -- Apple Inc is expected to report iPhone sales increased
slightly more than one per cent in the holiday quarter when it announces
earnings on Tuesday, its slowest growth ever and far from the double-digit
growth investors have come to expect.


 The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, which boasted record weekend sales when they
launched in September, are now facing weak demand, according to analysts,
because they have fewer distinguishing features than their popular predecessors.
The new iPhones also face tough comparisons with the strong sales of their older
siblings.
 Apple tapped into a crucial market when it unveiled its bigger-screen 6 and 6
Plus phones in 2014, grabbing the attention of Asian customers, who had
previously lapped up phablets from players such as Samsung Electronics.
 "Apple has become a victim of their own success as the blockbuster iPhone 6
product cycle was hard to replicate as many customers are either buying an
older, cheaper iPhone 6 or waiting for the iPhone 7," FBR Capital Markets
analyst Daniel Ives said.
 China, the company's fastest-growing market, may also have weighed on
first-quarter results, as a slowdown in the country's economy forced consumers
to tighten their purse strings.
 Analysts estimate Apple sold 75.5 million iPhones in the October-December
quarter, a 1.3 per cent increase from a year earlier, according to research firm
FactSet StreetAccount.
 This compares with a nearly 46 per cent year-over-year jump in iPhone sales in
the first quarter of 2015. The slowest growth in quarterly iPhone sales so far
has been 6.8 per cent, in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, according to data
from Statista.
 To make matters worse, Apple is expected to forecast a drop in iPhone sales for
the March quarter - the first time that sales will fall since the iPhone was
launched in 2007. This was foreshadowed by disappointing March-quarter forecasts
from the company's Asian suppliers such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co
and Largan Precision Co Ltd.
 Apple is expected to sell 54.6 million iPhones in the March 2016 quarter,
according to FactSet.
 The company sold 61.2 million iPhones between January and March, 2015 - a 40
per cent year-over-year increase.
 Analysts said the company would have to wait until the launch of the iPhone 7,
expected later this year, to return to growth, as buyers upgrade to the latest
version.

