                              89 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            Kashmir Monitor (India)



                              May 12, 2014 Monday



Apple iPhone 6: Ten likely features



LENGTH: 884 words



DATELINE: Srinagar





Srinagar, May 12 -- The latest reports on iPhone 6 say that the next-generation

Apple smartphone will come in August, ahead of 'schedule'. The device is

expected to satiate buyers' desire for a big screen and also bring in a few

cutting-edge technologies that will up the ante for other manufacturers.



Here's a look at 10 likely features of iPhone 6...



Bigger display



The biggest selling point of iPhone 6 is said to be larger screen size. Apple is

rumoured to be working on two iPhone 6 variants: one with 4.7-inch and other

5.5-inch display. While the smaller of the two is expected to arrive in August,

its bigger sibling is said to hit the market in September this year.



Sapphire glass screen



Apple uses sapphire glass as coating for the fingerprint sensor and camera of

iPhone 5S, but it may have more plans for the material in iPhone 6. It is

rumoured that iPhone 6 will feature the sapphire glass coating on the whole

display panel, so that it becomes scratch-resistant and shatterproof.



However, KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo has earlier said that this sapphire

glass will be used only in the top-end 64GB variant of 5.5-inch iPhone 6.



It is also rumoured that Apple is making just 10 million units of this panel due

to high production cost; each unit is said to cost $280 to make, while the total

cost of all components of iPhone 5S is $191. This high-component cost will

reportedly push the final retail price of the 64GB iPhone phablet to 8000 yuan

($1,285) in China.



Slightly redesigned look



iPhone 6 is expected to have the same design that Apple has been using since

iPhone 4, but there will be a few tweaks. The edges will be more rounded than

they are in current iPhone models and the new smartphone will look similar to

iPad Air.



Images of iPhone 6 prototypes and dummies suggest the upcoming phones will have

the Power button on the right side, and Volume keys will be long and thin in

shape, instead of round as they are now. The bezels on the sides of the display

are expected to be 10-20% narrower.



Thinnest iPhone yet



Going by leaked prototypes and schematics, the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 is set to

become the thinnest model in the series. It is said to be just 6.2mm in

thickness, making it among the sleekest smartphones at the top-end; in

comparison, iPhone 5S and 5 are 7.6mm thick. The Apple smartphone is said to

measure 150mm in length and 85mm wide.



There is no word yet on the dimensions and overall size of the 5.5-inch iPhone

model.



A8 processor



Apple is expected to finally go quad-core this year, using a four CPU cores in

the A8 processor that will be made on 20nm process. There have been a few

rumours of 2GB RAM as well. iPhone 6's chipset will also be based on 64-bit

architecture, as was the case with iPhone 5S.



8MP camera with protruding lens



While all major smartphone makers opted for 13MP camera in their top products,

Apple stuck by 8MP sensor and that may remain this year as well. However, the

image quality is expected to get a better, even if the megapixel count remains

the same. The camera sensor on the back will protrude a little, leaked

schematics of the phone show.



iPhone 6's camera sensor is said to have f/1.8 aperture, an improvement over the

f/2.2 aperture of iPhone 5S, thus deliver low-light photos. Similar to HTC One

(M8), the Apple smartphone will be able to take blurred photos and add field of

depth. It is also said to have a resin filter that will render clearer shots

with more accurate colours; the smartphone will also feature optical image

stabilization.



iOS 8



Apple is expected to showcase features of iOS 8 at WWDC developer conference in

June this year, but the operating system will be available for public only when

iPhone 6 hits the market. As per a leaked screenshot, the OS will be optimized

for bigger screens and will show seven rows of apps, compared to six rows in

4-inch iPhones.



Some of the apps that will make their debut with iOS 8 are CarPlay, Healthbook

and Watch Utility. iTunes Radio, which is part of Music app right now, will

become a standalone app in iOS 8.



Healthbook



One of the new software features of iPhone 6 will be Healthbook, an app that

will focus on users' fitness. This app will be able to monitor and store fitness

data of users, such as steps taken, calories burned and miles walked. It will

also be able to manage and track weight loss.



Other features likely to be included are ability to track blood pressure,

hydration levels, heart rate etc. If users provide information about the

medication prescribed to them, the Healthbook app will remind them of taking the

same at the scheduled time.



Solar charging



Integrating solar charging in iPhone 6 is expected to be Apple's take on

wireless charging. It is rumoured that the smartphone will have solar panels

encased in sapphire glass, so that it can be charged without plugging in the

charger.



NFC



Apple is expected to join the NFC bandwagon this year with iPhone 6, and give a

big boost to the mobile payment industry. It is expected that iPhone 6 will use

a combination of fingerprint scanning and NFC to confirm mobile payments with

just a swipe on the Home button.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor

                              All Rights Reserved





