                              906 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)



                           September 19, 2014 Friday



Fans line up, eager to buy an iPhone 6 in the Berkshires



BYLINE: By Phil Demers, Berkshire Eagle Staff,



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 437 words





Photo Gallery | The iPhone 6 arrives in the Berkshires



LANESBOROUGH -- Well before Friday's special 8 a.m. opening at Best Buy, a

handful of Apple fans queued up outside ready to get their hands, eyes and ears

on the new iPhone 6. The scene was similar outside Verizon in Pittsfield.



In some cities, people eager to get one lined up outside stores as early as 8

p.m. on Thursday. Apple released its next generation phone nationally on Friday.



Like any iPhone release, it's a frenzy. For this version, it's all about the

iPhone 6's new dimensions, according to Tyler Meczywor, the connectivity lead

employee at the Berkshire Mall's Best Buy.



"The biggest thing was the larger screen," Meczywor said. "When people have the

iPhone, they usually want to stick with it, but Apple hadn't yet offered a

bigger screen like other companies have."



A new, installment-based payment scheme also proved attractive -- with roughly

half of those who bought the phone choosing this route. The device retails for

between $650 and $850.



Best Buy's general manager Kim Degn described the plan as "basically like APR

for phones." It came about because carriers like AT&T changed their policies,

Degn said.



"You're paying [for the cost of the phone] over time, and it allows you to get

the new phone next year rather than having to wait two years to replace it,"

Degn said.



Providers offer this no-down-payment option for roughly $30 per month.



Because of the former standard of the two-year contract, many of the individuals

who bought the iPhone 6 on Friday were using it to replace their iPhone 4s.



Meczywor said the new payment plan offers better value in the end.



"You end up saving money compared to the standard two-year plan," he said.



"I think it's going to be a game-changer for our carriers," Degn said.



In addition to the larger screen, better camera and other standard upgrades, the

iPhone 6 features Health Kit software and other fitness apps.



In October, people who bought the phone will have a chance to try out another

new capability, Apple Pay, which allows the device to function like a credit or

debit card.



Apple set a new record in pre-orders for the iPhone 6 after 4 million people

bought the device within a 24-hour period on Sept. 12.



Local sales figures -- even the number of phones Best Buy held in stock -- were

not provided because of agreements with Apple.



The 8 a.m. opening time was two hours before the norm for Best Buy. Some of the

first-comers were turned away because Berkshire Mall security missed the message

regarding the early start.



To reach Phil Demers:

pdemers@berkshireeagle.com

or (413) 281-2859.

On Twitter: @BE_PhilD



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Twenty people wait in line outside of the Verizon Store at Berkshire

Crossing for the iPhone 6 to go on sale Friday morning.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





