
DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Jan. 20 -- American cell phone maker Apple has reported making a
flying start in the domestic market with 2,200 iPhones sold in a month.
Generation Next Communications (Genxt), the authorized distributor of Apple in
Nepal, said that 1,800 iPhones had already been delivered while 400 iPhones on
order would be delivered within a week.

Genxt currently offers the iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6 and iPhone 5S models with
different storage capabilities. The company is planning to roll out the iPhone
4S in the near future.

Genxt Managing Director Pawan Kumar Bhimsaria said that iPhones had captured the
imagination of cell phone users in Nepal and that they had received bookings for
4,500 units of the iPhone 6 and around 500 units of the iPhone 4S.

Even though the iPhone had been available in Nepal ever since its launch in the
US, no authentic sales figures could be obtained as the product had not been
released officially in Nepal.

That changed when Apple appointed Genxt as the official distributor in November,
2014 and sales of the iPhone started on December 19. Apple phones are being sold
from Evo Store and Future World. Likewise, 18 Ncell counters are selling iPhones
with service bundling.

"We are extremely happy with the response iPhone has received in the domestic
market," Bhimsaria said, adding that the market had given a very good
indication. "When the phone was introduced, we thought that demand for 16 GB
phones would be high. We were surprised to see people willing to pay Rs 10,000
to Rs 15,000 more to get their hands on phones with 64 GB and 128 GB storage
capacities."

According to Bhimsaria, the iPhone 6 is presently the most sought after phone in
the domestic market. And even though customers can buy Apple phones on an equal
monthly instalment (EMI) basis, the company has seen a majority of buyers making
onetime payments. Genxt said that the trend proved that there is no dearth of
purchasers if there is a good product on the market.

Genxt is confident that the upcoming months will be even better for the company
as supplies have been improving gradually and it is planning to launch more cell
phones models.

"If we have abundant stocks, we can sell 3,000 phones in three days," Bhimsaria
said, adding that the launch of the iPhone 4S, which will have a starting price
of Rs 35,000, will increase the company's penetration in the domestic market.
The iPhone 4S will cater to the demand of people wanting to carry Apple devices
at affordable prices.

According to Bhimsaria, sales of Apple products have started shifting gradually
to authorized sellers from the grey market which too will benefit the company.
"Customers can get a one-year warranty, VAT bill and insurance while buying from
us," Bhimsaria said. "Plus, they can get proper care for their products through
our service centres."

Moreover, while an iPhone in golden colour costs Rs 3,000 more in the grey
market, prices at Genxt are the same for all colour options.

iPad to be rolled out this month

The authorised distributor of Apple products in Nepal, Generation Next
Communications (Genxt), said on Monday that it was all set to introduce the iPad
by January-end. "We have been receiving very good feedback. People are making
frequent inquiries regarding the availability of the iPad," said Pawan Kumar
Bhimsaria, managing director of Genxt, adding that the company was confident
about the product's sales performance.

According to Bhimsaria, a total of 22 different models of iPads will be
launched. The entry level iPad device, the iPad Mini (Wi-Fi), will be introduced
with 16 GB, 64 GB and 128 GB storage capacities and they will be priced between
Rs 55,000 and Rs 82,000. The iPad Air (Wi-Fi) which will be available in 16 GB,
64 GB and 128 GB storage capacities will cost in the range of Rs 72,000 to Rs
110,000.

"We will also be introducing the same devices with cellular option. Prices of
cellular devices will be 10 percent higher than those with Wi-Fi devices,"
Bhimsaria said. The iPads will be available in gold, silver and grey colour
options. (PR)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

