                              913 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                     September 29, 2014 Monday 6:18 PM GMT



Teenagers film themselves bending iPhone 6 in a UK Apple store



BYLINE: Standard Reporter



SECTION: UK



LENGTH: 254 words





Two teenagers have filmed themselves bending the iPhone 6 in a UK Apple store

after customers complained the new mobile phone model was too flexible.



The pair shared the clip of their antics on YouTube but removed it after online

commentators pointed out they could be prosecuted for criminal damage.



In the video, which is still available to watch online through other websites,

one of the boys turns to the camera and speaks about their visit to the Apple

store.



He describes breaking one of the store's phones, saying: "We went into the Apple

store and bent the iPhone 6 plus. We did speak to one of the Apple people and he

said the iPhone 6 cannot be bent.



"I asked him about it - but he said 'No, it cannot be bent, it's a rumour'.



Related stories



"But we proved that the screen did pop out - we did have to push it back in as

there was a lot of people there and if we got caught we'd end up paying for the

phone. So we had to get out of there quite quick."



It was not immediately clear which store the pair targeted for their stunt.



Apple refused to comment on the video but reissued a statement they released

last week rebuffing criticisms of the iPhone 6's apparent flexibility.



A spokesman said: "Our iPhones are designed, engineered and manufactured to be

both beautiful and sturdy. With normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare

and through our first six days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted

Apple with a bent iPhone 6 Plus. As with any Apple product, if you have

questions please contact Apple."



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





