                              915 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                           November 8, 2014 Saturday



Krungsri First Choice



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 401 words





offers deal for iPhone 6 15-month interest-free instalment loan for purchases



Sucheera Pinijparakarn



The Nation



Krungsri First Choice has launched a 15-month, zero-interest offer on instalment

loans for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus â[#x20ac]" the longest interest-free

period in the credit-card industry â[#x20ac]" in order to boost lending in the

final two months of the year.



Nayanee Peaugkham, executive vice president, yesterday said smart phones had

been the leading items for the company's instalment-loan business over the past

two years, followed by home appliances.



With consumers having eagerly awaited the arrival of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

plus, Krungsri First Choice and the country's three leading mobile operators are

offering attractive promotions to boost spending on the newly arrived products,

she said.



The company's campaign will also attract new customers, she added. Apart from

the 15-month repayment period with zero interest, Krungsri First Choice offers

3-per-cent cash-back as well.



The company decided on the attractive campaign to ease consumer repayment costs

at a time of high household debt.



Most customers in Krungsri First Choice's lending portfolio are young people and

white-collar workers, many of whom want to buy an iPhone 6 but cannot afford to

pay much in monthly instalments, said Nayanee.



The campaign is expected to boost instalment lending by 20 per cent during the

final two months of the year, against growth of 6-7 per cent so far this year,

she said.



However, one key factor that will affect the lending target is the supply of

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus devices, which is initially unlikely to support the

huge demand, she warned. The campaign runs until the end of the year, but the

company might extend it if device supply during the period falls well short of

demand.



The executive said spending via Krungsri First Choice cards in recent months had

been below target because consumers were worried about living costs and tight

budgets.



Actual spending has not risen much, even though credit-card operators and

instalment-loan providers launched attractive campaigns, she added.



Krungsri First Choice targeted loan growth of 10 per cent for the full year, but

Nayanee acknowledged that it was facing a challenge to achieve that goal.



The company is on target in terms of new cardholders.



It projects 290,000 new cardholders this year, increasing the card customer base

to 2 million.



LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





