                              919 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      September 8, 2014 Monday 2:28 PM GMT



iPhone prediction: Apple's super-phone will be so thin it'll disappear by 2024;



Every year Apple makes a new phone, even slimmer than the last. When will it

end? Just before the iPhone 6 is launched, we do a data analysis of the iPhone's

key specs to predict its future.



BYLINE: By Sophie Warnes



SECTION: NEWS,AMPP3D



LENGTH: 310 words





Apple releases the iPhone 6 on Tuesday. It's shrouded in secrecy, but everyone's

talking about it. We use data from the iPhone's past to predict its future.



Our first key statistic - depth.In 2024 we'll be buying empty packaging



Given that most years the iPhone gets thinner, it's obvious that at some point

it'll have become so thin that people will queue overnight outside Apple stores

to spend their hard-earned on a beautiful piece of empty packaging.



iPhone DepthBy 2040, the iPhone will be as light as a feather



As the iPhone's depth decreases, so too, does its weight. By 2036 it'll be

lighter than the human soul (according to the 1920s research of Dr Duncan

MacDougall) at just 20 grams. By the 2040s it'll be as light as a feather, quite

literally.



iPhone weight



As we can see, eventually the iPhone will become so good that it no longer has a

physical form - we'll all just happily send our money directl to Apple. Roll on

that glorious day!But these specs will probably remain constant



Enough about the future - here's what we know about the iPhone 6 so far:



1) The iPhone will be rectangular



iphone rectangle



Apple has a reputation for making rectangular phones. In fact, all previous the

iPhones have been rectangular. We think that this year's iPhone will be exactly

the same shape or similar - except thinner, lighter, and/or possibly heavier and

thicker with more features that you didn't know you needed.



2) You'll be able to "make calls"



Experts believe the next model iPhone will have voice-chat capabilities,

enabling you to speak to a far-away friend without resorting to shouting down

two baked-bean cans on a bit of string.



3) It'll have a camera



Cameras are useful for taking photos and uploading them to Facebook in an effort

to convince everybody you're having more fun than they are.



We may even get lucky with more than one camera in this model.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





