                              91 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                 examiner.co.uk



                     September 19, 2014 Friday 10:22 AM GMT



iPhone 6 launch sees people queue through the night - and you won't believe what

happened to the first iPhone 6 owner in Perth, Australia...;

Apple fanatics across the UK camp out to get their hands on latest model



BYLINE: By Samantha Robinson



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 528 words





Thousands of technology fans up and down the country will get their hands on the

new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus handsets today.



The US company announced the new devices to much fanfare at a highly-anticipated

event in California last week, and customers will be able to buy them from Apple

stores from 8am.



Some fans were so keen to get their hands on the new iPhones they began camping

outside the Apple store in Regent Street, London on Monday.



Around the world, fans have been queuing throughout the night, with vigils

forming outside apple stores in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Syndney and Germany.



Some Scots even ditched waiting for the independence referendum result result to

wait outside Glasgow's Apple store.



The first person to get their hands on the iPhone 6 in Perth, Australia, was

delighted - until he opened the box and it all went horribly wrong...



Click below to see what happened



First person to get iPhone in Perth drops it on camera



Around 30 or so people set up camp outside the Apple store in London's Covent

Garden yesterday, with tents, tables and chairs and even bottles of wine bearing

testimony to their dedication.



Among them was Lasse Maroen, who caught a three-hour flight from his home in

Bergen, Norway with friends from work to get the iPhone 6.



He said: "I have been here since this morning. We came here last year to get the

iPhone 5s. We had such a good time so we decided to go back this year."



Asked if he was a "technology geek", he said: "I have been known to buy the new

iPhones on the day they come out since the first one in 2007, so pretty much."



Mr Maroen said he planned to buy the handset outright. The iPhone 6 is expected

to start at £539, and the 6 Plus at £619.



He said: "I read a lot of iPhone blogs and news sites, and because I watched the

keynote presentation a few weeks ago, and there had been rumours about the

launch being this day, so we had planned on going here for quite some time."



Click below for pictures of hardcore fans queuing for the iPhone 6



Apple fans queue for iPhone 6



On Monday Apple announced a record number of first day pre-orders of the two

handsets, with over four million in the first 24 hours.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available in the 10 countries from today,

including the UK, the US, Australia and Singapore, and a further 20 next Friday.



Both handsets will be available in new sizes for the first time, with the iPhone

6 offering a 4.7-inch screen, while the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen Apple

has ever produced for a smartphone at 5.5 inches.



Network operator EE has also said it will ensure that customers who had

pre-ordered new handsets through Phones 4u, which went into administration on

Sunday, would still be able to get them in its stores.



A spokesman said: "All across the country we have set aside iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus handsets, enough for Phones 4u customers who pre-ordered iPhones on EE

through Phones 4u.



"If they go into EE stores and show their pre-order receipts they will be able

to claim one of the devices."



Did you queue at Trinity Leeds' Apple store this morning for you iPhone 6?



How far would you go for the latest model?



Let us know in the comments below.



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE





                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





