                              923 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                            October 4, 2014 Saturday



Is your iPhone bending? Get bigger pants



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 704 words





Apple is unlikely to rush a fix for "Bendgate", so if you want to avoid a

cracked screen, fix your wardrobe



Leonid Bershidsky



Bloomberg



To qualify as a hipster, you need to wear skinny jeans, own an iPhone and be an

early adopter of technology. These requirements were easy to meet â[#x20ac]"

until the iPhone 6 and the scandal known as Bendgate.



The term is a popular hashtag on Twitter, where people are trading stories and

pictures of new iPhones, both 6 and 6 Plus, bending in jeans pockets.



At first, the devices develop a slight crease south of the volume control

buttons, where the phone's body, made from a secret aluminium alloy, is

thinnest. If one ignores it, the bend can become more pronounced. Try to correct

it, and the screen will crack.



Lewis Hilsenteger, who runs a video channel dedicated to gadgets, found his new

iPhone slightly bent and decided to make things worse for the public's sake: He

managed to bend the handset out of shape with his bare hands and then destroy it

by straightening it out.



As I scanned all the coverage I couldn't help being reminded of Apple's 2010

"antennagate". The iPhone 4, it turned out soon after it was introduced, lost

wireless reception when gripped a certain way.



Customers and reviewers ascribed the malfunction to Apple engineers' decision to

use the phone's metal frame as the antenna. The company did its own

investigation and found a different cause: It had used a faulty algorithm for

calculating the number of reception bars.



Customers, however, still weren't happy, and Apple chief Steve Jobs gave a news

conference to try to mitigate the public-relations disaster. "We're not

perfect," Jobs admitted. He hated apologising, though, and he spent much time

explaining how certain grips decreased reception on competing devices such as

Blackberries, HTCs and Samsungs.



The bending problem isn't limited to iPhones, either. As Buster Hein quickly

pointed out on the Cult of Mac site, other phones with metal frames, such as the

Samsung Galaxy S4, Sony Xperia Z1, HTC Evo and even the iPhone 5, can also warp

in their owners' pockets.



There is a subtle difference, however: Those other gadgets buckle only when you

carry them in your back pocket and sit on them. For the iPhone 6, the heat and

pressure in the front pocket can be enough.



So will there be an Apple apology, a Tim Cook press conference with slides of

competitors' phones folding up like pieces of paper? The company hasn't

commented, but then it took weeks before Apple reacted to "antennagate".



I don't think Apple is going to waste much breath apologising. The iPhone 6 is

breaking sales records: 10 million were sold on the first weekend. It's also

getting rave reviews. The bending problem is far from universal and the answer

to it is, apparently, to wear slightly more generously cut pants if you're going

to carry the phone in your pocket. Or get a sturdy case.



As for sitting on your iPhone, who said that was acceptable use?



Perhaps a change in hipster fashion should follow the introduction of the year's

most-talked-about smartphone. If anyone can engineer such a shift, it's Apple.



An apology or even an offer of free cases for all wouldn't solve the real

problem, though. "We're an engineering-driven company," Jobs said during

antennagate. The three features of the new iPhones that combine to make them

bendable â[#x20ac]" thinness, big screen size and light metal bodies â[#x20ac]"

are driven by marketing, not engineering.



Since the iPhone 6 is a response to competitors' products rather than a

trailblazing device, it had to be as big as the flagship Android phones but

thinner and lighter. It also had to be made of metal, not plastic, to give it

that elusive "premium feel" that reviewers rave about.



The engineers did the best they could to accommodate the marketing requirements,

but there was a trade-off. As product design engineer Jeremy Irons explained on

Gizmodo, the iPhone 5S was only 7 per cent thicker than the iPhone 6 Plus, but

it was "22 per cent stronger in bending".



The fashion-driven, marketing-driven approach produces only subtly different

results for a company such as Apple, which has the pick of top engineering

talent. The iPhone 6 is still a great phone. Wider pockets are a small price to

pay.



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





