                              924 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                   The Independent on Saturday (South Africa)



                               December 13, 2014

                                   E1 Edition



TOP CHRISTMAS GIFTS



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 625 words





My Friend Cayla



The amazing talking doll that is wirelessly connected to Google. It's the first

doll to talk about herself and answer general knowledge questions with the help

of an internet connection. Girls can chat with Cayla, find out about her, share

stories and play games with the help of a smart device.



Cayla doesn't look on websites containing inappropriate material and there are

multi-layered online safeguards in place meaning that using Cayla online is very

safe.



Price: R999



Store: ToysRus



LeapFrog LeapPad3



From the makers of the number one kids' learning tablet comes LeapPad3, a sleek,

powerful and fun-packed 5 inch |wi-fi tablet that allows kids to learn and play

safely. Kids can access an educator-approved library of 400 games, apps, eBooks,

videos and more. Ages 3-9.



Price: R1 599.90



Store: ToysRus



MiP Robot



MiP robotic friend, a small iOS or Android smartphone remote controlled robot

which responds to motions, be it your hand or an object.



It balances on two wheels. If you wave, it waves back, and if you lead it around

it will follow you. It can even fetch you a cooldrink.



Price: R1 360



Store: Kalahari Online



Beats By Dre Solo HD headphones



Based on the popular Beats headphones, Monster now offers the Beats by Dr Dre

Solo HD On-Ear Headphones with ControlTalk (Red).



The Beats Solo HD headphones have a smaller, lighter design than their big

brother, but offer high-definition sound.



Price: R2 699



Store: Kalahari Online



Justin Bieber Singing Toothbrush



If you have a young family member who forms part of the worldwide Bieber fan

club, you can now use that devotion to the star to help your kid ease back into

the back-to-school morning and nightly routine of... teeth brushing.



Inspired by Bieber himself, Brush Buddies has come up with a gadget that will

|inject some glamour into that part of the grooming ritual: a Justin Bieber

singing toothbrush.



As the name suggests, the battery operated Bieber brush sings while it spins.

Upon pressing the "on" button, the brush plays a Bieber hit track for two

minutes - which is the recommended length of time that dentists recommend all of

us spend on cleaning our pearlies.



Price: R285



Store: local e-tailer TakeALot.



Wakaberry Lip Balm



This summer, Wakaberry has found a way for you to take your favourite Wakaberry

flavour everywhere you go. The new Wakaberry lip balms have been designed to

remind you of some of the most lip smacking, delicious Waka-berry flavours:

Cherry Blossom, Blueberry Blast and Vanilla Swirl.



Price: R32 each



Store: available at all Wakaberry stores (there are now 40 stores nationwide)



iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus



The iPhone 6 series includes a number of changes over its predecessor, including

models with larger 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch displays, a faster processor, upgraded

cameras, improved LTE and wi-fi connectivity. Pre-orders of the iPhone 6 series

exceeded 4 million within its first 24 hours of launching - an Apple record.

More than 10 million iPhone 6 series devices were sold in the first three days,

another Apple record.



Prices:



iPhone 6 - 16GB = R9 899



iPhone 6 - 64GB = R10 999



iPhone 6 - 128GB = R12 599



iPhone 6 Plus - 16GB = R10 999



iPhone 6 Plus - 64GB = R12 599



iPhone 6 Plus - 128GB = R13 999



Store: All iStores



Nespresso UMilk machine



The UMilk machine adapts to almost any kitchen interior and coffee rituals with

its adaptable form.



It offers ultra-convenience and sophisticated technology featuring modular

design and fully automated capsule piercing, brewing and ejection by simply and

effortlessly closing its slider.



With its pure and elegant lines, sophisticated design and tactile interface, U

is the new coffee machine that fits perfectly into your life. Choose from two

colours: Pure Cream or Pure Black.



Price: R2 500



Store: Online at www.buynespresso.com



LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NS





                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





