                              925 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  The Express



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



iSay! New iPhone is bending out of shape in pockets



BYLINE: Sally Guyoncourt



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29



LENGTH: 261 words





APPLE'S new ultra-thin iPhone is bending out of shape in its owners' pockets, it

emerged last night.



The £620 phone - which only went on sale in the UK on Friday - has a slimline

body and a supersized screen, and that appears to be the cause of the problems.



The internet has been swamped with pictures of warped and misshapen iPhones.



Shatters



One particular YouTube video, already viewed 13.8 million times, showed an

iPhone 6 Plus bending under the pressure of the fingers of its owner, Lewis

Hilsenteger of US website Unbox Therapy.



Another iPhone 6 Plus owner told how his smartphone had become irreversibly bent

after he sat on it during a long drive.



The bent phones seem to operate in most cases although the screen shatters if

the phones are forced back into shape. The new models are about a quarter of an

inch thick and housed in a single piece of moulded aluminium alloy.



They have larger screens than previous models, and the weakest area is reported

to be around the volume buttons where the frame is thinnest.



Apple has refused to comment on the reported problems with the latest iPhone

model.



But it is not the first time it has faced setbacks with the iPhone.



Following the launch of the iPhone 4 in 2010, Apple was forced to give new

owners a free case to resolve a problem with the antenna.



The new models - the iPhone 6 Plus and iPhone 6 - sold more than 10 million

worldwide in the three days after they were launched, breaking records for

opening weekend sales.



In London, Apple fans queued for up to 10 days to get their hands on the new

models.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Two of the trendy new ultra-thin iPhones that ended up as casualties



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DXP





                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





