                              928 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday



China Mobile ringing up sales for hotly anticipated iPhone 6



BYLINE: Gao Yuan



LENGTH: 499  words





Try not to have a party before payday this month. You may need money earlier

than you thought if you want to show off that new iPhone 6 to your colleagues.



On Tuesday, a week before Apple Inc is set to unveil its next-generation

smartphone, China Mobile Ltd - the world's biggest telecom carrier by subscriber

number - kicked off online preorders for the widely anticipated device.



China Mobile's preorder campaign also confirmed rumors that Apple will release

larger screens for the device as buyers are asked to choose either a 4.7-inch

version or a 5.5-inch one. The iPhone 5S has a 4-inch screen.



The program is available only in Beijing and, as of Tuesday evening, had

attracted more than 33,000 orders. It remains unclear when the buyers can get

the device. A person familiar with the matter told China Daily the first iPhone

6 could be distributed to Chinese customers as early as mid-month.



China Mobile did not disclose whether the preorder would be expanded to the rest

of the nation. Apple is slated to unveil the devices on Sept 9 in San Francisco.



Online reservations are the usual way that Apple enthusiasts on the Chinese

mainland get the first batch of iPhones. On Taobao, the largest

consumer-to-consumer e-commerce platform in China, hundreds of stores that are

receiving the iPhone 6 are asking for a down payment of about 5,000 yuan ($810).



"Many people are asking about the iPhone 6, but only a few have paid the

preorder fee," said Li Lijun, an electronics seller on Taobao. A total of 16

people had ordered the device from him since July.



Significantly fewer people are opting to book iPhones from unofficial dealers

this year as opposed to several years ago because Apple products now become

available on the Chinese mainland shortly after the worldwide launch.



The top Taobao shops each gathered roughly 200 preorders this year, compared

with the iPhone 5 release, when some stores received about 700 preorders,

according to Li.



Apple dropped to sixth place in market share among smartphone vendors in China

in the second quarter of this year, according to data from industry researcher

IDC.



Its quarterly shipments were on par with second-tier local makers such as vivo

Communication Technology Co Ltd and OPPO Electronics Corp, said IDC.



Sales of iPhones in China are predicted to face stiff competition from domestic

smartphone vendors Xiaomi Corp and Lenovo Group Ltd as they release their

flagship devices.



On the same day that China Mobile started its reservation service for the iPhone

6, Chinese company Meizu Telecom Equipment Co Ltd introduced its latest

smartphone in Beijing.



Meizu, a niche player, is said to be planning 1,000 brick-and-mortar retail

outlets in the country, challenging Apple and Xiaomi.



gaoyuan@chinadaily.com.cn



Customers look at iPhone devices at a store in Xuchang, Henan province. China

Mobile began to take preorders for the iPhone 6, to be released by Apple Inc on

Sept 9 in San Francisco. Xu Zhongyuan / China Daily



(China Daily 09/03/2014 page13)



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





