                              92 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The New York Times Blogs

                                     (Bits)



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



Apple Responds to Complaints of Bent iPhones



BYLINE: MIKE ISAAC



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 430 words







HIGHLIGHT: Social media channels have overflowed this week with commentary on

whether Apple&#8217;s new iPhone 6 Plus bends under pressure.





Social media channels have overflowed this week with commentary on whether

Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus bends under pressure, particularly in a pants pocket.



Turns out actual complaints to the company, at least so far, are much less

prevalent.



"With normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six

days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone

6 Plus," Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, said in a statement. "IPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus meet or exceed all of our high quality standards to endure

everyday, real life use."



The statement comes after some early adopters complained that the new iPhone 6

Plus, which is significantly larger than previous generations of the iPhone, was

permanently bending from simply being carried in a pocket for long periods of

time.



After one new iPhone 6 Plus owner on Tuesday complained that his phone warped

after sitting in his front pants pocket during a long drive, the story was

quickly picked up by technology blogs and news outlets.



Lewis Hilsenteger, who runs Unbox Therapy, a YouTube channel dedicated to

showcasing the latest tech hardware, filmed himself straining to bend an iPhone

6 Plus with his bare hands. The video has been viewed more than 25 million times

in less than two days.



Apple performs "rigorous tests throughout the entire development cycle including

three-point bending, pressure-point cycling, sit, torsion and user studies,"

according to Ms. Muller. "IPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus meet or exceed all of our

high quality standards to endure everyday, real life use."



As Apple has grown bigger and more successful, it has also become a bigger

target for criticism. The company says it sold more than 10 million iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus smartphones over the first three days of release, a new record for

the company.



Some of the attention is self-inflicted, however. In 2010, early buyers of the

iPhone 4 reported problems with the device's cellular antenna, which caused

dropped calls due to the design of the phone. An Apple executive responsible for

the project left the company over the incident.



And this week, Apple released a software update to the iPhone that was supposed

to fix some early bugs in an updated version of its mobile operating system, iOS

8. The update made some users' phones unable to make or receive calls, and also

rendered the touch identification technology software useless, according to

reports. Apple quickly withdrew the software update, and has said it planned to

release a new software patch in short order.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog





                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company

                              All Rights Reserved





