                              934 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                             coventrytelegraph.net



                      August 25, 2016 Thursday 9:54 AM GMT



Dreaded iPhone 6 'Touch Disease' makes handsets USELESS;

Experts say millions of handsets could potentially be affected



BYLINE: By James Rodger



SECTION: WHAT'S ON



LENGTH: 334 words





Two of Apple's signature smartphones, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, are suffered from

'Touch Disease'.



According to repair experts, the bug - which breaks screens - is affecting a

growing number of the smartphones.



A design flaw in the handsets renders them completely unusable if infected,

according to repair specialist iFixit.



According to reports, a growing number of customers have been sending their

iPhone 6 handsets in for repair after a grey, flickering bar appeared at the top

of their display.



Shortly after the appearance of this grey bar, the iPhone's touchscreen has

reportedly become unresponsive, rendering the device useless.



iFixit claims that the issue can be traced back to a structural design flaw in

the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus - meaning millions of handsets could potentially be

vulnerable.



Despite this revelation, it currently remains unclear how widespread the problem

is.



Several users have been left angry by their handset's vulnerability, with many

taking to the Apple website to report the issue.



Never miss a text message again with this hidden iPhone feature



There is some respite to be found, say experts, by twisting your handset

slightly and applying pressure to the screen.



Doing this can make the smartphone work - albeit briefly - but the problem lies

in the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus' logic board, the part of the phone that facilitates

communication between the different elements of the device.



The Touch IC chip, which controls how the screen responds to touch, connects to

the board through a lot of little solder balls.



Is your phone dying too quickly? New super-battery may offer a solution



As the phone is bent and twisted slightly over time these balls crack and lose

contact with the board, resulting in a dead area appearing on the screen.



As such, there isn't a quick fix for the problem as replacing the screen on your

iPhone 6 or 6 Plus won't solve the issue.



To fix it, you need to replace the Touch IC on the phone's logic board, a

procedure that Apple reportedly can't do in store.



LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET





                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





