                              935 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)



                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday



UAE retailers expect iPhone 4-6 weeks after US launch



BYLINE: Sarah Algethami Staff Reporter



LENGTH: 780 words





Dubai: Retailers in the UAE are expecting the highly anticipated iPhone 6

smartphone, scheduled to be revealed on Tuesday, to be available in the country

four to six weeks after it is available to consumers in the US. The exact

release date is not yet known.



The launch of the new iPhone is expected to be one of the largest events this

year. There has been a lot of interest from international media on the

smartphone in recent months, with pictures and rumours about its features

floating on the internet.



"There is definitely a lot of anticipation for the device, especially

considering flagship devices have traditionally done well here," said Ashish

Panjabi, chief operating officer of consumer electronics retailer Jacky's.



At tonight's event, consumer electronics giant Apple is expected to unveil two

iPhones with larger screens, and a wearable computer, which has been dubbed the

iWatch.



The price of the iPhone 6 is not yet known. It will reportedly go on sale by the

end of the month, while the smartwatch is expected to go on sale next year.



Last year, Apple launched the iPhone 5S and the low-cost iPhone 5C, with a

4-inch display. The 5S model was sold for Dh2,749 (16GB), Dh3,149 (32GB) and

Dh3,549 (64GB), when it was launched, while the 5C was priced Dh2,349 (16GB) and

Dh2,749 (32GB).



"It is hard to predict the exact pricing strategy that Apple will follow, but

one thing is for sure, that it is not going to follow the generic trend of

smartphones these days with lower ASPs [average selling prices]," Nabila Popal,

research manager for the Middle East, Africa and Turkey at market researcher

International Data Corp (IDC), told Gulf News in an emailed statement.



Neelesh Bhatnagar, chief executive of consumer electronics retailer Emax, does

not expect the new smartphone to be priced much higher than its predecessors.



The smartwatch will likely come in two sizes, feature a display measuring 2.5

inches diagonally, and have computing power, according to international media

reports. Also, it is expected to connect wirelessly with iPhones.



With the smartwatch, Apple will be competing with companies that sell wearable

devices, such as Nike, Fitbit and Samsung.



The market for wearable devices is growing quickly. According to IDC, global

shipments of wearable computing devices will exceed 19 million units in 2014,

tripling last year's sales.



The new iPhones are expected to come in two screen sizes- one measuring 4.7

inches diagonally and the other 5.5-inches- and have faster processors. The

smartphones will reportedly have the iOS8 system.



With iPhones that have larger screens, Apple will be competing with Samsung,

which launched its new Galaxy Note 4 last week.



"There is a shift to larger screen sizes than the four inches Apple currently

offers. The sweet spot seems to be between 4.7 and 5.7 [inches] at the moment,"

Panjabi said.



IDC's Popal said that having a larger screen for the iPhone 6 "is likely to work

really well for Apple, as it will address one of the most popular concerns of

the iPhone users and would be users, being its much smaller screen sizes

compered to its arch rival Samsung's and many other popular brands today."



She said that an iPhone with a larger screen will have "some impact" on the

market share of its competitors that already have large-screen smartphones.



Most of the demand for large-screen smartphones is in the US and Asian

countries, according to Anshul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner, an

information technology research and advisory firm.



"Big-screen smartphones have been selling in good volumes," he said.



Demand for the iPhone 6 in the grey market is expected to drop, as was the case

last year, when the 5S and 5C hit UAE shelves a few weeks after they were

available in the US. The first four iPhones took longer to launch in the UAE

than last year's models.



"The grey market demand has dropped dramatically with the last few launches as

the official release dates were not as long as they once were in the UAE. There

is still a segment willing to pay any price to get it first, but we expect the

vast majority of consumers will be willing to wait and pay a more reasonable

price," Panjabi said.



On whether telecoms operator du will sell the iPhone 6, a company spokesperson

said in an emailed statement: "We understand the nature of the local market and

its eagerness to be early adopters of newest global technologies. Therefore, we

assure our customers that we will continue to be the first to launch any new

smartphones in the UAE after evaluating the level of interest."



Etisalat did not respond by deadline.



Retailers said that they plan to sell accessories for the iPhone 6 once it is

available in the UAE.



LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 57





               Copyright 2014 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





