

One of the first people to get his hands on the new iPhone this morning felt "on
top of the world" and said he wanted to celebrate by taking a selfie.

Jameel Ahmed, 26, and his friend Sam Sheikh, 27, originally from India and now
living in London, were the first two technology fans through the doors of the
Apple store in Covent Garden to pick up the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
handsets.

Leaving with his purchase, Mr Ahmed said he was "really excited", adding: "I'd
like to open it and take my selfie."

Hundreds of people queued outside the store and took part in a 10-second
countdown before the doors opened at 8am and cheering fans were escorted in by
staff.

The US company announced the new devices to much fanfare at a highly anticipated
event in California last week.

Some fans were so keen to get their hands on the new iPhones they began camping
outside the Apple store in Regent Street, London, on Monday.

Around 30 or so people set up camp outside the store yesterday, with tents,
tables and chairs and even bottles of wine bearing testimony to their
dedication.

Mr Ahmed said: "It's a challenge with my friends that I'll have the iPhone
first."

Mr Sheikh said he was glad his pursuit of a new iPhone was more successful than
his last attempt, when he queued for almost seven nights and felt like a
"loser". He said he was feeling "very excited, very content, very successful".
On Monday Apple announced a record number of first day pre-orders of the two
handsets, with more than four million in the first 24 hours.

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are available in 10 countries from today,
including the UK, the US, Australia and Singapore, and a further 20 next Friday.

Both handsets will be available in new sizes for the first time, with the iPhone
6 offering a 4.7in screen, while the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen Apple has
ever produced for a smartphone at 5.5in.

Network operator EE said it will ensure that customers who pre-ordered new
handsets through Phones 4u, which went into administration on Sunday, would
still be able to get them in its stores.

A spokesman said: "All across the country we have set aside iPhone 6 and iPhone
6 Plus handsets, enough for Phones 4u customers who pre-ordered iPhones on EE
through Phones 4u.

"If they go into EE stores and show their pre-order receipts they will be able
to claim one of the devices."

Even though the packed queue outside the Apple store in Covent Garden was almost
entirely male, research has found women check their phones more often than men.

They may not have risen early to join the queue, but a survey by telecoms
company Daisy looking at how people engage with mobile technology found there is
a gender divide with women proving to be more avid smartphone users than men.

The survey of 2,000 people - 750 women and 1,250 men - found 18% of women check
their phones at least once every hour as opposed to 13% of men.

Calling into the Regent Street store to pick up new phones were celebrities
including Mamma Mia! star Dominic Cooper, Bronson actor Tom Hardy, his fiancee,
actress Charlotte Riley, and Doctor Who star Jenna Coleman.

Meanwhile, tech experts said Apple is making its rivals "continually up their
game".

Stuart Miles, founder of gadget website Pocket-lint, said: "U ltimately the two
new iPhones will be very successful because while Apple doesn't deliver new tech
it delivers it in such a way that consumers want without getting bogged down
with tech specs.

"Apple's attention to detail has a huge knock-on effect in making other
manufacturers continually up their game.

"You only have to look at brands like Nokia and BlackBerry to see what happens
if they don't."

David Phelan, a tech writer at the Covent Garden store this morning, said Apple
"make a real event of it".

"You get quite caught up in the moment of it," he said.

Mr Phelan said the company is "amazing" at creating hype, saying it is
"unbeaten" in that respect.

In terms of the devices' bigger screens, he said Samsung "got there way before
anyone else", adding that Apple have gone for a bigger screen as they are
recognising what people want.

Mr Phelan said the device with the bigger screen - the iPhone 6 Plus - is likely
to do well in Asia where he said people like to use "phablets" - phone/tablet
hybrids.

Speculating on how Samsung will respond, he said they might come up with an even
bigger screen, adding: "They're not one to be beaten for long."

Matt Hill, from gadget website T3, said that while the two new phones "are far
better looking in person than images do justice", he does not understand the
"phablet obsession, as huge phones are cumbersome".

But he said both phones are "extremely thin and light".

Duncan Bell, managing editor at T3, said Apple's latest offering will see them
"continue to eat into the business market".

He said he would expect iPhone sales to "remain pretty impressive" and to
narrowly go up overall, compared to the launch of the iPhone 5s and 5c.

"It'll be interesting to see which size does better - my money's on the 6, which
is more for existing Apple users, rather than the 6 Plus, which seems to be
calculated to attract Android users, who are already used to using whopping
great handsets.

"I don't think Samsung needs to respond as such - Apple is following its lead,
not vice versa. The Korean giant will continue to update its more numerous
existing lines, at a more rapid rate than Apple does.

"So it'll continue to sell more handsets overall, but less profitably. Smaller
manufacturers of large Android handsets such as HTC, however, have serious
reason to worry.

"The new iPhones should also see Apple continue to eat into the business market
as BlackBerry continues to fade out."

