                              93 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                       October 5, 2014 Sunday 6:30 AM EST



iPhone 6 And iPhone 6 Plus China Bookings Cross 6 Million Count Within Six Hours



BYLINE: Kamya Kandhari, EFY News Network



LENGTH: 279  words





Retailers and three mobile carriers in China - China Mobile, China Telecom and

China Unicom have booked over 2 million reservations for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus within the mere initial six hours of launch.



Saturday, October 04, 2014: According to multiple reports from China, the

retailers and telecom operators have came across over 2 million reservations

within the initial six hours of opening of new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus for

the end users. Apple received approval from Chinese government in the end of

September.



Apple Insider revealed the stats citing few Chinese publication reports, stating

that the retailers and three Chinese mobile carriers including China Mobile,

China Telecom and China Unicom have booked over 2 million reservations for

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



As per the reports, majority of the bookings have been made for 64GB variant of

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The smartphones are lined up for release on 17

October over all three Chinese carriers. During the opening weekend after the

original release date, that is 9 September, Apple stated that it sold 10 million

of its new iPhone models globally. Apple plans to roll out new iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus across 115 countries in this year. Up till now, the smartphone has

been officially released in over 20 markets, including United States, UK,

France, Germany, Canada, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong, and Singapore.



Apple is expected to officially launch the smartphones in India, on 17 October,

however it has already paved its way through the grey market in the country. The

company has listed the smartphone with "coming Soon" tag in three colour

variants including Gold, Silver, and Space Grey.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





