                              946 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                           October 29, 2016 Saturday



Some Chinese prefer iPhone makeover



BYLINE: Reuters



LENGTH: 514  words





Some Chinese are giving their old iPhone models a makeover to look like the

latest iPhone 7 rather than buying new - a trend that could dent Apple Inc's

efforts to boost sales in what has been its biggest growth driver.



Online sites offer shoppers makeover kits, false cameras and even dust plugs to

hide the removed headphone jack to give their iPhone 6 or 6S the appearance of

iPhone 7 - Apple's latest flagship product which launched last month.



The makeover quirk mirrors a broader view among some Chinese users that the

iPhone 7 doesn't have enough new features to convince them to trade up.



"I don't have the money to upgrade, and the (iPhone) 7 is just so-so," said a

Beijing-based sales worker, who said he was getting a Shenzhen firm to replace

his iPhone 6 back casing with a fake iPhone 7 shell.



Searches on platforms including Alibaba's Taobao showed a range of products to

transform older phones to an iPhone 7 - from stickers and engraving services to

replacing the outer casing and even some of the hardware.



"Now people have money and the internet, these are very convenient to do," said

Hu Benshu, who owns an electronics retail outlet in Beijing's popular

Zhongguancun technology hub.



He added that at his store, Apple's iPhone 4 - launched six years ago - is still

the best-seller because of its durability.



Apple did not immediately respond to requests for comment.



Apple has seen its China market share slip to 8.4 percent, lagging behind local

smartphone makers Huawei, Oppo and Vivo, which have won over shoppers with

similar features at lower prices, according to research firm Counterpoint.



"The iPhone 7 series should help Apple regain lost (China) market share as

demand is tracking better than for the iPhone 6s series," said Counterpoint

analyst Neil Shah. "(But) Apple needs to offer something cutting-edge to appeal

to maturing Chinese smartphone users who are warming to local brands."



Apple has something of an opportunity in China as its traditional rival, South

Korea's Samsung Electronics, had to yank its large-screen Galaxy Note 7 off the

market this month as some phones were catching fire.



But consumers and retailers said the iPhone maker faces an uphill task to

convert Samsung fans. One Samsung user wrote online that "an exploding Note 7 is

still better than an un-innovative iPhone 7."



Apple Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri said it was "impossible to know" if

there was any effect yet from Samsung halting production of its Note 7 phones.



Of six ex-Samsung smartphone users in China, only one said he would consider

switching to iPhone 7, which was seen lacking groundbreaking features.



"The iPhone 7 design was ... not much of an upgrade," said Zhao Bo, a

26-year-old student from Jilin province, who plans to buy a Samsung C9 Pro after

returning his Note 7.



"There's no headphone jack and the price is so much higher," Zhao said, noting

also that Samsung is offering subsidies to users who trade in their Note 7 for

another Samsung phone.



(China Daily 10/29/2016 page2)



http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/56/147771193125.jpg



eca86bda350e197e260f07.jpg



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





