                              948 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)



                          September 13, 2014 Saturday



New iPhone 6 Plus pre-order shipments delayed by a month



LENGTH: 261 words





The smaller 4.7-inch iPhone 6 is still available for delivery on September 19,

Apple's website showed.



Many customers will have to wait three to four weeks to get their hands on

Apple's larger screen iPhone 6 Plus after pre-orders for September 19 delivery

were booked out within hours.



The smaller 4.7-inch iPhone 6 is still available for delivery on September 19,

Apple's website showed.



Apple's iPhone 6 Plus, which has a 5.5-inch display, goes on sale in US stores

on September 19. Websites of Apple's carrier partners, Verizon Wireless , AT&T

and Sprint Corp, also showed delays of up to six weeks.



Suppliers to Apple were scrambling to get enough screens ready for the new

iPhones as the need to redesign a key component disrupted panel production,

supply chain sources told Reuters last month. It was unclear whether the hiccup

could limit the number of phones initially available to consumers, the sources

said at the time.



Apple's Chinese customers may also have to wait until the year-end before they

can buy the iPhone 6. Apple is yet to set a release date for China, the world's

biggest smartphone market.



Apple unveiled its latest iPhones along with a watch and a mobile payments

service on Tuesday.



Apple unveiled last week the new smartphones with rounded edges, thinner frames,

higher-resolution displays and a mobile payments service. They became available

for pre-order starting at 3am New York time.



Apple is selling out of its stock even after customers took to Twitter to

complain of difficulties loading the website to place pre-orders on Friday

morning.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 44





   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





