                              951 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                     September 9, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



Live Blog: 5 hours 18 minutes to go for the Apple iPhone 6 & iWatch launch



LENGTH: 302  words





Today is the big day when the Cupertino based company Apple Computers, created

by Steve Jobs is ready to unveil another product. Since Apple has always set

trends with its new devices are expected to be unique, best and landmark phones.



This year at the launch event we are expecting two new iPhones, Iphone 6 Air

with a 4.7 inch display and Iphone 6 Pro with a 5.5 inch display. Apple is

expected to start rolling out of its iOS 8 software and first wearable watch,

iWatch at the show. Rumour talk about launch of an iPad too this time, probably

the successor of the iPad Air.



Do come back to this webpage at 9:30 in the night when we will bring you Apple

launch, what's happening around the launch event, how competitors are reacting

to the new products.



Before Apple could launch its iPhones in India, Xiaomi put up 40,000 piceces of

its INR 50,000 handsets for 2nd flash sale. They were again gone in few seconds.



That's not all! Micromax unvieled ts latst flagship, called the Canvas Nitro

A310 with octa-core processor, 2 GB RAM and a new stitched leather back panel

this week at an affordable price of INR 12,990 for the Indian market. This phone

is going to come to compete with the Iphone 6 this year which wil be priced at a

premium.



Want to know what is expected in the New Iphone? We bring you all the rumours

and leakd informaton the iPhone body, display, make, features here.



Expected price of new iPhones. In two separate leaks the full price list for

China and Hongkong has leaked this week. Here's the full price list of new

iPhones that are expected to come in three colour variants and storage variants.



The iPhone story: Here are 13 interesting facts around how Jobs made the first

Apple iPhone, how the idea was conceived and why Jobs rejected the first final

design just 9 months  before the launch.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





