

iMaps, integrated Facebook, FaceTime, not to forget an improved Siri, near field
communication, or NFC, support and 4G/long term evolution (LTE) connectivity --
iPhone 5, widely expected to be released later this year, is expected to sport
all these features, and then some.

The usually secretive Apple Inc has given a hint of the release date and
features of the upcoming iPhone 5 through the iOS 6 webpage on its website.

The latest iOS 6 update puts its release for fall this year, which could be
anytime between September and December.

Though Apple is mum on the details of its much awaited smartphone, here are some
new features the device is expected to have.

iMaps, Apple&apos;s newly-developed maps application: iPhone 5 would, in fact,
be the first device to feature it.

Apple has announced that it will integrate Facebook in iOS 6, hinting iPhone 5
will almost certainly have this new feature, especially after the integration of
Twitter on the iPhone 4S last year.

FaceTime, which so far allowed face-to-face video calls, iPhone to iPhone, iPad,
iPod touch, Mac, or PC over Wi-Fi, can now be used over cellular connections as
well. That means you can use it when you want, where you want. iPhone 5 could
have that, too.

You will also have more options to answer or decline calls --- like sending a
text message from a choice of pre-programmed options if you wish not to be
disturbed at the moment --- and also remind yourself later to return the missed
calls.

Unlike the iPhone 4S, the iPhone 5 will be a completely new design --- casing,
screen and all --- as was the case with the iPhone 3G and, later, the iPhone 4.
Terry Gou, CEO of Foxconn, has said the design will put Galaxy S3 to shame,
though there&apos;s no saying yet his company is designing it --- indeed, going
by sources, Chinese Pegatron may have snatched the contract already.

The latest rumor is that the iPhone 5 will be equipped with quad core processor
A6 chip to be at par with its competitors like Samsung. After all, Apple did
follow the release of its A5 chip with an A5X in its third-generation iPad,
didn&apos;t it?

As it did with iPhone 4S and iOS 5, Apple&apos;s choice of a fall season launch
could help iPhone/iOS 6, too, though some feel the Cupertino, California
headquartered company will bring the release date forward to sometime next
month.

That could help the tech giant put a spoke in the wheels of Samsung, whose
Galaxy S3 has been raking in the moolah amidst rumours the Korean chaebol plans
to release yet another smartphone this fall.

And if Apple insiders are to go by, iPhone 5 also has the stamp of approval of
Steve Jobs himself, who is said to have worked closely with the team on this
before his demise on October 5.

