                              963 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

                                 First Edition



Lots to like in the new iPhone 6 Plus - if you can look past the screen



BYLINE: Comment John Davidson



SECTION: Pg. 3



LENGTH: 580 words





It looks like Apple was stuck between a rock and South Korea when it came up

with the iPhone 6 Plus.



On the one hand, the company that helped reinvent the smartphone had to catch up

with the world's largest phone maker, Samsung, by making a large phone of its

own. The new iPhone 6 Plus has a 13.97-centimetre screen, the same size as

Samsung's popular Galaxy Note devices from a couple of years ago. (The last two

Notes have had 14.47 centimetre screens, so in that sense, Apple still has a

year and 0.5 centimetres of catching up to do.)



Apple had to try to keep faith with the Apple developer community, which has

churned out 1.3 million apps for iPhones, and which likes the fact there aren't

as many shapes and sizes of the iPhone, compared with Android phones.



So the iPhone 6 Plus has a much-lower resolution than it probably should have, -

400 pixels per 2.5 centimetres, compared with 515 on the Note 4 - which should

make it easier for developers to cope with even if it's not as appealing for

consumers. I mean, why else would Apple allow itself to remain behind in screen

technology, the one issue the iPhone 6 Plus was meant to address, if not for the

sake of ensuring the apps still look OK on the new phone?



Then again, up until a week ago, I would have agreed with Apple that 400 pixels

per inch (2.5 centimetres) was more sharpness than anyone could ever need. But

then I saw the Gear VR, a pair of goggles that turns the Note 4 into a virtual

reality gaming, video watching and educational headset, and I realised why the

South Korean manufacturers have bothered to push past 500 ppi. LG is now at 538

ppi and counting. We're going to be looking at our phones through lenses soon

enough.



Setting the screen to one side, there's plenty to like about the new iPhone.

It's got near-field communication (NFC), just like most high-end Androids have

had for some years, but in Apple's hands the wireless technology promises to be

useful for more than just pairing your phone with your headphones.



Apple's NFC-based payments system, Apple Pay, could one day mean you'll be able

to pay for things just by tapping the phone on a cash register. It's only in the

US at the moment, but it could be a winning feature when it gets to Australia.



The new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus have also got enhanced graphics performance, like

the Galaxy Note 4, which Apple says will allow the phones to run console-class

games.



And like the Note 4, the new iPhones will be awash with sensing technology -

built around a new co-processor, which should be able to keep sensing even when

the main processor has gone to sleep, so you'll be able to keep fitness and

health apps running (or at least recording data) without killing your batteries.



Apple has had to play catch-up with Samsung on battery life, but now says it's

made a lot of improvements, so hopefully they'll be able to last a whole day

without a recharge, something that a lot of Apple users say they can't do with

their iPhone 5s. Whether it's enough to catch Samsung's Note 4, which should

offer 1.5 to 2 days of usage on a single charge, and which has a replaceable

battery, remains to be seen.



The smaller iPhone 6 will sell in Australia from September 19 for $869 for the

16GB model, $999 for the 64GB model and $1129 for the new 128GB model. The

iPhone 6 Plus, also due on September 19, will be $999, $1129 and $1249 for the

same storage sizes, respectively.



Telstra, SingTel Optus and Vodafone Australia will release their pricing by

Friday.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





