                              965 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                The Toronto Star



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Shares drop as new iPhone models unveiled;

Investors wary about security, pricing, how devices will affect iPad sales,

analysts say



BYLINE: Michael Lewis Toronto Star



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4



LENGTH: 605 words





Investors gave a cool initial reaction to Apple Inc.'s product launch Tuesday.



Apple shares turned slightly lower after the Cupertino, Calif.-based company

unveiled two larger screen iPhone 6 models, a mobile payment system called Apple

Pay and the Apple Watch.



Analysts said the share weakness reflects fears about security, pricing and

whether bigger phones will eat into sales of the iPad tablet. The shares traded

flat at $98.03 (U.S.) after hours.



Still, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are expected to quickly become the

company's biggest earners, and could help stem the tide of users moving to

lower-cost, larger-screen Android devices, especially in China and other Asian

markets.



"The main benefit for Apple in going to a larger size of screen is not so much

to woo people over to its devices, but to prevent its customers defecting,

particularly to devices such as Samsung's Galaxy Note," said IDC mobility team

researcher John Delaney.



As was widely expected, the world's biggest tech company took the wraps off

bigger and faster iPhones to meet consumer demand for screens that can better

display apps and streamed content.



The launch of the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus represents a

shift from co-founder Steve Jobs' commitment to small, elegant devices that can

be controlled with one hand.



Screen resolution on the Plus will be sharper than previous iPhones, at 401

pixels per inch rather than 326, and the device comes with a new horizontal view

of the home screen. App developers will also have tools to rearrange their

content to take advantage of that larger screen.



Apple said the phones will have better battery life than previous versions and

feature a barometer sensor to gauge stair climbing distance.



Users will also be able to make regular calls over Wi-Fi when cellular reception

is poor, with the feature initially available through T-Mobile in the U.S.



Apple said it is adding sensors to produce better photos and is also improving a

slow-motion video feature by allowing even slower shots. The camera will be able

to take 240 frames per second, double the iPhone 5s. Normally, video is at 60

frames per second.



The new phones will start shipping in the U.S. on Sept. 19, with advance orders

to begin this Friday. Starting prices will be comparable to those in the past -

$199 with a two-year contract for the iPhone 6 with 16 gigabytes of storage.



However, the step-up models will have double the memory compared to past devices

- at $299 for 64 gigabytes and $399 for 128 gigabytes. The iPhone 6 Plus phones

will cost $100 more at each configuration.



Apple also unveiled a new payment system called Apple Pay that will use the

iPhone camera to capture a photo of a credit card.



Apple will verify the card and add it to a phone's Passbook account to allow

payments at a retailer.



Apple announced several merchants that will accept the system, including Macy's,

Whole Foods and Disney stores.



The service will use NFC chips in the new iPhones and Touch ID, with 22,000

compatible retailers and initial availability in the U.S. only.



Apple said security has been a focus of the system, with the card number stored

only on the device and a one-time card number created to make each transaction.



Apple's software also received an annual update with Tuesday's announcement - to

iOS 8 which Apple calls the most important refresh since the introduction of the

app store in 2008.



Existing iPhone and iPad users will be eligible for the free upgrade that will

let Apple devices work better in sync - with the hand-off feature extended to

the Apple Watch. The software will be available to existing users on Sept. 17.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks at an Apple special event on Tuesday. Justin

Sullivan/GETTY IMAGES



DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                 Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited





