

Apple will roll out its new smartphones in nine markets, including Hong Kong,
next week. But customers in mainland China will have to wait a week longer for
the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.

The phones will cost from HK$5,588 and HK$6,388 respectively in the city when
they go on sale  on September 19.

Some analysts were surprised to see mainland China excluded in the first round
of sales, a stark contrast to the unprecedented simultaneous launch of the
iPhone 5C and iPhone 5S in Beijing and the United States a year ago.

Apple did not say why its biggest overseas market would have to wait an extra
week. There were suggestions the delay was linked to the leaking on Chinese
websites of  details of the phones, which are  made in mainland China.

Mobile phone traders in Sin Tat Plaza, Mong Kok, will offer as much as HK$13,088
for the most expensive model - the iPhone 6 Plus with 128-gigabyte memory - or a
premium of HK$5,000  over the official  price of HK$8,088.

The new iPhones unveiled on Tuesday come in gold, silver and grey and have 16GB,
64GB and 128GB capacity.

Traders expect brisk business in the first week of sales as a result of the
later mainland launch. The iPhones with  128GB capacity will see the biggest
difference between the official and resale prices, with the gold ones expected
to be most popular, says The First Digital shop.

The other eight markets chosen for the September 19 roll-out are the US, Canada,
Britain, France, Germany, Australia, Singapore and Japan.

Apple singled out HKT's CSL mobile unit, Hong Kong's largest wireless network
operator, SmarTone Telecommunications and Hutchison Telecommunications Hong
Kong, which runs the Three mobile network in the city, as among the first batch
of 4G operators ready to support the so-called high-quality voice call over
Long-Term Evolution (VoLTE) service for its updated smartphones.

Stephen Chau Kam-kun, chief technology officer at SmarTone, confirmed  that the
operator and Hutchison Telecom "have been qualified by Apple to support VoLTE on
the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus".

The city's mobile operators previously offered circuit switch-based voice calls
through existing 2G and 3G networks, but have been upgrading their networks with
VoLTE as they deployed high-speed 4G networks.

At their official launch in California, Apple chief executive Tim Cook touted
the new smartphones as "the biggest advancements in iPhone history".

Apple also announced the initial rollout of its own Apple Pay contactless mobile
payment system, which is only available in the US, and introduced the highly
anticipated Apple Watch, which will be available early next year  and be priced
from US$349.

Apart from having more powerful processors, improved cameras and the iOS 8
mobile operating system upgrade, both the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus support
Apple Pay.

