                              96 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                 Indian Express



                             March 25, 2016 Friday



iPhone SE will fill a void, says top Apple distributor;

The jury is still out on whether Apple iPhone SE has the price to make it sell

in India, but Apple dealers here feel the phone will help fill a void.



BYLINE: Nandagopal Rajan



LENGTH: 357  words





The jury is still out on whether Apple iPhone SE has the price to make it sell

in India, but Apple dealers here feel the phone will help fill a void. The

phone, which uses the popular iPhone 5s chassis, has specs similar to the iPhone

6s, including the A9 chipset, fingerprint scanner and 4K video capture. It will

hit the stores in India April 8.



In an email interaction with IndianExpress.com, Prateek Hak, National Business

Head for Apple Mobility Business at Rashi Peripherals, one of Apple's authorised

resellers in India, said the iPhone SE strategically fills in the void between

the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 5s. "The iPhone 6 16GB has an MRP starting at Rs

52,000 while the iPhone 5S 32GB is priced at an MRP of Rs 30,000. The iPhone SE,

with MRP of about 40,000, fits well between iPhone 6 16GB and iPhone 5S 32GB,

bridging the pricing gap in the iPhone lineup."



"With that being said, iPhone SE will face challenges since iPhone 6 16GB has a

lower operating price in the market, but we are hopeful the market operating

price of the 6 will rebound," he said, adding that it was better to wait for

pre-bookings to begin on Tuesday, March 29.



He says that since the introduction of larger screen iPhones, there has always

been a market segment that has preferred a smaller iPhone that fits in one's

palm. "There isn't a 4-inch smartphone in the market that provides a premium

build, and is backed by powerful specs. iPhone SE is a device that is built

small but is expected to live large, he said, adding that marquee iPhone

features at an affordable price is likely to appeal to iPhone customers with

budget considerations.



Despite the online price of iPhone 6 16GB being Rs 33,999, Hak says the phone is

supposed to be "about 25 per cent more expensive than the SE from an MRP

standpoint". He is hopeful that the market operating price of iPhone 6 16GB will

rebound soon.



Hak said the new iPad Pro will do well as the new iPad Pro brings versatility to

the line up. "Since all the features of the Pro are condensed into a smaller

screen and a lower price point, we expect the new 9.7 inch iPad Pro to become

the industry favourite," he added.



LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





