

Many of the people rushing to buy an iPhone 6 tomorrow will fund the purchase
with a currency that's growing in value: old iPhones.

Used versions of the smartphone can be worth hundreds of dollars, thanks to
rising demand for the earlier models in emerging markets and at home. This year,
as many as three- quarters of Americans who upgrade their iPhones will trade in
their devices, according to Roger Entner, an analyst at Recon Analytics LLC.
That's as many as 22.5 million old iPhones being handed in, up from only about
half of users trading in iPhones for upgrades last year.

With IDC projecting that Apple Inc. will sell as many as 65 million iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus devices this year, carriers have blanketed consumers with
advertisements: an iPhone upgrade every two years for life, as much as a $300 in
credit for old models or promises to top any competitor's promotion with an
extra $50. Carriers are willing to help offset the cost of upgrading as the
skirmish for customers intensifies. There are already more wireless devices in
the U.S. than people, so adding new subscribers typically means winning them
from a competitor.

"There's a massive iPhone upgrade cycle going on and the carriers know this,"
said Michael Cote, an analyst with the Cote Collaborative in Chicago. "There are
a lot of subscribers in play right now. These customers are up for grabs and
everyone is trying to hold on to them."

Pre-orders for the new iPhone models already topped 4 million in the first 24
hours, setting a record, according to Apple. The devices go on sale in stores
Sept. 19.

For wireless providers like AT&T Inc. and T-Mobile US Inc., dangling trade-in
deals has the added bonus of encouraging upgrades while also helping the
carriers offset the cost of the promotions. Carriers can -- either on their own
or through a third-party reseller -- refurbish and sell those old devices to
help cover some of the cost of getting a customer to join or sign a contract.

For example, Verizon Communications Inc. offers as much as a $300 gift card to
customers who trade in a qualifying iPhone in good condition. That helps
customers afford the cost of new pricey devices. Before accounting for the
promotion, a new iPhone 6 with 16-gigabytes of storage costs $649.99 at Verizon
without a contract or financing plan, or $199.99 with a two-year contract.
Verizon can then turn around and resell the old model phone to recoup some of
that promotional cost.

Getting customers to buy new phones is especially important under increasingly
popular installment plans, in which consumers pay the whole value of new phones
over several months in return for lower service rates. Carriers like AT&T
benefit under the new model because customers pay more in the first two years of
installments than under traditional pricing that subsidized the cost of a phone,
according to David Heger, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.

A trade-in promotion "feeds the machine," he said, by encouraging phone upgrades
that bring in more revenue for phone providers offering installment plans.

"There may be still some promotional costs associated with doing these rebates
in the short term, but I think the thought is that there's enough value in used
iPhones that they can get back most of that," Heger said.

The booming resale market may be helping no carrier more than No. 3 Sprint
Corp., whose shares are up 16 percent since the new Apple devices were unveiled.
Sprint's new chief executive officer, Marcelo Claure, founded Brightstar Corp.,
one of the biggest resellers, and both companies are now owned by Japan's
SoftBank Corp.

The relationship with Brightstar has enabled Claure to lock in resale prices for
iPhones down the line, giving him an edge in phone financing programs, according
to Colby Synesael, an analyst at Cowen & Co.

"They know once you're done with that phone in two years that there's a very
definitive price they can get for that device from Brightstar, which also
enables them to be able to price more aggressively on these plans," Synesael
said in a phone interview.

In a comparison of total costs over two years for an iPhone 6 with a base level
of 16 gigabytes of storage, Sprint's "iPhone for Life" plan -- which lets users
upgrade to a new version of the smartphone every two years -- is by far the
cheapest of the top four U.S. carriers, according to research by Jonathan Atkin,
an analyst with RBC Capital Markets.

Brightstar will likely pay Sprint about $200 for each used iPhone 6 that
customers turn in for an upgrade in two years, according to Kevin Smithen, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. That removes the risk that Sprint, based in
Overland Park, Kansas, would have to writedown as many as 10 million used phones
in two years, Smithen wrote in a research note this week.

Many of these used phones from the U.S. end up in emerging markets in Asia,
South America, and eastern Europe, where consumers often can't afford the latest
smartphone. At NextWorth Solutions Inc., which lets users trade in electronics
for cash or discounts, 75 percent of the iPhones it receives are shipped abroad.

Flipping phones to new users can be a profitable business. For example, reseller
Gazelle Inc. may pay a customer $275 for their iPhone5 with 16 gigabytes of
memory and in good condition. The same device can command more than $460 on
EBay.

While that means that selling a device yourself may lead to the best value if
you're willing to do the legwork, the window to capitalize may be slim without a
guarantee from a carrier or third-party reseller.

Used iPhone prices plummet dramatically after the announcement of a new phone,
dropping about 5 percent within one week of the new devices being announced and
by as much as 20 percent within three to four weeks, according to Nik Raman,
chief operating officer of USell.com Inc.

While it's not a novel concept, consumers are more aware than ever that they can
sell their old iPhones, Samsung Galaxies and other devices instead of socking
them away in a drawer or shoebox. Two years ago, only 6 percent of smartphone
owners knew that their used devices could be sold. That's up to about 36 percent
this year, according to a Gazelle survey of about 1,000 consumers in May.

"Consumer awareness has always been our challenge, just getting people aware
that there's value in their old devices," said Jeff Trachsel, chief marketing
officer at NextWorth, which processes hundreds of thousands of phones annually.
"There are more promotions now, and the offers are getting richer."

There's still room to bolster the efforts to reuse or recycle old phones. Less
than 20 percent of the 130 million mobile phones tossed aside annually are
reused or recycled, according to Movaluate, which appraises used smartphones.
That means more than 104 million are discarded in desk drawers or added to
landfills.

"Our biggest competitor is still the drawer," Alyssa Voorhis, senior tech
analyst at Gazelle, said in an interview. "It's a huge opportunity. We see
insatiable demand all over."

To contact the reporters on this story: Olga Kharif in Portland at
okharifbloomberg.net; Doni Bloomfield in New York at mbloomfiel12bloomberg.net;
Scott Moritz in New York at smoritz6bloomberg.net To contact the editors
responsible for this story: Sarah Rabil at srabilbloomberg.net Ben Livesey

