                              972 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)



                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday



iPhone fanatic to take a breather after No 6



BYLINE: MATT STEWART



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 5



LENGTH: 428 words





ALEX GORDON has finally learned that some things are more important than a new

iPhone.



The Lower Hutt financial analyst was in the queues when the iPhone 3G was

released in 2008 and and again when the iPhone 5 came out in 2012.



He'll be there again when the new iPhone 6 goes on sale at Spark Central in

Willis St early on Friday morning - but he has agreed with his wife that he'll

take a short break after that.



"There's always a debate on this but we've agreed I can go to every second

release, so it'll probably be another couple of years."



Gordon is looking forward to the latest features on the iPhone 6, including its

bigger screen and one-touch secure mobile payment feature, even though Kiwis

will have to wait for that app to arrive.



The iPhone 6, touted by Apple as the "biggest advancement" in the device's

history, will go on sale from 12.01am on Friday at Vodafone's Lambton Quay

store, and from 7am and 8am respectively that day at Spark and 2Degrees'

flagship Wellington stores.



From today, 100 Spark customers who registered online will have a printout of a

life-sized emoji - a digital icon used to express emotion - stand in as a

place-holder at the Willis St store.



On Friday, once their emoji is edging to the front of the line, they will be

texted so they can take their physical place in the queue.



Spark home, mobile and business general manager Jason Paris said: "Not everyone

has the time to wait for days in a line. We thought the emoji queue was a fun,

free way for them to get involved and it's practical too."



The iPhone 6 has a recommended retail price of $999 for the 16GB model, $1149

for 64GB and $1299 for a new 128GB.



However, iPhone 6s bought overseas have already been turning up on Trade Me,

including a 128GB version bought in Sydney and sold for $1700.



Consumer NZ chief executive Sue Chetwin said there was nothing wrong with people

selling phones bought overseas, but buyers were protected under consumer rights

laws only if the sellers were registered Trade Me traders.



Buyers also needed to recognise that buyers did not have the same safeguards

under New Zealand law for products bought overseas, she said.



--------------------



CAPTION:



Beat the queues: Auckland iPhone fans have been "queuing" at Queen St's flagship

Spark store since Monday with life-sized printed emoji reserving their places.

Once a customer's emoji nears the front of the queue for Friday's launch, the

customer



receives a text so they can show up in person.



Must-have: A customer holds an iPhone 6, right, and an iPhone 6 Plus after the

phones went on sale in New York.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2014 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





