                              981 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                          The Daily Telegraph (London)



                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

                                   Edition 2;

                                National Edition



Rush of orders for iPhone 6 Plus



BYLINE: Matt Warman; Rhiannon Williams



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4



LENGTH: 326 words





APPLE'S new, large-screen iPhone 6 Plus already accounts for one third of all

new iPhones pre-ordered, UK sources say.



The launch of the new iPhones is prompting users to buy larger screen sizes in

unprecedented numbers, as the base model now offers a 4.7-inch screen and the

larger model sits firmly in the previously challenging "phablet" space, between

mobile phones and tablets.



Sources at UK mobile networks said that the largest, 5.5-inch iPhone Plus

accounts for 30pc of all orders and has largely already sold out. The 64GB

model, previously the highest capacity available, is now either the best-selling

or the equal of the cheaper 16GB version.



The 6 Plus, which starts at £619, has also sold out on Apple's online store,

with delivery times now quoted as three to four weeks.



Although mobile networks said they expected a positive response, they admitted

the high proportion of 6 Plus orders had taken them by surprise.



One suggested that the growing popularity of watching films and TV on

smartphones, as well as the device's significantly longer battery life, were the

most likely reasons.



With the new, 4.7-inch iPhone 6, however, continuing to be the focus for most

customers, network sources suggested that it is ensuring Apple both retains its

existing customers and that it is even starting to take customers back from

Google's rival Android operating system.



Both devices officially go on sale on Friday, and have received a "record number

of pre-orders", according to the company.



"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible," an Apple spokesman

said.



US customers ordered more than 4m handsets within 24 hours, which exceeded the

initial pre-order supply, meaning some may not ship until October, Apple said.



Phones 4U has issued a statement reassuring customers who placed orders for the

two models that they would be refunded following the announcement that the

retailer collapsed into administration on Sunday night.



LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DTL





                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





