                              982 of 999 DOCUMENTS







                          The Daily Telegraph (London)



                            March 23, 2016 Wednesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Apple hopes small will be big in China and India;

Tech giant launches new strategically priced iPhone SE to target developing

smartphone economies



BYLINE: Rhiannon Williams



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5



LENGTH: 520 words





THERE was a time in consumer technology when companies were falling over

themselves to shrink their products. The bulky, brick-like mobile phones of the

early 1980s slowly morphed into hardy plastic handhelds, before transforming

into lightweight flip phones and sleek metal-and-glass smartphones. Components

were slimmer, the technology and software more sophisticated than ever before.



Then, in 2011, Samsung released what would come to be the first "phablet" - a

portmanteau of phone and tablet - the Galaxy Note, measuring 5.3in diagonally.

An instant success, the Note range has sold more than 50m units, and kickstarted

our obsession with larger phones.



In 2012, Apple was still making iPhones measuring 3.5in. By 2013, this had crept

up to 4in, and by 2014, to 4.7in and 5.5in for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

respectively. These new phones, Apple claimed, were "bigger than bigger", and

they sold by the shedload.



That's starting to change. On Monday, the world's most valuable company unveiled

its new iPhone. But instead of an ever-larger, ever-thinner iPhone 7, it is a

return to the 4in screens and a new name, the iPhone SE. This £359 handset

combines the smaller size of the past with newer features including a faster A9

processor, improved 12MP camera and near-field communication (NFC) chip to

facilitate payments through the contactless Apple Pay system.



These features are new but not brand new: they all exist in the iPhones

currently on sale. Major renovations - such as removing the physical home button

or headphone jack - may be saved for the iPhone 7, which isn't due for release

for another six months. So why should we care? The iPhone SE has been designed

with two very different customers in mind. The first is the current 4in iPhone

owner who is looking to upgrade, but doesn't want an enormous replacement.



The second, and perhaps the most important, customer is living in India or

China. The SE is far less expensive than the 6 and 6s models. Apple will

probably slash the price of the 5s by around 50pc, according to KGI Securities

analyst Ming-Chi Kuo.



Apple announced in January that iPhone sales in India rose 76pc yearon-year, and

the company plans to open its first retail stores there soon. China is Apple's

second largest market by revenue behind the US.



Yet lowering prices is not necessarily the answer to selling more iPhones. Apple

learned this with the dual launch of the iPhone 5c and 5s, which had a price

disparity of $100. Customers were willing to pay for the more expensive phone

more attractive features - the premium aluminium design and Touch ID fingerprint

scanner, over the polycarbonate 5c.



The new handset with the performance and benefits of the iPhone 6s will

introduce more customers to the Apple software ecosystem of Apple Pay, Apple

Music, iTunes and eventually its answer to Netflix. The iPhone 5s will likely

become the entry-level model, as the SE racks up respectable sales from emerging

markets, and the hardcore faithful wait for the 7 in September.



'iPhone sales in India have risen 76pc year-on-year and Apple plans to open its

first retail stores there soon'



LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Tim Cook, the head of Apple, and other executives made a series of

product announcements, including a cheaper Apple WatchAP



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DTL





                  Copyright 2016 Telegraph Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





