                              988 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                           February 9, 2013 Saturday



Apple iPhone 5S, 6 spotted at supplier: Report



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 289 words





NEW DELHI: Over the past few months, the rumour mill is abuzz with reports about

iPhone 5S and iPhone 6 - the two new smartphones that Apple is supposedly

working on. Speculations have been rife about the upcoming models, from their

prices to colour options and features. Now a report claims that the two

smartphones have been spotted for the first time at the facility of an Apple

supplier.



A user named Old Yao has claimed on a Chinese microblogging website Sina Tech

that a friend of his working with an Apple supplier has seen the iPhone 5S and

iPhone 6. He revealed that the former looks exactly like iPhone 5, while the

latter is longer, wider and thinner. The post also said that the two devices are

likely to be launched in 2013.



Previously, TOI reported that Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst with KGI Securities, has

said that Apple is working on an iPhone 5 successor that will have new features

like snappier processor, fingerprint sensor, better camera and more powerful LED

flash. Kuo's claim of fingerprint recognition system gains a little credence

from Apple's 2012 acquisition of Authentec, which deals with this technology.



The second iPhone will be cheaper and will be same as iPhone 5 but will be a

little stockier, said Kuo. Instead of the aluminium body and waistline of 7.6mm,

the cheaper iPhone will have a plastic casing and measure 8.2mm around the

sides. He also said this device will be available in six colours, a rumour that

has done rounds in the past as well.



Technology blog iLounge has also reported about the upgrade in camera sensor,

saying that the upcoming phone may have Sony's 13MP unit. The report also says

that the two prototypes under development are named N51 and N53.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





