                              995 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                The Irish Times



                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday



U2 to appear in California for the launch of Apple s new iPhone 6



BYLINE: Brian Boyd



SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 284 words





U2 are in Cupertino, California, for the much-anticipated launch of Apple's new

iPhone 6 today, The Irish Times can confirm.



It's understood the band will be appearing at the 10am (6pm Irish time) launch

of the new phone, with their new album being available for streaming exclusively

on the phone.



Over the last few days, rumours have been circulating about a possible U2/Apple

iPhone6 collaboration. However, these were dampened by the band's official

spokeswoman saying yesterday: "They are not releasing their album on the iPhone

and they are not performing at the iPhone launch."



That statement was accurate, but the band will be appearing at today's big

launch, albeit not performing; and while the album will not be officially

released, it will be available to be streamed on the device.



U2 have had a long relationship with Apple. The band appeared in advertisements

for Apple's iPod in 2005 and they are close to the people behind Beats

headphones - Jimmy Iovine and Dr Dre.



Earlier this year Apple bought Beats and it is understood the new iPhone 6 will

come preloaded with the sound system.



Video shoot It now appears that a U2 music video shoot on the Samuel Beckett

bridge in Dublin a few weeks ago was not a U2 video shoot, but an Apple iPhone6

ad featuring the band. There was very tight security at the  shoot with banks of

umbrellas being used to block photography.



The release of the iPhone 6 has been heralded as a "game changer" in the mobile

phone/tech world.



The device is expected to shift millions of units in its first few days of

release with a JP Morgan analyst predicting that the new device will trigger

record iPhone sales with some 100 million sold before the end of the year.



LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times

                              All Rights Reserved





