                              998 of 999 DOCUMENTS





                                      IBNS



                     September 8, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Apple introduces iPhone 7 , iPhone 7 Plus



BYLINE: India Blooms News Service



LENGTH: 458  words





San Francisco, Sept 8 (IBNS): Tech giant Apple on Wednesday introduced iPhone 7

and iPhone 7 Plus, the best.



The new iPhone features new advanced camera systems that take pictures like

never before, more power and performance with the best battery life ever on an

iPhone, immersive stereo speakers, wide colour system from camera to display,

two new beautiful finishes, and is the first water and dust resistant iPhone.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in more than 25 countries beginning

Friday, Sept 16. iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus dramatically improve every aspect of

the iPhone experience, reaching a new level of innovation and precision to make

this the best iPhone we have ever made, said Philip Schiller, Apples senior vice

president of Worldwide Marketing. Philip Schiller said: The completely

redesigned cameras shoot incredible photos and videos day or night, the A10

Fusion chip is the most powerful chip on any smartphone while delivering the

best battery life ever in an iPhone, and an entirely new stereo speaker system

provides twice the sound, all within the first water and dust resistant iPhone.



iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus take the worlds most popular camera and make it even

better with entirely new camera systems. The 12-megapixel camera includes

optical image stabilisation on both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, and a larger

/1.8 aperture and 6-element lens enable brighter, more detailed photos and

videos, and a wide colour capture allows for more vibrant colours with more

detail. iPhone 7 Plus features the same 12-megapixel wide angle camera as iPhone

7 and adds a 12-megapixel telephoto camera that together offer optical zoom at

two times and up to 10 times digital zoom for photos. Coming later this year,

the dual 12-megapixel cameras also enable a new depth-of-field effect, using

both cameras on iPhone 7 Plus to capture images, while sophisticated technology

including Machine Learning separates the background from the foreground to

achieve amazing portraits once possible only with DSLR cameras. The new

custom-designed Apple A10 Fusion chip features a new architecture that powers

these innovations, making it the most powerful chip ever in a smartphone, while

also getting more time between charges with the longest battery life ever in an

iPhone. The A10 Fusions CPU now has four cores, seamlessly integrating two

high-performance cores that run up to two times faster than iPhone 6, and two

high-efficiency cores that are capable of running at just one-fifth the power of

the high-performance cores. Graphics performance is also more powerful, running

up to three times faster than iPhone 6 at as little as half the power, enabling

a new level of gaming and professional apps. Image: Apple website grab



LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





            Copyright 2016 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





