

IT was an old-style queue for the latest new technology toy...and then they sold
out!

Hannah Flint Fanatics desperate for Apple's new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
queued for up to 12 hours outside Eldon Square shopping centre in Newcastle in
the rain.

In the early hours, over 300 stood in the queue that snaked up Newgate Street
before the Apple shop was finally opened at 8am.

Fans were still waiting outside at 10am on the day of the launch of the handsets
which promise 4G reception and longer battery life.

But many were left disappointed after the shop sold out of the iPhone 6 Plus -
the bigger version of the new phone.

Osan Al-Jaberly, 18, a student from Gosforth, said he waited in line at
Gateshead's MetroCentre at 4am, but left after he was told only the iPhone 6 was
being sold.

He then made his way to Newcastle's Eldon Square only to find out his desired 6
Plus was already sold out.

He said: "It wasn't worth me waking up so early - they won't get more iPhone 6
Pluses in until next week.

"I'm going to go home and complain to Apple - they need to sort their self out
and get more stock in the future."

The lucky few to get their hands on the new models waited 12 hours.

Calvin Liu, a 20-year-old student from Sunderland, said: "I came here at 9pm
last night and there were about 15 people in front of me. I've had all the
models of the iPhone: the 4, the 4S, the 5 and the 5S. I'm a huge iPhone fan."

He walked off with one iPhone 6 and one Plus, bought for his girlfriend.

Others came prepared for the wait. James Bunting, 24, bought chairs, crisps, an
umbrella and an energy drink and sat with two friends playing games in the queue
from midnight.

He said the team from Apple arrived at around 6am and let only a few in, while
leaving hundreds of others queued.

He managed to grab a phone just before 10am.

"It was a long nine hours but nine hours well served," he said.

But not everyone was so lucky. A group of fans who arrived at 4am were still
waiting at the end of the queue in the shopping centre by 9am on the
long-anticipated day of the launch, while many more were still stuck outside.
Student Jamal Khan, 18, from Stockton said: "We came here at four in the morning
and we're at the back of the line waiting for the phone. It's a bit upsetting."

THE NEXT GENERATION JUST a year after Apple launched the iPhone 5S and 5C, the
tech company have released the hotly-awaited sixth generation of the handsets.

Apple have promised the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus will be "bigger than bigger" and the
best iPhone yet.

The Plus model is wider, taller and heavier than its younger sibling. Both
promise a new operating system, iOS 8, 4G and longer battery life than their
predecessors. Users can look forward to 14 hours of 3G calling time for 6, while
the Plus boasts a huge 24 hours of talk time.

But the most exciting feature is a new integrated health app which works with an
in-built barometer and accelerometer to measure how many steps you take in a
day.

The phones can be linked up with the hotly anticipated iWatch - released next
year.

The cameras on the new models are the same as the 5S, at eight mega pixels, and
have the previous model's Touch ID Sensor, which allows owners to unlock their
phones in less than a second using just their fingerprint.

But the prices of the phones are eye-watering - even for Apple's standards.

The Plus will set you back £619 for the 16GB model, while the 128GB comes in at
a staggering £789.

The 6 may be slightly better value for money, at £539 for 16GB and £699 for the
128 GB model.

Above, ¦customers queue at Eldon Square while James Bunting and Gary Hann
managed to get a phone SIMON GREENER

