

Apple's invitations for a March 21event at its headquarters in Cupertino has set
off a huge buzz in India about launch of a new product, which many suggest to be
the new iPhone SE or special edition that may be meant for emerging markets,
priced lower than its typical flagships.

Apple is widely expected to introduce the 4-inch iPhone SE with features from
the iPhone 6 and 6s, such as a faster A9 processor, always-on Siri and Live
Photos, but packaged in an iPhone 5-sized casing. The device may have power
button on top like iPhone 5 and support WiFi, Bluetooth 4.2, and VoLTE.

"A new phone with the latest OS and attractive price point will excite people in
India," said Gartner's research director Anshul Gupta.

Apple headquarters has still not communicated the game plan for the new iPhone
to its India team, but trade partners expect the launch in the first phase in
India. Analysts expect three to four weeks' time gap in launch time for key
emerging countries, primarily India.

This, they say, is to gain on the hype in social media in India around the new
iPhone and also to take on Samsung's latest flagship, Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge,
sales of which will begin on March 18.

"It is expected that Apple will start shipping of the new iPhone to India in the
first phase.Next month, the fight between Apple and Samsung will gain further
with the new iPhone and an expected price drop on the current entry model,
iPhone 5s, which is expected to be sold at sub-Rs 20,000," said a senior trade
executive. Some say Apple will further drop prices of iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.

KGI Securities analyst MingChi Kuo, widely considered the most accurate
researcher on

Apple, previously said in a note that iPhone SE will be priced at $450 (Rs
30,000 approx), while the price for iPhone 5s may well be cut by half. The
mid-tier pricing will be extremely attractive in India, where Apple enjoys a
massive aspirational value and huge brand recall.

"Mid-price smartphones are well suited for emerging markets like India,
Indonesia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Argentina and Vietnam," said Gartner's Gupta.

Tarun Pathak, senior analyst

at Hong Kong-based Counterpoint Research, said the price bracket of $500-550 (Rs
34,000 to Rs 37,000) will generate wide interest in India, which is turning out
to be one of Apple's key markets.

The mid-price ($300-500) smartphone is still a small market segment in emerging
countries with 10-15% of overall smartphone market, but experiencing high growth
as smartphone install base has grown is these markets reaching over 200 million
in India.Given the high pace of growth in the Indian smartphone market, at a
time when developed markets face stagnation, Apple may want to make most of the
time here and improve its share in some local markets.

For instance, IDC data showed

Apple having a larger share than Xiaomi that sells entry-level to mid-level
priced phones in tier 2 and 3 cities in the October to December quarter. Apple
leads in the premium segment (Rs 30,000 upwards) in the quarter, but trails
Samsung for the full year ended December.

"As Apple is searching for growth outside mature markets, it understands that
most of the countries with high smartphone growth currently have skewed
smartphone price distribution towards entry to mid-range," Pathak added.

Timing of launch, away from the September flagship launches, has also peaked
interest among analysts and consumers alike. "I guess that there can be a
trimmed down version of flagship 6s, while a refreshed flagship phone will come
later during the year," Gupta added.

Samsung just launched its Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge at prices starting Rs
46,900, which analysts termed as competitive. The months following the launch
generate most of Samsung's sales in the premium segment, taking the cyclic trend
that is similar for Apple when it launches flagships in September.

