

Kolkata: Post-Galaxy Note 7 ban scenario, Samsung India Electronics has taken up
an immediately strategy to switch its premium-end customers' focus to two other
top-end models: S7 and S7 Edge. Facing a mammoth task to wipe out the memory of
ill-fated Note 7 fiasco, the South Korea-based consumer electronics giant is
banking on the sales momentum of S7 and S7 Edge in India. The would-be buyers of
Galaxy Note 7, production of which has been stopped after the handset was found
to be prone to overheating and catching fire, will get a 'sales and offer' push
encircling S7 and S7 Edge now.

On the sidelines of its pan-India launch of the new version of My Galaxy app in
Kolkata, Manu Sharma, vice president (mobiles business), Samsung India
Electronics, told TOI: "We will be focusing on switching Note 7 (worth Rs
59,990/-) aspirants to become a proud buyer of S7 and S7Edge models (ranging
between Rs 37,000 to Rs 50,000). We'll do everything possible to project S7 and
S7Edge on retail front with good plans."

From being touted as the 'the greatest phone on the planet', Galaxy Note 7's has
seen a big fall in sales taking a huge toll on the handset giant's sales of
high-end models and brand image. In the wake of competition from Apple iPhone 7
and soon-to-be-launched Google Pixel, it would be interesting to see how Samsung
can combat these two giant product offerings with S7 and S7 Edge sales push.

Elaborating on the 'come-back' strategy, Sharma said, "We are totally aware of
the situation. We are trying to build up more interest on S7 and S7Edge now.
These two models have seen a great momentum this year."

The Samsung retailers and experience stores will put thrust on these two models
to rein in the sagging demand in the premium segment sales, added a top Samsung
official. Although, according to Sharma, Samsung still remains the undisputed
leader in the handset sales in India with 48.6% market share in value terms in
the smarphone segment (quoting the latest GfK report for August 2016). It was
around 40% in the last year.

Samsung India has earlier announced that it will give out Samsung Galaxy S7 or
S7 edge smartphones to those customers who had pre-booked the Galaxy Note 7.
Samsung had opened pre-bookings for the Galaxy Note7 in India in August-end, and
the phone was slated to go on sale from September. Currently, Samsung has been
offering replacements/credits to customers in the US, South Korea, etc.

It seems customers who had pre-booked and paid full amount of Rs 59,990 for the
Note 7, will now get S7 or S7 edge along with new Gear VR, the Level U - Stereo
Wireless Headset free. Full refund will be given to those who don't want the
S7/S7 edge.

However, on Thursday, Samsung India wanted everyone's focus to be on their newly
unveiled all-in-one, single-window, utility services-cum-entertainment app, My
Galaxy.

"We want innovation to take our brand ahead. And the new My Galaxy application
has such potential with an intuitive one page design for ease of use. The
application amplifies entertainment with videos, music and gaming. It also gives
quick access to services such as cabs, movies, recharge and bill payment, food
ordering, travel, hyper local deals and Samsung Care, among others," he added.

Samsung India to launch only 4G smartphones: Samsung India Electronics will only
4G/VoLTE enabled smartphones in India as the market has shifted totally towards
this end and make all future launches, including entry-level smart phones, with
4G facility. It expects to gain a bigger market share on the back of the new
launches, a top company official said on Thursday.

"There is huge conversion happening from feature phones to smart phones at the
entry level. Nearly 80 per cent of the smartphone users have shifted to
4G-enabled handsets. We will launch all our future smartphones in this category
across all segments. This migration will continue. We will sell 4G devices. But
at the same time, there will be certain set of feature phones users because of
price points," said the company's vice president (Mobiles Business) Manu Sharma.

He said the mobile maker has experienced growth in sales this year but declined
to give details of sales figures. The company would be investing Rs 2,000 crore
at its Noida plant for increasing smartphone manufacturing capacity and other
products.

"Samsung in India has a portfolio of 25 different smartphones most of which are
4G-enabled," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

