                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               The Saudi Gazette



                              March 7, 2016 Monday



Samsung Galaxy S7, S7 edge available for pre-order in KSA



LENGTH: 366  words





SAMSUNG Electronics in Saudi Arabia has responded based on popular demand and is

pleased to announce that the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge, the most

innovative devices that were unveiled last Feb. 21 in Barcelona will be

available for pre-booking orders in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia through various

Samsung partners.



Starting from Monday (March 7), the long awaited smartphones can be pre-ordered

by visiting Samsung respected partners across Saudi Arabia or by easily visiting

Samsung's website www.samsung.com for full details and online booking depending

on the selected outlet by the consumer.



Consumers who will complete their purchases through the pre-booking process will

receive a free Samsung Gear VR and a 64GB SD Card, to enjoy their newly

purchased S7 or S7 edge even further through Samsung's innovative ecosystem.



KeeWon Park, general manager of Samsung Electronics Saudi Arabia, said: "Due to

the popular demand and much anticipation among Saudi consumers on the innovation

of our Galaxy S7 series, we are delighted to bring pre-order offering to our

thrilled community to allow them to become one of the first in the kingdom to

own these extraordinary devices."



"We aim to shorten the time needed for our valued customers to attain the new

devices. We are always keen on bringing Samsung's latest innovations to the

Saudi market in a timely manner. The Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge will be in the

hands of their future owners throughout the month of March," Park noted.



The Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge are both known for their next level imaging,

next level performance and next level protection. These two phones introduce the

first Dual Pixel camera on a smartphone, delivering brighter and sharper images,

even in low light. They have significant hardware and software updates to

optimize overall performance, including incredible gaming capabilities. The

powerful processer and bigger battery capacity ensure longer playing time, the

internal cooling system keeps the device from overheating and the IP68

certification insures that they are significantly resistant towards water and

dust.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/15/145735370171.jpg



Galaxy S7 edge and gold Gear



LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1526





                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





