                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                   Arab News



                            June 29, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung lists 7 reasons why new smart device is loved



LENGTH: 289 words





SAMSUNG





Samsung says that its recently launched Galaxy S7 and S7 edge is inspired by the

people who have a passion for meaningful progress.

Samsung designed a phone that empowers users to break boundaries and do what

they love better, faster and easier.





When considering smart phone technology in the market today, Samsung lists seven

reasons why Galaxy S7 and S7 edge stand out from other devices in the Middle

East region.

The seven clear distinctive reasons are as follows.

You'll own the night: The technology behind the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge ensures

superlative image quality, even in low-light conditions.

Return of the expandable storage: Nowadays mobile devices are expected to

accommodate, not only higher resolution video and images, but also an increased

number of files ranging from work to play, substantially increasing storage

demands.

Take mobile gaming to new heights: The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge battery is now

bigger so you can play for hours and hours longer.

Make a splash: If you live by the beach, or you like to spend your days by the

pool, the Galaxy S7 or S7 edge will be water-resistant in up to 1.5 meters of

water for up to 30 minutes.

You'll have the ultimate travel companion: The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge is your

ultimate travel companion. Play in the mud, spill on it, splash it, dunk it --

then wipe it off and keep going.

Functionality and craftsmanship come together: Using 3D forming glass

technology, Samsung has combined the curved glass and metal to create a seamless

singular smooth yet natural shape.

A seamless experience: The one-handed operation feature reduces the home screen

size and moves the keyboards, making it easier to use the device with one hand.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/7/9/70/146715128551.jpg







LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 9





           Copyright 2016 Arab News - Saudi Research & Publishing Co.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





