                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                       May 28, 2016 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



Samsung releases Galaxy S7 edge Injustice Edition to commemorate third

anniversary of 'Injustice: Gods Among Us', Batman mobile game



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 737  words





Samsung has introduced a new Galaxy S7 edge smartphone. Specialty of this phone

is that it is the Batman edition. It is a normal Galaxy S7 edge, but has been

styled to match Batman. It has a Batman logo on the back and Batman lock screen

theme, a huge delight for Batman fans.



This new phone has been released to honor the third anniversary of the release

of Injustice: Gods Among Us, a Batman mobile game. The phone will be available

for purchase in early June in markets including China, Singapore, Korea, Latin

America and others.



Other exciting news is that the handset will ship a free Gear VR headsets, as

well as Injustice game credits and Oculus content vouchers. Samsung has

announced the new Galaxy S7 edge Injustice Edition in collaboration with Warner

Bros; Interactive Entertainment and DC Entertainment.



The Galaxy S7 edge Injustice Edition is equipped with a sleek deep black Galaxy

S7 edge having gold detailing and an iconic seal on the back being inspired by

Batman. The Injustice: Gods Among Us game is available for free download on

Google Play.



The Samsung Galaxy S7 edge boasts of enhanced hardware and software capability,

bigger battery capacity, long play time and is optimized with best gaming

experience. Younghee Lee, Executive Vice President of Global Marketing, IT &

Mobile Division at Samsung Electronics, was of the view, "We are excited to

partner with Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment and offer a special edition

of Galaxy S7 edge for fans of Injustice: Gods Among Us".



Lee further affirmed that Samsung continues to provide best mobile gaming

experience for its users and the latest partnership is a perfect example of the

same.



"Samsung Galaxy Note 6 rumors are starting to surface more and more detailing a

list of top-tier specs and upgrades across the board. And while a Galaxy Note 6

release is likely still a bit away, we have a good idea of when it's coming.

With that in mind, here we want to share a few things users need to know, right

now, about the Galaxy Note 6 or Galaxy Note 7. The Galaxy Note 5 was one of

Samsung's best smartphones in 2015. With plenty to offer, a great design, and

lots of features. However, the new Galaxy S7 lineup is even better, and returned

many missing features users want in a phone. Many of which will likely accompany

the new Galaxy Note 6 later this year," according to a news report published by

Gottabe Mobile.



The same approach Samsung took to the Galaxy S7 design will probably roll over

to the Galaxy Note 6. There could be subtle changes to how it looks, a different

S-Pen stylus like earlier reports, or other things, but overall the Note 6

should be very similar to the Note 5. That being an all aluminum and glass

design, although we're hoping it's only aluminum on the back for added

durability. Not the glass back that's more fragile like the Galaxy S7. A thinner

design with less of a camera bulge, and more.



According to a story published on the topic by The Verge, "It's becoming more

and more clear that virtual reality is going to the be the driver to push the

spec race in smartphones to the next level. This week, Samsung demonstrated a

new smartphone display designed specifically for VR and likely headed to a

future Samsung smartphone. According to a report from UploadVR, the 5.5-inch

panel packs 3840 x 2160 pixel resolution, making it a 4K class screen. It has a

staggering 806PPI, 350 nit brightness level, and can reproduce 97 percent of the

color gamut."



Samsung is far from the first display maker to pack 4K resolution into a

phone-sized screen - Sony released the Z5 Premium last year with such a panel -

but it is the maker of some of the most popular phones on the planet and often

leads the way in display quality. UploadVR notes that the company was also

demonstrating a new display tech called "Bio Blue" that supposedly emits less

blue light than Samsung's own AMOLED screens.



A report published in CNET News revealed, "Samsung hopes the Caped Crusader

would pick the Galaxy S7 Edge, so much so that it has created an Injustice

Edition of the flagship handset. The limited-edition phone comes in black with

gold accents, including the familiar Batman seal on the back. "



Created in collaboration with Warner Bros., the handset commemorates the third

anniversary of the mobile video game Injustice: Gods Among Us. The package also

offers a Gear VR and credit for Injustice gameplay and Oculus VR content

vouchers.



LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





