

Click for image

Parodying Tim Cook's virally shared quote:

"Our whole role in life is to give you something you didn't know you wanted. And
then once you get it, you can't imagine your life without it."

Samsung mobile chief D.J. Koh launched the Galaxy S7 announcement yesterday at
the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona saying: "We will never assume we know
everything or presume to tell our customers what they should want. I believe we
have something better than all knowing."

Samsung's flagship Galaxy smartphone sales cycle restarted yesterday with the
announcement of the Galaxy S7 at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Last
year's Galaxy S6 becomes Samsung's mid-priced phone and the one from two years
ago becomes an entry-level phone sold in developing markets and with a prepaid
plan. Big premium sales revenue must be kick started with this announcement to
carry Samsung through Apple's iPhone 7 announcement in September until it
returns to Barcelona to announce the Galaxy S8 at Mobile World Congress 2017,
starting the cycle all over again.

+ MORE FROM MWC: See all the news from the mobile conference +

This year Samsung has more than competition from Apple to overcome. All things
being equal, without something new the Galaxy S6 could be the S7's greatest
competition. Smartphones are so fast consumers will be hard pressed to perceive
a difference in the performance of the Galaxy S6 compared to the Galaxy S7's 30%
faster processor and 60% faster GPU. The conundrum is just like the older iPhone
6 and iPhone 6s introduced last September. A time and motion study proved that
although the iPhone 6s has superior hardware performance, consumers' perception
of increased performance is limited to just a few apps.

Like the iPhone 6 and 6s models the Galaxy S6 and S7 look and feel are very
similar. The Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge have very similar glass and metal
construction and come in very similar colors as the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge. The
S7 devices have slightly thicker housings to accommodate larger batteries. Both
phone families have the same high quality screen specifications. To give
consumers a reason to buy the S7, Samsung added features, fixed some
short-comings and brought virtual reality into the consumer foreground. All
which set it apart from not just the S6 but Apple too.

An even better camera: The camera specifications announced are an improvement
over the S6 camera that is the gold standard for mobile photography. It has a
larger aperture at f/1.7 that focuses more light on the camera sensor. The 12
megapixel sensor also has larger 1.4 µmpixels that absorb more light. Compared
to the S6 with a f/1.7 apperature and 1.12 µm pixel size, the S7 can potentially
capture about 50% more light to apply its industry leading image processing
algorithms to convert into photos. Samsung added phase-detection focus, a
feature found only in top-end DSLRs like the Cannon EOS.

Phase-detection focus uses dual pixel technology to sharpen and bring the shot
into focus more quickly. If the camera works as advertised, the S7 will
automatically take better photos in all conditions but especially in lower light
conditions outperforming the Galaxy S6 and iPhone 6s by a wide margin.

Always-on display: In its dual role as AMOLED display manufacturer and a
smartphone maker Samsung engineered the always-on display. The S7 continuously
displays a clock, notifications and calendar on the screen with a
power-efficient monochromatic illumination alleviating consumers from unlocking
their smartphones.

Waterproof: The S7 is waterproof. It adheres to the IP68 standard that means
that the S7 will continue to work after 30 minutes in a meter and a half of
water.

New cooling system: A liquid cooling system has been added. The S6 experienced
some overheating when used in the Galaxy Gear VR virtual reality headset for
extended periods of intense gaming. Engineering better cooling is an important
addition for increased gaming and virtual reality apps.

Battery: size has increased substantially. If there was a criticism of the S6 it
was battery performance. Samsung has increased the S7 battery to 3000 mAh
compared to the S6's 2550 mAh battery. The S7 Edge has a beefy 3600 mAh battery
compared to the S6 Edge's 2600 mAh battery. Battery life is an enabler for
extended virtual reality use.

MicroSD: Samsung disappointed many customers when it removed the MicroSD from
the S6. The S7 supports expansion up to 128GB.

Virtual reality: Photos and videos drove the growth of the consumer mobile
ecosystem. VR is anticipated to be the next big development in social media and
sharing. Samsung began quietly shipping its Gear VR headset last September. The
headset is powered by a Samsung smartphone inserted into the headset. The S7
with extended battery life and improved cooling looks like it was designed for
the Gear VY. Compared to the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive that costs thousands of
dollars, the Gear VR headset costs just $99. Though not as powerful as the
high-end Rift and Vive gives consumers early experience to 360 degree videos and
VR games at an affordable price.

The Gear VR is the product of a partnership with Facebook's Oculus group. Oculus
software delivers head tracking, fast graphic rendering, 360 degree sound and
about 200 apps from the Oculus store. For a limited time Samsung will bundle a
headset with Galaxy S7s for free. The bundle will help Facebook to reach
millions of users letting them share virtual experiences and games on Facebook
that would otherwise have taken years to reach with its expensive Oculus Rift.
The bundle will also prime Samsung's VR sales.

+ MORE FROM MWC: HTC ushering in the era of high-end virtual reality +

Virtual reality is Samsung's lead to position itself as the un-Apple. VR, a
significantly improved camera, waterproof, a big battery and MicroSD storage all
help sell the S7 and tell a different story compared to Apple and set it apart
from the S6.

