                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                             August 26, 2016 Friday



4 phones tops in splash-resistant tech;

Water resistant phones mean one less thing to worry about.;

PRODUCT REVIEWS



BYLINE: By CNET.com



SECTION: ; Pg. SA3



LENGTH: 549 words





The fast, powerful, beautiful Galaxy S7 phone from Samsung is 2016's all-around

phone to beat, with a great camera and long battery life.



AT&amp;T customers looking for a durable and high-end smartphone can't go wrong

with the Samsung Galaxy S7 Active.



The Sony Xperia X Performance runs rings around the basic Xperia X and is a

great phone for anyone who likes their handsets with a bit of grunt.



With its big, bold screen, water-resistant design and rock-bottom price,

Motorola's Moto G4 is a dazzling deal; junk-free software is a plus.



Water resistance may not be at the top of your list when picking a

newphone,butwiththesedevices, it's one less thing to worry about. Here are four

splash-sustaining phones that have impressed us.



Samsung Galaxy S7



Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/samsung-galaxy-s7/#ftag=CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)



The good: Polished design. Awesome camera. Long battery life. MicroSD storage

slot and water-resistant (again!).



The bad: Annoyingly reflective. Smudge magnet. Plastic-looking selfies even with

no filter. No removable battery, which isn't surprising, but is still a

compromise compared to 2014's S5.



The cost: $599.00 to $679.99



The bottom line: The fast, powerful, beautiful Galaxy S7 phone is 2016's

all-around phone to beat.



Samsung Galaxy S7 Active



Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/samsung-galaxy-s7

-active/#ftag=CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)



The good: The Galaxy S7 Active has extra long battery life and is resistant to

dust, water and drops. It has the same speedy performance, expandable storage

and excellent camera quality as the original S7.



The bad: The bulky, plastic design feels cheap compared to the glass-and-metal

S7 and the phone is expensive.



The cost: $794.99



The bottom line: AT&T customers looking for a durable and high-end smartphone

can't go wrong with the Galaxy S7 Active.



Motorola Moto G4



Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/motorola-moto-g4/#ftag=CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The Moto G4's big, bold screen and junk-free software make it a

pleasure to use throughout the day. Its ability to survive a dunking will appeal

to the clumsy among us.



The bad: Processor performance is great for everyday tasks, but gamers will want

to shop elsewhere.



The cost: $149.99



The bottom line: With its big, bold screen, water-resistant design and

rock-bottom price, the Moto G4 is a dazzling deal.



Sony Xperia X



Performance



Product Review:

http://www.cnet.com/products/sony-xperia-x-performance/#ftag=-CAD187281f



CNET rating: 3.5 stars out of 5 (Very good)



The good: Absolutely brimming with power, the Sony Xperia X Performance is well

designed and the only new Xperia to be waterproof.



The bad: Battery life needs a big boost for this phone to live up to its

potential.



The cost: $649.00



The bottom line: The Xperia X Performance runs rings around the basic Xperia X

and is a great phone for anyone who likes their handsets with a bit of grunt.



The following CNET staff



contributed to this story: Section EditorJessica Dolcourt,Associate Editor Dan

Graziano, Senior Editor Nic Healey, Senior EditorAndrew



Hoyle, SeniorAssociate Editor



Lynn La and Senior Editor Laura



K. Cucullu. For more reviews of



personal technology products,



please visit www.cnet.com.



LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





