

JIRAPAN BOONNOON

THE NATION

HAVE you ever had your smartphone fall into the water? If you have, you know
what a nightmare that can be.

Last week, I was invited by Thai Samsung Electronics to try out the new Samsung
Galaxy S7 smartphone in Dubai, and test its resistance to water and dust. From
my experience, the Galaxy S7 can perfectly support the daily lifestyles of
people aged from 14 to 35.

The new Samsung Galaxy S7 also comes with a refined design, a camera that works
even in low-light settings, and IP68 water and dust resistance. That IP (ingress
protection) rating means the phone is "dust tight" and protected against
complete, continuous submersion in water.

The Galaxy S7 also features a hybrid tray that can take in either dual SIM cards
or a micro SD card for additional storage.

Both the 5.1-inch and 5.5-inch versions are constructed with 3D glass and metal
â[#x20ac]" all in a sleek design with durability and ergonomic curves for a
comfortable grip.

During the trip to Dubai, I enjoyed taking stunning shots at night in the Lahbab
Desert and also at the world-class Aquaventure Water Park. I think the S7 is
ready to make consumers "rethink what a phone can do".

Sasitorn Khoopatanakul, corporate marketing director at Thai Samsung
Electronics, said Samsung chose Dubai as the destination for testing the
efficiency of its latest smartphone because the city is as marvellous as the
Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge.

Dubai has wonderfully transformed itself from a desert town into a vibrant trade
and real-estate hub. Winning the global spotlight, it is fascinating that people
from around the globe wish to explore it â[#x20ac]" which Samsung hopes is also
true for the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge.

Samsung prepared three days of challenging missions for participants in this
exclusive trip.

On the first day, they were challenged to take stunning night shots from the
world's tallest building, Burj Khalifa. On the second day, participants headed
out to the Lahbab Desert for an exciting ride across sand dunes, and witnessed a
breathtaking sunset. On the last day, they jumped into the water at the
Aquaventure park to take photos with the water-resistant smartphone.

Thai consumers love to post photos on social media. Thai netizens post 16.5
million new photos on Facebook every day, and the number is 477,000 for
Instagram.

Around 90 per cent of photos taken are captured indoors. Half of indoor photos
are taken in low-light settings and a flash is used. However, a flash may lower
the overall quality of a photo, so many mobile-phone companies have been working
on smartphone cameras with a larger aperture to improve the image quality in
low-light conditions.

