                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            March 10, 2016 Thursday



Samsung seeks rebound in China market with S7 '



LENGTH: 615 words





Koh Dong-jin, head of Samsung's mobile devices division, introduces the

company's new flagship smartphones ? the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge ? at a launch

event at the Hotel Shilla, central Seoul, Thursday. Courtesy of Samsung

ElectronicsBy Lee Min-hyung



Samsung Electronics said Thursday that it aims to rebound in the Chinese market

with its new flagship smartphones, Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, but it remained

cautious by saying it won't be an 'overnight thing.'



'It is too early for us to say that our new flagship models will bring a massive

change to China's smartphone market,' Koh Dong-jin, Samsung Electronics' mobile

chief, said during a Galaxy launch event in Seoul.



The remark came three days after the company held a Galaxy showcase event in

Shanghai. Koh acknowledged that the company has been suffering setbacks in

Asia's largest market for more than a year and a half.



'On the Shanghai visit, I had a series of meetings with Chinese retail partners,

as we identify the local distribution channel as the key factor for our

success,' he said. 'I saw for myself why we have been having trouble in the

market, and now we can say for sure that the new Galaxy models will be a game

changer.'



This is the first time for Koh to hold a press event in Seoul since he was named

the company's new mobile head last Dec. 1. Under his leadership, Samsung

unveiled the new flagship models at this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC) in

Barcelona last month. Koh has played a central role in developing all the Galaxy

series, and was promoted in recognition of his leading role in developing all

the flagship models.



'We have contemplated what customer-centric innovation is,' he said. 'Innovation

for customers comes from simplicity. They want to get something with basic

features such as luxurious design, waterproofing and battery life lasting a full

day.'



Samsung Electronics stressed that Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge adopted a duel-pixel

image sensor which the company said Wednesday it has been mass-producing since

February. The company said the 1.2-megapixel image sensor will allow users to

take professional-level photographs.



'The image sensor is the fruit of our years-long efforts,' he said. 'We also

want to adopt the sensor to non-flagship models, but careful consideration is

needed considering such factors as price competitiveness.'



Galaxy S7 is priced at 836,000 won ($695) for the 32GB model, down 22,000 won

from the previous model. Galaxy S7 Edge is sold at 924,000 won for the same

storage capacity, down 55,000 won from the S6 Edge.



'A company decides prices for their products, but more important is to hear

voices from customers,' the company chief added.



We decided to lower the price to meet the growing calls from customers,' he

said. 'Our sales and marketing department has focused on demands from the

market. We are confident the new models will exceed sales records for previous

models.'



Galaxy Club



The company also unveiled why it decided to introduce the Galaxy trade-in

program, Galaxy Club.



'Each country will run the Galaxy Club program differently,' Koh said. 'We have

been in talks to launch the program for one-and-a-half years. The program was

introduced to win back our loyal customers.'



When Galaxy Club users buy Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge on a two-year installment plan,

they can replace it with a new model next year without paying the remaining

installments. Samsung charges 7,700 won each month for the trade-in program and

smartphone care services which include offering half price for repairing

smartphone screens.



Users can join the program, starting Friday, the official launch date for the

new smartphones. All the payment should be made through Samsung Card, the

company said.



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





