                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                            August 29, 2015 Saturday



Galaxy S7 might sport a resolution even higher than Galaxy Note 5



LENGTH: 335  words





By tbreak Staff -



Galaxy S7 is definitely going to surpass Samsung's Galaxy Note 5 in both

functionality, specifications and unique features. However, one of the primary

differences separating the smartphones will be that Galaxy S7 is expected to

sport a much higher resolution compared to the current generation flagship

phablet.



There have been rumors that Samsung has been testing out Snapdragon 820 on

Galaxy S7, leading us to believe that Galaxy S7 might actually be incorporated

with Qualcomm's upcoming flagship chipset. Snapdragon 820 is going to be

processed on Samsung's own 14nm FinFET architecture, which is probably the

reason why the company is comfortable in placing the chip inside the device.

However, perhaps the biggest upgrade present in Galaxy S7 will be its 4K

resolution.



Galaxy Note 5 currently features a 1440p resolution, and for Samsung to raise

the bar in its next flagship, the company will most likely be targeting the

resolution side of things. However, doing all this will put an alarming amount

of stress on the processor as well as the battery life, leading to quick battery

depletion. Android is not known for being battery friendly, but with the release

of Android Marshmallow, all that might change.



Just like last time, Galaxy S7 could be unveiled at 2016's Mobile World

Congress, but the location of the event has not yet been disclosed. Apart from

the 4K resolution and Snapdragon 820 SoC, the upcoming flagship smartphone could

also feature a 20MP rear camera sensor. The camera sensor will have more

megapixels as compared to both Galaxy Note 5 and Galaxy S6 Edge Plus, leading to

even better quality images being snapped from it.



While Snapdragon 820 does provide support for 30MP camera sensors, we are not so

sure that Samsung will be willing to take things overboard with this, especially

after it is rumored that Galaxy S7 might sport a 4K resolution. Since it is too

early to tell, we will wait for more information to come through before we

should take things seriously.



LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2015 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





