                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                              June 19, 2016 Sunday



Samsung shows the 4K video quality on a Galaxy S7 - Would you still purchase

one?



LENGTH: 337  words





This 4K shows how impressively made the camera sensor is on the Galaxy S7, which

features a 12.3MP front camera



Samsung's Galaxy S7 brings a ton of upgrades over its Galaxy S6 which includes a

3,000mAh battery despite being 1mm thinner than its predecessor. However, one

upgrade that people tend to overlook is the rear camera sensor, which is a

12.3MP sensor with an aperture of f/1.7, the widest in any smartphone right now.

While aperture and camera manual mode are elements that will help to you get the

best pictures, but it also depends on the sensor quality and performance.



Samsung Galaxy S7 has enough firepower to render 4K videos at 30 frames per

second and to show how capable that 12.3MP rear camera sensor is, the company

has decided to release its own 4K footage to show how far it has come where the

camera department is concerned. If you have a 4K monitor, then we highly

recommend that you watch the footage in 4K so you will easily be able to tell

the quality apart.



On a monitor that does not have a resolution of 4K might not give you a better

conclusion on the quality of the video. Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge come in the

Exynos 8990 and Snapdragon 820 chipset models, and their performance is greatly

improved thanks to 4GB of RAM.



Samsung has significantly reduced the bloat on its customized TouchWiz

interface, but the company still has a long way to go in terms of software. In

terms of hardware however, Samsung is definitely the king of Android smartphone

manufacturers and we cannot wait to see an improved version of both smartphones

being introduced during the month of August, named Galaxy Note 7.



One of the things that we adored about the smartphone was that despite being 1mm

thinner than Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 edge, both smartphones feature an

impressive build quality and feature a much larger battery capacity. One other

thing that Samsung welcomed back was its expandable storage slot, and both

openings of Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge are able to support a 200GB microSD

card.



Source



LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





