                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                 Central Asian News Service (English language)



                              June 7, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung announces Galaxy S7 active



LENGTH: 495  words





Today Samsung is following up the launch of its Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge

smartphones with the introduction of the Galaxy S7 active, a ruggedized version

of the flagship S7. Like previous active series phones, it uses the same

internal hardware as the rest of its lineage, including the latest Snapdragon

820 SoC with a quad-core CPU utilizing Qualcomm's custom 64-bit Kryo cores and

Adreno 530 GPU. This is paired with 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM and 32GB of UFS 2.0 NAND.

Additional internal storage options are not available for the S7 active, but it

still supports microSD cards for expansion, according to AnandTech.







The S7 active also uses the same 5.1-inch QHD SAMOLED display as the regular S7,

which we found provides a well-calibrated sRGB mode along with additional modes

for those who prefer more saturated colors. It also managed to hit about 500

nits peak brightness when using auto brightness mode at 100% APL.



Despite using the same screen size as the S7, the S7 active is larger and

heavier because of the additional protection its outer shell provides. Replacing

the sleek but fragile glass and metal construction is a larger but more durable

plastic and metal chassis that increases the height and width by 6.4 mm and 5.4

mm, respectively. Thickness also increases by 2 mm to 9.9 mm, which helps make

room for a larger 4000mAh battery.



What really sets the Galaxy S7 active apart from Samsung's other phones,

however, is its improved durability. It retains the S7's IP68 rating that makes

it dust tight and allows for immersion in water up to 5 feet for up to 30

minutes. There's an additional protective polycarbonate layer on top of the

screen, which eliminates the stress concentrations that result from scratches,

increasing the shatter resistance of the cover glass.



Samsung also claims the S7 active passes the U.S. Military Standard (MIL-STD)

810G tests for a ruggedized phone, including those for exposure to high and low

temperatures, salt fog, humidity, and shock, which entails dropping the phone in

different ways onto two inches of plywood over concrete from a height of at

least four feet.



While discussing the Galaxy S7 active, Samsung stressed its emphasis on

enterprise customers with the phone's security and productivity features. It

still has the same touch-based fingerprint sensor as the S7 for authentication

and also includes Samsung's Knox security suite that allows for the separation

of work and personal content, in addition to other security-focused features.





The larger 4000mAh battery should help the S7 active last longer than the

regular version. The battery is not swappable, but it still supports Samsung's

fast charging technology and wireless charging to help get the phone back into

action more quickly.



Like previous active phones, the Galaxy S7 active will be an AT&T exclusive. It

will be offered in three different colors - Cammo Green, Titanium Gray, Sandy

Gold - and will be available for purchase on June 10.AKIpress



LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 894





                            Copyright 2016 AKIpress

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





