

With the launch of its Galaxy S7, a new flagship phone that picks up where the
Galaxy S6 left off, Samsung appears to have learned a thing or two from its arch
rival, Apple.

Samsung's new flagship phone, announced on Sunday night at the Mobile World
Congress trade show here in Barcelona, will be as much about the ecosystem that
surrounds a phone as it will be about the technical prowess that the electronics
giant has focused on in the past, Samsung officials say.

The launch event made use one of those ecosystem devices - Samsung's Gear VR
virtual reality headset - with a guest appearance from Facebook chief executive
Mark Zuckerberg as 4000 attendees used it. The event showed signs of a more
nuanced, more coherent branding strategy led by a former Coca Cola executive,
Pio Schunker, whom Samsung hired last year.

Both of those elements, ecosystem and branding, have been areas where Apple has
dominated Samsung and other competitors in the past.

To help bolster its ecosystem, Samsung simultaneously announced a new 360-degree
camera, the Gear 360, that can be used to generate virtual-reality content to
play in the Gear VR virtual reality headset that Samsung released last year.

Such content, that works with software from partners such as Facebook and
Google, will be part of Samsung's ecosystem play, as much as the hardware
add-ons themselves.

But the shift in focus for Samsung, away from just the device itself, doesn't
mean the company's traditional strengths weren't also on display with the launch
of the new phone.

As with the Galaxy S6, the Galaxy S7 also comes with a sister phone, known as
the S7 edge, that makes use of Samsung's advanced, flexible screen technology
that bends around the edge of the phone, something that its rivals have been
unable to match.

And capitalising on Samsung's OLED screens, one of the major technology leads
that Samsung has held over Apple, the Galaxy S7 and S7 will have screens that
are always on, giving users constant access to the clock and to incoming
notifications without ever having to touch their phones.

While such features show that Samsung is continuing to play to its strengths,
other new features in the phones suggest that the company is also beginning to
streamline its product portfolio, to help it compete with Apple when it comes to
ecosystem and marketing.

It has also restored the waterproofing to the phone, another feature removed in
the Galaxy S6, this time making the waterproofing internal so that users don't
have to deal with plastic caps over the USB ports.

Aside from slightly more rounded edges on the side of the new phone, and a
camera that doesn't stick out the back nearly as far, the S7 is virtually
indistinguishable from last year's Galaxy S6, at least in terms of visual
appearance. That, too, is very much like Apple, which tends to overhaul its
phone designs only every other year.

This simplification of the product portfolio, which makes it easier for
third-party manufacturers to participate in the ecosystem of devices that
surround a mobile phone, could become even more pronounced later this year, when
Samsung has to decide whether it will launch a third, bigger variant of the S7,
which would be known as the S7 edge+.

The S7 edge now comes with a curved, 5.5-inch screen, bigger than the 5.1-inch
screen on last year's model. That move to a bigger screen will give Samsung the
option of doing away with the S7 edge+ altogether, because the edge+ only has a
5.7-inch screen, not different enough to warrant a separate model.

Samsung officials say they're in the throes of deciding whether to get rid of
the edge+ line altogether, or simply to make it even bigger.

Making phones bigger has, of course, been central to how Samsung has competed
with Apple in the past, so much so that it's one of the few aspects of Samsung's
phone design that Apple has been forced to ape. Whether Samsung ditches the S7
edge+ later this year, or goes bigger still, could be a test of how it will
compete with Apple in the future.

Both smartphones will be on sale from 11 March and priced at $1149 for the
Galaxy S7 and $1249 for the S7 edge.

