

The Samsung Galaxy S7 is one of the most hotly-anticipated smartphones of the
year, and the biggest announcement at this year's Mobile World Congress.

The Korean company has changed up the design for this year's phone and moved
into the premium territory enjoyed by Apple's iPhones.

That means if you want to get hold of one, you're going to have to dig deep.

The Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge will go on sale in the UK tomorrow, featuring a new
water-resistant design, an SD card slot for expandable memory, and a big enough
battery to watch 13 hours of HD video on a single charge.

The S7 is available SIM-free, from a price of £569, while the S7 Edge price will
start at £639 for a SIM-free handset.

If you don't fancy buying the phone outright, then there are a number of
different tariffs available from the UK's major networks:

Tesco Mobile is stocking the Galaxy S7 and the S7 Edge. All the supermarket's
tariffs include 4G as standard.

Here's a break-down of how Tesco Mobile's options stack up. To view the bundles
in more detail head to Shop.tescomobile.com.

Virgin will be stocking both models and will pre-install its WiFi Buddy app on
the devices. That will give users the opportunity to access secure WiFi hotspots
across the country.

"Prices for the Samsung Galaxy S7 start at £34 a month for the 32GB version and
£38 per month for the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge," Virgin Media said in a statement.

"Virgin Media customers can get the Samsung Galaxy S7 in both Black and Gold.
The Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge will be available in Black."

The Samsung Galaxy S7 is available to order with free delivery from the Virgin
Media store.

Giffgaff will be stocking the S7 and the S7 Edge. The network's prices are as
follows. To find out more, visit www.giffgaff.com.

Samsung Galaxy S7

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge

Paying the phone off each month requires a £25 upfront phone deposit over 24
months.

Three has confirmed that the S7 and the S7 Edge are both available to pre-order
in store now.

Here are the list of prices on various tariffs for both phones on Three's
network.

If you're on EE, you can also pre-order the Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 Edge through
ee.co.uk or any UK store.

Here's how the network breaks down its pricing:

"The 32GB Galaxy S7 on EE is just £49.99 on a £44.49 a month, 24 month 4GEE
Extra plan, which comes with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 4GB of
mobile data a month.

"The 32GB Galaxy S7 edge is available for just £29.99 on a £49.99 a month, 24
month plan, and comes with unlimited minutes, unlimited texts and 4GB of mobile
data a month.

"Existing EE customers looking to upgrade to the same plans will receive 10GB of
mobile data per month for the same price."

Vodafone is not only stocking the S7 and S7 Edge but gave their customers a
chance to get hold of it early, with customers who pre-ordered before Sunday
receiving their phones on Tuesday- three days earlier than the official launch.

Vodafone's pricing is as follows: To find out more visit the Vodafone online
store.

"Customers can pre-order the Samsung Galaxy S7 edge and Samsung Galaxy S7 on a
Vodafone Red 10GB Bundle for £50 per month or £44 per month respectively.

"Both have an upfront cost of £29 and include unlimited texts, unlimited minutes
and 10GB of data. "Alternatively, customers can pre-order either device on a
Vodafone Red Value 15GB Bundle, at £55 per month for the Samsung Galaxy S7 edge
or £49 per month for the Samsung Galaxy S7.

"Again, both have a £29 upfront cost and include unlimited texts, unlimited
minutes and 15GB of data, as well as a choice of free access to Netflix for 12
months, or Sky Sports Mobile TV, Spotify Premium or a NOW TV Entertainment Pass
for 24 months."

Carphone Warehouse will be stocking the new phones as well in stores and online
at www.carphonewarehouse.com.

The company says: "Both the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge will be
available for an upfront cost of £79.99, and £129.99 across major networks from
just £36 per month for new and upgrading customers."

Samsung pledge to give away FREE VR headset with preorders of Galaxy S7

Is the Samsung Galaxy S7 too expensive?

