                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                      Business and Financial Times (Ghana)



                            March 30, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung outdoors S7 range



LENGTH: 379  words





Source: Thomas Moore Adingo | B&FT Online | Ghana



Pacesetter of the smartphone industry Samsung Electronics has officially

launched its latest smartphones -- the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge -- onto the

Ghanaian market.



According to the company, the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge come with the latest

smartphone features and are by far the highest grade of phones in the world.



"At Samsung we have an unwavering commitment to improve consumer experience with

every device we introduce. Our latest addition to the Galaxy S range, the Galaxy

S7 and S7 Edge, have been carefully crafted to reset the rules of the smartphone

game.



"We are throwing the challenge out there for smartphone enthusiasts to rethink

what a phone can do, and all the answers lie in the new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge,"

Jaspreet Singh, Director of IT and Mobile-Samsung Electronics West Africa, said

at the official launch in Accra.



With improved camera quality the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge are perfect for capturing

some of life's precious moments, especially in dark conditions.



The phones are also water and dust resistant and  can remain submerged in water

for up to 30 minutes and at a depth of five feet without damage being caused to

the phones' design and functionality. Aside from that, they also come with a

thrilling feature that allows pictures and videos to be taken under water.



Other features include fast charging time with long-lasting battery power, Gear

VR which gives a whole new definition, a 200 gigabyte microSD card slot, a smart

wristwatch connected to the phone that can be used to reply to messages, screen

insurance -- two times every year plus a shopping discount of up to 15 percent

at 20 different shops throughout the country.



The Marketing Manager IM Division-Samsung Ghana, Tracy Kyei, noted the phones

were developed to give smartphone enthusiasts unlimited possibilities with

regard to what their phone can do.



"For us at Samsung, there is nothing that delights us more than giving customers

quality products that meet their needs. The S7 and S7 Edge came about as a

result of feedback from customers about what they wanted from a smartphone. This

is best smartphone available in any part of the world today," she added.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/630/1800/77/145942082217.jpg



Samsung outdoors S7 range



LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1800





                  Copyright 2016 Business and Financial Times.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





