

Borrowing a trick or two from its wildly successful Galaxy S7 smartphone,
Samsung has launched the latest version of its productivity-oriented Galaxy Note
phone, bringing the S7's camera, its expandable storage, its water resistance
and its impressive technical specs over to the bigger, more expensive sibling.

Even the model number of the new Note, the Note7, is borrowed from the S7. The
Note line of phones, which helped drive the popularity of oversized-screen
phones when it was first launched in 2011, is only up to its sixth edition, but
Samsung says it decided to skip that model number in order to bring the Note7's
name into line with the S7.

The move, which was widely rumoured ahead of today's launch, is also thought to
be designed to help the Note7 compete with the iPhone 7, expected to be launched
by Apple in coming weeks.

The Note7, which will go on sale in Australia on August 19 for $1349, is
Samsung's most expensive phone, costing $100 more than the curved Galaxy S7 edge
and $200 more than the flat-screened Galaxy S7.

To help minimise the sticker shock and spur early demand, Samsung says it will
bundle a $399, 256GB memory card with the Note7, for anyone who pre-orders it
starting August 5.

While the camera in the Note7 may have been upgraded to use the same, 12MP
module that first appeared (to widespread acclaim) on the Galaxy S7, while it
may now have room for an memory expansion card just like the S7 (which for many
users will be the single biggest improvement in the device), while it may now be
rated to withstand a 30-minute dip in one metre of water just like the S7, and
while the Note7's processor has likewise been upgraded to the same 2.3GHz
octacore processor that's used by some S7 models, plenty of differences still
remain between Samsung's two flagship phones.

The Note7 retains its unique stylus, which allows users to write on the screen
as if they were taking notes with a pen on paper (hence the name of the device).
Indeed, Samsung says the stylus is now more pen-like than ever, with a smaller
tip that's closer in size and feel to a ballpoint pen.

New features have been added to the stylus, too, and it can now be used to
magnify portions on the screen, or to translate text from one language to
another, simply by hovering the electronic pen above the surface of the screen.

Samsung has also added an infrared retina scanner to the Note7, which it says is
significantly more secure than the fingerprint scanner that's on the Galaxy S7,
though that fingerprint scanner is also on the Note7.

And in what might prove to be a controversial move, the flat screen on the Note5
has been changed on the Note7, so it now has curves on the left and right edges
similar to the curves on the S7 edge. But the Note7's curve is more gentle than
the curve on the S7 edge, and Samsung officials say that should overcome the
complaint that it's too easy to accidentally activate the edge's touch-sensitive
screen when the phone is held in hand.

While Galaxy S owners can have a glass surface that curves either on the front
(in the case of the S7 edge) or the back (in the case of the flat-screen S7),
Note7 owners will get a phone that curves on both the back and the front.

Samsung says the back of the Note7 has the exact same curved glass on it as the
front of the Note7, which not only makes the phone feel slimmer in the hand, it
also decreases the manufacturing cost of the phone: using the same glass back
and front increased the simplicity and the yield of the complex glass-pressing
technology that's required to press the bent glass.

In keeping with that symmetrical design, the Note7 now uses a USB-C cable rather
than the micro USB cable that Samsung has used in its previous phones, meaning
that users no longer have to worry which way they orient their cable when trying
to plug it in.

USB-C cables are symmetrical top to bottom, and go in either way. They're also
capable of much faster data connections.

