

SAMSUNG'S latest flagship smartphone - the Galaxy S7 - is now available for
pre-booking at axiom stores across Saudi Arabia.

The latest release by the Korean mobile maker is set to offer the Kingdom's tech
aficionados a refined mobile experience through enhanced features and
unequivocal performance. The smartphones can only be pre-ordered from axiom
stores starting from SR200, with release scheduled for March 18.

Customers can also pre-book the devices online at www.axiomtelecom.com by paying
the full amount - SR2,399 for the 32 GB Galaxy S7 and SR2,749 for the 32 GB S7
edge.

With a limited stock allocation available for the first few weeks, and the S7
series expected to follow its predecessor and be a massive seller, axiom is
advising its customers in Saudi Arabia to book their orders as soon as possible.

What's more, the first 1,500 customers will receive a complimentary Samsung Gear
VR - a virtual reality headset that enables users to enjoy a sensory stimulated
mobile experience, as well as a free 64 GB memory card.

"Saudis today are more tech savvy than ever, and they require a smartphone that
can keep up with their fast-paced lifestyle and passion for sharing special
moments," said Faisal Al Bannai, managing director at axiom.

"The Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge combines power, speed, and functionality to
deliver a truly unique mobile experience. We are delighted to be the first
reseller to offer these highly coveted devices to the Saudi market," Al Bannai
added.

The Galaxy S7 series injects flawless engineering and ergonomic design in every
aspect of the smartphone's form and function, giving users the slimmest feel
without compromising the size of the screen. The elegantly curved front and back
fits in the palm just right, making it as beautiful to look at, as it is to use.

Boasting a screen size of 5.1 inches (S7) or 5.5 inches (the S7 edge), the
smartphones' crystal clear display allows users to engage in a lifelike
multimedia experience, with vivid colors and pixel-perfect images.

The series also features the first smartphone camera to have a
professional-grade Dual Pixel Sensor, enabling users to take crisp, clear photos
in the dark. At 12 MP and with motion panorama and motion picture capability,
the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge camera ensures no precious memory goes uncaptured,
whether in the day or night.

The phones' incredibly fast processors and 4GB RAM keeps everything running
smooth even when running at full capacity, while the battery keeps you going for
longer without heating up. From launching apps to playing games and streaming
video, everything happens faster and more smoothly than ever.

And with both a water and dust resistant body, S7 and S7 edge owners can take
their smartphone wherever they go, be it in the rain, in the shower, or the pool
- up to 1.5 meters under. Samsung has also worked out how to completely seal off
the inside component while keeping micro USB ports and earphone jacks open,
providing added convenience.

axiom customers can also benefit from the reseller's exclusive value-added
services, including 60-Second Data Transfer, Trade-in offers, and the recently
launched paid-for Damage Insurance, Mobile Security, and 3-years Extended
Warranty services.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/34/145773502584.jpg

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge with Gear

