                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 Daily The Post



                            February 29, 2016 Monday



Samsung launches its latest Flagship Smartphone - the Galaxy S7-edge.



LENGTH: 482 words



DATELINE: Lahore







 LAHORE: Samsung has recently launched its next Flagship product-line - the

Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 edge and Edge Plus. The "Samsung Unpacked" ceremony for

this launch was held in Barcelona, Spain. All GalaxyS7 variants are enriched

with really impressive specifications and powerful features.







 Samsung Galaxy S7 features; an Android v6.0 (Marshmallow Operating System) and

runs on a powerful Octa-Core processor, Snapdragon 820 / Exynos 8890, 64 bit

Chipset. It boasts a 4 GB RAM and 32/64/128 GB Internal Memory. The powerful

12.2 Mega Pixel primary camera offers BRITECELL Sensors along with an 8 MP Front

facing camera with Dual Video call.



 The President of Samsung Pakistan &ndash; Mr. J. H. Lee stated; "It is a

delightful occasion for Samsung, as we introduce the consumers with these

ground-breaking innovations, pioneered by Samsung's new Flag-ship Devices

&ndash; the Galaxy S7 and S7-Edge series. These high-performance devices are the

front-runners in 'TheNextGalaxy' offerings, which are being launched by Samsung,

to revolutionize the ever-expanding world of info-tainment on-the-go and empower

every segment of the consumers, with the smartest modes of 3G and 4G

telecommunications."



 The Super AMOLED, 5.5 inch display on the Galaxy S7 edge is enriched with Force

Touch and TouchWIZ UI. The screen is protected by a virtually unbreakable

'Corning Gorilla Glass 5' and Water & Dust Resistance (IP68 standard). The

device also features a Nano SIM and an endless array of the world's most

advanced Apps including the 'Samsung Pay'. The S7 Edge is powered by a

longer-lasting, fast charging 3600mAh non-removable battery, promising 24 hours

of talk-time, along with 18 hours of video playback.



 The Galaxy S7 smartphones can go everywhere you go &ndash; even in the rain or

the pool, to endure up to 30 minutes or 1.5 meters of water depth. Your personal

data is protected, round-the-clock, by Samsung Knox &ndash; a dedicated security

solution to protect your sensitive data against hackers and malware, by keeping

it safely isolated and encrypted. These revolutionary devices promise super-fast

multi-tasking and unmatched Mobile-gaming experiences.





 About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.







 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. inspires the world and shapes the future with

transformative ideas and technologies that redefine the worlds of TVs,

smartphones, wearable devices, tablets, cameras, digital appliances, printers,

medical equipment, network systems, and semiconductor and LED solutions. We are

also leading in the Internet of Things space with the open platform SmartThings,

our broad range of smart devices, and through proactive cross-industry

collaboration. We employ 319,000 people across 84 countries with annual sales of

US $196 billion. To discover more, and for the latest news, feature articles and

press material, please visit the Samsung Newsroom at news.samsung.com.



LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





