                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)



                             March 21, 2016 Monday



Form meets function with extra edge



BYLINE: Izwan Ismail



SECTION: Pg. 7



LENGTH: 667 words





With a host of new functionalities to enhance the mobile experience, the Samsung

Galaxy S7 edge looks like a winner, writes Izwan Ismail.



AFTER much anticipation, the Samsung Galaxy S7 edge smartphone made its local

debut in a concert-like atmosphere at Suria KLCC recently.



The presence of South Korean superstar Lee Kwang Soo turned the centre concourse

area into a sea of screaming fans, who mobbed him as he made his entrance. But

the real star of the evening was the S7 edge, with its sleek design and stylish

form factor.



Speaking at the launch, Samsung Malaysia Electronics vice president, mobile, IT

and digital imaging, Lee Jui Siang says the Galaxy S7 edge marries elegant

design with functionality to provide a seamless mobile experience. According to

him, the innovation around smartphone is not so much about hardware anymore but

the overall mobile experience.



"Smartphones are more than a phone today. They are the gateway to a galaxy of

connected devices and experiences," Lee adds.



For example, people use their smartphones more to take photographs these days,

and they expect the phones to be able to produce photos as good as those from

point and shoot cameras.



ENHANCE PHOTOGRAPHY



A key feature of the Galaxy S7 edge is the Dual Pixel camera. "It's a technology

used in dSLR cameras, but now we're putting it in a phone for better photos,"

says Lee.



To enable the phone to deliver brighter and sharper images, even in low light,

the South Korean phone maker has added a brighter lens with wider F1.7 aperture,

and bigger pixels. This will give images better depth of field.



The 5.5-inch phone is constructed with 3D glass and metal with ergonomic curves

for a more comfortable grip. It is also water and dust-resistant.



What was lacking in the previous Galaxy S6 like storage support has been tackled

with the inclusion of a microSD card slot that offers storage support for up to

200GB. It can also act as a second SIM slot.



The Galaxy S7 edge has bigger battery capacity (3,600mAh), an enhanced processor

and an optimised software to ensure longer lasting battery life and high battery

performance. Packed with fast wired and wireless charging speed, charging time

has reduced dramatically and is especially ideal for users who are always

on-the-go.



NEW EXPERIENCES



Samsung believes that new smartphones should be built around an ecosystem of new

experiences and services. Echoing what Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg said at the

Mobile World Congress exhibition in Barcelona in February this year that,

"pretty soon we're going to live in a world where everyone has the power to

share and experience the whole scene as if you're there in person through

virtual reality technology", Lee says devices like the Samsung Gear VR will

extend the user experience with phones like the Galaxy S7 edge.



Samsung will also be announcing the Gear 360 camera soon to enable people to

record video in 360 degrees and share or view them with the Gear VR for the

ultimate virtual reality experience. Besides that, Lee says a new set of

services has also been made available to further enhance user experience.



Called Galaxy Butler Service, available for flagship products like the Galaxy S7

edge and Note 5, it allows users to get premium services. These include Priority

Express Counter service which offers a one-hour turnaround for repairs, on-site

pick-up delivery service if there's any problem, seven-point check-up, and Smart

Switch service for backing-up data from one phone to another if the user

switches phones.



Lee says by year end, Samsung will also offer a service called Samsung Pay, that

turns phones like the Galaxy S7 edge into a credit card. "It will change the way

people shop and use credit cards. We're in talks with major banks on this

concept," he says.



With the features it has now and the services it is bundled with today and in

future, phones like the Samsung Galaxy S7 edge will have huge followers.



The Samsung Galaxy S7 edge is available at RM3,099 and comes in gold, silver and

black.



( END )



LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Bots



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2016 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              All Rights Reserved





