                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                   Daily Examiner (Grafton, New South Wales)



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday



Galaxy S7 has all the right curves



BYLINE:  MARK FURLER



SECTION: Pg. 7



LENGTH: 321  words



What's it got?



THE Galaxy S7 comes with a 13cm screen and the Edge has a 14cm screen.



The new dual edge display is something to be seen, especially when viewing

content on apps such as Flipboard and navigation bars.



The wrap-around display now supports two rows of apps instead of one and can be

customised according to the ones you use the most. You can also create folders

for quick access to similar apps.



The same screen space supports a beautiful looking 'news ticker' of headlines

and thumbnails down the right side.



The protruding camera, unpopular with some on the last model, has been cut to

just a 0.46mm blip.



SAMSUNG is rushing out the release of its new Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge

phones in Australia.



The devices, announced on the eve of Mobile World Congress in Barcelona along

with new gadgets from LG and Huawei, will go on sale from March 11.



The Galaxy S7 will have an Australian RRP of $1149 and the Galaxy S7 Edge will

sell for $1249.



Samsung's Gear 360 camera will launch in Australia later this year. Pricing has

not been revealed.



To sweeten the deal, Samsung will include its latest Gear VR headset for anyone

who buys the S7 or S7 Edge between February 26 and March 10.



Samsung Pay will be available in Australia later this year with partners

including American Express.



On Sunday night, LG threw out a big challenge to Samsung with a lighter and

cooler looking VR headset and a range of devices, including a DSLR camera

attachment.



Samsung's Australian vice president for mobile, Prasad Gokhale, said the S7 had

"fundamentally changed what a mobile device can offer".



"Meaningful innovation should deliver beautifully crafted technology that is

built to support the lifestyles of today's consumer," he said.



Samsung's mobile president DJ Koh said the new device offered "a world that is

brighter, sharper, more convenient, and more fun".



The writer is at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona as a guest of Samsung.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EDE





                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





