
DATELINE: Bangladesh


Bangladesh, Dec. 15 -- Nine months is a long time in the smartphone industry, so
it should come as no surprise that Samsung is already preparing to launch the
next iteration of its flagship smartphone. While the Korean smartphone maker may
still be a few months away from showing us what's new, the Wall Street Journal
has already caught wind of some of the features we can expect to see in the
Galaxy S7. According to reporters, Samsung will include a "pressure-sensitive
display and a new high-speed charging port" in its new devices, which are slated
to launch in March.

The company is reportedly considering the inclusion of a retina scanner in some
versions of its new flagship, although that is not yet set in stone. Like the
Galaxy S6, Samsung will debut two models: the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge.

With the inclusion of a pressure-sensitive display, Samsung looks set to follow
Apple, which is already touting "3D Touch" functionality. With a USB Type-C
port, the Galaxy S7 will charge significantly faster, with sources telling the
Wall Street Journal that devices will "allow for a full day's charge in under 30
minutes and in some cases significantly faster than that." An improved camera is
also said to be coming -- one that that performs better in low-light and sits
flat on the back of the device (the Galaxy S6 accommodated a small bump).

Overall, it doesn't appear that the Galaxy S7 family will differ that much from
last year's models. However, Samsung's new smartphone chief will hope that he
can gauge demand better than his predecessor and avoid making too many (or too
few) of its popular handsets. We can expect the Galaxy S7 family to make its
debut in or around Mobile World Congress, which opens on February 22nd, with the
handsets going on sale a couple of weeks later. The quick launch is said to be
deliberate: Samsung doesn't want to let any of its rivals steal a march this
time around.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

