                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             July 12, 2016 Tuesday



AnTuTu reveals 'top 10 popular smartphones' in India



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 322 words





NEW DELHI: AnTuTu, the smartphone benchmarking website has released a list of

smartphonses that it claims are the 'most popular Android handsets' in India in

the first half of this year.As per AnTuTu's list, Chinese handset makers

dominate most of the top 10 spots in the country. Xiaomi Redmi Note 3 heads the

list, followed by OnePlus 2, LeEco 1S, OnePlus (specific model not mentioned),

and the Lenovo K3 Note . The bottom half of the list comprises Lenovo A7010,

Moto X Play, Xiaomi Mi 4i, Samsung Galaxy J7, and the Nexus 6P (in the same

order).According to the website, "India is basically the first landing point

that Chinese brands launch and enlarge themselves overseas." The report also

talks about the popularity of Indian domestic brands which it said "are very

strong". Other than India, AnTuTu has also listed most popular smartphones in

the world, US, China, Germany and Hong Kong.AnTuTu's 'most popular smartphones

in the world' list is dominated by Samsung.



The company occupies top 4 ranks in the list with Galaxy Note 5 sitting on top,

followed by Galaxy S6, Galaxy S6 Edge and Galaxy S7. At No. 5 is Xiaomi Redmi

Note 3, followed by Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge, Meizu MX 5, LG G3, LeEco 1S, and

Meizu Metal (in the same order).The company's US list too is dominated by

Samsung, with the company taking as many as 6 positions in the list. The rest

are captured by Nexus and OnePlus models. The Galaxy Note 5 and Galaxy Note 4

fill the top two spots, followed by Nexus 6P, Nexus 6, Samsung Galaxy S6, Galaxy

S7, Galaxy S7 Edge, Galaxy S6 Edge, OnePlus and Nexus 5X.As expected, the

majority of the spots in the China list are captured by Chinese companies'

handsets. The Xiaomi Redmi Note 3 stays on top, while the Samsung Galaxy S7,

LeEco 2, Xiaomi 4C, Meizu MX5, Meizu Metal, Huawei Mate 8, Samsung Galaxy S7

Edge, LeEco 1S, and Xiaomi Mi 5 handsets follow behind in descending order.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





