                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                             June 8, 2016 Wednesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Samsung goes rugged with Galaxy S7 Active;

New smartphone gets tough, adds fingerprint sensor, larger battery



BYLINE: Eli Blumenthal, @eliblumenthal, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B



LENGTH: 246 words





Those looking for a tough smartphone now have a new option, at least if they're

on AT&T.



AT&T and Samsung have again partnered to create a more durable version of the

latest Galaxy, announcing the Galaxy S7 Active on Monday. The companies have

been working on tougher Galaxy S devices since the Galaxy S4 Active released in

2013.



Similar to the new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, S7 Active is IP68-certified (a mark of

water and dust resistance) and can be submerged in up to 5 feet of water for up

to 30 minutes. Unlike its glass siblings, the Active -- with glass only on the

front -- is also built to withstand dirt, sand and drops from up to 5 feet. In

some early tests, the phone did not fare well when dropped on concrete, though

AT&T says this was an anomaly due to a faulty unit. A new device has thus far

fared much better after USA TODAY dropped it on a variety of surfaces.



The Galaxy S7 Active retains many of the latest features found in Samsung's

newest Galaxy smartphones, including a high resolution 5.1-inch display,

12-megapixel rear camera and 5-megapixel front camera and speedy Qualcomm

Snapdragon 820 processor with 4GB of RAM. This year's Active also packs a

fingerprint sensor, a first for the line, and a larger 4,000 mAh battery that

AT&T says will provide more than 32 hours of talk time.



Unlike other recent Galaxy S devices, the S7 Active will not work with Samsung's

Gear VR virtual reality headset. The device is exclusive to AT&T and will be

available Friday.



LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Eli Blumenthal, USA TODAY



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





