                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)



                             March 18, 2016 Friday



Samsung unveils Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge in Sri Lanka



LENGTH: 366 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, March 18 -- Samsung Electronics announced the launch of Samsung

Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge in Sri Lanka recently.



They will be available from today in Black, Onyx, Gold Platinum and Silver

Titanium colours made in metal and glass together.



"The smartphones are powered by meaningful innovations that will make the lives

of people better," said Samsung Electronics Sri Lanka Managing Director Youngmin

Shin.



They come with seven innovations such as professional grade camera, water and

dust resistance, best network performance, etc.



"The devices innovate in the areas of both performance and design to create a

device that re-imagines what a smartphone ca n b e . We br i n g to our

customers devices that shape the future and meet their varied needs in the

present," Shin added.



Both the devices come with a thinner bezel and a larger screen in a smaller

frame with a 5.5" SAMOLED display for the Galaxy S7 edge and 5.1" SAMOLED

display on the Galaxy S7.



With IP68 water and dust resistance, they can sustain up to 30 minutes submerges

in a meter and a half of water.



The company said that the phones are designed to make them comfortable for human

hands, which fit in the palm with their curved front and back.



The camera, which was simulated to the 'human eye', has the first Dual Pixel on

a smartphone which delivers pictures even in low-light conditions.



They also have updated software and hardware to optimise gaming performance

while the processor and battery ensure l onger playing time, which would keep

the device from overheating.



In addition, the games can be recorded, take screen shots and shared with

friends.



The new 'Always on Display' feature allows users to easily check for updates

without having to unlock the phone. Both the phone performs with the hybrid SIM

card slot, allowing users to insert a microsd card up to 200GB of additional

storage.



Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge will be available at a price of Rs.113,750

(32GB) and Rs.129,800 (32GB), respectively.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





