                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                           Free Press Journal (India)



                                January 3, 2016



Tech Alert: Phones to get excited about in 2016



LENGTH: 400  words





It has been another top-notch year for the smartphone industry but, as is always

the way, the next 12 months are set to be even better. We will see new flagships

from Apple, Samsung and Sony, and it will be make-orbreak time for HTC,

Blackberry and maybe others, too.







1. Samsung Galaxy S7 and family



The Samsung Galaxy S7 is very likely to be announced at a media event in

Barcelona the day before Mobile World Congress (MWC). This is 21 February and it

will be a year after Samsung revealed the S6 for the first time. The handset is

likely to retain a similar design to the Galaxy S6 and feature an improved

battery but beyond this, little is known. What we do know - or, what has been

rumoured by some reliable sources - is Samsung will use the event to announce a

whole family of Galaxy S7 phones. There will be the regular, flatscreened S7,

the curved Galaxy S7 Edge, then the larger S7+ and S7 Edge+.



2. Apple iPhone 7



Another certainty for 2016 is the iPhone 7. Apple's "tick-tock" update cycle,

where the number updates every two years, followed by an S model in between will

likely continue, giving us the iPhone 7 in early September. Apple will likely

stick with the same 4.7in screen size for the new model - and the same 5.5in

display for the iPhone 7 Plus - but other aesthetic details will change.



3. Sony Xperia Z6 and family



There will likely be another family outing for Sony in 2016. This will come

either at MWC in February, or at IFA, in Berlin, in September. After it released

two new flagships each year in 2013 and 2014, it might finally be time for the

company to slow down. A family of new Xperia Z6 phones would include the regular

Z6, a smaller Z6 Compact and a larger Z6 Premium.



4. LG G5



Another annual tradition in the smartphone calendar is the new flagship by LG.

Expected to be called the LG G5, we predict it to arrive around May, a year

after the G4. LG usually hosts its own show for the flagship, but waning sales

and a failure to match the popularity of Samsung and Apple could see it opt for

an announcement at MWC instead, if the phone is ready in time.



5. HTC One M10



HTC left us wanting so much more when the M8 was upgraded to the M9. The

original phone's excellent design remained almost unchanged but there just were

not enough new features to get excited about. HTC is strapped for cash and needs

to pull out all the stops with the M10 if it is to survive much longer.



LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





