                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                              The Washington Post



                            March 12, 2016 Saturday

                                Regional Edition



Samsung's latest Galaxy is far, far more resistant to water and criticism



BYLINE: Hayley Tsukayama;



SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16



LENGTH: 863 words





Klutzes of the world should rejoice as Samsung officially starts sales of its

new water-resistant Samsung Galaxy S7 and Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge. The phones,

which the company first unveiled last month, are widely available in all their

dunkable glory.



The latest high-end Samsung smartphones are supposed to be able to withstand

submersion up to five feet for as long as 30 minutes. So you're in luck if you

drop your phone in the drink - as long as you fish it out reasonably fast.



Samsung provided me with a review unit of the Galaxy S7, a 5.1-inch smartphone.

Once I opened the box, I duly dropped the high-performance, expensive phone into

my sink while doing the dishes. Apart from the mild palpitations I gave myself,

there was no damage at all. The phone's touch screen didn't work under water,

but it continued on without a hiccup and was unharmed and working perfectly when

I pulled it out. It was just as impressively zippy as ever and no worse for

wear.



Of course, there is more to this phone than its ability to withstand water.

Overall, I would also say that the design of the S7 is better than its

predecessor, the Galaxy S6. The new phone feels a little stockier, probably

because of its big battery. But its shape is also a little sleeker, thanks to

engineering that has shaved some girth from the Galaxy line's unsightly camera

bump. At any rate, I am not worried about the camera getting caught on the lip

of a pocket or the edge of a table - something that has happened with my S6.

And, with its metal and glass construction, it feels like a high-end phone. It

is also a little curvier than the Galaxy S6, more like the latest versions of

the Apple iPhone, which makes it fit a little better in your hand.



I have no complaints about performance, either. Even while playing games or

watching video, the phone seemed to handle whatever I threw at it. Here are some

features that have stood out about the S7 in my brief time with the phone:



Always-on screen:  Samsung's screen can stay on all of the time and display

basic information such as the clock or a calendar. This may seem like a small

feature, but it is a great one for folks like me who often use their phone as a

desk clock throughout the day. It cannot display notifications in this mode -

for that, you go back to the traditional lock screen - but it is nice to be able

to glance down and see something other than a black, dead screen.



Battery life:  While I have not had the phone long enough to truly put it

through its battery paces, it can easily make it through a day of normal use and

then some without needing to be plugged in, even with the always-on feature. The

S7's battery, which is larger than its predecessor's, should fit the needs of

most people and possibly exceed them. Even while I was testing the phone, it did

not need to be charged until late in the night - something I cannot always say

of the S6 or the iPhone 6S.



Camera:  Samsung has been heavily touting the camera on its latest models,

particularly their performance in low light. The camera is high-performance and

is noticeably crisp with dark shots. Samsung has also added extra modes to the

camera, including one called "motion panorama," which lets you take a panoramic

shot that will animate when you scroll over it - a feature similar to Apple's

Live Photos.



Expandable memory:  One of the greatest returns to form from Samsung is the

inclusion of expandable memory on its new devices, making it possible for users

to add in their own microSD card and supplement the 32GB or 64GB of storage that

comes standard with the phone. With the quality of the pictures this phone

takes, it is a welcome addition. However, the integration between the phone and

microSD card is not quite as close as it has been on past models; if you want to

move something to the microSD card, you will have to do that explicitly rather

than just having the phone treat the card as part of its own storage.



Apps: No review of this phone would be complete without a short complaint on

apps that come  installed. Bloatware is a problem with all smartphones, and

while there are not quite as many pre-installed programs on this model as there

have been in the past, Samsung has loaded it with more apps than you probably

want. There are multiple email apps and multiple music stores that you'll have

to contend with, as well as apps that come from your carrier. (The Verizon model

Samsung sent me has eight Verizon apps installed.) It does not affect the

performance of the phone, but it is annoying.



Samsung has also released a higher-end version of the S7, called the Galaxy S7

Edge, which has a larger screen, at 5.5 inches. That phone has the same curved

screen edges as the Galaxy S6 Edge, along with the upgrades - water resistance,

expandable memory, etc. - Samsung brought to the Galaxy S7.



The Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge are available at all the major U.S. carriers as well

as  retail outlets such as Best Buy and Target. The S7 has a $699 suggested

price tag, while the S7 Edge generally costs $100 more. However, you should

check with your carrier or retailer - many are offering deals and discounts from

those prices.



hayley.tsukayama@washpost.com



LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a

                            Washington Post Digital

                              All Rights Reserved





