

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge starts at Rs 56,900 for the 32GB version in India. Follow
our daily live blog for review updates.

When I finally jostled my way through the MWC crowd to reach the Samsung press
preview lounge, it was almost deja vu for me. It felt like it was 2015 and I was
peering into the Samsung Galaxy S6 at the very same stall. Yes, the Samsung
Galaxy S7 (http://techie.indianexpress.com/samsung-galaxy-s7/ie1093713) series
does look a lot like the S6 series that came a year before, and that is why in
my hurried first impression I was not really impressed.

Now, with the phone launched in India, I have a review device and starting
today, will tell you how it feels to live with the newest flagship in the
market. I am using a 32GB version of the Samsung Galaxy S7 edge.

Day 1

Out of the box, as I mentioned before, the S7 edge does look a bit too much like
the s6 edge+, which I used extensively covering Prime Minister Narendra Modi
(http://indianexpress.com/profile/politician/narendra-modi/)'s visit to Silicon
Valley last September. The nostalgia aside, this phone still has a very
contemporary design. I would have loved an all-metal body and think all
flagships should have that differentiator for the price they charge.

Samsung has managed to push in the camera bump and it does not protrude as much
as in the S6. Except for that the design hasn't changed much if you can overlook
the feel of the fingerprint scanner, which you will.

Once I set up the phone, the one thing that captured my attention the most was
the always one screen. The S7 phones have the ability of switching on a black
lock screen on which it can display a lot of basic information like time, missed
calls, new messages and the like. There is even a set of screen art that is
being created just for these black screens. Thankfully, this always on screen
doesn't seem to be sapping the battery much, which is good.

Also, the display is something to die for. Samsung makes even the most boring
Android screen look a bit more interesting thanks to its crisp display
technology. And this one has a 5.5-inch 2K screen which make everything look
better, even your own selfie.

I have set a fingerprint scanner as one of the first steps, and am regretting it
a bit now. The phone fails to recognise my thumb 9 out of ten times and I am
forced to key in the PIN to get in. This is strange, because fingerprint
scanners are now a very common technology, and you should be able to get it
right. I think we can safely assume that an update in the works.

