                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             March 11, 2016 Friday

                                 First Edition



Smartest of them all;

DIGITAL LIFE SMARTPHONES



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: LIFE & LEISURE; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 882 words





I'm going to just come out and say it. Samsung's Galaxy S7 edge is easily the

best mobile phone ever built.



Now, that may sound like a bold claim from a reviewer who likes to hedge as much

as I do, so allow me to equivocate for a moment by pointing out the obvious: Of

course the Galaxy S7 edge is the best phone ever built! Mobile phones are

getting better every year, so it only stands to reason that the Galaxy S7 edge,

the freshest flagship phone on the market, is going to be the best.



But, actually, there's something more going on with the Galaxy S7 edge than the

simple march of progress. There is something about the way the S7 edge is built,

about the way Samsung has managed to combine form and functionality with no

compromise to either, about the way it has managed to curve the glass not just

around the sides but around the whole phone, that suggests the company has

reached a new level of mastery. Something akin to the breakthrough that Malcolm

Gladwell says artists and artisans experience after 10,000 hours of practice,

only on the grand, industrial scale.



I've been using an Galaxy S7 edge for two weeks now and I'm yet to find any

significant fault with it. Sure, there have been some trying moments. There have

been periods of anxiety when, after taking the phone for an extended dip in the

ocean, I've thought the S7 edge had "bricked" on me - stopped working altogether

- the way that Samsung phones always used to in the early days.



As I write this, indeed, my S7 edge review unit (which for the record is what's

known as a "golden sample", rather than the final product) still sounds like

it's underwater, 20 hours after I last went swimming with it. Water has

obviously gotten into the speaker chamber, but I'm confident it will dry out and

the phone will fully recover, the way it has twice already.



The waterproofing, one of the features of the S7 edge that was missing on the S6

edge, is a good example of how Samsung has married form and function.



You see the Galaxy S5 from two years ago was waterproof, but in a clunky way. It

had little stoppers you had to insert over the USB port that kept the water out

but did nothing to enhance the phone's already unattractive look - and hindered

access to the USB port.



With the Galaxy S6 last year, Samsung abandoned waterproofing, as well as other

popular features such as expandable memory and a removable battery, in order to

make a beautiful device. It diverged, if you will, from what the Galaxy S

traditionally stood for - more features than any one human could ever know what

to do it - to match the looks of the iPhone.



But the Galaxy S7 edge finally gives us the functionality we've come to expect,

returning the waterproofing and the expandable memory, in the luxurious form

we'd always hoped for.



The waterproofing is now hidden inside the phone, which means it can take some

time to dry out, but means you get the best of both worlds, function and form.



It's the fastest phone we've ever benchmarked with the best camera we've ever

tested. It really is an astonishing device.



None of which is to say you should buy it, of course. It may be the best phone

ever built, but it's also bigger than many people will be comfortable with, and

it has so many features it can at times be a little overwhelming.



There's an excellent new feature on the Galaxy S7 edge, for instance, that

leaves the screen always on, showing the clock, so you can glance at the phone

without turning it on if all you want to know is the time. (I will record one

minor grievance here: the clock periodically moves on the screen, presumably to

prevent the Super AMOLED display from burning in, and the movement never fails

to catch my peripheral vision. I'm always thinking something has happened, like

a new message has arrived, only to be disappointed.)



Anyway, this new feature exists on top of an existing, fairly similar feature

that the S7 edge inherited from the S6 edge that allows the curved edge of the

screen to be used as an easy-to-access clock, too. This, in turn, exists on top

of the regular Android clocks. It's nice to have so many ways to achieve a

similar end but too many options can scare away some users, particularly the

iPhone users Samsung is hoping to win over with this phone, who like to be how

to use and even how to hold their phone.



And, as I said, the phone has a very big screen, up from 5.1 inches on the S6

edge to 5.5 inches now, which I find a little daunting but not enough to stop me

wanting to use the phone every day. Indeed, its very hugeness also speaks to a

new level of mastery. It's big, yes, but it feels a lot smaller than it actually

is, due to the way the glass curves around almost the entire phone, with a build

quality that can't be faulted.



I've been reviewing phones since 2002, and in that time I've seen Samsung grow

from a newborn (in the first few years,



I couldn't review a Samsung phone without it bricking, often the first time I

turned it on), to an ugly teenager, to an overly self-conscious (but very

pretty) young adult,



to now this. Maturity at last.L&L



Twitter @DLLabs



I



Samsung Galaxy



S7 edge



Likes



Exceptionally well made



Exceptional camera Exceptionally fast



Dislikes



Buttons right on the curve of the screen can take a few presses to activate



Price



$1249 with 32GB storage, expandable to 200GB



LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





