                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            March 23, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung says S7 sales exceed forecast



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 473 words





Models try Galaxy S7s and S7 edges at a 'Galaxy Lounge' in Shinsegae Department

Store, Seocho, southern Seoul, Wednesday. / Courtesy of Samsung

ElectronicsCompany plans Tizen availability for 2015 TV models



Sales of Galaxy S7 smartphones have exceeded earlier expectations, said a senior

Samsung Electronics executive Wednesday. He expressed hope that the handsets,

available in flat and curved models, will help the world's top smartphone

manufacturer expand its global market share.



'Samsung is satisfied to see good sales of Galaxy S7,' Ko Dong-jin, head of the

company's mobile business division, told local reporters. 'Yes, the initial

shipment numbers are looking good.'



The remarks came on the sidelines of Ko's participation in the weekly meeting

with top executives of Samsung Group affiliates in Seocho Samsung Tower,

southern Seoul.



The mobile boss, however, remained tightlipped about how many S7s have so far

been sold since the devices became available for preorder on March 11.



Market analyst said that sales and preorders of the S7s have exceeded earlier

forecasts in China, Europe and India. Specifically in Europe, it is said that

the company saw a 250 percent increase in combined preorder sales.



Samsung is aggressive with promotional campaigns in the United States, the home

turf of its chief rival Apple, as Samsung has a contract with AT&T, a leading

U.S. telecom selling the Galaxy S7 there.



AT&T launched a 'one-plus-one' campaign, in which customers buy one Galaxy S7

and receive a free Galaxy S7 edge.



Samsung Electronics' total smartphone export volume last year was 51.45 trillion

won, down by 15.19 percent from the previous year's 60.66 trillion won. The

rapid growth of Chinese companies has been blamed for the decline of Samsung's

smartphone sales.



CounterPoint Research, a market research firm, said the company was the sixth in

rankings in China, the world's largest smartphone market, with a 7.7 percent

market share.



Meanwhile, the company's television chief Kim Hyun-seok said they plan to

install its latest Tizen software in last year's models.



'It's possible for 2016 Tizen software to be used in 2015 Samsung TVs. We are

considering it,' Kim told reporters after the meeting.



The Samsung-developed software is being used in all Samsung's premium TVs. One

of the key features for Samsung's 2016 TV models is an integrated content

platform based on the Tizen software.



Samsung Engineering's plans to sell the company headquarters in Sangil-dong,

eastern Seoul, have been stalled, according to its CEO Park Choong-heum.



'No buyers have approached us,' CEO Park said. 'I think this is because the

buildings are too big.'



As part of heavy cost-cutting efforts, Samsung Engineering decided to sell its

headquarters composed of two buildings. The monetary value of the buildings is

estimated at a few billion dollars.



LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





