

Post-Galaxy Note 7 ban scenario, Samsung India Electronics has taken an
immediately strategy to switch its premium-end customers' focus to two other
top-end models: S7 and S7 Edge. Facing a mammoth task to wipe out the memory of
ill-fated Note 7 fiasco, the South Korea-based consumer electronics giant is
banking on the sales momentum of S7 and S7 Edge in India. The would-be buyers of
Galaxy Note 7, production of which has been stopped after the handset was found
to be prone to overheating and catching fire, will get a 'sales and offer' push
encircling S7 and S7 Edge now.

On the sidelines of its panIndia launch of the new version of My Galaxy app in
Kolkata, Manu Sharma, vice pre

sident (mobiles business), Samsung India Electronics, told TOI: \x93We will be
focusing on switching Note 7 (worth Rs 59,990-) aspirants to become a proud
buyer of S7 and S7Edge models (ranging between Rs 37,000 to Rs 50,000). We'll do
everything possible to project S7 and S7Edge on retail front with good
plans.\x93

From being touted as the 'the greatest phone on the planet', Galaxy Note 7's has
seen

a big fall in sales taking a huge toll on the handset giant's sales of high-end
models and brand image. Elaborating on the 'come-back' strategy , Sharma said,
\x93We are totally aware of the situation. We are trying to build up more
interest on S7 and S7Edge now. These two models have seen a great momentum this
year.\x93

The Samsung retailers and experience stores, too, will put thrust on these two

models to rein in the sagging demand in the premium segment sales, added a top
Samsung official. Although, according to Sharma, Samsung still remains the
undisputed leader in the handset sales in India with a 48.7% market share in
value sales. It was around 40% in the last year.

Samsung had opened prebookings for the Galaxy Note7 in India in August-end, and
the phone was slated to go on sale from September.Currently , Samsung has been
offering replacements credits to customers in the US, South Korea, etc.

It seems customers who had pre-booked and paid full amount of Rs 59,990 for the
Note 7, will now get S7 or S7 edge along with new Gear VR, the Level U \xAD
Stereo Wireless Headset free. Full refund will be given to those who don't want
the S7S7 edge.

