

Samsung has partnered with KBZ Bank to offer a financing plan to boost pre-order
sales of the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge which debuted on March 20.

Samsung Myanmar has been cooperating with Kanbawza (KBZ) Bank, one of the top
banks in Myanmar, to purchase the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge through an
instalment program. We have arranged for a six-month payment plan in cooperation
with Samsung, Samsung's Head of Department of IT and Mobile Ko Zarni Win Htet
said.

In the past, Samsung has partnered with other local banks but due to high
interest rates, it made their phones less appealing. With the offer of
zero-percent interest, it made sense for Samsung to choose KBZ, according to Ko
Zarni Win Htet.

Samsung offered to do an instalment program and KBZ also wants the additional
business, he said. In the future many people would be interested to have a bank
account in order to be able to buy a smartphone like this in the future.

To enrol in the instalment program, customers must have K900,000 in a savings
account with KBZ Bank and will pay a monthly bill of K150,000 toward the phone.
The S7 comes with a price tag of K800,000 and the S7 Edge is K900,000.

These smart phones came out in Yangon and Mandalay on March 20, and orders were
accepted from March 7 to 18 at no interest for six months for the instalment
purchase plan.

We have brought the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge which are not only with maximised
performance but also with ergonomic design and smooth touch experience. We have
created this for the users to be more beneficial in lives and to be able to step
forward technologically as much as possible, managing director of Samsung
Myanmar Nam Sik Ahn said.

Galaxy S7 has a 5.1 display and the Galaxy S7 edge boasts a 5.5 display - both
are dust and water proof. Moreover, an updated cooling system will reduce heat
caused by playing games and the new game launcher application can more
effectively manage battery power, Samsung claims.

The phones also come with an upgraded 12 megapixel back camera and 5MP
front-facing camera, with F1.7 light shutter and to take pictures in the dark.

There is no projection data for how many phones they will sell in Myanmar
because Myanmar branches are unsure of how many of the product they will
receive, according to Zarni Win Htet. There is also no pre-order data available
as of press time.

