                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                               May 8, 2016 Sunday



S7 brings Galaxy series to completion in design, functionality '



LENGTH: 518 words





Samsung Electronics Galaxy S7By Yoon Sung-won



Since the very first Galaxy S in 2010, or even before that, Samsung Electronics

has pushed to establish a strong identity for its smartphones.



Ever since it became the world's largest smartphone maker, the company has not

just squeezed the top-notch applications processors, memory chips and display

panels into them but continued to try something new about its new flagship

handsets in terms of design.



After trials and errors, the Galaxy S series finally seems to reach the stage of

completion in establishing its design and product identity with the Galaxy S7.



The Korea Times tested the S7, provided by Samsung Electronics, and it not only

provided new technologies and up-to-date components but also revived the

functions that many Galaxy users have wanted back.



In terms of design, the S7 mainly inherited metallic frame from its predecessor

S6 series and improved the concept of rounded edges. It also removed the company

logo from the front side and put back the bulging camera module on the rear

side, maximizing the simplicity.



Without an additional cover, the S7's glossy body looks sleek. But at the same

time, it is vulnerable to fingerprints and easily leaves smudges when touched

with bare hands.



It has a 5.1-inch quad high-definition active-matrix organic light-emitting

diode display panel in the front, surround by slim bezel.



About functionalities, the S7 did not overreach. Its new features are focused on

what may help actual uses in daily lives.



One of such features is the water resistance function. With an IP68 rating, the

S7 can survive up to 30 minutes under shallow water. But it is also notable that

this does not mean that its display panel reacts to touch underwater.



The S7 also revived the external memory card slot as many yearned. Users now can

put a micro SD card beside the universal subscriber identity module on the top

of the device. The device supports up to 200 gigabytes of external memory

storage.



The S7 has a dual 12-megapixel rear camera with the optical imaging

stabilization function, as well as a 5-megapixel front camera that both support

up to f/1.7 aperture.



Considering smartphones' small-sized image sensor, the definition of 'quality

photo' may vary by taste of each user. But the cameras worked impressively well,

especially in dark environments, meaning that users can get more usable photos

day and night while they carry the handset in daily lives or in special

occasions like travel.



Tapping into Google's latest Android 6.0 'Marshmallow' mobile operating system,

the S7 does not provide a lot of new software functions exclusive to the Galaxy

series. Instead, it focused on optimizing native Android functions like the

'Always On,' which displays simple information like time and date around the

clock, for the device.



With a 4-gigabyte memory and an octa-core application processor - be it Samsung

Electronics Exynos 8890 or Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 - performed well enough to

run latest mobile games like Nexon's 'Heroes of Incredible Tales.' The 3,000mAh

non-detachable battery, however, fell short of expectation.



LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





