                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 29, 2016 Monday



Samsung to start Galaxy S7 preorder



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 504 words





Samsung will start receiving preorders for its Galaxy S7 smartphones, both rigid

and curved, from March 4, the company said Monday.



'The company will start taking preorders of its Galaxy S7 (S7) and Galaxy S7

Edge (S7 Edge) from all three of the nation's carriers _ SK Telecom, KT and LG

Uplus _ beginning March 4,' it said.



Customers who signed up with the carriers to use either device before March 18

will get a 'Gear VR' headset for free.



The company said customers who want to receive a Gear VR or a wireless battery

pack should provide their personal information at www.samsung.com/sec/galaxys7.



The two Galaxy devices were unveiled at the company's mobile unpacked event

during this year's mobile expo held at the Fira Gran Via Convention Center,

Barcelona, Spain, last week with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg putting much

adrenaline into the event with his unscheduled appearance.



Zuckerberg said Samsung Electronics is the 'best partner' in hardware and vowed

to strengthen the bilateral partnership to jointly boost virtual reality (VR)

content.



'Consumers who visit the country's top distributors such as HiMart and E-Mart,

as well as Samsung Digital Plaza and authorized handset outlets at the carriers

can have a test-trial either of the two Samsung phones,' said a company

official.



The S7 models will be available in four finishes _ black, white pearl, gold

platinum and silver titanium. Suggested retail price for the S7 with the rigid

design is expected to sell for 800,000 won, while the device with the curved

design could sell for 900,000 won without the carrier subsidy. The all new

Galaxy has enhanced its camera functionality using the company's finer image

sensor technology and has added new waterproof features. With the MicroSD slot,

users can expand the storage capacity to 200 gigabytes (GB).



Samsung Electronics mobile chief Ko Dong-jin said initial response for the

handsets is 'more than impressive.' But he declined to comment on the company's

sales target for the devices.



On a related note, LG Electronics plans to start taking preorders for its G5

handsets from customers in Korea after the Samsung session.



Given that the company's mobile chief Cho Juno's admitted that it will introduce

a heavy promotional campaign, LG is said to offer one of its light VR headsets

'360 VR,' 'LG CAM Plus,' or 'LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&A Play' as free gifts for

those who register for the G5 during the pre-order session.



The G5 adopted a modular-type design for the first time since LG Electronics

entered into the smartphone market in late 2011.



Devices using that type of design can be in sync with other hardware products,

though it remains to be seen whether many third-party developers or device

makers will support the LG design.



The suggested retail price for the G5 in Korea has not yet been published. But

LG started taking preorders for the G5 from consumers in the United Kingdom with

the price of about 930,000 won per unit.



The G5 will also be available in four colors _ silver, tan, gold and pink _ LG

said.



LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





