

Samsung Galaxy S7

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: Polished design. Awesome camera. Long battery life. MicroSD storage
slot and water-resistant (again!).

The bad: Annoyingly reflective. Smudge magnet. Plastic-looking selfies even with
no filter. No removable battery, which isn't surprising, but is still a
compromise compared to 2014's S5.

The cost: $599 to $679.99

The bottom line: The fast, powerful, beautiful Galaxy S7 phone is 2016's
all-around phone to beat.

Samsung Galaxy S7 Active

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: The Galaxy S7 Active has extra long battery life and is resistant to
dust, water and drops. It has the same speedy performance, expandable storage
and excellent camera quality as the original S7.

The bad: The bulky, plastic design feels cheap compared to the glass-and-metal
S7 and the phone is expensive.

The cost: $794.99

The bottom line: AT&T customers looking for a durable and high-end smartphone
can't go wrong with the Galaxy S7 Active.

Motorola Moto G4

CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)

The good: The Moto G4's big, bold screen and junk-free software make it a
pleasure to use throughout the day. Its ability to survive a dunking will appeal
to the clumsy among us.

The bad: Processor performance is great for everyday tasks, but gamers will want
to shop elsewhere.

The cost: $149.99

The bottom line: With its big, bold screen, water-resistant design and
rock-bottom price, the Moto G4 is a dazzling deal.

Sony Xperia X Performance

CNET rating: 3.5 stars out of 5 (Very good)

The good: Absolutely brimming with power, the Sony Xperia X Performance is well
designed and the only new Xperia to be waterproof.

The bad: Battery life needs a big boost for this phone to live up to its
potential.

The cost: $649

The bottom line: The Xperia X Performance runs rings around the basic Xperia X
and is a great phone for anyone who likes their handsets with a bit of grunt.

