                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                            October 14, 2016 Friday



Note 7 fallout to cost Samsung more than W7tr



LENGTH: 432 words





[THE INVESTOR] The fallout from the Galaxy Note 7 is estimated to cost Samsung

Electronics more than 7 trillion won (US$6.1 billion), according to the company

and industry analysts Friday.



The Korean tech giant announced Friday that the opportunity cost from the halt

in production of the Note 7 is estimated to be a mid-4 trillion-won sum during

the coming two quarters. It is a combined figure made up of a mid-3 trillion-won

sum in the fourth quarter and 1 trillion won in the first quarter of next year,

Samsung said.



On Wednesday, Samsung had already revised down its third-quarter earnings, which

reflected losses from the first global recall, which costs around 1 to 1.5

trillion won, and the second recall, which costs around 2.6 trillion won.



Models promote Samsung Electronics` Galaxy Note 7 series.



In total, the halts in sales and production of the fire-prone Note 7 cost

Samsung Electronics more than 7 trillion won.



The operating profits of the company's internet and mobile division in the

fourth quarter is also estimated to drop more than 20 percent year-on-year to

close to 2 trillion won, according to analysts estimates.



Soh Hyun-cheol, an analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. estimated Samsung's

internet and mobile division's operating profit at 1.7 trillion won, projecting

smartphone sales would drop 12.6 percent year-on-year to 72 million units in the

fourth quarter.



To cover the cost from the Note 7, Samsung plans to focus on other premium

smartphone brands such as the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge.



"We plan to normalize our mobile business by expanding sales of flagship models

such as the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge," Samsung said Friday.



The tech giant also reportedly plans to shift operations of plants in Gumi and

Vietnam -- originally for the Note 7 -- to produce the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge.



The performance of the internet and mobile division will depend on the demand of

the Galaxy S7 during the two coming quarters before the Galaxy S8 is rolled out

in the first quarter of next year, said Kim Dong-won, an analyst from Hyundai

Securities.



Regarding the latest fallout, most analysts shared the view that Samsung needs

to recover consumer trust in the market first before launching its new

smartphone Galaxy S8 next year.



"Samsung may improve earnings in its mobile division in the first quarter of

next year if it investigates the causes of the explosions, discloses the

solution for the production of the Galaxy S8, and adopts compensation programs

in case of possible explosions," said Kim Sun-woo, an analyst at Meritz

Securities.



By Shin Ji-hye/The Korea Herald (



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





