                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 therecord.com



                          September 15, 2016 Thursday



The mess around the Galaxy Note 7 recall is getting worse



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 464 words





Samsung's problems seem to be getting worse as the company tries to orchestrate

the replacement of millions of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones, which have been

found to explode and catch fire.



If that were not bad enough, there is now a report that the Samsung Galaxy S7, a

separate smartphone that has been on the market since March, may have caused a

car fire in Port St. Lucie, Fla., ABC News reported. While police were initially

investigating whether a Galaxy Note 7 was the cause of that fire, the wife of

the car's owner told ABC that the smartphone was a Galaxy S7.



Doubts about the safety of the other Samsung products would be a major problem

for Samsung. Not only has the Galaxy S7 been a big hit, the smartphone is being

offered to consumers as part of the current replacement program.



It's not clear whether this latest fire was caused by the same problem as the

Galaxy Note 7 fires, whether it could be part of a separate issue or whether it

is an isolated incident. Neither Samsung nor the Consumer Product Safety

Commission immediately responded to a request for comment on whether the recall

may be expanded to include other Samsung devices.



Then there's last week, when a California man filed a suit against Samsung

alleging that the Galaxy S7 Edge - a larger version of the S7, with a curved

screen - exploded and burned him, according to a USA Today report.



That followed a report from Britain's Sun newspaper that an S7 Edge had exploded

in a teacher's hands. Samsung told the Sun: "There are no known safety issues

with Galaxy S7 devices. This issue is currently being investigated, and our

customer services team is in contact with the customer regarding the matter."



The process of recalling an estimated 2.5 million Galaxy Note 7 smartphones from

users has been messy. When reports of explosions first surfaced in Korean media,

Samsung initiated a voluntary replacement program, encouraging customers to turn

off their phones and trade them in to Samsung or their carriers. But those

actions drew criticism from Consumer Reports and others who said that the

seriousness of the defect merited a formal recall, which would make it illegal

to continue selling the phones.



Samsung began working with the Consumer Product Safety Commission on an official

recall. But that collaboration has led to complications in the return timeline,

as all recall-related actions must be made in conjunction with the government

agency.



Muddying matters further, Samsung advertisements in Korea said the firm would

issue a software update there that would limit the Galaxy Note 7's battery to 60

per cent capacity to mitigate the risk of fire, but there was no guidance from

Samsung on whether that would also be available in the United States or whether

such a cap reduces the risk of fires.



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





