                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Thirsting for a cool phone? try a new galaxy;

Samsung's Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge look great, have expandable storage and are

water-resistant



BYLINE: Ed Baig



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B



LENGTH: 749 words





Apple's iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy are the Coke and Pepsi of smartphones.



The ongoing debate is, "Who's got the fizz?"



The latest to sparkle are the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge devices that I've

been testing for the past week or so. The phones hit U.S. stores Friday at

starting retail prices among North American carriers of around $650 and $750 for

the S7 and S7 Edge, respectively. Of course, various monthly installment pricing

deals requiring no money down are available.



The new phones are handsome and bear a strong resemblance to last year's

praiseworthy S6 and S6 Edge devices. Improvements this time around center around

features Samsung brought back (after removing them on the S6s), notably water

resistance and expandable storage.  Rival iPhones aren't water resistant and

don't have expandable memory.



The basics: I like the way both Galaxys feel. The back is smooth, almost

slippery, but comfortable to hold. The bezels are narrow. The rear camera barely

sticks out.



One significant drawback, though: the rear surface is prone to smudges and

reveal fingerprints.



Speaking of fingerprints, the fingerprint sensor to unlock the phone worked

well. You can also use the fingerprint sensor to verify purchases through

Samsung Pay.



The displays: The 5.36-ounce S7 has a brilliant Quad HD 5.1-inch display, the

same size screen as the S6. The Edge weighs a bit more and has a 5.5-inch Quad

HD display. That's the same screen size as the iPhone 6s Plus, despite that

Samsung's phone is considerably smaller than Apple's phablet.



Edge is so named because of the customizable secondary edge screen that with a

swipe of your finger cascades along the curved right side of the phone. Samsung

devotes more space to the edge display on the new model, and I found  it more

useful for accessing frequently used apps or glancing at headlines and stock

quotes.



You can also set the Edge screen to light up when you get a call or receive

notifications if the phone is turned over. Once or twice, however, I

inadvertently summoned the display when I didn't want to.



There's also an "always on" display feature that shows you the clock, your

calendar and notifications for missed calls over a dark background.



Battery life: Both Samsung phones come with 32 GB of internal storage, the only

option in the U.S. But you can expand that capacity by adding an optional

microSD card, which is concealed inside the device on the same tray that holds

the phone's SIM card.



The feature leaps  are evolutionary, not revolutionary. Here are the major ones:



Water resistance. This means you can carry it in a torrential downpour or

inadvertently drop it in a puddle or toilet, which for testing purposes I did.

Fortunately, the auto flush didn't gobble it up and the phone survived. Better

still, there no longer is an awkward protective flap covering the USB port as

was the case on the water-resistant Galaxy S5.



For the record, Samsung says the phones can withstand up to 5 feet of water for

up to a half-hour. The phones are said to be resistant to dust, too.



Camera. The S7 and S7 Edge boast first-rate camera systems that let you

automatically focus on a subject really fast, certainly quicker than the iPhone

6s or 6s Plus. Samsung has also bolstered the ability to shoot in low light.



I was generally very pleased with the quality of the pictures (and videos) that

I shot in auto mode. Serious photographers can manually change the shutter

speed, ISO and a number of other camera settings.



Battery. As with the S6 and S6 Edge, the batteries inside the latest devices

cannot be removed by the user, a bummer for some. But the latest phones boast a

much larger battery than on earlier models, promising to last longer.



The phone charges quickly, too. In my tests, I powered up from zero to a 47%

charge on the S7 in 30 minutes and reached 88% in an hour. On the S7 Edge I got

to 41% in a half-hour and 77% in an hour.



Worth noting. The phones have regular USB connectors, rather than the  USB-C

standard that is slowly emerging.



Samsung has been making a big push into virtual reality. A 360-degree camera is

on the way. And the new phones are compatible with Samsung's Gear VR virtual

reality headgear.



THE BOTTOM LINE



Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge



$650 on up for S7, $750 on up for S7 Edge



www.samsung.com



Pro. Handsome phones boast big batteries, brilliant displays, expandable

storage, excellent cameras, water-resistant, always-on display.



Con. Lacks USB-C. Battery is not removable. Body attracts smudges and

fingerprints.



LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo photos by Richard Drew, AP



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





