                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                      April 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Samsung to market pink gold variant of Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 674  words





You have seen Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge in lack onyx, gold platinum, white pearl and

silver titanium, but never in pink gold. Soon you will have those smart phones

available in that color as well.



More than six months after Apple released a rose gold variant of its iPhone 6S

and 6S Plus in late 2015, Samsung has introduced pink gold smartphone. The new

color scheme announced on Wednesday by Samsung would soothe and incorporate a

touch of gentleness, radiance and sophistication.



The South Korean tech company has first launched the latest color variant in

Korea and soon it will be available in the markets there. The skin toned is

introduced to provide so called sense of comfort to its users.



Customers can soon pay for their Samsung devices with Samsung Pay, which has

partnered with American Express, MasterCard, Visa, and major banks such as

DBS/POSB, OCBC Bank, and Standard Chartered.



In Southeast Asia, Singapore will be the first to roll out Samsung Pay when it

will be available in Quarter 2, 2016. Singapore will then be joined by South

Korea, the United States, and China. Samsung Pay will be available on the

Samsung Galaxy Note 5 4G+, Galaxy S6 edge+ 4G+, Galaxy S7 4G+, and S7 edge 4G+.



"Singapore's connectivity and openness are ideal conditions for our new mobile

service to thrive, together with the interest and readiness of consumers here in

adopting this new method of payment," said Injong Rhee, EVP and head of R&D,

software and services of mobile communications business at Samsung.



Samsung Pay will become far more superior to Apple Pay, which only available to

American Express credit cards holders in Singapore and Australia.



"Pyre tells the story of three wanderers living in exile in a vast purgatory

called the Downside, fighting for the chance to rejoin their homeland. They

travel and battle in the Rites, a secret competition for those in exile who wish

to be absolved, fighting together with a blend of magic and dexterity. While

much of the game remains cloaked in mystery, it's due to hit PlayStation 4 and

Steam simultaneously in 2017," according to a news report published by Engadget.



We do know a few things about Pyre: It's a party-based role-playing game and the

third title from Supergiant Games. It follows in the footsteps of Supergiant's

Bastion and Transistor, two beautiful and atmospheric experiences, though it

seems to have a wonderful Banner Saga undertone. Supergiant will showcase Pyre

at PAX East from April 22nd to 24th, in booth #8212. If you'll be there, get

your hands on some of this gorgeousness.



According to a report in GameSpot by Chris Pereira, "Here's how it sets up the

story: "At the beginning of the game, your luck has almost run out when several

masked wanderers find you and revive you from the brink. With your help, they

seek to learn the truth about the Rites, a secretive competition through which

the worthiest exiles can return home, absolved of their transgressions."



"As you journey across the Downside in the wanderers' custom blackwagon, you'll

meet a variety of characters of all shapes and sizes, and learn what's in store

for each of them should they prevail in the Rites. Your actions will determine

who returns to glory, and who remains in exile to the end of their days."



A report published in CinemaBlend revealed, "A new action-RPG for the

PlayStation 4 and PC called Pyre is set for release in 2017 from Supergiant

Games, the creator of Bastion and Transistor. The new title will be a

party-based RPG where players will venture through a mystical purgatory on a

journey to absolve themselves of being exiles."



Graphically, the game is very intriguing. The mix of 3D models in what looks

like hand-painted backgrounds gives the game a very artsy feel. The animations

of the traveling caravan that players will use to venture throughout the world

gives the game a fun-filled look, and the hint of yet another awesome original

soundtrack from Supergiant (and presumably Darren Korb?) could help put Pyre up

there as another noteworthy game from the independent developer.



LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





