
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Aug. 3 -- New York/ With South Korean giant Samsung introducing a
refreshing Galaxy Note 7 sporting an iris biometric scanner, the road ahead for
Apple to safeguard its iPhone boundaries - including on its home turf - has
become tougher.


 The Note 7 with curved display will be available on August 19 with pre-orders
starting on Wednesday, technology website The Verge reported. The company also
released a new Gear VR headset at its Galaxy Note Unpacked 2016 in New York.
 According to the reports, the price of Note 7 will match with prior devices
like Note 5 (there was no Note 6) and will be higher than its flagship
smartphone S7 Edge which is about USD 770 to USD 800. An unlocked version of the
Note 7 will be available in the US at a later date.
 This is the first device with Gorilla Glass 5 screen and has a USB-C charger
port - Samsung's first such device. Note 7 has more sensitive and accurate S Pen
stylus.
 Packed with Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor, 4GB RAM and 12-megapixel camera,
it is water resistant and has support for microSD cards. The device has 64GB of
internal storage and the battery has been increased to 3,500 mAh capacity (Note
5 has 3,000 mAh battery).
 Is Note 7 another flagship killer for Apple like S7 and S7 Edge devices?
 "Market sentiments are not with Apple at the moment, especially after the poor
third quarter results and decline in iPhone sales. Expectations are also a bit
low on the upcoming iPhone 7 so Samsung will continue to have a good run in
months to come," Tarun Pathak, Senior Analyst, Mobile Devices and Ecosystems,
Counterpoint Research, told IANS.
 "Although Apple has a loyal user base and its iOS is the most popular operation
system, Samsung somehow has a momentum going on in their favour. I think Apple
has to look at strengthening and upgrading iPhone SE and older models like
iPhone 5 which are still selling hot in countries like India," he added.
 Apple's third-quarter net income plunged 27 percent to USD 7.8 billion on a
decline of iPhone sales. According to the Cupertino-based tech giant, 40.4
million iPhones were sold in the quarter, compared with 47.5 million in the same
period of 2015.
 Meanwhile, riding on the strong sales of its Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge
smartphones, Samsung Electronics declared 8.14 trillion won (USD 7billion) year
on-year operating profit - 18 percent - in the second quarter results.
 According to Samsung, it shipped about 90 million handsets in the April-June
period with smartphones making up more than 80 per cent of the total, the Korea
Herald reported.
 Samsung's second-quarter smartphone shipments are estimated at about 72 million
units, almost doubling Apple's iPhone shipments of 40.4 million units during the
same period.
 Smartphone shipments in India grew a healthy 15 percent in the second quarter
this year compared to the global smartphone market which grew a mere three per
cent, market research firm Counterpoint Research reported.
 "This time, Note 7 has all the features which are very similar to S7 and S7
Edge. S7 and S7 Edge did quite well compared to previous series of Galaxy S6
phones. The big driving factor for Galaxy S7 this round was the price was more
competitive compared to previous Galaxy S6 series," said Anshul Gupta, research
director at market research firm Gartner.
 "Two years have gone by so first series of iPhone users who actually bought
large screen iPhone 6 device, they are now due for renew so this round is going
to be big for Apple. They need to stun the world with iPhone 7," Gupta told
IANS.
 Apple is reported to hold a Special Event in the second week of September with
the expected launch of the iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, Apple Watch 2, new MacPro,
new iPod Touch, MacMini and new MacBook.

