                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            October 21, 2016 Friday

                                Kolkata Edition



Samsung to Drive Festive Sales with S7



BYLINE: Writankar Mukherjee



SECTION: COMPANIES: PURSUIT OF PROFIT



LENGTH: 375 words





Samsung India said it is confident the Galaxy Note 7 fiasco will not impact its

smartphone sales this quarter, and is also hopeful of gaining market share.



The country's largest smartphone maker will also vacate the 3G smartphone space

and all its upcoming launches will only be 4G handsets, a senior company

executive said.



The company said its festive sales are going as per expectations, which will

result in record volumes in India this year.



The company aims to achieve this by focusing on the earlier flagships -Galaxy S7

and S7 Edge, launched



earlier this year and through several model launches planned this quarter, said

Manu Sharma, vice president (mobile business), Samsung India Electronics.



\x93We have converted the Note 7 prebooked customers in India to S7 and S7 Edge.

We are humbled by the loyalty of the consumers towards the brand. There is now a

strong sales



momentum on S7 and S7 Edge. By virtue of being a full range player with 25

models across segments, we are confident to grow our share and sales this

quarter,\x93 said Sharma.



As per estimates, S7 and S7 Edge sales has doubled since the last week in India

when the company announced permanent withdrawal of the Note 7 handset globally

after there were reports of the \x93corrected\x93 handsets, too, catching fire.



Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge sales



growth has increased from 20% to 40% over the last 10 days, a person aware of

the development said.Sharma declined to comment on the sales. Samsung has also

stepped up promotions for the two models during this period.



Samsung has already launched



eight devices this quarter and more are in the pipeline.



\x93We already have the largest 4G handset portfolio. Around 80% of the

smartphone market is now 4G handsets and hence we will only launch such

handsets,\x93 he said.



The cheapest Samsung 4G handset . 4,900. The is the Z2 selling at around '

prices of Samsung's 4G smartphone portfolio is likely to plunge further

considering the 3G models may reach end of life soon.



As per market tracker GfK, Samsung had around 48.7% value share in the Indian

smartphone market as of August 2016 as compared to 41.6% in August last year.

Figures for September are yet to be announced. The company was originally

supposed to launch Note 7 on September 2.



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





