                              25 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                      March 17, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Review: Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge offer significant improvements over previous

handsets



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 703  words





Samsung's latest flagship Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones are all about bright

and fast displays; spectacular cameras, adequate battery life and great overall

performance. Samsung has included some of the amazing features from its earlier

handsets in Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones.



To cite an example, removable microSD storage cards and water-resistance

features that were available in the former S5 model made a comeback to the

Galaxy S7 line. Spectacular cameras are another USP of both the S7 and the S7

Edge.



They posses 12-megapixel rear cameras and also include Samsung's first

dual-pixel technology that results into great images even in low light. Camera

performance by the newest Samsung cameras has been appreciated by experts and is

truly impressive.



The new 'always-on' displays featured on both models is an exciting feature

providing vital information to users without requiring them to activate a button

to view the main displays. Galaxy S7 has a 5.1-inch quad-HD Super AMOLED display

and the Galaxy S7 Edge features a 5.5-inch quad-HD Super AMOLED display.



Grip has been found to be an issue with both handsets. One cannot place the S7

or S7 Edge on an incline on any surface. In comparison with S7, S7 Edge is

larger and has curved side edges therefore is better than the former in this

case. If you want to own one of them then an immediate step after the purchase

would be to buy a protective thin rear skin or a case to keep the same safe from

sliding and potential damage.



Both the handsets have Qualcomm quad-core 2.15GHz and 1.6GHz processors for US

users and include 4GB of LPDDR4 memory. They have 32 GB inbuilt storage and

micro SD expansion slots that support storage cards of up to 200 GB.



Both the handsets have been built with metal chassis and run on the Android 6.0

Marshmallow operating system. The Galaxy S7 is 5.6 inches long, 2.74 inches

wide, 0.31 inches thick and weighs 5.36 ounces. The Galaxy S7 Edge is 5.94

inches long, 2.85 inches wide, 0.30 inches thick and weighs 5.53 ounces. They

are available in Black Onyx or Gold Platinum colors or Silver Titanium.



According to a report from the NYTimes News, "With two new flagship phones - the

Galaxy S7 and the Galaxy S7 Edge, which were released last week - Samsung is

hoping to overcome those criticisms. The phones, which cost roughly $700 to

$800, are water-resistant, equipped with fast cameras and capable of displaying

virtual-reality apps and games through Samsung's headset, the Gear VR. Samsung

also loaded the new phones with about a third less software than previous

versions."



"We know that one thing that our users want is a little bit less software, and

we've made a serious effort with this device to include less," said Philip

Berne, a Samsung marketing manager. "It's all about the ability to have the

choice to do whatever the heck you want with your phone," she said of the

Android system. "That's why I get so angry about carrier bloat."



In other news IBTimes reported, "Since Samsung has released its Galaxy S7 and

Galaxy S7 Edge smartphones, the rumor mill is now talking about the purported

features of the Samsung Galaxy Note 6. It will be launched to replace the Galaxy

Note 5 from 2015."



Samsung is now aggressively marketing its Gear VR headset as it is offering it

free for Galaxy S7 preorder customers. If the Galaxy Note 6 arrives with support

or 4K resolution, it will be able to deliver topnotch gameplay, video playback

and image viewing experience, Android Central reported.



In a statement provided to CNET News, "Samsung's newest members of its flagship

Galaxy phone family are now on sale. The S7 and S7 Edge aren't gigantic leaps

over the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge, but they pack enough features to make them

worthy of the name. You'll find a better camera and a massively bigger battery

and such non-iPhone features as expandable storage (it's back!) and wireless

charging. And the S7 Edge, of course, has that lovely wraparound display."



We've spent the last week getting to know our phones better. Here's what you

need to know to get the most out of your devices. The Samsung Galaxy S7 is the

phone gamers have been waiting for: Samsung's Galaxy S7 packs amazing gaming

tools; here's how to use them.



LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





