                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                      The Observer (Gladstone, Queensland)



                            March 12, 2016 Saturday



Samsung S7 delivers;

ARM gadgets editor Mark Furler runs the rule over tech giant's new phone

offering



BYLINE:  Mark Furler,



SECTION: Pg. 12



LENGTH: 400  words





FROM the dim interiors of churches in Barcelona to the candlelight of my

daughter's 18th birthday, Samsung's Galaxy S7 blitzed the low light camera test.



The S7 and S7 edge was launched in Spain with promises of an even better camera

than the S6, which won many accolades. And, we haven't been disappointed.



The secret is a new F1.7 lens on both sides of the camera and larger pixels on

the rear camera which let more light in.



In a very dimly lit restaurant, it easily captured the smiling faces of my

daughter and her three closest friends, together with the bright coloured walls

behind them.



Focus is definitely faster on the S7 thanks to its dual pixel sensor - the first

on a smartphone camera. It uses 100% of the pixel for detection.



Samsung says each pixel has two photodiodes that capture light independently,

allowing enhanced photo capture in the dark.



You have to be moving the camera a fair bit to get a blurred shot.



New features of the camera also include a new motion panorama through swiping

the screen or tilting the device.



Samsung is well known for taking pretty flattering selfies. The front display is

used as the front flash, while an additional glow can be added to the face with

spotlight in beauty mode.



The overall look and feel of the phone has certainly taken a big step forward.



The curved edges make for a super sleek phone which looks good, feels great in

the hand and slim in the pocket.



The 5.1" Galaxy S7 and 5.5" Galaxy S7 edge combine 3D glass and metal, while the

curves were perfected through a proprietary process called 3D Thermoforming. The

end result is not unlike a finely crafted surfboard.



One of the great party tricks of the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge is spilling water on

it - or just plonking it in a glass of liquid.



It is completely sealed from within meaning it is water and dust resistant. It

can survive in up to 1.5 metres of water for 30 minutes.



It also comes with expandable storage of an extra 200GB through the microSD card

slot.



One of my favourite features of the phone is the always on display, which can be

customised to show information such as time, date, and number of unread text

messages.



The Galaxy S7 edge also offers quick access to your most frequently used apps.



The interface is beautiful to look at, especially browsing through news or

sports headlines.



Overall, the S7 is already shaping up as the phone to beat in 2016. Over to you

Apple.



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: OGO





                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





