                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               Pakistan Observer



                            March 19, 2016 Saturday



TELENOR EXCLUSIVE LAUNCH PARTNER OF SAMSUNG



BYLINE: Salim Ahmed



SECTION: Vol. 27 No. 79



LENGTH: 282  words





Enriching its portfolio of powerful 3G-enabled handsets, Telenor Pakistan in

collaboration with Samsung has exclusively launched the highly anticipated

Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones. As a Telenor-exclusive first-come

first-served offer, any customer who buys S7 or S7 Edge on cash from Telenor

gets a free Gear VR. The deal also features exclusive Telenor prepaid and

postpaid bundle offers for Samsung users.



The smartphones can be purchased at any Telenor Sales and Service Center across

the country for a price of PKR 79,000 and PKR 89,000 for Samsung Galaxy S7 and

Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge respectively. Some of the phones' key features include

5.1/5.5 inches super AMOLED capacitive touchscreen, dual-core 2.15 GHz Kryo and

dual-core 1.6 GHz Kryo CPU, and 32/64 GB internal memory that's expandable up to

200 GB through microSD card.



Expressing his views on partnership, Irfan Wahab Khan, Deputy CEO and CMO,

Telenor Pakistan, said: Our twofold strategy for larger digital inclusion in

Pakistan comprises developing device ecosystem and bringing innovative digital

products/services to our customers. Our collaboration with Samsung to

exclusively launch Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge in Pakistan serves both parts of our

strategy as the new handsets make our device portfolio richer while delivering

the best user experience through exclusive prepaid and postpaid bundle offers

that are a part of the deal.



Also commenting on the partnership, Jae Hwan Lee, President Samsung Electronics

Pakistan, said: Being the world's leading innovators in mobile technology, we at

Samsung realize that the true power of our state-of-the-art handsets cannot be

harnessed unless paired with a rich operator service.



LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2016 Hurmat Group

                              All Rights Reserved





