                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 1, 2016 Monday



Samsung set to unveil next flagship later this month '



LENGTH: 340 words





Samsung Electronics Co. said Monday it will showcase its next flagship

smartphone, rumored to be the Galaxy S7, later this month.



Through an invitation card that shows a black box with a blue lining on the

edge, the South Korean tech giant said it will hold the "Unpacked" event on Feb.

21 at 7:00 p.m. (Spain time) in Barcelona.



In 2015, its invitation for the Galaxy S6 showed a silhouette of a curved line

and the phrase "What's Next." This year's invitation held no significant phrase,

except for the date and venue of the event.



Industry watchers said the Galaxy S7 will look similar to its predecessor, the

Galaxy S6, as the market cheered the design. Thus, Samsung may utilize the

design once again and instead focus its efforts on performance, they added.



It is also widely expected that Samsung will release a curved edition of the

Galaxy S7 as it did for its predecessor by releasing the Galaxy S6 Edge.



The presumed Galaxy S7 will allow users to insert memory cards to expand data

capacity, a feature that disappeared with the Galaxy S6, apparently due to

design issues.



LG Electronics Inc., Samsung's smaller local rival, also sent out invitations

for its own showcase event last month with a poster that portrays a music box

and the phrase "play begins." The ceremony will also be held on Feb. 21 at 2:00

p.m. in Barcelona.



Industry watchers said the Galaxy S7 may face challenges regardless of its

performance, as the global smartphone market is expected to remain stagnant

throughout this year.



In a conference call last month, Samsung said it sold 97 million handsets in the

October-December period, up from 95 million units a year earlier, with

smartphones accounting for about 85 percent of the total.



The company's IT and mobile business, which is in charge of smartphones, posted

an operating profit of 2.23 trillion won ($1.84 billion) in the fourth quarter,

up from 1.96 trillion won a year earlier. But the sector's operating profit

continued to remain well below the 6.43 trillion won posted in the first quarter

of 2014. (Yonhap)



LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





