

KUWAIT CITY, March 15: Zain, the leading telecommunications company in Kuwait,
launched its latest Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge with plans for postpaid
customers with more talk time and more data starting from KD 21 monthly.

The new smartphone plans allow postpaid customers to enjoy exciting features,
including 50 GBs of monthly data, 500 local minutes, unlimited SMS messages, as
well as free Zain Wi-Fi at The Avenues and Souq Sharq.

Zain is committed to bringing its customers the latest and most advanced
products in the telecommunications world, as it strives to enrich their lives
with technology's most advanced solutions. A great number of Zain customers are
devoted Samsung Galaxy users who are keen to enjoy the latest technological
offers.

The Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge introduce the first Dual Pixel camera on a
smartphone, delivering brighter and sharper images, even in low light. Thanks to
the revolutionary Dual Pixel technology, brighter lens with wider aperture, and
bigger pixel, the camera has a faster shutter speed and a more accurate
autofocus even in low-light conditions. Motion Panorama, a new camera mode,
brings movement to traditional panoramic photos, giving the user a completely
immersive visual experience.

The 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and 5.5-inch Galaxy S7 Edge are constructed with 3D glass
and metal -- all in a sleek design with durability and ergonomic curves for a
comfortable grip. From work to play, the device's new Always-On Display, gives
users a simplified, zero touch experience where they don't need to worry about
missing a call or important notification.

Without compromising design, Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge both have increased
utility with IP68 water and dust resistance. Edge UX, the advanced edge
experience available on Galaxy S7 Edge, provides convenience and increased
efficiency by creating easy shortcuts to users' most loved functions such as
email, selfie mode, panorama mode or third party applications.

Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge deliver fast wired and wireless charging
technology. Additionally, the hybrid SIM card tray allows users to insert a
microSD card for up to 128GB of additional storage and in some select countries;
the tray can be used with a dual SIM card.

It's worth mentioning that every official Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge device will
include Galaxy Entertainer app, which provides over 1,000 buy 1 get 1 free
coupons that provides wide access to several global hotspots including luxury
hotels, cafes, premium spas, amusement parks, golf clubs and much more.

Samsung also made significant hardware and software updates to optimize gaming
performance on Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge. The powerful processer and bigger
battery capacity ensure longer playing time, and the internal cooling system
keeps the device from overheating. Game Launcher, a new add-on for gamers,
allows users to manage battery consumption and minimize notifications.
Additionally, users can record their gaming experience or share their screen to
play with others. Paired with Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge, Vulkan API gives
users the ability to play high-performance graphic games with lower battery
consumption.

Zain emphasizes its commitment to the needs of the largest customer base in
Kuwait, and will continuously look into expanding its horizons to keep customers
conveniently connected, to download content and stay in touch with their loved
ones throughout the day.

