                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         The Nelson Mail (New Zealand)



                            August 4, 2016 Thursday



Samsung unveils Note 7 phone



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 6



LENGTH: 451 words





Samsung has unveiled the Galaxy Note 7, the latest and greatest of its

large-screened phones.



This 5.7-inch, stylus-toting smartphone boasts a bevy of new features including

advanced security through iris scanning, a whole lot of storage, and an edge-

to-edge display that Samsung promises will blow users away.



The Note 7, like its predecessors, has impressive specs and is aimed squarely at

power users who want their smartphones to be the ultimate productivity machine.



The most notable difference between the Note 7 and Samsung's other premium

phones is 64GB of storage, which is double the standard on the Galaxy S7.



With an SD card, the Note 7 has up to 256GB of storage.



The phone goes on sale in New Zealand on August 19 and it will cost $1599.



With a 5.7-inch display, the Note 7 is also larger than Apple's 5.5-inch iPhone

6s Plus. The Note 7 has the same processor and camera sensors as the S7 and S7

edge.



As for the battery, the Note 7's will hold more of a charge than the Galaxy S7'

s.



It does, however, have the same quick-charging capabilities that have been so

popular in the Galaxy line of phones.



It also stands apart because it charges not with the standard micro-USB cable,

but with a USB-C cable. The USB-C cable is reversible meaning it doesn't matter

which side you plug it in.



Another feature that hasn't been in the Note's previous models is its waterproof

design. Just like with the Galaxy S line, it will survive a short dip in liquid

without completely frying the phone.



The Note 7 also stands out on the security front.



Samsung boasts that the Note 7 has an iris scanner in addition to a fingerprint

scanner, so that users have yet another option to secure their phones.



Samsung said that it will allow iris scans to be used to verify transactions

through Samsung Pay in the future.



For those wondering why the Galaxy Note 7 is named that way, given that its

direct predecessor is the Galaxy Note 5, Samsung explained that it's actually to

avoid confusion. Because its other premium phones, the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7

edge have the "seven" in their names, the firm decided to scoot the Note up a

numeral.



The Note 7 was the main draw at Samsung's unveiling event, but it wasn't the

only one.



Samsung also showed off a new version of its Gear VR headset, which has been

redesigned to be lighter and just better-looking overall.



Samsung has made a strong investment in virtual reality and 360-video. Clearly,

like its VR partner - the Facebook-owned Oculus - Samsung thinks that these

types of videos are the future of social media.



Pre-orders will start this week; the headset is still US$100. Washington Post



--------------------



CAPTION:



The Samsung Note 7 goes on sale in New Zealand on August 19.



LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





