                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                            September 5, 2016 Monday



Samsung announces swap for Galaxy Note 7 with Galaxy S7 variants



LENGTH: 423  words



DATELINE: New York





New York, Sept. 5 -- In a bid to repair the damage done by the global recall of

its flagship premium device Galaxy Note 7 over battery faults, Samsung said they

would start exchanging the smartphones as early as next week and customers could

swap it with either the Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge.





 Samsung late Friday issued an official statement on exchange of the Galaxy Note

7 devices for customers in the US.

 "The US carriers have already halted sales and offered ways for customers who

have already purchased the device to get refunds. Now Samsung has announced its

own exchange programme, which will provide customers with a new device as soon

as next week," The Verge reported on Saturday.

 According to Samsung's exchange programme, customers can either exchange

current Galaxy Note 7 device with a new Galaxy Note 7 as early as next week or

they can exchange current Galaxy Note 7 for a Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge and

replacement of any Note 7 specific accessories with a refund of the price

difference between devices.

 "In addition, affected customers will receive a $25 credit on their phone bill

or a $25 gift card for their troubles. Samsung did not say when the Note 7 will

be available for general purchase," the report added.

 The global recall was a setback for Samsung and somewhat happy news for Apple

as it prepared to launch iPhone 7 (on September 7), experts said.

 After just two weeks on sale and 35 faulty phone batteries reported so far,

Samsung on Friday issued a global recall of Note 7 and promised to replace every

unit already sold.

 "To date (as of September 1) there have been 35 cases that have been reported

globally and we are currently conducting a thorough inspection with our

suppliers to identify possible affected batteries in the market," the company

had said in a statement.

 According to experts, this is bad news especially at a time when Samsung had

the momentum going in its favour.

 "Market sentiments are not with Apple at the moment and Samsung had to have a

good run in months to come, buoyed by its super-successful S7 and S7 Edge

devices and now Note 7. The global recall news is a godsend for Apple which is

prepared to unveil another flagship device iPhone 7 on September 7," Tarun

Pathak, Senior Analyst, Mobile Devices and Ecosystems, Counterpoint Research in

New Delhi, told IANS.

 Giving a refreshing look to its Note series, the South Korean giant last month

launched its Galaxy Note 7 in India for Rs 59,900 with iris biometric scanner

for enhanced security, upgraded S Pen and a dual-curved screen.



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





