                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                            July 13, 2016 Wednesday



Batman edition of Galaxy S7 edge a must-have for fans



BYLINE: Trevor Tan



SECTION: DIGITAL



LENGTH: 522 words





What injustice! Just three months after the launch of Samsung's flagship

smartphone, the Korean chaebol has released the "Batman" version - or,

officially, the Injustice edition. If you are a Batman fan who bought the

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge 4G+ earlier this year, you must be feeling gutted.



So let me rub salt into your wound with a walkthrough of what you are missing.



To celebrate the third anniversary of the popular mobile fighting game

Injustice: Gods Among Us, Samsung decided to go with the Caped Crusader as the

theme.



The Injustice edition comes in a big black box. Open it and you will be greeted

by a gold-coloured Batarang (Batman's famed boomerang). I don't know what I can

do with it, but it does look super cool. Maybe hang it somewhere in my room'



After you put the Batarang away, open another lid and you will see the

special-edition Batman S7 edge smartphone.



Inside, it is still very much the same smartphone that was released in March.

But the Batman S7 edge has a deep black hue accentuated with gold details around

the home button, camera, flash and on the earpiece.



TECH SPECS



PRICE: $1,688



PACKAGE: 1 x Samsung Galaxy S7 edge 4G+, 1 x Samsung Gear VR (Black Edition), 1

x Samsung Galaxy S7 edge 4G+ case and 1 x Batman collectible



RATING



FEATURES: 4/5



DESIGN: 5/5



VALUE FOR MONEY: 4/5



OVERALL: 4/5



Instead of the silver sides found in the original S7 edge, it has black metallic

sides. At its back, you will find the Batarang logo in place of the Samsung

logo.



The Batman theme is more than just skin deep.



There is a cool, animated Batman lock screen, always-on display with the

Batarang logo, Batman-armour-like dialler, black-and-gold icons and menus.



You will wish this theme is available for other Galaxy smartphones. But,

unfortunately, it is available only for this phone (at least officially).



Want to protect this special phone from being scratched? Fret not, it comes with

an exclusive Injustice edition cover that is inspired by the front torso of

Batman's armour.



Naturally, this edition comes with a black Samsung Gear VR set, instead of the

normal white unit. I was half-expecting to see more Batman logos or gold

accents, though, but there is none to be found.



Finally, the package also contains a redeem code for the Batman Prime Pack

(worth US$100 or S$135) as well as a US$50 voucher for buying Oculus VR games.



Despite the black-and-gold Batman theme, the included earphones, charging cables

and power adapter all come in white. These accessories should have followed the

same colour scheme.



So is this Injustice worth the money? Well, let's do the maths.



A normal Galaxy S7 edge + costs $1,098, while a conventional Gear VR is priced

at $149. Given its exclusivity, the Batman case maybe costs $60 in my estimate.

As for the Batarang collectible, I would price it at around $100.



Taking into account the value of the two redeemable digital items, it comes to

around $1,609. Considering the likely licensing fee that is involved, I would

say this limited edition is well worth the money.



Trevor Tan



·Verdict: If you are a Samsung and Batman fan, this Injustice edition is a no

brainer. Go buy it now.



LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: With the Galaxy S7 edge 4G+ Injustice Edition, Samsung has decided to

go with the Caped Crusader as the theme.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





