

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge is almost closer to perfection but its edge screen and
fingerprint scanner fail to impress

Let me confess, I was not really impressed by my first sighting of the Samsung
Galaxy S7 (http://techie.indianexpress.com/samsung-galaxy-s7/ie1093713) edge. I
thought the new flagship looked a bit too much like the old flagship, the S6
edge. But first impressions and hands-on reviews from launch events are
half-baked at best. But now I have used the S7 edge for well over a week and I
have no doubts about this phone. Here is my review.

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge

I am using a 32GB version of the S7 edge for the review. Yes, the phone is not
very different from its predecessor, except for the always on-screen which I
think is a good addition though not revolutionary in any way. The phone feels
good in your hands, and though it has not yet slipped from my hand, there is a
constant fear at the back of my head.

From a design front, the one noticeable change is the fact that camera bump has
been pushed into and is a much thinner protrusion than before.

Specs: 5.5-inch QHD Super AMOLED display (2560 x 1440) | octa-core Exynos 8890
processor | 4GB RAM | 32GB storage space | 12MP rear camera + 5MP front camera |
3600 mAh battery | Android 6.0 Marshmallow with TouchWiz UI

Price: Rs 56,900

Watch: Samsung Galaxy S7 edge Video Review
(http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nqolLJJQ9pE)

What is good?

Like with most Samsung phones you don't have to wait for the screen to awe you.
No one does it better that this little Korean company when it comes to screens,
be them small, be them big, be them curved. The S7 is not different and
everything looks unrealistically good on this screen, even your own selfies. The
S7 phones also have an always on black lock screen which displays basic
information like time, missed calls, new messages and the like. Thankfully, this
feature doesn't seem to be sapping the battery much, which is good.

The edge screen is now improved and more effective. It is almost like an extra
homescreen layer that you can access whatever you are doing on the phone. It
does add to productivity, if you can remember to use it.

The S6 series had a great camera, and I would have thought it was difficult to
better that. But Samsung seems to have done just that, especially when it comes
to low-light photography. I tried all kinds of stuff in the dark - the camera
was really impressive, in fact even a notch ahead of the Apple iPhone 6s Plus
(http://techie.indianexpress.com/apple-iphone-6s-plus/ie5997303). The regular
stuff is great too and the phone offers amazing detail when the light is great.
And the focus adds an extra layer of fun and richness, making pictures look as
if they were shot with a DSLR. The camera app is also much improved with some
unique modes like Virtual Shot. But the Pro mode should be enough to satisfy our
creative needs.

The sheer performance of this phone is hard to match. You can try everything
from multi-tasking to gaming and ultra-high definition video, and this phone
will not break a sweat. It is among the coolest flagships I have seen and that
is saying a lot as high-end phones usually tend to be a bit hot under the
collar.

Also, despite the performance the battery is dependable. I got 12 hours of life
with very heavy use and that too over a 4G (http://indianexpress.com/tag/4g/)
network. Reduce the brightness of the screen and you should be able to squeeze
in a few more hours. In fact, I once used the phone for an hour with just 5 per
cent battery left.

What is not that good?

The fingerprint scanner on the phone is a pain and has a very low success rate.
You will eventually get in, but that might take some serious twiddling of the
thumbs. This is a quirk that Samsung will have to fix without delay.

While I love the low light photos that the S7 can click, you shouldn't really
bother zooming in on the photos too much. I noticed a lack of detail when you
start going deep into these photos. Not such an issue since no one blows up this
pictures that big.

Do you need the edge?

The edge is a great extra feature to have. But you will need serious presence of
mind to use it. Also, it is, at least for now, just another way to do some stuff
and there is nothing that can be done exclusively using the curved bit of the
screen. So decide whether you want to spend extra to get this real estate on the
sides. The S7 is a great device even without it.

Should you buy?

The S7 and S7 edge might not be really innovative, but what Samsung has done is
make the phones almost near perfect by making it bugless - if you can overlook
the fingerprint scanner. That is innovation in itself, if you ask me. If you ask
me there is no better phone to upgrade for Samsung fans who are now on S5 or
under. For them this phone takes the experience to a whole new level. For sheer
performance and camera, this is the best Android phone you can buy at the
moment.

However, make sure which phone you want - the S7 or the S7 edge. They are both
great, but you might just be happy with the S7, without the edge.

