                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Daily Times



                            February 26, 2016 Friday



Samsung unveils next generation smartphones



SECTION: Vol. 14 No. 57



LENGTH: 379  words





Samsung Electronics announced the newest additions to the Galaxy family of

products, Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge. Created for today's consumer

lifestyle, Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge lead the industry with a refined design,

more advanced camera, streamlined software functionality and unparalleled

connectivity to a galaxy of products, services, and experiences. "We believe in

a world that is brighter, sharper, more convenient, and more fun. We strive to

deliver on that vision with the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge by marrying elegant

design with functionality and providing a seamless mobile experience," said

Samsung Electronics Mobile Communications Business President DJ Koh. "We empower

consumers with technology to help them get more out of life and will continue to

push the frontier of what's possible." Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge introduce

the first dual pixel camera on a smartphone, delivering brighter and sharper

images, even in low light.



Thanks to the revolutionary dual pixel technology, brighter lens with wider

aperture, and bigger pixel, the camera has a faster shutter speed and a more

accurate autofocus even in low-light conditions. Motion Panorama, a new camera

mode, brings movement to traditional panoramic photos, giving the user a

completely immersive visual experience. The 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and 5.5-inch

Galaxy S7 edge are constructed with 3D glass and metal all in a sleek design

with durability and ergonomic curves for a comfortable grip.



From work to play, the device's new Always-On Display, gives users a simplified,

zero touch experience where they don't need to worry about missing a call or

important notification. Without compromising design, Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7

edge both have increased utility with IP68 water and dust resistance. Edge UX,

the advanced edge experience available on Galaxy S7 edge, provides convenience

and increased efficiency by creating easy shortcuts to users' most loved

functions such as email, selfie mode, panorama mode or third party applications.

Whether it's the seamless connection between Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge and

the new Gear S2 Classic to monitor fitness, or connecting with Gear VR to

"travel" the world Samsung redefines what's possible for the mobile experience

and beyond.



LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                           Copyright 2016 Daily Times

                              All Rights Reserved





