                              2 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                      February 28, 2016 Sunday 6:30 AM EST



Samsung Introduces Galaxy S7 And Galaxy S7 Edge, Center of the New Mobile World



LENGTH: 1040  words





Sunday, February 28, 2016: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd today announced the

newest additions to the Galaxy family of products-Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy

S7 edge. Created for today's mobile lifestyle, Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge lead

the industry with a unique mobile experience that features an enhanced design,

higher-quality camera, refined software functionality, and unparalleled

connectivity to a galaxy of services, products and experiences.



"We believe in a world that is brighter, sharper, more convenient, and more fun.

We strive to deliver on that vision with the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge by

marrying elegant design with functionality and providing a seamless mobile

experience," said DJ Koh, President of Mobile Communications Business, Samsung

Electronics. "We empower consumers with technology to help them get more out of

life and will continue to push the frontier of what's possible."



Advanced Camera: High Quality Images No Matter Time of Day or Location



The Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge are built with advanced smartphone

cameras. The main, rear camera sensor captures 95 percent more light through a

wider aperture and larger pixels to deliver brighter and sharper images, even in

low light1. With the first ever Dual Pixel sensor in a smartphone camera, the

Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge autofocus on an image quicker and more accurately

than other leading smartphones, allowing you capture moments even in dim light.



Refined Design and Function



With a curved-glass back and slim ergonomic body, the 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and the

5.5-inch Galaxy S7 edge are even easier to hold in one hand and fit in your

pocket or purse. The Galaxy S7 edge features curved glass on all sides of the

device, giving users a unique dual-edge display and bigger screen than the

Galaxy S7 for a fully immersive experience. The larger edge panel on the Galaxy

S7 edge gives users more space for apps to make it easier to select and swipe

through the different screens with one-hand2. The new Tasks edge screen offers

one-tap access to applications, functions and news, such as contacts, selfie

mode or calendar, always accessible.



The Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge sport a Super AMOLED, Always-On Display

which allows users to take short, quick peeks at basic information like the

time, calendar or notifications without touching or waking the screen. Always-On

Display intelligently turns off when your phone is tucked away in your pocket or

purse and out of sight.



The Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge are made both water resistant and dust

resistant (IP68 certification) with no compromises to the seamless design and

making them life-proof to accidental spills3.



Enhanced Performance



From launching apps to playing games to streaming video, everything happens

faster and smoother on the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge, thanks to a

new, improved, more powerful and more efficient CPU and GPU.



The phones will have boosted battery capacity of 3,000 mAh for the Galaxy S7 and

3,600 mAh for the Galaxy S7 edge. Users will also enjoy fast wireless and wired

charging4.



Additionally, the hybrid SIM card tray allows users to insert a microSD card for

up to 200GB of additional storage5.



Unlocking the Full Galaxy Experience



Samsung continues to push the boundaries of hardware, software and services to

create devices that improve how consumers connect, share and get more out of

life. By introducing a portfolio of seamless mobile experiences that are

unlocked with the new Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge at the center, Samsung is

pushing beyond the limits of today's technology to create meaningful innovation.



Whether consumers are using the Galaxy S7 series and the new Gear S2 Classic to

bring features of their smartphone to their wrist or using the Galaxy S7 and

Galaxy S7 edge with Gear VR to enjoy immersive 360-degree content - Samsung is

redefining what users can do with their smartphones.



Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge users also get the best mobile payment service with

Samsung Pay. It is secure, easy-to-use and accepted almost anywhere you can

swipe or tap your card6. Protected by Samsung KNOX7, fingerprint scanning and

advanced tokenization, Samsung Pay works with NFC (Near Field Communication) and

MST (Magnetic Secure Transmission), making mobile payments available to more

merchants and consumers than ever before.



Samsung+ is a free, mobile app empowering customers to get more out of owning a

Samsung product. With Samsung+, users are always just a tap away from live tech

support, device diagnostics, tips and tricks, exclusive content, giveaways and

special offers.



Samsung Smart Switch offers a simple, quick way for users to switch to the new

Samsung devices. Whether upgrading an Android device or switching from another

platform, Smart Switch8 allows you to easily transfer content to your new phone

via wireless or USB connection. The Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge will include a

USB connector in the box for a seamless transfer of content from your old

device.



Security



Samsung KNOX makes the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge advanced, enterprise-ready

devices with built in defense grade security-right out of the box. Unlike other

mobile security platforms, KNOX is anchored in the device's hardware, and

protects the device from the moment it boots up all the way through launching an

app.



U.S. Availability



In the U.S., the Galaxy S7 will be available in Black Onyx and Gold Platinum and

the Galaxy S7 edge will be available in Black Onyx, Gold Platinum and Silver

Titanium. Both the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge will be available with built-in

memory of 32GB and expandable memory options. AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, U.S.

Cellular and Verizon Wireless will carry the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7

edge in stores beginning March 11, with pre-orders starting at 8:00 a.m. EST on

February 23.



The devices will also be available at Samsung Experience Shops at Best Buy, as

well asBestBuy.com, Car Toys, Sam's Club, Staples, Target and Walmart.



Consumers can get an exclusive first look at both devices at participating AT&T,

Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless and U.S. Cellular stores across the U.S.

starting February 26 and at Samsung Experience Shops at Best Buy locations

around the country starting February 24.



LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





