

Samsung's 2016 flagships are officially here, at Rs 49k and Rs 57ka"and a free
VR headset before March 17

These flagships don't look dramatically different from what they did before,
despite subtle differences in shades. But here are five solid reasons to get one
of these:

1. The Galaxy S7 has been launched at Rs 48,900 and the S7 Edge at Rs 56,900.
That's not wildly different from what their flagships cost at launch each year.
The difference is that you get more. This time, if you pre-book before March 17,
you get the VR headset free. And I can tell you that VR6 is really happening.
It's still in its infancy and there are lots of issues to be fixed but the
experiences with it are mind-blowing. To get the Oculus Rift based headset
bundled with the smartphone is no small deal.

2. The camera on both these phones is the new standard to beat. Detailed
comparisons with the camera on the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus have shown that the S7
is better on most parameters. So if you're a photography buff, you can do no
better at this point. The resolution may have dropped to 12MP but as photo
enthusiasts will know, it's been terribly wrong to think that it's the
megapixels that count. With much improved optics its aperture is now f1.7 and
the pixels are bigger. The camera is now a great low-light performer.

3. Both phones are now IP68 certified dust and waterproof. I wouldn't overdo it
but you can take an underwater selfie. This time, the phones have a water
detection feature which won't let you charge the device until the port is dry.
The waterproofing is all on the inside, allowing the ports to be open.

4. Samsung has bundled in a premium service it calls Galaxy Concierge. When you
get into the My Galaxy section, you'll find the service now offers a gamut of
facilities that include jumping the queue to access a special desk at any
Samsung service center, getting a free pick and drop of the phone while it's
fixed if you should need that plus a standby phone in the meantime. But the more
interesting benefit is from a tie-up with Haptik, the concierge app, which will
mean all you have to do is open the Galaxy app to get say, a cab booking, flight
bookings, food ordered, movie tickets booked, shopping done etc. It's through
Haptik, but for the S7 user, there will also be deals through tie-ups such as
one that is already in place with Ola.

5. The final reason belongs specifically to the S7 Edge because when you slide
out from the right edge, you have a beautiful arrangement of apps and tasks that
are ready for you to use. True, this can be done with a third-party app, but it
only really looks good on the curved edges of the Galaxy S7 Edge.

The S7s have an outstanding camera. Resolution is down to 12 MP, but with bigger
pixels, improved optics, f1.7 aperture, and great low-light performance.

So as you've guessed, my recommendation a (rare) strong buy, especially if you
have much older Samsung or other Android phones and are looking for a
top-of-the-line phone with an outstanding camera, to upgrade to.

Lila Ray is a corporate consultant who likes her gadgets almost more than her
shoes. Write to her at raylila@outlook.com

