                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                              June 26, 2016 Sunday



Galaxy S7 edge vs an Intel i7-6700K processor: The results are pretty darn close



LENGTH: 337  words





In what looks to be a very dubious benchmarking result, Galaxy S7 edge takes on

the powerful Skylake Intel Core i7-6700K



Samsung's Galaxy S7 edge is outfitted with next-gen hardware such as an Exynos

8890 or Snapdragon 820 chipset (depending on which model you purchase), 4GB of

RAM, and possibly one of the best smartphone displays on the planet. No doubt

the device would tear through benchmarking tests such a Geekbench but to believe

that it could match an Intel Core i7-6700K in a raw processor computing test is

just plain ridiculous. However, leaked Geekbench results show the unthinkable

has just been achieved, but our side of the story still exists, which you might

to hear out.



Shown below in the images, there are two Geekbench results, and Galaxy S7 edge

manages to match the single-core of the desktop processor, which is quite

unbelievable, might we add. Though the quad-core processor is able to beat a

Galaxy S7 edge in a multi-core test result, it is still hard to believe that a

smartphone would possess such firepower as to overtake a desktop processor,

unless of course these results were manipulated.



Time and time again, we have seen Geekbench results changed in order to portray

results that mobile devices might never be able to achieve in order to deliver a

false impression of their overall performance.



However, another side of the story is that Samsung might be testing out a new

smartphone with a new chipset. With Galaxy S8 all set to arrive during 2017, the

handset is going to possess a Snapdragon 830 and an advanced Exynos SoC. The

firepower exhibited by both of these chipsets is currently unknown, but they

will easily surpass Snapdragon 820 and Exynos 8890 in both efficiency and raw

computing.



In fact, we might be obliged to say that they might boast sufficient firepower

to deliver the above mentioned results, but for now, we'll assume that these

scores were manipulated in order to provide false information to the user that a

smartphone can actually outperform a desktop processor.



Source



LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





