                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                   Arab News



                             June 18, 2016 Saturday



STC introduces pink Samsung Galaxy S7



LENGTH: 324 words





SAMSUNG





Building on its partnership with Samsung, Saudi Telecom Company (STC) announced

that it has introduced, and added for the first time in the Kingdom, the pink

colored Samsung Galaxy S7 to the smartphone range available with a series of

packages tailored to customers' individual needs.





It's a move fully consistent with STC's promise to offer all that's new and most

innovative in the telecoms world to the Saudi market, STC's senior management

executive said.

Ahmed Al-Sahhaf, STC's marketing communication GM, stated: "The introduction of

the pink Galaxy S7 further strengthens STC's strategic alliance with world

renowned Samsung, a company dedicated for the innovative design and manufacture

of smart devices. The partnership ensures the very latest technologies and

services for STC customers."

Al-Sahhaf added: "The pink Galaxy S7 will be exclusively available in STC stores

across the Kingdom for two weeks for an exclusive opportunity for the market to

be the first to own this device in Saudi Arabia and enjoy it with all the

groundbreaking STC services."

By selecting the postpaid 400 plan with an 18-month contract, STC customers will

be able to get the pink Samsung S7 completely free with unlimited on-net voice

and data.

"The unique pink Galaxy S7 leads the industry with a refined design, advanced

robust camera, streamlined software functionality and unparalleled connectivity

to a galaxy of products, services, and experiences," said Feri Zekisson, head of

IT and mobile department at Samsung Electronics in Saudi Arabia.

Samsung continues to push the boundaries of hardware, software and services to

create devices that are designed to improve how consumers connect, share,

organize and get more out of life. "The company is redefining what is possible,

beyond the limits of today's technology, by introducing a constellation of

seamless mobile experiences," the company stated.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/7/9/43/146620805285.jpg







LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 9





           Copyright 2016 Arab News - Saudi Research & Publishing Co.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





