

It is easy to look at Samsung's new duo of Galaxy S7 devices as corrections to
the mistakes made with last year's Galaxy S6 phones.

The South Korean tech giant brought back the water-resistance capability, as
well as the highly favoured microSD slot for storage expansion, both of which
were removed from last year's S6.

The push for the S7 edge, which has the curved display on both sides of the
phone, as the new flagship is also noteworthy. Samsung's failure to recognise
the popularity of the curved screen led to lost sales of the S6 edge, when its
supply could not match demand.

But it would also be a mistake to think of both S7 devices as merely incremental
upgrades to the S6.

Samsung has gone out of its way to improve the camera on the S7, making both S7
devices worth upgrading just for it.

COMMON TECH SPECS   PROCESSOR: Samsung Exynos 8890 Octa core (quad-core 2.6GHz +
quad-core 1.6GHz)

OPERATING SYSTEM: Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) with TouchWiz

CAMERA: (Rear) 12 MP, f/1.7, 26mm, 1/2.6-inch sensor size, 1.4-micron pixel
size, (Front) 5MP, f/1.7, 22mm

MEMORY: 32GB, expandable microSD storage up to 200GB using SIM 2 slot

SAMSUNG GALAXY S7   PRICE: $998

DISPLAY: 5.1-inch Super Amoled, 1,440 x 2,560 pixels (577 ppi pixel density)

BATTERY: 3,000 mAh

SAMSUNG GALAXY S7 EDGE   PRICE: $1,098

DISPLAY: 5.5-inch Super Amoled, 1,440 x 2,560 pixels (534 ppi pixel density)

BATTERY: 3.600 mAh

RATINGS   DESIGN: 5/5

FEATURES: 5/5

PERFORMANCE: 5/5

VALUE FOR MONEY: 4/5

BATTERY LIFE: 4/5

OVERALL: 5/5

Instead of merely bumping up the pixel count of the S6's 16MP image sensor,
Samsung has revamped the entire camera module, and actually gone with a
lower-resolution 12MP sensor.

What Samsung has done is to adopt a larger sensor size with bigger individual
pixels on the S7 camera, which now allows each pixel to capture more light and
details.

And instead of the fast phase detection autofocus, which some smartphone firms
have moved to, Samsung has developed what it calls Dual Pixel focusing for an
even faster and more accurate focusing speed.

With phase detection, a fraction of pixels are equipped with photodiodes for
focusing. With Dual Pixel, all the pixels are used for focusing, which increases
autofocusing speed - not just for stationary objects but also moving ones, as
well as subjects in low-light conditions.

The larger pixels are great for low-light shots, whether it's shooting in a room
where the fluorescent lights are on, or in a dimly lit restaurant which usually
yields dark, grainy shots with most phone cameras.

Both front and rear cameras have an aperture size of f1.7, which further helps
with low-light situations.

Late-night shots of an evening skyline showed well-defined details of the lights
in the background, and colours in the foreground.

The same image taken on the S6 and even on Apple's iPhone 6S, coughed up stark
differences in details and colour, as well as in the areas where there are
lighting and shadows.

My only quibble was that in certain indoor conditions, where the lights are the
small LED spotlight types, the camera is sharp enough to capture the light
trails that emanate from these small lights, disrupting the overall balance of
the shot.

The camera retains all of the features found in current Samsung phones, such as
Pro mode, Selective Focus and even the Live Broadcast features introduced in
last year's Galaxy Note 5.

While the design of the S7 is different from the S6, the rear curve of the S7 is
identical to that of the oversized Note 5, and I won't be surprised if the
designs of both those phones eventually converge.

Samsung has also followed LG, Lumia and Motorola in crafting an Always-On
display, which allows users to check the phone for the time, missed calls and
e-mail notifications, without waking up the device. While this feature is not as
robust as that on the LG V10, it serves its purpose.

SAMSUNG GALAXY S7 EDGE

Aside from the larger screen and bigger battery, another difference between the
S7 edge and S7 is the edge panel display. Users can modify the placement of a
small "handle" that appears on the edge of the screen. A swipe inwards from this
handle brings up sub menus, which Samsung terms edge menus, as a window overlay,
for quick access.

Users can list 10 frequently used apps on the Apps edge menu, and 10 commonly
used short-cut keys on the Tasks edge menu. The People edge menu assigns a
unique colour to five important contacts, such that the phone will light up in
that colour if any of the five people call.

I place the handle on the right edge of the screen, and swipe it with my right
thumb to cycle through the different edge menu short cuts. Users can also craft
their own edge menu panels for calendars, weather and news.

After heavy modifications on what was initially thought of as a gimmick, the
edge display seems to have finally found its mark, even if it still does not
offer the most ground-breaking of uses.

To entice potential S7 buyers, Samsung Singapore has also rolled out a $38
concierge service that, aside from offering cheaper repairs for cracked screens,
allows owners to save $350 in 12 months' time when they upgrade to next year's
flagship model.

Another thing: Users can expect to get an upcoming feature when the Samsung Pay
mobile payment service rolls out here later this year. The service will allow
users to store their credit card credentials on their phones, and authorise
payments with their fingerprints via the phone's fingerprint sensor.

· Verdict: The Samsung S7 corrects the mistakes of last year, and includesenough
new hardware and software to make it the top Android device in the market right
now.

