                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                       March 14, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Torture Tests Uncover Truth Behind Samsung Galaxy S7 & S7 Edge Being Waterproof



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 682  words





A gadget-warranty outfit, SquareTrade, has tested the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge

models of Samsung that have been claimed to be waterproof. The results have

revealed that if you are someone who cannot survive without phone for one single

second, then these are definitely the best options for you.



However, in case you are into something like parkour games that increase the

chance of the instrument being banged against hard surface, then probably the

latest model of iPhone is what you would want to have.



However, there is no doubt about the fact that the two models of Samsung are

much better than the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus when it comes to water resistance,

however, some permanent damage can be expected in the former as well. The

outcomes of the torture tests were revealed by the outfit on March 14, 2016. For

testing the water resistance of the four models, all of them were submerged for

half an hour in 5 feet (1.5 m) of water. The outcome revealed that after drying

up, both the Samsung models were functional, but with permanent damage to their

audio system, which was left muffled and distorted.



Meanwhile, the iPhone 6 revealed similar outcomes of the test, with similar harm

to sound system and display glass having moisture under it. However, iPhone 6s

Plus became a complete useless box in less than half an hour of being submerged.

Though rumors began last fall about the water resistance of the Apple iPhone 6s,

but the company never claimed any such feature during marketing.



Though the two Samsung models are claimed to be water resistant only up to 1

meter for half an hour on its website, but they have been given a rating of IP

68, which requires water resistance of more than 1 meter depth. As per the

information on the official launch page of the models, they should be given a

rating of IP 67.



In a report published by the Xda-Developers, "A lot of the issues with Samsung

and development can be traced back to Exynos and its lack of documentation. So,

naturally, when we heard news that the Samsung Galaxy S7 would come in a variant

with Qualcomm's Snapdragon 820 instead of Samsung's own Exynos 8890, the

developer community crossed its fingers and hoped for the best. Could this be

the first Samsung flagship in recent memory which will have good support for

AOSP based development? Could it actually be possible to remove TouchWiz

entirely from a Samsung flagship, and enjoy an AOSP experience sans all the

bloat? Could one expect to get on the latest Android version without waiting

months for Samsung to port it over to the device?"



Then, there come the carriers. US carriers have a strong history of locking down

devices, with Verizon and AT&T being the worst when it comes to bootloader

locking. So users on those carriers could very much expect to be stuck with what

came out of the box for the most part. Updates to the Android system has to be

first implemented in TouchWiz by Samsung, and then has to pass through the

carrier to reach the device, adding another step in the update deployment

process.



According to a report in Business-Standard by Arnab Dutta, "Last week, the

largest smartphone maker in the world, Samsung, launched its flagship Galaxy S7

and S7 edge for Rs 48,900 and Rs 56,900, respectively."



Other companies, too, told Business Standard they could cut the prices of their

premium smartphones by five to 10 per cent in the next few months, in response

to Samsung.



"Protection-plan specialists SquareTrade have been busy testing the durability

of Samsung's new Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge smartphones, and pitting them

against Apple's iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in its latest Breakability tests,"

according to a news report published by ZdNet.



"Samsung's new phones may hold up to an impressive amount of water, but we've

found that they still struggle to keep up with the iPhone when it comes to

screen durability," said Aileen Abaya, director of communications at

SquareTrade. "So while the S7 and S7 edge may be perfect for underwater

adventurers, those of us who are clumsy or accident-prone should still be

careful about drops and tumbles."



LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





