                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               The Saudi Gazette



                             March 21, 2016 Monday



Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge officially unveiled in KSA



LENGTH: 541  words





SAMSUNG Galaxy S7 and S7 edge were released in Saudi Arabia on March 17, while

Samsung gave the Saudi consumers the unique opportunity to meet and experience

the new devices including technologies that are part of an integrated ecosystem,

the Gear 360 camera and Gear VR. The unveiling was released in both of Granada

Mall in Riyadh and Al- Andalus Mall in Jeddah.



Feri Zekisson, Head of IT & Mobile Department at Samsung Electronics in Saudi

Arabia, said "we believe in a world that is brighter, sharper, more convenient

and fun and striving to deliver on that vision with the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7

edge by marrying elegant design with sheer performance and providing a seamless

mobile experience. We thank our loyal consumers for their trust and loyalty to

Samsung, allowing us to empower them with technology and continue to push the

frontier of what's possible."



"The new Galaxy S7 and S7 edge unleash the technology that has been long waited

for in the Saudi market and created for today's consumer lifestyle that leads

the industry with a refined design, advanced robust camera, streamlined software

functionality and unparalleled connectivity to a galaxy of products, services,

and experiences," Zekisson added.



The all new S7 and S7 edge feature a front 5MP and back 12MP camera and

introduces the first Dual Pixel camera on a smartphone, delivering brighter and

sharper images, even in low light. Thanks to the revolutionary Dual Pixel

technology, wider aperture (f1.7), and larger pixel, the camera has a faster

shutter speed and a more accurate autofocus even in low-light conditions. Motion

Panorama, a new camera mode, brings movement to traditional panoramic photos,

giving the user a completely immersive visual experience.



Samsung has also worked on giving the device longer battery time for the

consumer so that the battery capacity is now 3000mAH for the Galaxy S7 and

3600mAH for the Galaxy S7 edge. Both devices also easily deliver fast wired and

wireless charging technology. The 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and 5.5-inch Galaxy S7 edge

are constructed with 3D glass and metal - all in a sleek design with durability

and ergonomic curves for a comfortable grip. From work to play, the device's new

Always-On Display, give users accessibility to the mobile's watch at all times.



Without compromising design, Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge both have increased

utility with IP68 water and dust resistance. Edge UX, the advanced edge

experience available on Galaxy S7 edge, provides convenience and increased

efficiency by creating easy shortcuts to users' most loved functions such as

email, selfie mode, panorama mode or third party applications. Additionally, the

hybrid SIM card tray allows users to insert a microSD card for up to 200GB of

additional storage.



Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge can also be accessorized with the new Gear

360 camera that can take 360 degree videos in high resolution and still images.

The videos can be played back by utilizing the ability of the Gear VR,

transcending phone users into virtual reality, allowing consumers to relive the

moment in an adventurous and unique way. - SG



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/6/145854952606.jpg



Samsung creates for today's consumer lifestyle that leads the industry



LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1526





                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





