
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, July 20 -- Zee Media Bureau/Rd. Alexander
 As much as the monsoon rain is a relief from summer heat, it can also play the
spoilsport for electronic gadgets, especially smartphones.


 Comes the rain and goes hiding many smartphones - into bags, water-proof
covers, etc.
 And as much one would love to go out in the rain, it's a big NO for smartphone
as they can get damage in the rain very easily.
 So, here are the latest top five smartphone that are water-proof and can be
used under the rain.
 Samsung Galaxy S7:
 The Galaxy S7 is a IP68 certified device for water resistant of up to 30
minutes in 1.5 metre of water. This means that one can submerge the device into
5 feet deep water for 30 minutes, take it out, wipe-dry it and use it without
any problem.
 The device is available for around Rs 48,999/ in the market.
 Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge:
 Like its younger version, the Galaxy S7 Edge is also IP68 certified and can be
place under 5 feet of water for 30 minutes without affecting it or the
functionalities.
 According to report, Unbox Therapy dipped the smartphone in a jar of water for
16 hours and 36 minutes. And believe it or not! It was said to be functioning
without any problem, as if it was never dipped in water.
 Only problem could be the price tag of Rs 51,500.
 Motorola Moto G4:
 The Motorola Mot G4 is not exactly water-proof - in the sense that it is not
IPX7-certified. But it comes with a dust and splash guard. What this means?
 Splash guard means that the device can be used in rain or when wet or take a
splash. But one can't exactly drop it in 5 feet deep water for 30 minutes and
use it again like the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge. No, that won't work.
 But for normal use in rain, it works perfectly fine and for just Rs 12,499/, it
makes one hell of a water-proof device.
 Motorola Moto G4 Plus:
 Like the Moto G4, the Moto G4 Plus is not IPX7-certified water-resistant device
too. But again, it comes with ith a dust and splash guard, which means that it
can withstand dust, splash and rain with no problem.
 So, as long as you are not going to dip it in 5 feet deep water for 30 minutes
but just use it in the monsoon rain, this is a great device at just Rs 13,499.
 Sony Xperia X:
 Sony Xperia X is one of the latest device to join the brigade of
water-proof/resitant devices. Rated IP65/68, one can leave it under 1 metre deep
water for about 30 minutes and it would function as if nothing happened.
 This feature makes it a perfect device for monsoon. However, the price tag of
Rs 48,990 could stand in its way.

