                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               Business Recorder



                           February 6, 2016 Saturday



SAMSUNG KILLS GALAXY S7 EDGE+ AMID FANS BACKLASH



BYLINE: Ali Ahmed



SECTION: Vol. 52 No. 37



LENGTH: 249  words





The technology giant Samsung has cancelled its plans to launch Samsung Galaxy S7

Edge+ handset for UK. The decision came amid backlash from the loyal Note fans.



However, it remained unclear whether the South Korean mobile maker, is pulling

out the handset from other markets as well. The move by Samsung indicates that

the UK users will only see a Note 6 in the coming months, but not its

large-screen companion with an edge display.



According to Forbes, Samsung has been facing dual problems, firstly, the furious

backlash against the S6 Edge+ by the Note 5 fans, which has enjoyed a

significant following among users globally, but was soon replaced by S6 Edge

entry into the market.



Secondly, it's possible that the sales of S6 Edge+ didn't meet the expectations

Samsung was hoping.



According to Tech Radar, Samsung's plan to pull the S7 Edge +out could just be

to differentiate the position of the smaller handset a little, maybe, making it

bigger than the S7 and smaller than the Note 6.



"Samsung isn't going to launch the S7 Edge+ in the UK," said its source. "I got

the impression that it had been a bit of a disappointment sales-wise and that

the decision to keep the Note 5 out of Europe is now considered a mistake. So

our information is that the Note 6 will launch in the UK in August and that

there will be no S7 Edge+."



However, the only thing known for certain is the Samsung Galaxy S7 and the S7

Edge will be launched at Mobile World Congress 2016 on February 21, and go on

sale soon after.



LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 Business Recorder

                              All Rights Reserved





