                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                Legal News Line



                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday



Woman alleges Galaxy S7's water-resistant claims are false after toilet drop

causes phone to malfunction



BYLINE: Tara Mapes



LENGTH: 545 words





LOS ANGELES (Legal Newsline) - A California woman is suing Samsung,

allegingfraud, false advertising and unjust enrichment for selling a

water-resistantphone she claims didn't resist water at all.



Dulce Alondra Velasquez-Reyes of Ontario, California, filed a class

actioncomplaint on behalf of herself and others similarly situated Sept. 12 in

the U.S. DistrictCourt for the Central District of California against Samsung

ElectronicsAmerica Inc. She alleges the manufacturer deceived consumers through

falserepresentations that the Samsung Galaxy S7 is water resistant.



According to the complaint, on May 1 Velasquez-Reyes purchased the SamsungGalaxy

S7 cell phone after she was influenced by Samsung's advertisement thatthe phone

was water resistant.



On July 20, Velasquez-Reyes accidentally dropped her phone into atoilet and

dried it off. When she turned the phone back on, the complaintalleges it

malfunctioned and stopped operating.



Valesquez-Reyes contends that when she contacted Samsung, the company refused to

replace orrefund the damaged phone.



Daniel Girard, attorney for the plaintiff, told Legal Newsline after the phone

stoppedworking his client, "contacted Samsung and her carrier personally [and]

thereason Samsung gave for not replacing or repairing her unit was that it had

water-damage."



Samsung advertises on its website that the Galaxy S7 will "repelspills, splashes

and dunks without a bulky protective case" and is "waterresistant up to 5 feet

of water for up to 30 minutes; rinse residue/dry afterwet."



The complaint describes how Samsung advertises the Galaxy S7 via televisionand

online videos showing users snorkeling, surfing and kayaking with theGalaxy S7

phone, as well as showing users dumping champagne on the phone, spraying itwith

a water hose and dunking it in a fish tank.



The complaint alleges Samsungwas deceptive in its advertising and that it was

aware the claims of the phonebeing water resistant were false.



"Samsung's website represents thatthe S7 Phone is water resistant. The website

includes a video showing an S7Phone emerging from a pool of water and remaining

operational. Samsung's websitealso states 'Because water happens' and 'Feel free

to get your phone wet,'" thecomplaint states.



Velasquez-Reyes says Samsung'srepresentations of water resistance materially

influenced her choice topurchase the Galaxy S7, and she would not have made the

purchase absentSamsung's representations that the device was water resistant.



Girard said Samsungdid not provide his client a reason why it advertises the

phone as water resistant,but told Legal Newsline, "Water-resistanceis an

advantage in a competitive market."



Velasquez-Reyes alleges in thecomplaint Samsung provided the same response to

other consumers who faced thesame issue. Girard said, "We obtained this

information through ourinvestigation," but said he does not know how many other

consumers wereaffected.



Velasquez-Reyes alleges because of Samsung's false advertising and refusalto

refund or repair her phone, she suffered monetary damages from paying for

apremium product. She is seeking class certification, trial by jury,

monetaryrelief, injunctive and declaratory relief, interest, attorney fees and

courtcosts.



Samsung did not respond to LegalNewsline's request for comment.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 LegalNewsLine.com

                              All Rights Reserved





