                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                            February 22, 2016 Monday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Samsung unveils flagship phones;

Company restores some useful features, keeps other details



BYLINE: Ed Baig



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B



LENGTH: 442 words





For weeks the speculation surrounding Samsung was that the South Korean

electronics giant would trot out Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge smartphones just

as the Mobile World Congress tech confab was about to begin. Samsung delivered

right on cue Sunday.



If there was any mystery left, it was in what these fresh flagships would look

like and feature, and what other  devices might Samsung reveal?



The answer to this last question is a spherical 360 camera called Gear 360. The

camera would appear to nicely complement Samsung's push into virtual reality,

which began in earnest last year with the release of Samsung's  Gear VR headset.



But first, here's a look at what the new Samsung phones have to offer, with the

great big caveat that I haven't had a chance to test them out yet.



Some perspective.  I was a fan of last year's high-profile Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge

models, judging them the finest-looking smartphones that Samsung ever

introduced. Still, some notable features went missing. Those Samsung phones,

unlike predecessor models, weren't water resistant. The onboard memory could not

be expanded. You couldn't swap out the battery.



With the S7 and S7 Edge, Samsung restored two of the three missing features,

while sticking with metal and high-quality glass, and for the most part sticking

reasonably close to last year's design. The S7 retains the 5.1-inch screen size

of the S6. The S7 Edge though comes in at 5.5-inches, the same display size as

on the iPhone 6s Plus, though Samsung is all too pleased to point out that its

phone has a smaller footprint than Apple's.



Both new Samsung phones have curved backs; the S7 with a flat front, the S7 Edge

a curved front. The new devices bring back water resistance, meaning they ought

to survive should you clumsily drop them in a puddle or toilet. Moreover, unlike

earlier water-resistant Galaxy devices there are no awkward caps covering ports

to contend with as you attempt to keep the innards dry.



Both new phones come with 32GB of internal storage, but now there's a microSD

slot for an optional memory card, which sits hidden away on a tray it shares

with the SIM card holder.



The battery is still not removable, but the new phones do boast bigger-capacity

batteries that, in theory, will last longer -- we'll have to see. Samsung is

also promising a very fast wireless charging experience if you have a compatible

charger, a feature advantage over the iPhone.



Samsung starts taking preorders on the new phones Tuesday; in the U.S. they'll

be available, in multiple colors, starting on March 11. Pricing has not been

announced.



I look forward to reviewing the new 360 camera and will tell you what I think.



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





