                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            National Herald Tribune



                            April 23, 2016 Saturday



Free gifts for customers who booked Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge devices



LENGTH: 245  words





Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., announced today that Samsung has delivered Free

'Gear VR' gifts for all the customers who had pre-booked the 'Galaxy S7' and

'Galaxy S7 Edge' smartphones in Pakistan. These Gear VR gifts have been

delivered as part of a recent promotional offer.



The President of Samsung Pakistan - Mr. J.H. Lee stated that: "We are delighted

to deliver the revolutionary new Gear VR devices - Free of Cost, to the

customers who had prebooked and received their S7 and S7 Edge devices recently.

The Gear VR is a revolutionary device which will enrich the smartphone

experience for these customers.



It is designed to bring the Virtual Reality experience to the common consumers.

It totally redefines what your smartphone can do. Put on the Gear VR and you're

there in the moment. You can relive your most cherished memories in a Virtual

Reality environment, created through a Super AMOLED display. It provides a wider

96? Field of View, precise head-tracking and low-latency."



The Samsung Gear VR device connects with your Galaxy smartphone, to deliver a

vast range of fascinating content like; the latest movies, thrilling games,

personal video or images and much more. The big screen is all yours. There are

no bad seats at this theater. Pick and choose whatever you want from a vast

selection of content.



The Gear VR enriches your life with great adventures, through an everexpanding

vault of games whether it's battling the undead or riding a flying carpet.



LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 National Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





