                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                             April 10, 2016 Sunday



Samsung Galaxy sales up 30% in U.S.



LENGTH: 310 words





Samsung Electronics' flagship Galaxy S7 is off to a promising start, with its

sales in the U.S., the home turf of its archrival Apple's iPhone, soaring 30

percent in the first month of sales from a year ago.



According to a survey by analyst firm Counterpoint Research, the Galaxy S7 and

its Edge variant have sold more than 10 million units over the past month since

their global launch on March 11.



Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge



The figure is up 25 percent from that of predecessor Galaxy S6 last year, found

the survey based on sales data collected from 40 countries.



The U.S. is seeing up to 30 percent higher sales than last year, while sales in

Western Europe and China are up 20 percent and 10 percent, respectively.



Korea, the largest market for Galaxy phones, is the only market that has seen a

flat growth possibly to the relatively strong sales of the Galaxy S6 last year.



Counterpoint pointed out that launching the devices a month earlier than usual

was a great strategy for Samsung while rivals like Apple and other rivals were

between devices.



"Last year, demand for the Galaxy S6 Edge model was high, but because of supply

constraints, Samsung lost the window of opportunity. However, this year the

sales mix is almost 47 percent Edge vs. 53 percent flat models, thanks to a

better supply situation for the popular curved edge display model," said James

Yan, research director in China for Counterpoint.



"However, we believe the S7 series will still face an uphill task in China as it

will compete against numerous Android flagships with a similar dual edge display

such as Vivo's Xplay5 Elite and new flagships from Huawei -- the Ascend P9 and

Mate 8 models."



The firm estimated the S7 series should sell considerably better than the S6 and

S5, but probably on par with the best-selling 2014 model S4 that sold more than

70 million units globally.



By Lee Ji-yoon (



LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





