                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                             April 10, 2016 Sunday



US mobile carriers offering more for S7 than G5



BYLINE: By Yoon Sung-won



LENGTH: 428 words





A visitor looks at an advertisement for Samsung Electronics Galaxy S7 at the

company's promotion hall in Seocho, southern Seoul, Thursday. / Yonhap



Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics are stepping up competition between their

latest flagship smartphones - the Galaxy S7 and G5 - through aggressive

marketing in the United States.



The G5, LG's first modular smartphone, was launched globally on April 1. It has

drawn a favorable market response, solidifying the company's presence in the

U.S. market.



Unlike other markets, where LG has yielded the No.3 position to competitors like

Huawei, the company has remained the third leading smartphone brand in the U.S.



But Samsung is out to regain customers' attention for its Galaxy S7 and Galaxy

S7 Edge with an aggressive 'buy-one-get-one-free' marketing strategy in the U.S.



Verizon, the top U.S. mobile carrier, and Sprint T-Mobile have adopted the

marketing strategy to attract customers for the S7 series, offering a S7 free to

those who buy one. AT&T, the second-largest U.S. telecom firm, has offered a

48-inch Samsung Electronics television for those who buy an S7, on condition

they subscribe to a satellite television service at the same time.



The move comes as the four U.S. mobile carriers push to boost sales of premium

smartphones, which have fallen because budget handsets have become popular.



Unlike Korea, where most new handsets are sold through mobile carriers, more

than half of handsets in the U.S. are distributed directly from manufacturers to

customers through open markets. For this reason, U.S. mobile carriers tend to

use tougher marketing to attract subscribers.



Meanwhile, the four U.S. carriers have chosen relatively less aggressive

marketing for the G5.



Verizon and AT&T are giving an auxiliary battery pack and a power-charge dock to

G5 customers. For those who buy LG's new smartwatch, 'Watch Urbane Second

Edition,' and a G5, they offer a $100 discount for the handset.



Sprint also offers the battery pack and a $150 discount for G5 for subscribers

who sign a two-year contract.



The relatively more aggressive promotion for the S7 series can be seen as

Samsung's move to check G5's popularity in the U.S. market. This is because the

U.S. carriers launched the promotions for the S7 series between late last month

and early this month, more than two weeks after Samsung released the handsets.



An industry source said otherwise: 'The U.S. mobile carriers are offering more

generous benefits for the S7 series because these models draw more customers who

will pay for monthly plans over a longer period.'



LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





