                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 EKantipur.com



                             April 19, 2016 Tuesday



All show and no go: Galaxy S7 Edge



LENGTH: 1111 words



DATELINE: Kathmandu





Kathmandu, April 19 -- Samsung's flagship smartphone last year was a beautiful

head-turner because of the company's implementation of a never-before seen

curved AMOLED display. The phone featured a display technology that no other

company had done before, few have even attempted it today, and that's what made

the Samsung Galaxy S6 one of the best phones to come out in 2015. In 2016,

however, Samsung has introduced a new smartphone to the edge line in the form of

the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge; Samsung's new flagship for the year.



So, how well does the Samsung Galaxy S7 perform? The S6 was a powerhouse when it

initially came out, topping almost all benchmarking tests and easily taking on

all Play Store apps (excluding games made for Nvidia's Tegra Chips). The S6

changed the game for Samsung's flagships, initially the S line, Samsung is now

producing the Edge line as their latest and greatest icons. So, how does the S7

fare as the greatest from Samsung and how well will it perform against other

flagship phones that should come out later in the year?



To put it simply, the greatest selling point of the S7 Edge is the aesthetical

value of the phone, it looks good and that's what people should expect to be

paying for when buying it. The ordinary S7, without the curved display, has the

exact same specifications as the S7 Edge and will be able to provide the exact

same raw power that the S7 Edge can. So, if you're looking for a beast of a

phone without any gimmicky features, just go for the simple S7 and you will

still get the best from Samsung, minus the looks and it'll cost you a lot less

too.



The S7 Edge is equipped with the best specifications to have come out till date.

American users will be treated with a Snapdragon 820 SOC quad-core processor

while regions outside the US will see the S7 Edge powered by Samsung's latest

in-house chipset, Exynos 8890 octa-core processor. Samsung has forced to go with

the Snapdragon processor on US models because the Exynos processor does not

support certain bands used by Verizon but apart from the difference in

processors, everything else is the same. The phone comes in variations of 32 and

64 GB internal storage and features 4 GB of RAM and is powered by the Adreno 530

GPU on the Snapdragon processor while graphics on the Exynos is powered by the

Mali-T880 MP12. In contrast to last year's S6 Edge, the S7 Edge comes with a

bigger screen at 5.5-inches and has a deeper screen curve on the sides as well

(the S6 Edge had a 5.1-inch screen). The screen boats a massive resolution of

1440 x 2560 at a pixel density of 534ppi and is powered by a huge battery of

3600 mAh. One welcome feature that Samsung had been neglecting for a long-time

has made it to the S7 Edge, the microSD expandability option. The phone is also

IP68 certified which means that it's water-resistant and can be dunked into

bodies of water safely for around 30 minutes, an essential safety feature that

had been missing from the S6 and considering the price you'll be playing for the

device, extra protection is always welcome.



Even though the S7 Edge is so well-powered, it comes with a lot of gimmicky

features just crammed into the phone to attract customers. Some of these feature

could be useful in certain conditions but most of them are just useless. Like

the Always-On feature that the S7 Edge is flaunting. The feature is utterly

useless and even annoying at times because there is no point in having you

screen on all the time. The screen stays on even during the night and just

displays clocks and other irrelevant information while important stuff like your

notifications don't show up at all on the screen. It also drains about 0.8

percent of your battery every hour, while not much, imagine the usage in a

24-hour time frame; that's almost 20 percent of your battery-life. The features

for the curved-display are also the same, while the display looks awesome and

while the company has managed to improve its usability since the S6 Edge, it's

still a feature that many people will be wowed by but will easily forget about.

It's a feature that you'll have to train yourself to use since it's so radically

different. One feature that is really useful, however, is the fast charging

technology that should be common in the future. Samsung claims that the device

can charge from 0 to 50 percent in under half an hour but that does not seem to

be true in real-world testing. The phone jumped from 0 to 35-40 percent after

half-an-hour of quick-charge, not as impressive as Samsung claims but pretty

impressive nonetheless.



Coming to the hardware side of things, the S7 Edge has impressive improvements

to the S6 Edge. One aspect being the water-resistance that I already mentioned

before; apart from that aspect the overall build quality of the phone has also

been improved and feels way more premium than the S6 Edge. Samsung uses a

process called '3D Thermo Forming' to create a seamless metal back that curves

on the rear-side as well, blending extremely well with the curved-display in

front. Both the front and the back have Gorilla Glass 4 to protect the screen as

well as the back of the phone. Although this gives off the reminiscent feel of

older iPhone models, the glass feels strong but is a massive fingerprint magnet.

Why Samsung chose to go with a glass back when all other smartphone

manufactures, including Apple, have abandoned the idea, is a mystery. Yet, the

design is really good and feels premium and comfortable in hand.



Overall, the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge is a beautiful phone backed up by equally

impressive specifications but it's not a phone to go gaga over, like the

award-winning S6 Edge. The S6 Edge was an impressive phone because of the curved

display but nowadays, curved displays are not as impressive and even the

functional aspects of a curved display come into question. They're aren't as

useful as initially thought and are implemented just as added aesthetic value.

Samsung also added a lot of useless gimmicky features to make the S7 Edge

stand-out and sell for a much higher price-point. If you have a pretty recent

smartphone, I would not recommend upgrading to the S7 Edge; you would get better

value with the regular S7. Even if you have an S6 Edge, consider not upgrading

to the S7 Edge because the S6 Edge is quite capable on its own. I would only

recommend the phone if you want a phone to show-off, the S7 Edge shines at that.



Published: 19-04-2016 11:54



Tags:



Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge



Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query

with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact

Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





