                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                    September 29, 2016 Thursday 3:20 PM GMT



Samsung Galaxy S8: Release date, price, specs and other rumours about the next

generation smartphone;

If the latest rumours are to be believed, Samsung is going to pack some serious

power into its next smartphone



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 736 words





Samsung's next flagship smartphone will have to be the best one its ever

produced.



Firstly, the South Korean company will have to overcome the disastrous rollout

of the exploding Galaxy Note 7. And secondly, there's the small matter of the

iPhone 7 to compete with.



Although it's unlikely that we'll see the next Samsung Galaxy phone much before

March 2017, there are already supposed leaks showing up online.



Google Pixel and Pixel XL: Specs, price, screen size, news and rumours about

Google's new Android smartphones



Whilst Apple appears to refine and strip down its phones, Samsung appears to be

going the other way. If the current crop of internet rumours are to be believed,

the company will be throwing everything it has into its next blower.



So, what do we know so far? We've collected all the latest whisperings right

here and will continue to update this piece as we learn more.



How waterproof is the iPhone 7? We put Apple's new smartphone to the test



Samsung Galaxy phones have a history of being launched at the Mobile World

Congress (MWC) trade show in Barcelona.



It appears the Samsung Galaxy S8 will be no different. According to Phone Arena,

Samsung has released a teaser image of its annual "Unpacked" event.



Samsung halts Galaxy Note 7 production after multiple reports of replacement

phones catching fire



Although there's no specific mention of the new phone, Samsung has given a date:

February 26, 2017.



The image was first revealed on Twitter by user Ricciolo - a reliable source of

Samsung leaks.



Last year's event saw a surprise appearance from Mark Zuckerberg as well as the

unveiling of the Samsung Galaxy S7.



We might not know anything concrete about the Galaxy S8 release date for months

yet, but thankfully it's a relatively easy thing to predict.



What makes phone batteries explode? And what to do if YOU bought Samsung's

Galaxy Note 7



Samsung's Galaxy phones have (since the S2 in 2011) been announced at or around

the time of the Mobile World Congress (MWC) event in Barcelona. It happens each

year in late February or early March. This lets Samsung have its phones on the

shelves by the end of March or, more likely, early April.



The 2017 Mobile World Congress event will take place from February 27 to March

2. Meaning we can expect a new Samsung announcement around February 26 or 27

next year.



As with Apple's iPhones, the Samsung Galaxy handsets have more or less plateaued

when it comes to price. The current 32GB S7 comes in at £569 whilst the slightly

larger S7 edge is £639. It's unlikely that Samsung's new phones will deviate too

far from this kind of pricing. So you better start saving.



iPhone 7 vs Galaxy S7: Which smartphone is best when Apple and Samsung go

toe-to-toe?



What could change things is if Samsung decides to offer multiple storage

options. At the moment you can only get the S7 with 32GB of storage. If Samsung

opts to increase this to 64GB or even 128GB the price could increase also.



However, the company could also keep the storage space as it is and instead

include the capacity of the microSD card slot.



Aside from the aforementioned 4K screen, there are a few rumours circulating

about what kind of power the S8 may have under the bonnet.



Samsung's cameras have been exceptionally good recently, but the proliferation

of dual-lens snappers from the likes of Apple, Huawei and LG may inspire it to

follow suit. According to tech site Trusted Reviews , Samsung is indeed planning

to include dual-lens cameras in its next phone.



Samsung to start selling second-hand Galaxy S7 smartphones 'on the cheap'



A recent leak, reported on by the gadget site Pocket Lint , seems to have a

clear picture of the S8's specs. It says the new phone will pack in 6GB of RAM

and a 30-megapixel camera.



There will also be a 4,200mAh battery which - providing it doesn't explode -

should easily see the phone through 24 hours of solid usage.



A report on Samsung-watching site SamMobile hit on the fact that the S8 may

include an Exynos 8895 processor coupled with a Mali-G71 GPU. According to the

site, that means the new phone will be up to 1.8 times more powerful than the

already-impressive Galaxy S7.



What's more, SamMobile echoes other sites that suggest the S8 will have a

5.2-inch 4K-capable display. The reason? Samsung's pushing heavily into virtual

reality and having a powerful screen resolution means you can use the phone in

VR headsets like the Samsung Galaxy Gear and Google Daydream VR.



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





