                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            April 28, 2016 Thursday



S7 lifts Samsung Q1 earnings -



LENGTH: 626 words





Company to buy back 2 trillion won of shares By Yoon Sung-won



Samsung Electronics posted an operating profit of 6.68 trillion won in the first

quarter, up 11.7 percent from the same period last year, led by robust demand

for the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, the company announced Thursday.



The result was a slight improvement on its guidance released earlier this month.



On top of strong smartphone sales, memory chips also helped the company's

earnings surprise.



According to its regulatory filing, Samsung Electronics posted 49.78 trillion

won in sales, up 5.7 percent year-on-year.



The company also said it will buy back 2 trillion won worth of its shares ? 1.3

million common shares and 320,000 preferred shares. It will buy them back over

the next three months and then cancel them, a move to boost shareholder value.



The IT and mobile communications businesses returned as the company's biggest

income source, generating 27.6 trillion won in sales and 3.89 trillion won in

operating profit, up 6.6 percent and 42 percent, respectively.



The company said both the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge have drawn more sales in North

America and Europe compared to the previous Galaxy S6 series.



'The market response was very favorable,' Samsung Electronics Investor Relations

Executive Director Lee Myung-jin said during a conference call with investors.

'The sales are positive compared to their predecessors. In particular, the S7

Edge is drawing better-than-expected responses and is recording very fast sales

in North America, China and Southwest Asia.'



Additionally, the company's budget smartphones ? the Galaxy A and Galaxy J

series ? have benefited from strong demand, especially in emerging markets.



Samsung said it shipped 92 million handsets in the first quarter with the

blended average sales price for its mobile phones dropping to around $210. It

also said smartphones made up about 80 percent of its total handset sales.



Despite weak demand, its semiconductor business recorded 11.15 trillion won in

sales, up from 10.27 trillion won year-on-year, on the back of high-performance

3D V-NAND flash memory chips.



Lee said the mobile communications and semiconductor businesses will be the

major contributors to its performance for the rest of the year. Based on the

profitability of its smartphones, the company expects to see an expansion in

high-density, high-performance memory products such as V-NAND solid-state drives

for servers on the back of the rapid global penetration of cloud technologies.



It will also seek to boost sales of premium super ultra high-definition

televisions and other home appliances, taking advantage of seasonal factors and

international sporting events.



At the same time, the company said it will diversify the application of

high-performance semiconductor products aiming at new growth sectors such as

wearables, virtual reality (VR), automotives and the Internet of Things.



'We expect that the growing ecosystem for high-resolution content such as VR

will boost the demand for high-density, high-bandwidth memory chips,' Lee said.

'In the automotive sector, the demand is mainly for infotainment products for

now, but technological advancements in autonomous driving will expand the need

for sensors and processing units too.'



Samsung Electronics has invested 4.6 trillion won on production plants in the

first quarter. This includes 2.1 trillion won for semiconductors and 1.8

trillion won for display panels.



'The capital expenditure may be slightly increased year-on-year to respond to

diverse new business opportunities,' Lee said. 'Investments in the display

sector are expected to hike to meet the increasing demand for organic

light-emitting diode panels, whereas that for the DRAM sector is likely to be

downsized compared to a year ago.'



LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





