

As a testament to Samsung's commitment to developing best-in-class products to
meet the needs of its consumers, it recently launched into the Nigerian market
the most advanced smartphones in its stable, the Galaxy S7 Edge and S7. The
devices were formally unveiled at Hard Rock Cafe, Victoria Island, Lagos.

Successors to Galaxy S6 Edge and S6, Samsung Galaxy S7 edge and S7 are a blend
of premium components with the most advanced Samsung technology. They are imbued
with intelligent cameras, and have set a new industry standard for design,
craftsmanship and performance.

Mr. Paul Lee, Managing Director of Samsung Electronics West Africa, said that
the new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge highlight the most refined phone experience ever
by combining the latest technology that users expect from Samsung's Galaxy
series. Mr. Lee reiterated the company's commitment to fulfilling its brand
promise of inspiring the world and the future by bringing new and outstanding
innovations to the doorstep of consumers. "Our innovative technology has
adequately captured customers' aspirations and desires," he said.

The Galaxy S7 has a 5.1-inch display screen, while the Galaxy S7 Edge has a
5.5-inch screen. They both feature Super AMOLED display, allowing for clearer
videos and images with a resolution of 2560 x 1440 (Quad HD).

Both devices have 200GB expendable memory augmenting their 32GB of internal
storage. The devices also feature IP68 water and dust resistance, which prevent
the devices from damage when submerged in up to 1.5 meters of water for 30
minutes at a time. The S7's waterproofing includes sealed ports.

The S7 series come imbued with longer lasting batteries. While the S7 comes with
an in-built battery of 3,000mAh, the S7 edge features 3,600mAh battery, large
enough for a day or more. Another new outstanding feature is the always-on
display where notifications, time, date or personalised screen are permanently
shown on the screen even when the phone is off. This feature does not
significantly impact the battery life.

Emmanouil Revmatas, Director of Samsung Electronics West Africa's Information
technology and Mobile Division, described the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge as devices
that draw the line between the smartphones that are currently available in the
market and what comes next.

"The all new Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge represent the new galaxy of unlimited
possibilities, and with these, Samsung is setting the bar higher for the entire
mobile industry. Our customers are the inspiration for any innovation and we are
aware that they spend more time with their phones than ever, these devices are
designed to not only look great, but feel great as well and very comfortable to
hold," added Revmatas.

The devices also feature a 'Dual Pixel' rear camera with large F1.7 aperture
with Smart OIS. The adoption of dual pixel technology means that the autofocus
on each of the Samsung Galaxy S7 series is much quicker, producing sharper and
brighter images- even when capturing precious memories in dimly lit environment.
Both devices run on the latest version of Android 6.0 Marshmallow operating
system, have 4GB of RAM for improved multitasking and 30 percent more powerful
processors with "thermal spreader" water-cooling technology to avoid the phones
overheating.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/633/1803/38/145941395387.jpg

samsung

