                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                     The Sunday Independent (South Africa)



                                 April 10, 2016

                                   E1 Edition



New phone on the edge of perfection



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 1085 words





Review: Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge



If you're a regular reader of this column, you'll know I was seriously smitten

with Samsung's new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones when I got to try them out,

all-too-briefly, at their launch in Barcelona in February.



Now they're available in South Africa and I've had a chance to spend some

quality time with the more pricey and, in my opinion, better looking of the two,

the Edge.



Did familiarity breed contempt, or did my initial love-at-first-sight blossom

into a full-blown romance? You be the judge as I detail six reasons you'll fall

hard for the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge.



Beauty and brains



When its predecessor, the Galaxy S6 Edge, was launched last year I declared that

work of high tech-art, crafted from steel and curved glass, the most beautiful

phone in the world. That title now goes to the S7 Edge which is, if possible,

even more stunning.



It also feels great in hand, thanks to the design wizards at Samsung smoothing

out the sharp edges and adding a subtle, but reassuringly palm-fitting curve to

the back.



This goes beyond aesthetics and ergonomics. Thanks to the extra space afforded

by the rear curve, there's room to squeeze in new components that make the S7

Edge arguably the most powerful smartphone on the market, starting with...



A bigger battery



One of the big disappointments of the S6 line of phones was their mediocre

battery life, a problem exacerbated by the fact that Samsung had done away with

the removable battery that Galaxy power users had come to know and love over the

years, taking away the option of popping in a fresh one when caught short

between charges. While it didn't reintroduce this feature with the S7 line, it

did endow them with bigger, better batteries.



The S7 comes with a 3â[#x20ac]¯000mAh battery, up from the S6's 2â[#x20ac]¯550

mAh, while the S7 Edge, a bigger phone, boasts a beefy 3â[#x20ac]¯600 mAh

battery, a full 1â[#x20ac]¯000 mAh bigger than the one in last year's Edge.

Whereas I battled to get through a busy work day with its predecessor, the S7

Edge easily achieved this with enough juice to spare for watching videos and

browsing the web well into the wee hours - a delightful experience thanks to the

5.5-inch quad HD Super Amoled display.



If that's not enough for you, there's also a range of after-market battery packs

and wireless charging attachments available.



Expandable storage



Another feature absent in the S6 that makes a welcome return in the S7 is the

MicroSD card slot. The Edge comes with either 32GB or 64GB of onboard storage

(the 32GB version is the one most widely available locally). Thanks to the SD

card slot, that's now expandable by up to 200GB (the size of the biggest cards

currently on the market), great news if you're someone who likes to carry their

collection of favourite movies and music around with them.



Water and dust-proof



One of the things I really liked about Samsung's long-discontinued Galaxy S5 was

its water resistance. Although its ingress-protection level of IP67 meant it was

only guaranteed to guard against brief immersion, it was enough to save the

phone from a temporary dunking like a drop in the loo or a poolside fumble.



I wasn't alone in my disappointment when Samsung removed even this mild level of

protection with the S6 line. But now it's back and better than ever.



With an IP68 rating, the S7 and S7 Edge are now both totally dust tight and will

withstand submersion in 1.5m of water for 30 minutes.



I tested this out in a variety of ways with my Edge review phone, in rock pools

at the beach, under a running tap to wash the salt off, in the shallow end of a

swimming pool and in the shower, all without incident.



Impressively, Samsung's managed to achieve this level of protection without

having to resort to fiddly flaps to cover the charging port and headphone jack.



Better low-light pictures



Samsung's done an at-first-glance puzzling thing with the main camera on the S7

range, dropping the megapixel count from 16MP on the S6 to 12MP. It's billed

this as an upgrade because they've upped the pixel size, allowing more light

into each snap.



I've long believed raw megapixel count isn't a reliable gauge of a digital

camera's capabilities and Samsung may just have achieved the perfect balance

with the S7 and S7 Edge.



Daytime pictures were crisp and clear, if not quite as detailed when zoomed in

close as those snapped with the older S6.



But low-light pictures were a revelation; rich, warm and surprisingly clear in

conditions that produced only fuzzy smudges from the selection of high-end

competitors I compared them with, thanks to the large f/1.7 aperture lens.



The 5MP front-facing has the same lens, so selfie fans can snap on well into the

night.



Virtual reality



If you were one of the thousands of South Africans who ordered the S7 or S7 Edge

before March 20, you'll have received a free GearVR virtual reality headset.



If not, you should be able to buy one for about R1â[#x20ac]¯600.



Unlike the far more expensive Oculus Rift and HTC Vive, which need to be paired

with a PC, to use the GearVR you simply slot a recent model, high-end Samsung

smartphone into the headset.



For now these are the S7, S7 Edge, S6, S6 Edge, S6 Edge+ and Note 5, although

Samsung has hinted that it may soon bring some of its more affordable phones

into the VR fold.



There's already a good selection of video content and games available with more

being added all the time, including the cult open world game, Minecraft.



Watch this space for a full review of the GearVR.



A few niggles



All smartphones, however impressive, have their flaws and the S7 Edge is no

exception. While the curved-glass screen makes it truly beautiful to behold, I

did find it made the phone a little tricky to use one-handed. I regularly found

myself touching the screen accidentally with my palm while shifting my grip and

activating one feature or another, a minor irritation but one nevertheless.



More serious are reports I've had from various people, fellow-tech journalists

among them, that S7 Edge, with curved glass on the back and front, is highly

prone to cracks, even from relatively minor drops. My advice would be to buy a

cover, although it seems a real pity to hide something as pretty as this away.



It's also pricey, around R16â[#x20ac]¯000 on prepaid, but then so are other

high-end handsets, thanks to our battered rand.



These quibbles aside, if you're in the market for a premium smartphone and

nothing but the best will do, both in terms of looks and performance, look no

further than the S7 Edge.



l Follow Alan Cooper on â[#x20ac]¨Twitter @alanqcooper



LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SI





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





