                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          PNG Post-Courier (Australia)



                            March 24, 2016 Thursday

                                   1 Edition



Samsung, Digicel unveils S7



BYLINE: MELISHA YAFOI



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 27



LENGTH: 367 words





ELECTRONIC giant Samsung unveiled its latest smart phones in PNG targeting the

high-end market and adding growth in the ICT sector.



Launched on Tuesday in Port Moresby they include the S7 and S7 edge under

Samsung's Galaxy series.



Head of Samsung New Zealand's mobile business Stefan Lecchi, said the Galaxy S7

and S7 edge are the most complete smart phones to date because of their advanced

feature.



"More than just a beautifully designed device, our new flagship Galaxy smart

phones offers improved functionality, a more robust design and advanced camera

technology.



We think the consumers in PNG will appreciate a smart phone durable enough to

take them from the office to the beach, but still offering the sleek and

streamlined glass and metal design now synonymous with our flagship Galaxy

series," he said.



Both devices are built perfectly to suit the needs of both corporate and home

users enabling security as well as two new additions of the first dual pixel

camera on a smart phone, which helps deliver brighter and sharper images with a

promising battery capacity to ensure longer playing time with an internal

cooling system to prevent overheating.



Digicel PNG CEO Maurice McCarthy in a joint statement said that Samsung's new

smart phone technology is a leader in its field.



"Samsung is renowned for its innovative smart phone technology and as PNG's

leading telecommunications provider, Digicel is thrilled to not only offer the

latest in mobile phone technology to the market but a unique mobile experience.



We welcome the growth in business and ICT within the country and are committed

to providing customers with competitive solutions," said McCarthy.



He said Digicel's business customers will appreciate the new hybrid SIM card

tray, which allows users to insert a micro SD card to gain an extra 200GB of

additional storage.



"We know our customers growing sophistication with use of technology and working

together with Samsung, we will continue to deliver only the finest in PNG," he

said.



The company is redefining what is possible, beyond the limits of today's

technology, by introducing a constellation of seamless mobile experiences that

are now available in all Digicel outlets in the country.



LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: PTC





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





