

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge - Rs 56,900

Inside the Box

* Samsung Galaxy S7 edge smartphone

* Power Adapter

* USB cable

* Headset

* Warranty card

The Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 edge were launched with much fanfare, but the
devices proved less than perfect for their price. But this time, the S7 and S7
edge were carefully launched silently without initially creating a hype around
the expected release. And the result is a no-nonsense device with enough power
to carry on the tasks assigned to it unhindered.



Design and Build Quality

The Samsung Galaxy S7 edge has a stylish design, and this time, the curved body
repeats even on the back glass. It is better designed than the S6 edge, though
not significantly different. The S6 had a camera that projected out of the back
surface, while the S7 edge has solved this issue by not attempting to make it
super-slim. The curved glass meets with the curved metal alloy bezel
near-seamlessly. Both the front and back surfaces are protected by Corning
Gorilla Glass 4. The device has a non-removable battery. The S7 edge is
waterproof with an IP68 ingress protection rating. This is the highest level of
protection available for any device, and can be interpreted as totally dust
tight, and protected against prolonged effects of immersion under pressure.

Key Features

The Galaxy S7 edge is Samsung's second curved screen model under the Galaxy
series. The phone features a 5.5-inch dual edge Super AMOLED display with a
Corning Gorilla Glass 4 screen. The screen has a resolution of 2560 x 1440
pixels (Quad HD) and can reproduce up to 16 million colours. The device has edge
screens on either side; you can choose which one to use. If the Edge screen was
just a gimmicky feature in the S6, it has grown in utility in this device. You
can customise the screen to provide quick access to various applications,
services and alerts.

The international version of the device (what is available in India) is powered
by a Samsung Exynos Octa 8890 processor with four cores clocked at 2.6GHz and
the other four at 1.59GHz. With the Exynos processor, this device is believed to
be faster, less power hungry and produce less heat than the Qualcomm Snapdragon
820-powered U.S. version. The phone has a 4GB RAM, up from 3GB on the S6. Of the
32GB of internal memory, 24.4 GB is available to the user. Unlike the S6 and S6
Edge, this Galaxy adds external memory support for up to 200GB via a MicroSD
card slot. However, it is important to note that this is a hybrid slot that can
fit either a MicroSD card or a second Nano-SIM. So if you use this phone as a
dual SIM device, you have to be contended with the in-built 32GB memory; but for
the majority who use a single SIM for both data and calls, you can have a
whopping 200GB of extra space locally if you choose so.

The Samsung S7 edge's main camera uses a 12.0 megapixel Dual Pixel CMOS sensor,
while the front camera has a 5.0 megapixel CMOS sensor. The S7 Edge is said to
be shipping with two different main cameras, one with a Samsung ISOCELL S5K2L1
sensor and the other with a Sony IMX260 (Exmor R) sensor. Both are 1/2.5 inch
Backside Illuminated (BSI) sensors, and our test piece had a Sony sensor. The
front camera uses a Samsung SLSI S5K4E6 sensor, which is a 5-megapixel BSI CMOS
imager. The main camera has a maximum aperture of f/1.7 and can produce videos
up to 3840 x 2160 (4K, UHD) at 30fps. This camera features Phase Detection Auto
Focus via the dual pixel CMOS. The camera also features image stabilisation
along with video stabilisation. The camera has an accompanying flash. The front
facing camera does not have a real flash, but for selfies, the screen itself
acts as a light source by brightening up so that your face is well-lit. The
camera has a few interesting modes such as Wide Selfie, Hyperlapse and Motion
Photo. Wide Selfie allows you to pan the camera sideways to include more people
in a group selfie. Hyperlapse is a high-speed time lapse mode, while Motion
Photo captures a short three-second video just before you click the shutter
release. You can even choose the frame you like to preserve as still image. The
camera offers shutter speeds from 10 sec to 1/24,000 sec, while the sensitivity
ranges from ISO 100 to 800. It offers all the usual White Balance options along
with Auto and Kelvin colour temperature settings. Autofocus can be Manual or
Auto. You can select either the central AF point or Multi AF mode. The device
provides the usual three metering modes-Matrix, Centre-weighted and Spot. These
settings are available in the Pro mode.

The S7 edge is powered by a 3600mAh non-removable battery. This means an
additional 1000 mAh over the S6, which drew flak for being underpowered. The
battery is complemented by a 9.0V fast charging adapter, which charges the phone
completely in just 100 minutes. The device measures 150.9 x 72.6 x 7.7mm and
weighs 157g.

Ergonomics

The S7 edge has double glass surface, but it is not very slippery. The phone is
very comfortable to use and is more ergonomic than the S6 Edge. The new Edge
screen can accommodate up to nine panels, each with different functionality. For
example, the Apps Edge panel can house up to 10 app shortcuts, while the Quick
Tools Edge features some handy tools such as compass, ruler and flashlight. Of
course the options don't end here. The phone has an Always On Display, which
displays information even when the phone is in sleep mode. The display gets
automatically disabled when the phone's in your pocket or bag, when it's face
down or when the battery's running low. The S7 edge's Game Tools feature
provides some useful functions to enhance your gaming experience, such as
gameplay recording and 'no notifications during game'. The volume buttons are on
the left while the power button is on the right. The fingerprint sensor works
even if your fingers are wet. Overall, the device looks like Samsung's attempt
to correct all flaws in the S6 edge.

Performance

Last year when we reviewed the S6 edge, we felt that the release was premature
because of a few problems we encountered during testing. But this time, Samsung
seems to have fixed all problems and carved out a model that is highly desirable
by any standards. The interface is quite responsive and the edge screen is
useful as a shortcut panel. The design too looks evolved. The display looks
closer to true colours without the typical synthetic tones reproduced by AMOLED
screens. The fingerprint sensor worked like a charm every time.

The battery lasted for a day even with some heavy use, which is not the best,
but still quite decent. The device did not heat up like the S6 and we never felt
any lag even in heavy gaming. Benchmarking software ranked the S7 edge above all
other Android devices, which is predictable for such a premium smartphone.

Coming to photography, then S7 Edge produced stunning images that can put a few
of the point-and-shoot cameras to shame. The main camera offers a Pro mode,
which lets you choose all settings yourself like in professional cameras.
Colours were true to the original under natural light, while slight casts
produced under artificial light sources were easily removable in post
processing. Most of the users are unlikely to notice the subtle difference in
colours. Native print size is 10.08 x 13.44 inches at 300ppi. At 25 percent of
the screen size, there was no perceptible noise at any ISO, and all were
perfectly usable. Viewed at 50 percent, we observed slight noise from ISO 400
onwards, observable only if you look closely. The images were usable up to ISO
400. ISO 800 appeared soft due to the extravagant noise-reduction applied by the
processor. At 100 percent view, noise could be seen at all ISOs, but ISO 100
could be used in an emergency. This time, we decided to test the Raw (DNG) file
from the camera at ISO 800. We applied noise-reduction carefully and then
sharpened this image further, layer-by-layer in Adobe Camera Raw, and the result
was much better than the out-of-the-box JPEGs. So if you know your way around
Raw files, the S7 edge has a great camera for impromptu photo ops.



Value for Money

The Samsung Galaxy S7 edge retails at the moment on Samsung website for
Rs.56,900. This price is certainly on the higher side, but prices keep falling
fast in the smartphone world, and we are optimistic that it will do in the case
of the S7 edge too.

Plus

* Impressive features

* Stylish design

* Superior performance

* High-capacity battery

* Fast charging

* Very responsive

* Excellent camera

* Expandable memory

Minus

* No USB Type C

* Very expensive

Verdict

The Galaxy S7 edge is arguably Samsung's best smartphone to date, and the
company has successfully packed an impressive array of features in this device.
It is looks like a perfect marriage of hardware, style and performance. Need we
say we are impressed?

Key Specifications

Display: 13.95cm (5.5 inches) dual edge Super AMOLED

Resolution (Main Display): 2560 x 1440 (Quad HD)

Colour Depth (Main Display): 16M

Best Video Quality: 3840 x 2160(4K, UHD)@30fps

Main Camera sensor: Dual Pixel 12.0 MP CMOS

Max Aperture: f/1.7

Flash: Available

Auto Focus: Available

Front Camera sensor: 5.0 MP CMOS

Max. Aperture: f/1.7

Processor: Samsung Exynos Octa 8890 processor (4 x 2.6GHz, 4 x 1.59GHz )

Memory: RAM 4 GB; ROM (Internal Memory) 32 GB; Available Memory (Available to
user) 24.4 GB

External Memory Support: MicroSD (Up to 200GB)

SIM: Dual Nano-SIM (4FF)

NFC: Yes

OS: Android

Battery: 3600mAh non-removable

Dimension (HxWxD): 150.9 x 72.6 x 7.7mm

Weight: 157g

