

Absence of Note 7 boosts S7 sales

Samsung Galaxy S7Samsung Electronics' flagship handset Galaxy S7 is regaining
popularity as the nation's best-selling smartphone, filling the tech giant's
void in sales left by its ill-fated Galaxy Note 7.

According to market consultancy Atlas Research, the S7 was the No. 1 in handset
sales here between Oct. 6 and 12. The nation's three mobile carriers - SK
Telecom, KT and LG Uplus - estimate that they combined to sell some 15,000 S7s
each day on average, after Samsung Electronics officially terminated sales and
production of the Note 7 devices, Oct. 11, amid growing safety concerns after
fires were reported.

Given that mobile carriers consider a daily sales record of 10,000 as a big hit,
expectations are that most original or replacement Note 7 users have opted for
the S7 handset.

'Local handset customers still remain loyal to Samsung products, as the S7 is
selling well even six months after its launch in March,' said a telecom industry
source, asking for anonymity.

The withdrawal of the Note 7 by Samsung was feared to undermine the firm's brand
image to some extent, but the robust sales of S7s reflect that it is recovering
from the debacle, according to the source.

'Earlier expectations were that disappointed Note 7 users were likely to migrate
to other premium handsets, such as iPhone 7 or LG's V20,' he said. 'It is true
that the unprecedented recall has been and will drive sales of its competitors -
Apple and LG - more or less. But at least in the Korean market, Samsung has
enough room for a rebound even before its new models debut as amply demonstrated
by the renewed popularity of the S7.'

In a bid to minimize damages from the recall, Samsung previously announced a
series of compensation options for Note 7 users - including offering mobile gift
certificates

On Thursday, the company hinted of another follow-up measure, helping buyers of
Note 7s to receive benefits when buying Samsung's upcoming Galaxy S8 smartphone,
which will debut early next year.

'We are going to make enough efforts for our customers to continue to use our
new model to be unveiled next year,' Kim Jin-hae, senior vice president at
Samsung Electronics, said on a visit to a retail store in southern Seoul,
Thursday.

Science, ICT and Future Planning Minister Choi Yang-hee also urged Samsung to
come up with further compensation measures as a way to minimize customers'
inconvenience.

'The issue should be resolved to reduce damages to customers and retail stores,'
said the minister.

Given that safety problems have been at the center of the controversy, the
company should make more of an active effort to offer additional compensation to
complete its refund and exchange package as soon as possible, he added.

Samsung is expected to announce detailed plans over the program soon.

Meanwhile, Australian technology news site Ausdroid covered a story Thursday
about a group of fishermen who would have been dead without the S7's waterproof
function.

According to the report, a 29-year-old man and his three friends were able to
stay in contact with emergency services through his S7 handset when their boat
was inundated in the wake of stormy offshore weather near Melbourne.

