                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                              March 7, 2016 Monday



Samsung Electronics to launch Galaxy S7, S7 Edge on March 8



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 388 words





NEW DELHI: Samsung Electronics will start selling its latest flagship

smartphones, the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge, on March 8 in India, just 15 days

after their global launch on February 21. That's among the shortest interval

ever, reflecting how crucial India is to the South Korean company as it seeks to

fend off competition from Apple in the premium segment (Rs 30,000 and upward).



The company declined to reveal pricing or other details about the devices, but

experts peg the S7 to start at Rs 52,000 and the Edge at Rs 59,000. Some feel

Samsung may keep prices even lower, given the intense competition.



Samsung is looking to wrest back its leadership of the premium smartphone

segment from Apple, which took the No 1 spot in the October-December quarter,

although the South Korean company led the segment for all of 2015. India's

premium segment is about 5% of the overall smartphone market by volume but

accounts for about 25% by value.



The devices are being made in Samsung's Indian plant and they may be bundled

with virtual reality headsets, said people aware of the matter. This may be seen

as another way of giving priority to India, which has become the second largest

mobile phone market by unique users, surpassing the US and only trailing China.



Samsung wants to build on the success of the S6, which drew acclaim for design

and innovative features. It's also looking to make the most of a quarter that's

usually slow for rivals, especially Apple. Marketing will be aggressive,

analysts said. ET recently reported that the company will spend Rs 100 crore on

marketing in India.



But not only is Apple also said to be planning a new phone, Samsung has to

contend with other brands as well.



"Samsung will have a lot more competition this time, with the rumoured iPhone

5Se coming in the time of the year when Apple is usually slow, and LG's G5 and

Xiaomi's Mi 5, which are going to be aggressive in terms of pricing and

positioning," said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst, Counterpoint Research.



The South Korean company will need to be cautious about pricing, he said.



"Samsung will also have to arrest its declining average sale prices, so they

should not be pricing the flagship devices very high and then correcting them

later on, and lose out on customers in the meantime," Pathak said.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





