                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung S7 & S7 Edge: First impressions from the much-awaited Galaxy S series!



BYLINE: Karan Bajaj



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 612 words





Samsung launched two new flagship smartphones in the Galaxy S series in

Barcelona Spain - Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge. Both devices are expected to be

launched in India mid-march 2016.



Whats's New



Both the S7 and S7 Edge come with several improvements over their predecessors.

Both phones have a Hybrid slot for storage expansion and support up to 200GB

cards. They are also IP68 certified for water and dust resistance - can be

submerged in 1 meter of water for up to 30 minutes. The other main update is to

the camera - both phones feature a 12MP camera with f1.7 aperture and optical

image stabilization. Battery capacities have also been increased along with

support for fast charging and wireless charging.



Look & feel



In terms of design, Samsung has chosen to continue with the design of the S6 and

S6 Edge as everyone loved them. However, there are subtle changes on the new

phones - the chrome grill around the home button, rim and the chrome finish

speaker grill is replaced by same body color finish as the phone. The rear

camera hump is also reduced than the predecessor. The overall finish continues

to be glossy, but the phones feel much better to hold in hand compared to the

S6/S6 Edge.



Display



Display remains unchanged on the phones - both S7 and S7 Edge have a super

amoled panel with a resolution of 2560 x 1440 pixels. While the S7 has a

5.1-inch screen, the S7 Edge features a 5.5-inch dual curved display. Both phone

use Gorilla Glass for protections. As usual with Samsung S series display - both

phones have excellent brightness and show vivid colors. A new feature by Samsung

is the option of an always-on display that can show time, calendar as well as

notifications without the phone to be woken up.



Hardware



Hardware has been upgraded to meet the competition for 2016. The S7 and S7 Edge

come with octa core/quad core processor (market dependent), 4GB RAM and 32GB

internal storage. While the S7 has a 3,000mAh battery, the S7 Edge come with a

3,600mAh battery. Both phone have 4G connectivity, WiFiac, WiFi Direct, NFC and

Bluetooth 4.2. You also get a fingerprint scanner along with plethora of sensors

- accelerometer, proximity, RGB light, geo-magnetic, gyro, barometer, hall

sensor and a heart rate monitor.



Software



The phones come out of the box with TouchWiz UI running on Android 6.0. While

the user interface is more or less similar to the S6, there are a few new

features added. There is a dedicated game launcher which lets you optimize the

game performance In order to improve battery life. Game tools puts a hovering

button in your game using which you can block incoming calls and notification,

record your gaming session or take a screenshot. For the S7 Edge, the Edge UX

now supports two rows of icons as well as improved notifications.



Camera



You get a 12MP dual pixel sensor with f1.7 aperture, phase detection autofocus

and LED flash. The front 5MP camera also has f1.7 aperture with auto HDR

feature. In our usage, the camera impressed us with instant focus - fastest we

have seen on any smartphone to date. Performance was also fantastic - images

captured great details, rich colors with minimal noise. Low light photos were

also great thanks to the f1.7 aperture but there was visible noise in darker

areas. Compared to the S6 and S6 Edge, camera performance felt much improved

overall.



Conclusion



Both the S7 and S7 Edge come with multiple new features over the predecessors.

However, they will be counted as incremental updates which will be a letdown for

existing S6 and S6 Edge owners. However, if you were waiting for the new Samsung

flagship devices, both the S7 and S7 Edge check all the right boxes.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





