                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                              June 10, 2016 Friday



Spotlight: Samsung's newest inclusion to the Galaxy S7 series, the S7 Active



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 689 words





Samsung Galaxy S7 Active



Samsung has added another variant to the Galaxy S7 series the S7 Active.The

phone is IP68 certified for dust and water resistance as well as certified for

resistance against humidity, thermal shock and solar radiation. Now, you can't

have all of this without adding a little bulk the phone weighs 185 grams and is

9.9mm thick. However, it does not cut corners on the hardware: you get a

Snapdragon 820 processor, 4GB RAM, 3264GB storage and a large, 4,000mAh battery.

The 5.1-inch super amoled 2k resolution display has been updated with a

shatter-resistant screen. You also get the same fantastic 12MP camera as the S7

(to recap, it has a f1.7 aperture and OIS) along with a front 5MP camera with

f1.7 aperture.The phone runs Android 6.0 and offers 4G, WiFi ac, WiFi Direct,

Bluetooth 4.2 and NFC connectivity. An additional shortcut button is also added

above volume keys that can be configured to launch a favorite app. No details on

price and availability for international markets has been announced so far.



Samsung Gear Fit 2



The second generation Gear Fit from Samsung features a 1.5-inch super amoled

display and a heart rate sensor. It can track up to 15 different fitness

activities including walking, yoga, treadmill, running and so on (apart from the

usual steps, distance, sleep and calories burnt) . The curved display has a

resolution of 432 x 216 pixels and the band is IP68 certified for water

resistance.Hardware includes 4GB storage, 512MB RAM and 200mAh battery. The band

runs Tizen OS and is compatible with smartphones running Android 4.4 and above

(no support for iOS devices at the moment).Samsung claims the Gear Fit 2 will

give you a battery life will of up to 5 days. Priced at US$179, it will be

available in international markets from June 10th onwards.



SOL-ONE



The SOL-ONE is a unique looking air purifier that does more than just purify

air. It's a smart air purifier that can be controlled via your smartphone and

has a built-in ionizer. It even doubles up as an air freshener (adds scent to

the air) and a mood lighting system (over 8,000 colour tones supported).Another

highlight of the SOL-ONE is that it uses a washable, wet textile layer to filter

particles in the air yes, the filtering system does not need any replacements.

It consumes up to 10W electricity at full capacity and it can be completely

automated using the smartphone app \xAD you can set it to analyse an air sample

of the room and accordingly adjust the fan speed for faster purification. The

purifier campaign is currently live on Indiegogo and you can pre-book one for

US$449 plus shipping.



Withings Body Cardio



Withings is a well-known name when it comes to smart, connected digital weighing

scales. Their new offering, Body Cardio, can track a user's weight, body mass,

per centage of water in body as well as heart rate. What's even more amazing is

that it does this with you just standing on the scale with bare feet. What sets

the Body Cardio apart is that it can track the hearts pulse wave velocity a

measurement of blood flow in the arteries that can help detect high blood

pressure. As with their previous connected scales, Body Cardio also has built-in

WiFi and will sync all data with a smartphone app wirelessly. Priced at US$180,

the Body Cardio scale can be ordered on http:www.withings.com.



Image: Withings (Twitter)



Lumigon T3



This is the world's first smartphone with a night vision camera. It has a 13MP

primary camera with dual tone flash, phase detection autofocus and a separate

4MP camera module with dual infra-red LEDs for night vision capabilities. The

phone is the company's flagship device with a metal chassis that holds a

4.8-inch amoled HD display. Inside is a Helio X10 processor, 3GB RAM, 128GB

storage and it runs Android 6.0. Other features include a fingerprint scanner,

dual SIM slots, a touch-sensitive area on the back panel for control, IR

transceiver, stereo speakers, wireless charging and a temperature sensor. Priced

at US$ 740 onwards, you can order one from http:www.lumigon.com (excludes

shipping and customs).



Image: Lumigon (Twitter)



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





