

Reuters

SEOUL

Early indications of stronger-than-expected sales of new Galaxy S7 smartphones
suggest technology giant Samsung Electronics is emerging from a two-year decline
at its flagship mobile business.

Squeezed by Apple in premium products and undercut by Chinese rivals like Huawei
in cheaper devices, Samsung's smartphone profits and global market share have
fallen and sapped momentum at South Korea's most valuable company.

But several brokerages on Wednesday upgraded first-quarter forecasts for what is
still the world's top smartphone-maker, citing a strong start for the Galaxy S7
and S7 edge premium phones that were launched earlier this month.

Samsung likely shipped 9.5 million S7 phones in the first quarter, significantly
more than the initial estimate for 7 million, Jay Yoo, industry analyst at Korea
Investment &Securities, wrote in a report.

"It looks like the sell-in numbers have been pretty good and analysts are
raising their sales forecasts for the S7 this year," noted HDC Asset Management
fund manager Park Jung-hoon.

"The firm is pushing up volume in the mid-to-low tier to protect market share.
Starting S7 sales about a month earlier than the S6 to take advantage of Apple
not having new products out yet was also a good move."

Getting Samsung's mobile business back on track is important for vice chairman
Jay Y Lee, the de facto leader of family-run conglomerate Samsung Group, to show
his ability to manage the sprawling electronics-to-fashion business, some
investors say.

Samsung shares gained as much as 2.4 per cent on Wednesday to an 18-week high.
The stock is up by more than a fifth since mid-January following a 22-per-cent
slide over the previous three months.

Better, but not so different

The two Galaxy S7 models have won acclaim for their sleek design and the return
from previous models of features such as micro SD card storage support and water
resistance, though analysts noted the phones offer only incremental upgrades and
don't look very different to their predecessors.

Analysts had previously lowered their expectations amid signs of a further
slowdown in demand for consumer electronics, and investors took little heed
earlier this month when Samsung's new mobile chief Koh Dong-jin said S7 models
would outsell previous models following better-than-expected pre-orders.

Samsung's January-March operating profit was expected to fall 16 per cent from a
year earlier to 5.2 trillion won (Bt158 billion) â[#x20ac]" the lowest in six
quarters â[#x20ac]" according to a Thomson Reuters StarMine Smart Estimate
derived from a survey of 31 analysts.

But the Korea Economic Daily newspaper, citing an unnamed source, said Samsung's
quarterly profit will top 6 trillion won on S7 sales and a weaker South Korean
won. Samsung said its earnings were not yet finalised, and it declined comment
on sales or shipments for the new handsets.

