                              38 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  Arab Finance



                             March 28, 2016 Monday



Samsung unveils next generation smartphones in Egypt



LENGTH: 507  words





Arab Finance:  Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd on Friday launched the newest

additions to the Galaxy family of products Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge

in the beautiful city of Sharm El Sheikh during a grand event at the grand

Hyatt. Created for today's consumer lifestyle, Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge lead

the industry with a refined design, more advanced camera, streamlined software

functionality and unparalleled connectivity to a galaxy of products, services,

and experiences.



"Samsung has been operating in the Egyptian market for more than 27 years.

During that time, we have seen big changes take place across every aspect of

Egyptian life. We have always recognized the vast potential of the Egyptian

market and remained fully committed to support it and realize its potential.

Whether in tourism or technology, Samsung believes in Egypt and its future" said

Seung-ho Yun's, CEO of Samsung Electronics Egypt. "We also believe in a world

that is brighter, sharper, more convenient, and more fun. We strive to deliver

on that vision with the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge by marrying elegant design

with functionality and providing a seamless mobile experience." Advanced Camera:

High Quality Images No Matter the Time of Day or Location Galaxy S7 and Galaxy

S7 edge introduce the first Dual Pixel camera on a smartphone, delivering

brighter and sharper images, even in low light. Thanks to the revolutionary Dual

Pixel technology, brighter lens with wider aperture, and bigger pixel, the

camera has a faster shutter speed and a more accurate autofocus even in

low-light conditions.



Refined Design and Function The 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and 5.5-inch Galaxy S7 edge

are constructed with 3D glass and metal - all in a sleek design with durability

and ergonomic curves for a comfortable grip. From work to play, the device's new

Always-On Display, gives users a simplified, zero touch experience where they

don't need to worry about important notification. Without compromising design,

Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge both have increased utility with IP68 water and

dust resistance. Enhanced Performance: From Charging to Gaming Galaxy S7 and

Galaxy S7 edge deliver fast wired and wireless charging technology.

Additionally, the hybrid SIM card tray allows users to insert a microSD card for

up to 200GB of additional storage. The powerful processer and bigger battery

capacity ensure longer playing time, and the internal cooling system keeps the

device from overheating. Game Launcher, a new add-on for gamers, allows users to

manage battery consumption and minimize notifications. Additionally, users can

record their gaming experience or share their screen to play with others. The

Galaxy Experience Whether it's the seamless connection between Galaxy S7 and

Galaxy S7 edge and the new Gear S2 Classic to monitor fitness, or connecting

with Gear VR to "travel" the world - Samsung redefines what's possible for the

mobile experience and beyond, all of which is Protected by Samsung KNOX.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/195/598/14/145917427039.png







LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 598





                 Copyright 2016 Arab Finance Brokerage Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





