

Shares of Samsung Electronics rose for the sixth consecutive session Wednesday
as local analysts unleashed optimism on the top-cap company's earnings for the
second quarter.

Samsung closed up 0.57 percent at 1,406,000 won ($1,216.40) on South Korea's
main bourse on the back of strong foreign buying. At one point in morning trade,
Samsung's stock price hit a fresh 52-week high of 1,419,000 won.

The company's market value came to 201 trillion won ($174 billion), crossing the
200 trillion won mark for the first time in nearly seven months.

The gain came as several local securities companies upgraded their
second-quarter earnings outlook for the tech behemoth, the flagship and cash cow
of South Korea's top family-run conglomerate Samsung Group.

In a note to clients, Hanwha Investment and Securities on Wednesday predicted
Samsung's operating profit to soar to 7.7 trillion won for the April-June
period, bolstered by strong sales of its latest Galaxy S7 smartphone.

"Samsung's profit growth will likely continue in the second quarter on brisk
sales of the Galaxy S7 though there were concerns over its outlook following an
earnings surprise in the first quarter," said Lee Soon-hak, who authored the
note.

Buoyed by robust sales of its flagship smartphones, Samsung posted an operating
profit of 6.67 trillion won in the January-March period of this year, up 11.7
percent from a year earlier.

Lee said Samsung's organic light-emitting diode (OLED) segment will likely chalk
up an operating profit of more than 600 billion won, helped by high demand for
the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge smartphones.

The company's home electronics business, including TVs, is expected to fare
better in the second quarter, but the second-quarter operating profit of its
semiconductor division is likely to reach a level similar to the previous
quarter due to a fall in prices of dynamic random access memory (DRAM) chips, he
added.

"The chip division is projected to see its operating profit turn for the better
in the second half of this year, backed by a rebound in sales of 3D NAND flash
memory chips," Lee said.

Daishin Securities said Samsung will likely pull off an earnings surprise for
the current quarter, offering an operating profit forecast of 7.74 trillion won.

"Samsung's IT and mobile segment is likely to see its second-quarter
profitability beat the market forecast for the second consecutive quarter on
resilient sales of its latest smartphones," Park Kang-ho, an analyst at Daishin
Securities, said.

Park predicted global sales of the Galaxy S7 series smartphones will reach up to
15 million units during the April-June period, with the figure exceeding 25
million units within the first half. The Galaxy S7 smartphones hit store shelves
in early March.

He estimated the operating profit of the IT and mobile division to come in at
4.27 trillion won for the second quarter, up a whopping 55 percent from the same
period a year earlier.

On Tuesday, IBK Investment & Securities forecast Samsung's second-quarter
operating profit to reach 7.8 trillion won, well above the median market
outlook. The brokerage cited the chip division's solid earnings and improved
profits in the display segment.

In a research note, Eugene Investment & Securities also upgraded its outlook for
Samsung's second-quarter operating profit to 7.45 trillion won, saying Samsung's
IT-mobile, display and consumer electronics divisions will all likely post
better earnings.

Samsung Electronics is slated to release its earnings guidance for the second
quarter in early July. (Yonhap)

