                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               TODAY (Singapore)



                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

                                  APM Edition



Note7 owners offered a choice: S7 edge or a refund



SECTION: ITC; Business; Pg. 36



LENGTH: 369 words





SINGAPORE - Samsung Galaxy Note7 customers in Singapore can choose to exchange

their device for a Galaxy S7 edge and receive a S$250 cheque or get a full

refund of S$1,168 via cheque, and they may do so from Oct 26 till Nov 6, the

smartphone maker said yesterday.



"Both options are available to all Galaxy Note7 customers, regardless if they

purchased their original device from telecommunication operators, consumer

electronics stores, authorised retailers, Samsung Official Store at Lazada.sg or

Samsung Experience Stores, and do not affect any pre-existing contract that the

Galaxy Note7 owner has with the telecommunication operators," said Samsung.



The Galaxy Note7 cannot be exchanged for other devices apart from the S7 edge, a

Samsung spokesperson told TODAY.



Customers have to go to www.samsung.com/sg/note7exchange to select their

preferences for exchange or refund, and provide details for a free home

delivery.



The free home delivery is available to customers even if they opt for a full

refund instead of an exchange.



Note7 customers who require a loan device can visit the Samsung Customer Service

Centre at Westgate mall.



Samsung had announced on Oct 11 that it would permanently shut down production

of the ill-fated Note7 after multiple incidents worldwide of the smartphone

catching fire.



Samsung will also refund the retail value of the following original Samsung

Galaxy Note7 accessories in exchange for the return of these accessories: Galaxy

Note7 S View Standing Cover, Galaxy Note7 Clear View Cover, Galaxy Note7 LED

View Cover, Galaxy Note7 Leather Cover, Galaxy Note7 Clear Cover, Galaxy Note7

Keyboard Cover, and Galaxy Note7 Back Pack.



These will be verified by the home delivery service provider before a refund in

cheque is provided.



Samsung Concierge customers who opt for an exchange will have the service

transferred to the S7 edge, and the service will take effect from the date of

the exchange.



Those who opt for refund will receive a cheque of S$38, which is the cost for

the service. Samsung Concierge offers customers a range of benefits, including

allowing them to upgrade to a new Galaxy device every year without having to

wait till their two-year contracts with telcos are due.



LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 MediaCorp Press Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





