                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              The Hartford Courant



                            October 23, 2016 Sunday

                               Statewide Edition



CNET



SECTION: SMARTER LIVING; D; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 429  words





Samsung Galaxy



S7 Edge



CNET rating: 5 stars out of 5 (Spectacular)



The good: The Galaxy S7 Edge has a gorgeous larger curved screen and larger

battery than the otherwise identical standard S7. It really is something

special. The extra navigation tools can be useful when used judiciously.



The bad: When you pile on these extra navigation tools, they slow you down

rather than speed you up. It's pricier than other good phones.



The cost: $595.99 to $794.99



The bottom line: The gorgeous Galaxy S7 Edge makes the best Android phone that

much better.



Samsung Galaxy Note 5



CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)



The good: The Samsung Galaxy Note 5 has an eye-catching design, high-end

hardware and takes great outdoor photos. Using the stylus has never felt better,

and battery life is terrific.



The bad: With a non-removable battery and no external storage option, the Note 5

strips away some of last year's features. It's pricey compared to large-screen

competitors like Motorola's Moto X Pure.



The cost: $513.99 to $709.99



The bottom line: Samsung's Galaxy Note 5 is excellent overall, and the only

phone to buy if you want to write by hand. However, you'll pay a huge premium

for a modest upgrade from last year's model, and less pricey competitors will

satisfy many.



Apple iPhone 7 Plus



CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)



The good: Dual rear cameras delivers true 2x optical zoom, with a cool bokeh

mode to come via a forthcoming upgrade. The phone is water resistant, and the

battery lasts longer than last year's model. Bigger storage options include

256GB model for serious photographers.



The bad: There's no standard headphone jack: you'll have to use Lightning, or

the included adapter, or go wireless. Design is showing its age, as competing

phones squeeze a 5.5-inch screen into smaller, sexier bodies.



The cost: $769 to $769.99



The bottom line: Apple's best camera phone pushes the envelope to offer great

results, but its full potential hasn't yet been tested.



Motorola Moto Z Play



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Very good)



The good: The affordable Moto Z Play works with swappable modular accessories,

retains its headphone jack (unlike the more upmarket Moto Z and Z Force) and has

a battery that goes on and on.



The bad: The Z Play is the thickest and heaviest phone in the Moto Z series and

its fingerprint sensor, annoyingly, can be mistaken for a home button.



The cost: $408 to $449.99



The bottom line: Even if you don't give two licks about its cool modular

capabilities, get the Motorola Moto Z for an affordable phone with an

impressively enduring battery life.



LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company

                              All Rights Reserved





