                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   News Point



                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday



Samsung Galaxy S7 rumors: Feb launch expected, to house Exynos processor



LENGTH: 253 words



DATELINE: India





India, Nov. 24 -- South Korean electronics manufacturer Samsung is once again

turning heads over the launch of its next series of Galaxy smartphones.



This time it is the much talked about Galaxy S7 smartphone. Several rumours

about the phone have already started doing the rounds.



On the launch date



Though there are several views on the launch of the smartphone but the one point

where most media reports are agreeing is the Mobile World Congress, scheduled in

Barcelona between 22 and 25 February 2016. However, some contradictory reports

can't also be negated which states that the company might launch the phone a tad

earlier. By a tad earlier, what is meant is January.



Processor



South Korea's Electronic Times had said that Samsung will use Qualcomm's

Snapdragon 820 chips for the Galaxy S7 phones, which will be sold in the United

States and China. But Galaxy S7 phones sold in other markets will be powered by

Samsung's own Exynos processors.



It may be recalled that the company used only its Exynos processors for the

flagship Galaxy S6 smartphones this year, dealing a major blow to the US

chipmaker. But Samsung said earlier this year that it could opt to use Qualcomm

chips in the future. As time progresses, we shall be able to give clearer

picture on the smartphone's details. Till then, let rumour mills do their job!



Published by HT Syndication with permission from News Point. For any query with

respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor

at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                          Copyright 2015 NewsPoint TV

                              All Rights Reserved





