

Galaxy S7 certainly looks like the best smartphone Samsung has ever made.
Samsung team has worked hard on refinement of initial design of Galaxy S7 after
Galaxy S6 series failed to impress consumers. Samsung received lower response
for its last smartphone compared to what the company management had expected.
All the new features and improvements in the Galaxy S7 are quite impressive.

One of the best features of Galaxy S7 is that it is water resistant, which means
it will survive most water accidents. Moisture sensor is a welcoming addition to
the phone. The Galaxy S7 has a 5.1-inch QHD Super AMOLED display with a
resolution of 2560 x 1440 pixels and 577 PPI.

It also boasts of 'Always On' display. Galaxy S7 uses one of two processors- new
Exynos 8890 octa-core processor or the new Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 quad-core
processor.

It uses 4GB of RAM and offers 32 GB or 64 GB of faster internal UFS 2.0 memory.
With a microSD card, it can be expanded to additional 200 GB. Some significant
changes have been made by Samsung in camera section, as it is using a new Dual
Pixel 12MP with a larger sensor, which will allow it to absorb more light and
information than its previous 16 MP sensor.

A larger aperture of f/1.7 has been added that will benefit in increasing the
speed of autofocus, live HDR and retained OIS will also be offered. The Galaxy
S7 battery comes with quick charge, and quick wireless charging.

The Galaxy S7 offers Samsung Pay and also Android Pay. The phone measures 142.4
x 69.6 x 7.9 mm and weighs at 152 grams. The beauty will be offered in Black
Onyx and Gold Platinum and would cost around $670 off-contract.

In comparison with Nexus 6P as well, Samsung Galaxy S7 has emerged as a winner.
Samsung Galaxy S7 has a beautiful metal and glass design with a strong build.

A report published in the HuffingtonPost said, "And knock it off its pedestal it
did. Arriving in June of 2012, the Galaxy S3 had a gorgeous 720p HD screen, was
very light (thanks to the plastic build, which would later be criticized), and
operated as a mobile media powerhouse. By December of 2012, you could see just
as many people carrying the Galaxy S3 as you could an iPhone. It looked like
Samsung was ready to take over the world."

"It took years of iPhone dominance and many months of Android market leadership
for a phone with Google's mobile operating system to knock the iPhone off its
pedestal."

"The all-metal Nexus 6P received rave reviews upon its arrival in September, but
does it still have the muscle to take on the metal and glass beauty that is the
Galaxy S7?  The Nexus 6P was all-new last year, as was the Galaxy S6, so this
rendition of the Galaxy S7 is more a refinement or evolution than any drastic
change.  Let's take a quick look at what these two devices have in common before
we take a careful look at each one," according to a news report published by
AndroidHeadlines.

The Nexus 6P and the Galaxy S7 share the AMOLED display technology and they both
have a QHD resolution of 2560 x 1440 pixels, although different sized displays.
They both are using a Qualcomm Snapdragon processor, but different models - the
Galaxy S7 can also be sporting the new Exynos 8890 processor as it all depends
in what country you make your purchase.

In a report published by the Business-Standard, "Korean company Samsung
Electronics is set to intensify its promotions in India by spending a record sum
on marketing and promotion for the new flagship Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge that will
be unveiled next week."

It has asked the dealers to ensure maximum mileage for the Samsung brand on shop
floors, senior industry executives said. Samsung India has issued an advisory
linking payments to dealers to the visibility of its branding on store fronts
and inside. Industry executives said Samsung may offer the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge
at a cheaper rate than the Rs. 50,000-plus launch price for last year's flagship
Galaxy S6.

