

South Korea's top tech firm Samsung Electronics Co. estimated Thursday that its
second-quarter operating income increased more than 17 percent from a year
earlier on the back of robust sales of its flagship smartphones such as the
Galaxy S7 series.

Operating profit is estimated at 8.1 trillion won ($6.98 billion) in the
April-June period, up 17. 39 percent from the 6.9 trillion won posted a year
earlier, the world's top smartphone maker said in a regulatory filing.

The estimate breaches the 8 trillion won mark more than two years after it
posted 8.5 trillion won profit in the first quarter of 2014, and is far above
the previous market forecast.

Market consensus for the operating income of Samsung for the April-June period
was at 7.32 trillion won, according to data compiled by industry tracker
FnGuide.

Samsung said its second-quarter sales are also forecast to have reached 50
trillion won during the cited period, also up 3 percent from 48 trillion won a
year earlier.

Samsung did not offer a net profit estimate for the second quarter. Its
finalized earnings will be announced later this month.

Market analysts estimated that the tech behemoth also raked in about 4.4
trillion won in operating profit solely from its information technology and
mobile business division, one of the company's main revenue sources.

Samsung did not release detailed figures for each business division in
Thursday's earnings guidance report.

The mobile division posted an operating profit of 3.89 trillion won during the
January-March period of 2016.

Market experts estimate that Samsung's combined shipments of the Galaxy S7 and
S7 Edge -- its two flagship models -- hovered at some 15 million units in the
April-June period. Noticeably, the sales of the Galaxy S7 Edge, which is more
expensive, might have beaten out the Galaxy S7, according to the sources.

Samsung Electronics sold 81.18 million smartphone units around the globe in the
January-March period, bolstered by the early release of its flagship Galaxy S7
series which was released in late March

Samsung's consumer electronics business is also estimated to have more than 1
trillion won in operating profits for the April-June period, analysts said.

The division posted an operating profit of 510 billion won in the first quarter
of this year.

The company's chip business, which had emerged as the new main source of profit
last year amid poor smartphone sales, is also forecast to post an operating
profit of some 2.5 trillion won, analysts said.

Shares of Samsung Electronics traded at 1,434,000 won as of 9:15 a.m., up 0.91
percent from the previous session's close. The guidance was released before the
local stock market opened on Thursday.

