                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                             April 7, 2016 Thursday



Samsung's Q1 profit beats expectations



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 538 words





Galaxy S7 / YonhapOperating profit rises



Samsung Electronics posted 6.6 trillion won in operating profit in the first

three months of the year, beating market expectations by a wide margin.



This marks a 7.49 percent gain from a quarter earlier and 10.37 percent increase

from the same period last year. The market consensus for the first quarter

operating profit had underestimated the results by around 1 trillion won.



In its earnings guidance, Samsung said sales came in at 49 trillion won, up 4

percent year-on-year.



The company didn't release a breakdown of its divisional performances - it will

disclose more detailed first quarter results later this month.



The stronger-than-expected results reflect brisk demand for its flagship

smartphone the Galaxy S7, relatively solid semiconductor sales and a weaker won

against the dollar.



'This is an earnings surprise,' said Kim Kyung-min, an analyst at Daishin

Securities. 'Most analysts expected Samsung's operating profit to be somewhere

between 5.2 trillion won and 5.8 trillion won.'



On top of better-than-expected initial sales of the Galaxy S7, falls in

marketing costs also contributed to the earnings boost.



Samsung started selling its S7 smartphone in March in two designs - one rigid

and the other curved - earlier in the year than 2015's S6 to actively take on

Apple's iPhone.



Sales of the S7 series have topped 10 million in the 20 days after marketing

began. It took 25 days for the S6 to reach the 10 million mark.



'The mobile division's earnings appear to be 3.5 trillion won in the first

quarter,' said a senior fund manager from a Korean branch of a U.S.-based

leading investment bank. 'Demand for the Galaxy S7 will likely remain strong

throughout the year.'



The semiconductor business also fared well, helped by increased sales of

top-tier chips. A migration into thinner technology helped the company report

better earnings, with the semiconductor division's operating profit estimated at

between 2.5 trillion won and 2.6 trillion won.



'The global semiconductor market is in a downturn,' said an official, 'but

Samsung bucked the trend as it has been pursuing profitability by controlling

shipments of memory chips to clients rather than output expansion.'



In February, Samsung began selling DRAM chips using a very fine 18-nanometer

processing technology, which is an industry first, meaning the company has more

room to offset the industry's continued doom and gloom.



The won's weakness against the dollar helped Samsung's home appliance division

post stronger sales, as a weaker won makes Korean products cheaper and boosts

earnings in terms of the local currency.



The won traded weaker against the greenback in the first quarter, with the

exchange rate rising to 1,240 from 1,170 at the end of 2015.



The operating profit of Samsung's home appliances division is estimated at about

300 billion won.



The continued supply glut and weak demand for larger display panels for use in

TVs negatively affected the results.



Samsung dominates the global OLED display market with a greater focus on small

displays for use in smartphones. But in larger displays, which are more

profitable than small ones, Samsung has been hesitant to jump into the market

due to fears over marketability.



LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





