                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The New York Times



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

                         The New York Times on the Web



Do You Have a Samsung Galaxy Note 7? Here's What to Do



BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER



SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TECH TIP; Pg.



LENGTH: 423 words





Q. What should I do if I have a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone?



A. Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 smartphone is the only model involved in Samsung's

battery-fire situation, and the company says it has stopped selling it and

discontinued production. The Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge models and older

members in the Galaxy S line are not affected.



Samsung and the Consumer Product Safety Commission formally recalled the Galaxy

Note 7 for an overheating battery defect last month, and an exchange program was

put into place for customers to get replacement versions. However, after

multiple reports of battery fires in the replacement Galaxy Note 7 devices,

Samsung announced this week that it was stopping all sales and production of the

model. The company says it is investigating the battery situation.



If you have a Galaxy Note 7 (either the original or replacement version),

Samsung advises that you power down the device immediately. You should also

contact the wireless carrier or retail store where you bought it for details

about getting a full refund, or exchanging it for a Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 Edge

model. Those who bought a Galaxy Note 7 from Samsung's website (or who want more

information about the recall) should call the company at 1-844-365-6197 or visit

www.samsung.com/us/note7recall.



Many major wireless carriers have stopped selling the model. AT&T, T-Mobile and

Verizon Wireless are among those who have already posted specific information

regarding Galaxy Note 7 refunds and exchanges. The electronics retailer Best Buy

has also added a page of information for its Galaxy Note 7 customers curious

about how to get a refund or exchange. Some retailers may allow you to exchange

the Galaxy Note 7 for a phone from a different manufacturer, but check with your

place of purchase.



Since the Galaxy Note 7's release in August, Samsung has received more than 92

reports of batteries overheating in the United States, including 26 reports of

burns and 55 reports of property damage, according to the Consumer Product

Safety Commission. A manufacturing defect in the particular lithium-ion battery

used by that model was believed to be the cause of the combustibility, but

Samsung has so far been unable to pinpoint the problem.



Both the Federal Aviation Administration and the safety commission  have issued

warnings advising Galaxy Note 7 owners not to use, charge or pack their phones

in checked baggage. The safety commission's site has its own information about

Samsung's recall and a form to report incidents with the device.









URL:

http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/12/technology/personaltech/do-you-have-a-samsung-

galaxy-note-7-heres-what-to-do.html



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company





