

KOLKATA: The fight between Samsung Electronics and Apple in India is set to
intensify, with the Korean company planning to spend a record sum on marketing
and promotion for the new flagship Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge that will be unveiled
next week and its US rival drawing up a counter-strategy.

Samsung may invest about Rs 100 crore on marketing its latest smartphones, which
will be launched in India around March 8 and go on sale from the third week of
March at prices that could match Apple's iPhone 6s models. It has asked dealers
to ensure maximum mileage for the Samsung brand on shop floors, three senior
industry executives said.

To take on Samsung, Apple has told dealers that it will have additional consumer
promotion and is considering reducing prices on some models. The company has
lined up a counter-marketing budget of Rs 30-40 crore, the executives said.

"This is the first time Apple is reacting to a flagship launch from Samsung in
India, signifying how important the Indian market is emerging for both the
smartphone giants," said one executive. "While Samsung is tightening the trade,
Apple has told us to expect something big."

Samsung India has issued an advisory linking payments to dealers to the
visibility of its branding on store fronts and inside. It asked retailers to
ensure its brand billboard is the first one above the shop entrance and only its
brands be displayed on store walls.

Industry executives said Samsung may offer the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge at a
cheaper rate than the Rs 50,000-plus launch price for last year's flagship
Galaxy S6. The company is looking at a price of about Rs 45,000 to compete with
iPhone 6s that's selling at Rs 44,000-45,000. The Korean company has advised
dealers that any discounting will entail strict disciplinary action, including
blacklisting, since it does not want a price war on the new models, industry
executives said. Apple distributors have started taking feedback from the key
trade partners in India on the level of support that might be required to
counter Samsung's new launches.

"Samsung's recent launches such as Galaxy A5 and A7 had gained a lot of share,
which has already irked Apple. Apple has now informed the traders that it will
offer additional consumer and trade promotion on its entire line up and may also
cut prices," a senior trade partner of the company said.

Emails sent to Samsung India and Apple seeking comment did not elicit any
response till Thursday press time.

Both companies are fighting to dominate the premium smartphone segment in India,
where handsets are priced over Rs 30,000. The Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge are crucial
for Samsung, which wants to be the clear leader in this segment.

Apple, too, does not want to lose ground after chief executive Tim Cook recently
talked about investing more in India to gain lead. Recent market share reports
have failed to identify a clear leader in the

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

