                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)



                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

                               hyderabad Edition



Samsung launches S7 devices to take on Apple



BYLINE: Pankaj.Doval@timesgroup.com



SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS



LENGTH: 355 words





Samsung on Tuesday launched its flagship Galaxy S7 smartphone in the Indian

market at a time when formidable rival Apple has been fighting hard in the

premium end of the smartphone category.



The new devices, priced at Rs 48,900 (for the S7) and Rs 56,900 (for the S7

Edge), are a step-up to the previous generation devices as they come with an

option of expandable memory , dual SIM slot, waterproof casing, and a special

services package for buyers. The Galaxy S7 features a 5.1-inch display and a

3,000 mAh battery, while the S7 Edge has a 5.5inch display and a 3,600 mAh

battery .



Manu Sharma, director for the company's mobile business, said Samsung expects to

gain market share in the premium segment with the launch of the new devices that

were showcased recently at



the Mobile World Congress at Barcelona. However, analysts said that the demand

in the premium segment is currently not very buoyant, and there remains a strong

trend for Apple and its iOS operating system. "While Samsung has priced the new

devices very aggressively , this is not a very favourable time for premium

products as buyers are not very enthusiastic," Faisal Kawoosa from Cyber Media

Research said. "There are sluggish sentiments in the market."



Kawoosa said breaking the stronghold of Apple's iOS ecosystem in the premium end

is



increasingly proving to be tougher for Android-run devices. "It is very

difficult to penetrate through a community that is looking for Apple products.

Probably Android is failing in the premium segment."



Tarun Pathak of Counterpoint Technology market research, said the

October-December'15 quarter had Apple surging ahead of Samsung in the over Rs

30,000 category ."However, I expect that Samsung will take a lead with the new

products. It is though very seasonal here and the situation will change once

Apple get its new upgraded devices."



Samsung's Sharma, however, said that the company has an edge over Apple in the

premium segment and the new devices will help widen this further. "There are a

host of new features that we offer through the new products.The 'Samsung

Concierge' delivers personalised experience for users."



LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





