                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                         May 9, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



New leaked images of Galaxy C5 show more about to be launched Samsung device



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 790  words





Samsung's financial report for the first quarter suggests that the company was

not able to promote sales of its Galaxy S7 smartphones that were launched in

February. Samsung's all-new flagship smartphones, the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge,

managed to generate much lower sales than expected by the company management.



There were other Samsung devices released this year, including some 'Galaxy A'

and 'Galaxy J', which are mid-range devices. However, nothing received

popularity like the company's upcoming Galaxy C5 smartphone is receiving.



There are several real life images of this smartphone. These leaks are viral on

the Internet. A recent leak is being circulated crazily over the Internet. Let's

see what it suggests about the yet not arrived smartphone. The two new image of

Galaxy C5 reveal both sides of the mobile. It is observed that it will resemble

a bit to Galaxy S7, but its back side would appear very different as it is not

covered with glass.



The Galaxy C5 has metal body, which is unibody build. The battery could not be

removed and it will spot a physical home button just below display. The home

button will have fingerprint scanner built on it and will have two capacitive

keys along. The specification of the smartphone is available on GFXBench and

AnTuTu.



According to benchmarks info, the device will have a 5.5-inch 1080p (1920 x

1080) display, along with 4GB of RAM and 32GB of native storage. The device will

be fueled by the Snapdragon 615 or 617 64-bit octa-core processor by Qualcomm,

accompanied by the Adreno 405 GPU for graphics.



There will be 16-megapixel camera on the back of the device, and will have an

8-megapixel camera on front. It will feature Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow. The

launch details have not been yet disclosed.According to a report in Android

Headlines by Kristijan Lucic, "The Galaxy C5 has posed for the camera yet again

it seems, as you can see in the gallery down below. These two images give us a

good look of both sides of the



Galaxy C5, and they basically confirm all the leaks we've seen thus far. The

Galaxy C5 will resemble the Galaxy S7 quite a bit, though its back side looks

somewhat different because the company opted not include glass here. The



Galaxy C5 is made out of metal, and it sports a unibody build. Its battery will

not be removable, and the physical home button is placed below the display. The

fingerprint scanner is built into the home button, and two capacitive keys



will flank that physical key (overview and back, respectively)."



The Galaxy C5 has been benchmarked by both GFXBench and AnTuTu already, which

means we basically already know what specs will it sport. According to

benchmarks info, the Galaxy C5 will feature a 5.5-inch 1080p (1920 x



1080) display, along with 4GB of RAM and 32GB of native storage. The device will

be fueled by the Snapdragon 615 or 617 64-bit octa-core processor by Qualcomm,

accompanied by the Adreno 405 GPU for graphics. The 16-



megapixel camera will be included on the back of the device, and an 8-megapixel

snapper will be placed up front. Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow will come

pre-installed on the Galaxy C5, and on top of it, you'll be able to find



Samsung's custom UI, as always. We still don't know when will Samsung introduce

this smartphone, but based on the number of leaks we've seen, it will happen

sooner rather than later.



"Earlier this month, some images of the alleged Galaxy C5 were leaked on to the

internet giving us a glimpse of what the handset will look like. If those were

not enough for you, some more images of the Galaxy C5 surfaced on



Weibo showing us a clearer image of the alleged device," according to a news

report published by Geeky-Gadgets.



Earlier this month, some images of the alleged Galaxy C5 were leaked on to the

internet giving us a glimpse of what the handset will look like. If those were

not enough for you, some more images of the Galaxy C5 surfaced on



Weibo showing us a clearer image of the alleged device.



A report published in Christian Post said, "As seen in the purported images, the

Galaxy C5 may be coming with a sleek metallic body, which is said to be quite

the same with the recent HTC phone models such as the HTC 10 and



the HTC A9. It's also noted to appear like the iPhone 6 in terms of the style,

appearing a tad bit glossy because of a silicone case."



It may also be equipped under the hood with an octa-core Snapdragon 617

processor paired with 4 GB of RAM and Adreno 405 GPU graphics. The device will

be clocked at 1.5 GHz and will be pre-installed with Android 6.0.1



Marshmallow topped with Samsung's Touchwiz UX. Moreover, Pocket-Lint detailed

that the device may come with a 16-megapixel rear camera and an 8-megapixel

selfie camera. A dual-tone LED flash is also found at the back



panel.



LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





