                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                             March 3, 2016 Thursday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Apple has some catching up to do against Samsung;

New Galaxy features sound a lot cooler than the new, smaller iPhone



BYLINE: Jefferson Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 401 words





Have you seen those TV ads for Samsung's new Galaxy smartphone? In the spots,

the company does a killer job of pointing out new and very welcome features.



In my mind, they drove home what seems to have become more apparent over the

last several months: Apple has a lot of catch-up to do to create a product that

really captures  attention.



Samsung's new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge phones, out March 11, are water resistant,

which is great. They bring back the expandable memory slot (for those of us who

hate getting those out-of-memory messages), and more important, it comes with 32

GB of storage, which is twice what Apple offers on entry-level phones. (Apple's

phones start with 16 GB of memory, which goes really fast once you start adding

apps, photos, videos and music.)



The phones aren't cheap, starting at $669 and $779, without a contract. Best Buy

offers the phones for $199 with a two-year subsidized contract.



Apple's last iPhone, the 6S, starts at $649 without a contract and was the first

to show sales that didn't grow substantially over the previous model. Consumers

either thought their current iPhones were good enough or the new features Apple

touted for the 6S, like 3-D touch for shortcuts, improved camera that can shoot

videos in 4K resolution and having personal digital assistant Siri always on,

were a meh.



While Galaxy is clearly No. 2 to iPhone sales -- roughly 800 million iPhones

sold to more than 250 million Galaxy S phones -- Samsung's recent models haven't

seen huge growth.



Apple is expected to introduce a new iPhone in a few weeks, and based on initial

reports, it's a total yawn. It's the same iPhone as the 6S but in a smaller body

(for those who think the current iPhones are too big). The phone is expected to

have a 4-inch screen, compared with 5.1 inches for the S7 and 5.5 for S7 Edge,

and basically replaces the iPhone 5c, which was initially released in 2013.



Beyond the new features of the Galaxy S7, Samsung buyers are poised for the next

big thing -- 360-degree virtual reality, a movement we've yet to hear a peep

from Apple on.



Maybe Apple has a surprise for its March event we haven't been signaled on yet.

And we do know that traditionally, the real new iPhone, the one with a major

redesign that comes every two years, is in September.



Who knows what Apple will come up with for the fall? But this much is clear --

Apple really does have a lot of catching up to do.



LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo 9to5Mac



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





