                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                     February 23, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



Samsung unveils Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge at Mobile World Congress



BYLINE: Belal Khan



LENGTH: 236  words





The two new smartphone offerings from Samsung, the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy

S7 edge have sleek design with powerful performance, advanced camera features,

water resistance, and external memory.



Tuesday, February 23, 2016:  Samsung Electronics has added two new devices to

its Galaxy family. These are the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge. The

devices were launched at the Mobile World Congress held in Barcelona on Monday,

22 February.



"We believe in a world that is brighter, sharper, more convenient, and more fun.

We strive to deliver on that vision with the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge by

marrying elegant design with functionality and providing a seamless mobile

experience," said DJ Koh, President of Mobile Communications Business, Samsung

Electronics.



Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge introduce the first dual pixel camera on a

smartphone, delivering brighter and sharper images, even in low light. The

camera has a faster shutter speed and a more accurate autofocus even in

low-light conditions.



Motion Panorama, a new camera mode, brings movement to traditional panoramic

photos, giving the user a completely immersive visual experience. Samsung also

made significant hardware and software updates to optimise gaming performance on

Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge.



The powerful processer and bigger battery capacity ensure longer playing time,

and the internal cooling system keeps the device from overheating.



LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





