                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                            September 4, 2016 Sunday



Samsung Electronics announces exchange offer for Galaxy Note 7 with Galaxy S7

Edge or S7;

In addition, affected customers will also receive a $25 credit on their phone

bill or an equivalent gift card.-- Delivered by Feed43 service



BYLINE: FE Online



LENGTH: 247  words





In addition, affected customers will also receive a $25 credit on their phone

bill or an equivalent gift card.



After Samsung Electronics recalled Galaxy Note 7 smartphones due to a flaw in

its battery, the company has now announced that it will offer its users an

exchange offer, where they can swap their Galaxy Note 7 with Galaxy S7 or S7

Edge in the coming week. In addition, affected customers will also receive a $25

credit on their phone bill or an equivalent gift card.



The recall came just over two weeks after the company launched the phone. It

follows reports of the 988,900 won ($885) phone igniting while charging.

"Samsung is taking a proactive approach to address customer needs around the

Note 7," Tim Baxter, president of Samsung Electronics America said in a

statement.



"To date (as of September 1) there have been 35 cases that have been reported

globally and we are currently conducting a thorough inspection with our

suppliers to identify possible affected batteries in the market," said Samsung

in a statement.



Apple is expected to launch its new iPhone next week and this can also hit

Samsung's business. Strategy Analytics said the combined cost of the recall and

lost sales would lop $5 billion off Samsung's smartphone revenue this year and

cut smartphone profit margin by 1.5 percent.



Samsung had launched its flagship device, Galaxy Note 7 in India in August and

was priced at Rs 59,900, but due to global complaints of exploding devices, the

sale has been delayed.



LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





