

THAI photographer Theerasak Saksritawee, also known by his moniker "Popumon",
has come out with his latest work on the gorgeous sights and views of Taiwan
titled Lost In Taiwan. Using the Galaxy S7 edge smartphone, he has managed to
feature the rich cultural and ecological characteristics of the country from the
dexterity of the incense maker in the 100-year-old "Wu Wan-Chun" incense shop to
the humble dialogue between the mortals and the gods conveyed by the "Eight
Infernal Generals" in Tainan City.

In Keelung, he captured a landscaping feature made of four million PET bottles
that mimics the famous painting Starry Night by Vincent Van Gogh. In Nantou, he
provided a brand-new perspective of the lush greenery of the Bagua tea fields
and Golden Dragon Mountain in Zhushan village at dawn. He also created a unique
portrait of the Taiwan blue magpie in perfect harmony with fireflies on an early
summer night. Saksritawee has managed to unveil the island's hidden beauty. Its
outstanding low light shooting function provides a brand-new perspective on
Taiwan's rich nightlife.

Saksritawee photographed frommorning to night to convey the multifaceted beauty
and stories of Taiwan. Along the way, he discovered that the Galaxy S7 edge is
able to take breathtaking images even in the darkness, thanks to its
revolutionary Dual Pixel technology and f1.7 aperture.

More variety and diversity is created through the use of wide-angle and
telephoto lenses Galaxy S7 edge lens cover. The use of a telephoto lens made it
possible to capture the Chessboard Rock in Zhubei in much greater detail,
turning the camera into an object of affection for photographers striving for
perfection.

Theerasak revealed that the most special part of this trip was the religious
activity that he witnessed in Taiwan. He used the Galaxy S7 edge to record this
unique cultural and religious ceremony. The "Eight Infernal Generals" were
captured in bright and clear continuous shooting in regular mode. In addition,
he also felt very lucky to be able to photograph fireflies which are very rare
in Taiwan. He suggests that people who want to take on the challenge of
capturing night scenes should give the Galaxy S7 edge a try.

For more of Theerasak's work, go to www.popumon.com/

( END )

