                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             Herald Sun (Australia)



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

                               HeraldSun Edition



A byte into Apple



BYLINE: JENNIFER DUDLEY-NICHOLSON



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14



LENGTH: 287  words





THE world's biggest mobile phone company will resurrect two popular features it

stripped from its smartphones a year ago in an attempt to win back fans, and

will launch more virtual reality technology to win over Apple iPhone diehards.



Samsung unveiled two new smartphones - the 13cm Galaxy S7 and 14cm curved-screen

Galaxy S7 Edge will include water-resistant bodies and expandable memory removed

from previous models, while adding faster, hybrid auto-focus cameras, bigger

batteries and water-cooled chips.



The South Korean giant also launched the Gear 360, a virtual reality camera for

use with the smartphones that captures 360-degree video or photos to be viewed

on headsets, on YouTube or Facebook.



Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg said the two companies would promote the use of

-virtual reality on the social network. "We want to make Facebook the best video

platform for virtual reality," he said.



Both new phones will be available for pre-order in Australia on Friday for $1149

and $1249 respectively.



The Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge can be submerged in water for up to 30

minutes, while a hybrid Micro SD and SIM card tray have been added, allowing the

phone to store up to 200 gigabytes, 72GB more than its current models.



The company, rumoured to be delivering its new phones with Gear VR headsets,

will also launch its first 360-degree camera for virtual reality content. The

Gear 360 is a golf ball-shaped device with two 15-megapixel cameras on either

side that shoot 180-degree views of a scene.



After taking a photo or video, users can connect it to one of the new phones and

"stitch" the footage together.



Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson travelled to Barcelona as a guest of

Samsung.jennifer.dudley@news.com.au



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Herald Sun





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





