                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)



                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday



First impressions: Can the S7 turn around Samsung's fortunes?



BYLINE: PAT PILCHER



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 538 words





Last year's Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge were great smartphones. They replaced the S5's

much maligned Tupperware-build with glass and alloy, and their fresh design

attracted positive reviews.



At this week's Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Samsung launched the Galaxy

S7 and S7 Edge which addresses some of S6/S6 Edge's shortcomings. Kiwis can

order the phones from today with the devices due to ship to customers on March

11. The S7 will cost $1199 (32GB) while the S7 Edge will cost $1399 (32GB).



Look, feel and features



Samsung has chosen to stick with a metal and glass build.



It's finally added removable storage, waterproofing, plus improved battery life

and other tweaks.



The S7 and S7 Edge also borrow extensively from the S6/S6 Edge's design.



It might look familiar, but it also feels a whole lot more comfortable in the

hand.



Both devices should also be easier to use thanks to small tweaks such as a

flatter fingerprint scanner and curved rear on the S7 Edge.



The S7 Edge's curved back means it not only feels more natural but is also less

slippery.



In short, the S7/S7 Edge's design mightn't be revolutionary, but it is a solid

evolution.



Features and specifications



The S7 has the same sized 5.1-inch display as the S6 while the S7 Edge has a

larger, 5.5-inch display with curved edges.



Both devices finally have microSD support so you can increase storage



Also, the S7/S7 Edge should, in theory, be able to take a plunge in up to 1.5

metres of water for up to half an hour and still function.



Unlike a lot of other waterproof smartphones, the S7/S7 Edge has sealed ports.

This means there are no fiddly USB/ headphone port flaps. Samsung has also stuck

with a micro USB charging port so it'll still be compatible with the Gear VR

headset.



While the S7/S7 Edge don't have removable batteries, Samsung has increased

battery sizes up to 3000mAh on the S7 and 3600mAh on the S7 Edge which should

equate to battery life gains. Both the S7 and S7 Edge will also have fast

charging and fast wireless charging capabilities.



The camera has also been given an overhaul.



Although the 12-megapixel image sensors on the S7/S7 Edge are lower resolution

than those on the S6/S6 Edge, Samsung is using larger pixels to capture more

light. The optics are also brighter, allowing up to 25 per cent more light to be

captured.



A new dual-pixel focus system has also makes for a far more responsive

autofocus. As with the S6, The S7's camera is quick to fire up, which will be a

boon for anyone with kids or pets.



Samsung has also added an Always-On Display, which shows the time and

notifications. Samsung says this feature only uses half a per cent of battery

per hour. Additionally, if the S7's proximity sensor gets covered (eg when you

put it in your pocket or purse), the always on display is disabled.



Verdict



This year looks to be even more challenging for Samsung. Existing competitors

(especially Apple and LG) continue to up their game while Chinese hardware

continues to make in- roads into high margin western markets.



The S7 and S7 Edge both bring some great refinements to an already successful

design, but the multibillion-dollar question will be this: Is the S7/S7 Edge

enough to turn Samsung's smartphone market share and profitability around?



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





