

These days, there isn't much that can't be done with a smartphone.

Need to map your route to dinner? Done. Have a paper cheque to go into your bank
account? Deposited. Looking for a date, or even your soulmate? Well, that
depends on who you ask.

But one mobile technology company is looking to take the power of smartphones to
a whole new level of immersive sharing. One of the most buzzedabout
announcements from the 2016 Samsung Unpacked event was undoubtedly the company's
emphasis on virtual reality.

The event, which was held last month in Barcelona, Spain, during the Mobile
World Congress, is the forum for which the South Korea-based company unveils its
latest and greatest innovations to the world's tech media, sellers and
all-around, well, nerds.

Packed into a cavernous blue-lit convention centre, the crowd sat waiting, Gear
VR virtual reality headsets in hand, for the company to reveal its two new
smartphone models - the Galaxy S7 and the Galaxy S7 Edge. But while bursts of
applause came during the phone reveals, it was the company's virtual reality
innovations, which work with the two new smartphone models - and an accompanying
celebrity appearance - that drew most of the attention.

In addition to last year's release of the Gear VR headset, which offers a
virtual reality experience at home, the company is planning to release its Gear
360 wireless camera later this year.

"With Gear 360, what we have created is a new way to tell stories ... to capture
the world around us," Pranav Mistry, vice-president of research at Samsung
Electronics, said at the event.

Unlike the brand's Project Beyond camera, which is targeted at professional
photographers, the Gear 360 is aimed at increasing 360-degree sharing among the
amateur set.

Mistry said Samsung designed Gear 360 "to help you tell your story, to capture
those fun parts of life in new ways ... because the real world is not in one
direction. It's everywhere - all around us."

So, what exactly is the Gear 360? The device is a small spherical camera -
smaller than a baseball - set on a mini tripod that uses two fisheye lenses to
capture 360 degrees of action in photo (30 megapixels with an aperture of F2.0)
or video (measuring 3,840 by 1,920).

With the content being available for both live viewing on select Samsung
smartphones, or recording to micro SD card or select devices, the sharing
abilities for virtual reality content - from fashion shows and vacations to
family moments and sporting events - appear limitless.

Samsung's Gear 360 launch announcement got a big boost thanks to an endorsement
from the tech industry's equivalent of a rock-star - and an expert on social
sharing - Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg.

Speaking at the tech company's event last month in a surprise appearance, the
social media ingenue revealed a partnership between the two brands, which is set
to bring the virtual reality technology to the mainstream.

"Going back about 10 years, most of what we shared and experienced was text, and
it was photos," Zuckerberg says. "But pretty soon, we are going to live in a
world where everyone has the power to share and experience whole scenes as if
you're just there - right there in front of the person."

Facebook is fully invested in the technology, having acquired the virtual
reality firm Oculus in 2014 for $2 billion.

"At Facebook, we think about giving people richer and richer tools for sharing
and experiencing everything they want in the world," Zuckerberg said. "VR is the
next platform, where anyone can create and experience anything that they want."

While virtual reality has, in the past, been used predominately for video games
and other forms of entertainment, Zuckerberg and the Samsung team are
anticipating people will look to the immersive technology for sharing their
lives and experiences on social media.

Zuckerberg went so far as to describe virtual reality as "the most social
platform" thanks to its ability to add an in-the-moment experience to already
popular online video sharing.

"Our community already loves 360 videos, and every day, already, more than a
million people are watching 360 videos. More than 20,000 of them have already
been uploaded and hundreds of new ones are uploaded every day," Zuckerberg told
the crowd. "But it is still really early for 360 video. We are only a few years
into experiencing this kind of high-quality 360 content."

The level of newness didn't stop Zuckerberg from guessing where the latest VR
technology will take social sharing in the future.

"One day soon, all of us are going to have the power to broadcast live what we
are doing whenever," he said, "so that our friends, families and people we care
about can experience it as though they are right there with us."

If he's correct, virtual reality may soon just be, well, reality.

aharris@vancouversun.com The Vancouver Sun was a guest of Samsung Canada in
Barcelona, Spain. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

