                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)



                              July 29, 2016 Friday

                                 State Edition



Samsung earnings are best in 2 years



BYLINE: American-Statesman Staff



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B6



LENGTH: 708 words





Samsung Electronics Co. on Thursday reported forecast-beating earnings results

that were the best in two years as consumers snapped up its Galaxy smartphones,

in a sign the company is getting its mojo back while rivals fail to deliver new

smartphones.



The South Korean company forecast that its performance will continue to be

"solid" during the rest of the year because demand for its lucrative components,

such as high-end displays called OLED that are used as screens for premium

smartphones, is expected to increase "substantially." It expects to spend more,

however, on mobile marketing of its upcoming large-screen smartphones, to be

announced next week, which Samsung typically uses to distract consumers from new

iPhone launches by Apple.



Samsung, the world's largest smartphone maker, has a significant technology

operation in Austin, where it operates one of the biggest chip-manufacturing

complexes in North America. The company employs about 3,000 people in Austin,

where it produces, among other things, advanced low-power processors that are

used in mobile devices such as phones and tablets.



Samsung said its April-June net income rose 2 percent over a year earlier to

5.85 trillion won ($5.17 billion), compared with 5.75 trillion won a year

earlier.



That was slightly higher than forecasts, which have been revised upward in

recent months to reflect stronger-than-expected sales of the new phones.

Analysts had forecast net income of 5.79 trillion won, according to FactSet, a

financial data provider.



Sales rose 5 percent to 50.94 trillion won ($45 billion), while operating profit

surged 18 percent to 8.14 trillion won ($7.19 billion), in line with the

company's guidance earlier this month.



Samsung beat forecasts even as growth in the overall smartphone industry slowed.

Its rival Apple, the world's second-largest smartphone maker, is struggling to

boost iPhone sales and reported a 27 percent quarterly drop in profits.



Samsung's mobile business reported 4.32 trillion won ($3.82 billion) in

operating income during the three-month period, its best quarterly performance

since the second quarter of 2014.



Samsung estimates it shipped between 75.6 million and 78.3 million smartphones

during the quarter, about twice as many as Apple's 40.4 million iPhone sales.



The Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones drove the profit gain. The company

launched the latest versions of its flagship smartphones in March, several weeks

sooner than it did last year.



Early launches helped Samsung report strong sales during the first quarter, and

the latest results dispelled doubts it could sustain the momentum during the

second quarter, since consumers continued to snap up new phones in the spring.



The company also reduced its mid- and low-end Galaxy models, helping to cut

costs. During the earnings conference call, Samsung's mobile business official

said the company will launch the Galaxy C series exclusively for Chinese

consumers.



The stellar performance of Samsung's mobile division is a sign that its

experiment with smartphone designs is paying off.



Samsung introduced the first of its flagship Edge smartphone series, which

features curved displays that wrap around two corners of the device. But in

2015, it failed to capture demand because it ran into trouble mass producing

those curved displays.



The S7 Edge, with similar designs as its predecessor, saw robust demand from

consumers and this time Samsung was able to deliver the products on time. The

company said the Galaxy S7 Edge sales proportion increased.



The strength of the Galaxy S7 has boosted Samsung's own component businesses.

Sales of OLED, or organic light-emitting diode, display panels rose, helped by

healthy sales of flagship smartphones and higher demand for flexible displays

for the S7 Edge. Samsung dominates the global supply of OLED display panels for

mobile phones.



Samsung is scheduled to announce the latest iteration of its Note series, the

Galaxy Note 7, featuring a giant screen and a stylus, on Tuesday.



New home

  for Austin tech

  News about the local tech scene has a new home. It's 512tech.com, the

American-Statesman's site dedicated to tech coverage.

  See the site

  www.512tech.com

  Follow on Twitter

  twitter.com/512tech

  Like on Facebook

  facebook.com/512tech





LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman

                              All Rights Reserved





