                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          The Times of Zambia (Ndola)



                                 March 20, 2016



Samsung Zambia Launches Galaxy



BYLINE: Judith Namutowe



LENGTH: 258 words





SAMSUNG Zambia has launched the Galaxy S7 phone on the market.



The Galaxy S7 which is equipped with waterproof technology that guards it

against water has a 30 megapixel camera.



Samsung Galaxy S7 further has a 5G network connection that boosts subscribers'

browsing experience.



Speaking at the launch of the phone Youth, Sport and Child Development Minister

Vincent Mwale said Government was doing all it could to ensure that citizens

were exposed to high-tech platforms through partnerships with the private

sector.



Mr Mwale said at the weekend that Samsung Zambia was contributing to the growth

of the economy by developing local distributors who were bringing in Samsung

products, thus improving the tax revenue.



He said Samsung Zambia was further directly and indirectly creating employment

for the Zambian people through distributors who were on record for having

created over 800 jobs.



"This in turn gives additional revenue to the Government through income tax.

Today we launch Samsung S7 edge; I urge you to move with technology and plan to

buy a set. Let us be among the best as a country in terms of technology, so that

we are not left behind," Mr Mwale said.



Mr Mwale said the forgoing acts reaffirm Governments' desire and conviction that

Zambia was an important market for Samsung.



"As Government we recognise Sumsung as a partner in national development," he

said.



Brand ambassador, Kalombo Mwansa said Samsung brand places great importance on

customers' needs using technology to create solutions that make a lasting

difference in people's lives.



LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.

                              All Rights Reserved





