                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                      August 23, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



Huawei P9 Up Against LG G5 And Galaxy S7 Edge



BYLINE: Phalgunn Maharishi



LENGTH: 474  words





Huawei P9's most talked about feature is the dual rear camera setup that is

powered by Leica.



Diving straight into the topic -- Apple's got some hot competition, reports

KnowYourMobile.com. Well, if you are wondering what's the competition, then,

it's Huawei P9, the recently launched smartphone with a dual camera setup,

powered by Leica.



With Huawei P9's specifications looking great on paper, it is not only a hot

competition to Apple, but also a tough one to the recently launched LG G5 and

Samsung S7 Edge.



Under The Hood...



Huawei P9 sports a 1.8 GHz octa core HiSilicon Kirin 955 processor while LG G5

comes with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 and Samsung S7 Edge features a Exynos 8890

octa core processor. However, considering the display screen size, Huawei P9

comes with 5.2 inch, while LG G5 and Samsung S7 Edge come with 5.3 inch and 5.5

inch respectively. Here we cannot actually tell which would be better, as it is

purely a subjective preference. While some prefer screen size of 5 inch (as it

is easy to carry around), there are others who prefer larger screens (for better

multimedia consumption).



On the RAM part, P9 seems to be having a GB less than the other two smartphones,

which might affect how the smartphone can handle multiple apps at the same time.

Also, on the internal storage end, all three smartphones come with 32 GB

internal. However, Samsung S7 Edge also comes with a 64 GB variant, so that's

something interesting for people who want more space to install applications.



Counting Pixels...



All three smartphones are flagship device that we have witnessed this year, and

feature some of the best cameras we have seen. Huawei P9 and Samsung S7 Edge

come with a 12 MP primary camera, while LG G5 features a 16 MP camera sensor.

However, Huawei P9's dual camera technology, and partnership with Leica, is

something pretty impressive. However, Galaxy S7 Edge is being reported by many

tech gurus as having producing a better and wider image, all thanks to the f1.7

aperture that comes with it. But, Huawei P9's front camera definitely gives more

details due to the 8 MP shooter, which allows users to crop in deeper.



Battery Marathon...



Speaking about the battery life of the three devices, we can clearly see that

Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge is the winner as it comes with a 3,600 mAh battery.

Huawei P9 comes at second place with a 3,000 mAh battery while LG trails at the

last with a mere 2,800 mAh battery. However, we already know that LG G5 features

a removable battery and a couple of accessories that allow users to actually

keep another battery fully charged up.



Having said everything, we can clearly see that Huawei P9 is not the clear

winner when compared with the other two smartphones. But, if you consider the

price tag and its value, probably you can make your mind to opt in Huawei P9

rather than going for the other two.



LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





