                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)



                           August 10, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung hints to eliminate flat-screen on Galaxy S



LENGTH: 401 words



DATELINE: Bangladesh





Bangladesh, Aug. 10 -- Samsung first experimented with a curved display on its

smartphones when it launched the Galaxy Note Edge in 2014, and the curved screen

became more mainstream in 2015 with the Galaxy S6.



Other than a flat screen variant, the South Korean company also offered two

curved variants of the flagship device - one had a curved edge only on the right

side and the other had curved edges on both right and left.



However, Samsung fell short of gaining traction in sales as it failed to catch

up with the demand for the S7 Edge due to glitches in producing the display

curved on both sides



Now having achieved a rather satisfactory level of production yields for the

Edge display, Samsung said it would put more focus on smartphone models with the

curved display in the future, hinting it could eventually eliminate the

flat-screen Galaxy S model down the road.



"Samsung has considered that it would make the edge display as the identity of

the Galaxy S smartphone lineup if the company can provide consumers

differentiated user experience through software and user-friendly functions (for

the curved screen)," said Koh Dong-jin, the head of the tech giant's mobile

business, in a media interview in New York last week.



It takes no rocket scientist to assume the Galaxy Note 7, a curved-screen

large-size smartphone unveiled last week, will serve as a touchstone for Samsung

to decide to roll out a single model with a curved screen for future Samsung

flagships, including the Galaxy S8, which will be released next year.



Since 2015, Samsung has rolled out its flagship smartphone along with an Edge

variant -- the Galaxy S6 and S7 came with the S6 Edge and S7 Edge, respectively.



The tech giant, however, recently unveiled the Note 7 featuring the curved

display without the Edge name for the first time.



Samsung said it saw the sales of the Galaxy S7 Edge, released in February,

exceed those of its flat-screen sibling.



"Samsung will not likely get rid of the flat-screen Galaxy S smartphone model

right away, but if the market response is positive with the Note 7, it would

surely serve as a cue for Samsung to focus only on the Edge model," a market

watcher said, according to news agencies.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 The Financial Express

                              All Rights Reserved





