                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             April 19, 2016 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Mobile match-ups: HTC 10 v Samsung Galaxy S7 edge;

Digital life



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 866 words





One might think, when devising a Frankenstein phone that takes parts from the

greatest phone ever built and combines it with parts from some other phone,

always choosing the best possible part, that you'd end up with a phone that

looks a whole lot like the former, and little or nothing like the latter.



That was the fear we had when, for the purposes of this week's review, we took

it upon ourselves to merge Samsung's Galaxy S7 edge (in our opinion, the

greatest phone ever built), with HTC's brand new flagship phone, known simply as

the '10'.



Of course, we didn't actually pull the two phones apart and reassemble them as

one. They're both way too pretty to be defaced like that. But we did merge them

on a whiteboard as a sort of thought experiment, taking the parts we liked from

the Samsung and the parts we liked from the HTC 10 in the hope of coming up with

the best phone ever to appear on a whiteboard.



The results surprised us as much as we think they will surprise you.



It turns out our ideal phone is far more like the HTC 10 than it's like the

Galaxy S7 edge, certainly in terms of appearance but also in terms of software.

That's not to say the HTC 10 is the better phone. At the end of five days of

reviewing the HTC 10, we'd still rank the S7 edge as the best phone on the

market. It beats the HTC 10 in three really crucial areas: screen quality,

battery life and camera image quality.



But it does say something about the competitive nature of the smart phone

business. There really are plenty of really great handsets out there, and the

difference between them is largely a matter of emphasis. If you don't place a

premium on battery life and on the camera, but do value audio quality and a

simple user experience, then the HTC 10 could well be a better choice.



Take the physical construction of the two phones, for instance.



The Samsung emphasises beauty but that beauty comes at the cost of practicality.

The way the screen extends around edges of the phone looks amazing, but it also

means it's far too easy to accidentally press the screen when you're just trying

to hold the phone.



The HTC 10, on the other hand, looks fairly generic and a little boxy by modern

standards. It's an awfully practical design that looks and feels dependable.

Coupled with some nice other touches such as a grooved power button that makes

it easy to find the right button in the dark, we eventually came to prefer HTC

10's design to the Samsung.



But we'd still take the Samsung's weatherproofing (which the HTC disappointingly

lacks) and its dazzling AMOLED screen, only without the curves. (If you're

wondering why we rank the S7 edge above the non-curved S7, two words: battery

life. The edge has a bigger battery that gives an astonishing 2.5 day battery

life, so we live with the curves.)



The home button we'd also take from the HTC 10. It's a little odd but the

fingerprint reader is faster and more responsive than the one on the S7 edge. We

don't think it's as responsive as the fingerprint reader on an iPhone (which has

the home button we would choose if we were building our Frankenstein phone from

any parts we liked), but it's close, and it's the best we've found on an Android

phone.



The audio system we'd also take from the HTC 10. It's got stereo speakers that

are substantially louder and better than the mono speaker on the Samsung, and

when you plug in the headphones you get guided through a nifty little hearing

test that tweaks the EQ to match your hearing. (Samsung has had a very similar

feature hidden deep in its settings for years, but the marks go to HTC for

actually letting users know about it.) Both the HTC 10 and the S7 edge support

Hi-Res audio, which matters to some people though not to us, so that's a tie

either way you look at it.



With this phone, HTC has stripped away the years of accumulated crud, reducing

the apps to the minimum and giving you a very approachable user experience

that's very close to a pure Android. Camera apps, which tie closely to hardware

that's unique to the phone, are one of the few areas where the manufacturers

should tinker.



Speaking of the camera, Samsung's camera is an easy choice for our Frankenstein

phone. It's significantly better in low light, showing more detail and

considerably less chroma noise than the HTC 10. It generally takes more pleasing

photos with both the main and the selfie cameras.



The HTC 10 does have optical image stabilisation (OIS) on its selfie cam, the

first phone on the market with such a feature, but in our "selfie wobble" tests

the Galaxy S7 edge actually performed better even despite its lack of OIS: 63

per cent of shots were usable and wobble- free, compared to 39 per cent of shots

from the HTC One.



Then there's the battery life, which is generally around 2.5 days of moderate

usage on the Galaxy S7 edge, and which I'd estimate to be around 1.5 to 2 days

of similar usage on the HTC 10.



We would, however, take the HTC 10 battery charging port, which is one of the

new USB Type C ports, and allows you to plug the cable in either way. No more

fumbling around in the dark.



The HTC 10 may not take the world's best selfies when you're drunk, but at least

you don't have to be sober to recharge it.



LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The HTC 10 has some great features but the Samsung S7 edge wins

on camera image, screen quality and battery life.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





