                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung offers swops, refunds for Note7 owners;

Return it and get $1,168; swop it for S7 edge and get $250; refunds for some

accessories too



BYLINE: Irene Tham



SECTION: HOME



LENGTH: 392 words





Those who want a refund for their Samsung Galaxy Note7s will receive $1,168, the

retail price of the phone, the beleaguered firm said yesterday.



In the fight to keep customers, Samsung said that those who swop their phones

for the S7 edge will also receive a $250 cheque. The Samsung Galaxy S7 edge,

another flagship device, sells for $1,098.



The same options will apply to customers who bought the Note7 at full price from

retailers, and those who paid a subsidised rate for it after signing a two-year

service contract with local telcos Singtel, StarHub and M1.



Customers' telco contracts will continue undisrupted.



On Oct 11, Samsung warned customers to stop using the Note7 due to unresolved

concerns about the phones catching fire. It also made the unprecedented decision

to scrap the phone.



Note7 owners with original Samsung accessories including the S View Standing

Cover, Leather Cover and Back Pack will also be able to get a refund of their

retail value during the exchange.



Customers can indicate their preference on Samsung's website

(www.samsung.com/sg/note7exchange) from Oct 26 to Nov 6.



They will be asked for their home address and details so that their Note7 can be

picked up, in addition to their getting a refund or a replacement Galaxy S7

edge.



Retiree Linda Chow, 54, said she may opt for the S7 edge as the $250 cheque in

addition to getting the phone is a "good deal".



However, she lamented that the lens kit is not in the list of original Samsung

accessories that will be refunded.



In the United States, Samsung is giving customers a US$100 (S$139) bill credit

if they switch to another Samsung device. If they leave the brand by asking for

a refund or switch to another brand of device, they will get a smaller bill

credit of US$25 on their next purchase.



Last month, Samsung recalled 2.5 million handsets worldwide, including tens of

thousands of units in Singapore, and issued replacement Note7s after some units

caught fire and exploded.



The problem was initially put down to a battery fault. But the explosions

persisted even with the replacement sets, with one incident of a replacement

phone emitting smoke and requiring passengers to evacuate a Southwest Airlines

flight in Louisville, Kentucky, on Oct 5.



This resulted in Samsung's decision to pull the plug on its flagship device,

barely two months after its launch.



LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: An advertisment for the Galaxy Note7 in Ang Mo Kio Hub. The phone was

supposed to be Samsung's flagship device, but is now off the shelves barely two

months after its launch due to multiple cases where it exploded and posed a

hazard.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





