                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

                               Australian Edition



Samsung phone at home in the foam



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH



SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 450  words





Splashing around in the ocean with a shiny new Samsung could evoke looks of

horror. After all, who in their right mind would risk an $1100 smartphone by

trying to take snaps underwater?



But times are changing. Water resistance is one of the features of Samsung's

latest challenge to the iPhone: the 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and the slightly larger

5.5-inch Galaxy S7 edge, which go on sale in Australia on Friday.



Phones can now be fun to play with in the ocean, as British tourists Amelia

Vegting and Kirsty Maxwell discovered yesterday in the surf at Sydney's Bondi.



"We think it would be cool to be able to do this, we could get good pictures

travelling with this," Ms Maxwell said.



Samsung this year is fighting on multiple fronts, trying to snare market share

from Apple while wooing afresh users left disgruntled by a previous decision to

axe microSD card storage.



The weaker dollar means you'll pay handsomely when the S7s hit the shops - $1249

for the S7 edge and $1149 for the S7.



Samsung has sought to soften the blow by offering those who preordered the phone

a free Gear VR headset.



It means users can experience virtual reality, currently the hottest consumer

technology innovation on the planet. I've been testing the premium model, Galaxy

S7 edge. It's a departure from last year's S6 models.



Physically, the S7 edge is a beautiful piece of technology. Curved edges on the

sides accentuate its slim design, and the gold-coloured top panel speaks of

elegance.



Supplementing this is a bright and vivid display. Watching 2K and 4K video was a

treat. But the glass back of the phone is a fingerprint magnet. You might prefer

a phone with a more textured grip.



The handsets on offer in Australia have 32GB of internal storage, but up to 8GB

of this is taken up with the operating system. So you'll need that microSD card,

which adds up to 200GB of -additional storage.



The phones are rated as dust proof and water resistant to 1.5m for 30 minutes.

The touch-sensitive screen doesn't work under water, but I could take snaps in

the pool using the volume-down key.



For video, you have to set the camera rolling before the phone goes in the

drink. But you don't have control over focus.



Getting sharp photos proved hit and miss. One issue: when I took the phone out

of the water I was greeted with a "moisture has been detected" message. The

phone wouldn't charge for about 10 minutes.



Out of the water the camera is a pleasure to use. The main snapper is 12

megapixels, rather than 16 with the S6. The camera handles low-light conditions

well. You can also shoot hyperlapse video: time-compressed video that moves

smoothly with the camera.



â[#x20ac]¦ for the full review of the Samsung Galaxy S7 at

www.theaustralian.com.au



LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





