                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)



                             March 27, 2016 Sunday

                               EscapeNSW Edition



GADGETS



BYLINE: ROD CHESTER rod.chester@news.com.au



SECTION: ESCAPE; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 225  words





Putting camera safety into focus Olympus PEN-F $1800 body only IF YOUR travel

dreams have you strolling the streets of Paris snapping black and white photos

like someone in the '60s, this vintage-style camera is aimed at you. Inspired by

the classic rangefinder design, it is a 20 megapixel camera with a dial on the

front to switch film modes.



olympus.com.au



Samsung Galaxy S7 $1149 THE improved autofocus system in the new Galaxy S7 makes

it a very attractive option to take on a trip. When you consider that it has an

IP67 waterproof rating, so it will survive a dunk underwater, it is the new

benchmark for the smartphone you would want to take on holiday.



samsung.com/au



Tech21 Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge cases From $40 WHAT'S the point in having a fancy

new smartphone if you don't have a case to protect it? Tech21 has launched a

range of tough cases for the two new Samsung flagship phones. There are six

models of cases to choose from and all feature the shock-absorbing FlexShock.



tech21.com



Microsoft Translator MICROSOFT has updated its iOS Translator app so it will now

translate the text on a picture. Take a photo of a confusing sign as you travel

and this will turn it into English. It works with the Apple Watch and Android

Wear so you can speak English into a smart watch and have it translated.Apple

iOS / Google Android / Windows Phone / free



LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





