                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                            January 31, 2016 Sunday



Samsung Galaxy S7, S7 edge features leaked by employee



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 320 words





NEW DELHI: An alleged Samsung employee has leaked the details of the company's

upcoming flagship smartphones Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge on Korean website

Naver.



The Galaxy S7 smartphone will have a 5.1-inch display, while Galaxy S7 edge will

reportedly have a 5.5-inch screen with curved glass on both sides. This report

does not mention the rumoured Galaxy S7 edge+, which is said to have a bigger

screen.



The key feature of Galaxy S7 and S7 edge is said to be the camera, though the

resolution is 12MP; this is a decrease in the resolution as last year's Galaxy

S6 and S6 edge have 16MP camera.



More importantly, the upcoming smartphones' camera will have f/1.7 aperture,

among the lowest in the industry. This aperture allows the smartphone to capture

more light while taking photos, thus delivering better lowlight photos. For

colour reproduction and noise reduction, Samsung is using a dual-pixel

autofocus.



On the design front, Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge will look pretty similar to

S6 and S6 edge, but have a black chassis that reportedly give the smartphones a

more premium look. The smartphones will be dust- and water-resistant, a feature

missing in the predecessors (though Galaxy S5 had a rugged body). The company is

also doing away with the camera hump.



Samsung is also said to be providing a hybrid dual-sim setup so users can expand

storage by up to 128GB.



The smartphones will be available in four colours: gold, silver, black and

white.



Previous leaks have suggested that Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge will feature a

display technology similar to iPhone 6S' 3D Touch. Other leaked features include

USB Type C, fast-charging and retina scanner.



Samsung is expected to unveil Galaxy S7 and S7 edge on February 21, a day before

Mobile World Congress kicks off in Barcelona. It is expected that the company

may price the two smartphones lower than their respective predecessors.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





