                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

                                Kolkata Edition



Samsung Prices Galaxy S7 at Rs 48,990, S7 Edge at Rs 56,900



BYLINE: Gulveen.Aulakh@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 418 words





Samsung Electronics introduced the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge Tuesday in one

of the quickest launches of a flagship model in India, where it is battling

global rival Apple for the pole position in the premium segment, which offers

the highest value share.



The South Korean smartphone maker not only priced the S7 and S7 Edge at what

analysts termed a competitive ' . 48,900 and '. 56,900, respectively, it also

introduced free, lifetime privilege concierge services exclusively for customers

of these devices. It is offering a virtual reality headset for free to those who

book the devices, which go on sale on March 18.



"We are confident we will consolidate our market share from 48.2% by volume in

January 2016, as per GfK, in the ' . 30,000-and-above segment with these

devices," said Manu Sharma, director mobile at Samsung India.



Two research agencies \xAD Counterpoint Technology Market Research and

Cybermedia Research \xAD pegged Apple as the leader in the premium segment by

volume in the October-December quarter, which Samsung disputed, citing GfK

figures.



"The pricing will arrest the decline of market share as it may prevent people

from going to Apple, which in turn should further strengthen their position in

traditionally strong second and third quarters (April to September)," said Tarun

Pathak, a senior analyst at Counterpoint Research. "Additional storage (200 GB)

and VR headset bundled should also aid in this increase."



India is the fastest-growing smartphone market in the world and No. 2 by unique

users \xAD surpassing the US \xAD making the South Asian nation critical for

global handset makers. This is why companies including Apple and Xiaomi are

closing the gap between their global and India device launches.



Cupertino-based Apple started selling the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in India within

a month of the US launch in September and China's No. 1 smartphone vendor Xiaomi

may bring the Mi 5 to India in April, less than a month after opening bookings

in China. Samsung's first global announcement of the S7 devices was made at the

Mobile World Congress in Barcelona on February 21. "India is seen as a priority

market and a strong market globally...Since we make in India, we can do a

parallel launch in India without waiting," Sharma said, adding that all its

phones and tablets were made locally, giving it another advantage besides

pricing.



According to International Data Corporation, global smartphone shipments grew

10.1% to 1.43 billion units in 2015 from 1.3 billion in 2014.



LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





