                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            News Chronicle (Nigeria)



                             April 12, 2016 Tuesday



ICT, knowledge economy can become sustainable alternative to oil - Stakeholders



LENGTH: 731  words





Nigeria is over-dependent on oil as revenue and several attempts by previous and

current administrations to chart another way to increase the Gross Domestic

Product (GDP) of the country is being met with brickwalls.



In the next few years, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and the

knowledge economy will make oil insignificant, especially with the global ICT

trend.



Just like the defunct Bank PHB's advert, 'One day, cars will run on water', that

was predicted years ago, today, a new technology is assisting cars to run on

either sugarcane ethanol or  biofuel (organic and digestable waste), not

necessarily oil.



Stakeholders in the ICT industry said though Nigeria is currently the fastest

growing telecoms market in the world but if she didn't brace up to happenings

around her, the fate of the dinosaur may await her.



They noted during the third Nigeria Digital Agenda Breakfast forum, themed:

'Beyond oil-ICT a veritable alternative', that Nigeria should leverage more on

smart ways of doing things and harness the benefits of the industry rather than

its over-dependence on oil.



Managing Director, Teledom Group, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, disclosed that slavery,

colonialism and new colonialism are economic constraints to the Nigerian

ecosystem and that government should be emphatic on local production.



In his words: "There can't be innovation without knowledge, we need to

re-engineer our education system, and a situation where there is 70 per cent

against 30 per cent science students is not acceptable. There should be need to

train our children in mathematics and in another 15 to 20 years, Nigeria begins

to benefit."



Ekuwem noted that Nigeria had huge potentials and great talents but lamented

that Nigerians don't patronise themselves but believe more in expatriate, which

shouldn't be.



Buttressing Ekuwem's point, Co-Founder/CEO, Hotsauce Ltd, Mr. Dayo Adefila,

added that there was need for the implementation of science and technology

across board.



"There is an incredible growth in e-commerce, which is an element of adaptation

and being able to do something differently. We can't wait for government all the

time. We need to use ICT tools to turn around the economy for good," he said.



In his own words, President of the Association of Telecommunications Companies

of Nigeria (ATCON), Mr. Lanre Ajayi, reiterated that with appropriate government

policies, things could change and as a matter of urgency, government should

deregulate the oil and gas sector.



"With deregulation, the miracle in the telecoms sector will be duplicated in the

oil and gas sector. If the sector is deregulated, Nigerians can fix their own

prices and the country will be better for it."



President of the Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NIRA), Rev. Sunday

Afolayan also noted that Small and Medium Enterprises should be given

opportunity to showcase what they are doing, saying, "Policy is derived from

effective information and there is need for data to be taken quite seriously,

analyse and plan."



Development beyond oil forum holds today



With a glide from the third generation (3G) to 4 Generation technology, Samsung

Electronics West Africa has introduced the most advanced smartphones, the Galaxy

S7 Edge and S7 to the Nigerian market.



According to the Managing Director of Samsung Electronics West Africa, Mr. Paul

Lee, Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge highlight the most refined phone experience ever by

combining the latest technology that users expect from Samsung's Galaxy series.



Lee reiterated the company's commitment to fulfilling its brand promise of

inspiring the world and the future by bringing new and outstanding innovations

to the doorstep of consumers. "Our innovative technology has adequately captured

customers' aspirations and desires," he said.



The Galaxy S7 has a 5.1-inch display screen, while the Galaxy S7 Edge has a

5.5-inch screen. They both feature Super AMOLED display, allowing for clearer

videos and images with a resolution of 2560 x 1440 (Quad HD).



Both devices have 200GB expendable memory augmenting their 32GB of internal

storage. The devices also feature IP68 water and dust resistance, which prevent

the devices from damage when submerged in up to 1.5 meters of water for 30

minutes at a time. The S7's waterproofing includes sealed ports.



Culled from: http://sunnewsonline.com

/ict-knowledge-economy-can-become-sustainable-alternative-to-oil-stakeholders/



LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1802





                       Copyright 2016 The News Chronicle.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





