

Samsung is reportedly offering people who bought its Galaxy Note 7 cash
incentives to stick with the brand, rather than exchange it for a rival
smartphone maker's device.

Samsung's US subsidiary said on Friday that it will offer customers a $25 credit
if they exchange their Galaxy Note 7 for another Samsung smartphone, rather than
get a refund.

Customers can swap their phone for a Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 Edge or a replacement
Galaxy Note 7 in exchange for $25, in the form of a gift card or bill credit,
according to Recode .

Samsung told the website it expects to have replacement Galaxy Note 7 devices as
soon as next week. Those who choose a Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 Edge will also get
a refund of any difference in price.

"Samsung is taking a proactive approach to address customer needs around the
Note 7," Samsung Electronics America President Tim Baxter said in a statement.

"We are encouraging customers to exchange their Note 7 by taking advantage of
our Product Exchange Program. The safety and satisfaction of our customers is
Samsung's top priority."

There is no word yet on whether people who pre-ordered the handset in the UK
will be offered the same incentive.

The move comes after Samsung was forced to halt sales of its Galaxy Note 7 just
two weeks after the flagship smartphone went on sale, after some customers
reported that batteries in the gadgets had caught fire and exploded while they
were charging .

Samsung said it had sold 1 million Galaxy Note handsets in South Korea and the
US before the sales suspension, and that it had confirmed 35 cases of battery
issues.

Although the company has two battery suppliers, it has not found a way to
specify which phones may endanger users, so if offering to exchange all of them.

Horrified man posts video of his Samsung Galaxy Note 7 that burst into flames

"There was a tiny problem in the manufacturing process so it was very difficult
to find out," said Koh Dong-jin, president of Samsung's mobile business.

Galaxy Note 7s were pulled from shelves in 10 countries. The smartphone was due
to go on sale in the UK on Friday, but the launch was suspended and advertising
pulled from the websites of mobile operators following the reports.

Now US product safety and testing non-profit organisation Consumer Reports has
called for Samsung to officially recall of all of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones,
citing the "serious nature of the safety problem".

A full recall would require the return of all smartphones sold, and an immediate
halt of sales from all retailers and mobile operators - not just Samsung itself.

"I can't comment on exactly how much the cost will be, but it pains my heart
that it will be such a big number," said Koh Dong-jin.

If you have already bought a Galaxy Note 7 and want to exchange it for a new
one, you can call Samsung's customer service team on 0330 7261000.

