                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Toronto Star



                              July 8, 2016 Friday



Samsung profit up on strength of Galaxy S7;

Electronics giant defies slowdown in smartphone market as models enjoy more

success than expected



BYLINE: Jungah Lee Bloomberg



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5



LENGTH: 569 words



DATELINE: SEOUL





Samsung Electronics Co. reported its biggest operating profit in more than two

years, bolstered by brisk demand for its Galaxy S7 smartphones, cost controls

and sluggish iPhone sales.



Shares in the world's largest maker of phones and memory chips rose after it

reported operating income of 8.1 trillion won ($9.1 billion) in the latest

quarter, exceeding the 7.38 trillion-won average of analysts' estimates compiled

by Bloomberg and 6.9 trillion won a year earlier.



The results underscore how the South Korean company is defying a slowdown in the

smartphone market. Galaxy S7 models, which were timed to go on sale earlier than

usual this year, have capitalized on a lull in new iPhones from Apple Inc. That,

along with a healthy consumer electronics business, is helping to boost profit

margins and make up for declining income in Samsung's semiconductor business.



"S7 smartphones turned out to be a greater hit than what the market had thought

without competing iPhones," said Lee Seung Woo, an analyst at IBK Securities Co.

in Seoul. "Samsung's end-user products, such as smartphones and TVs, all

performed unbelievably well in the first half and looks like they did a lot of

cost reduction."



Revenue was 50 trillion won in the June quarter, the company said, compared with

the 50.9 trillion won analysts expected. Samsung won't provide net income or

break out divisional performance until it releases audited results later this

month.



Samsung probably sold 15 million units of the S7 in the quarter after shipping

10 million in March when it debuted, said Greg Roh, an analyst at HMC Investment

Securities in Seoul.



Operating profit at the mobile unit probably rose 53 per cent to 4.23 trillion

won in the second quarter, according to the average estimate of six analysts

surveyed by Bloomberg. Higher sales of the S7 Edge with a wraparound screen,

compared with the flat version, along with solid demand for cheaper models

helped earnings grow.



In the absence of a new iPhone, many carriers boosted marketing spending to

drive purchases of the S7, shifting the cost of promotion away from Samsung.



"Marketing cost is under control," said Peter Yu, a Seoul-based analyst at BNP

Paribas SA in Seoul.



Operating income at the semiconductor business probably fell about 25 per cent

to 2.55 trillion won in the June quarter on sales of 11.2 trillion won,

according to the analyst survey. Slackening demand for personal computers and

smartphones have pressured chip prices and outweighed rising orders of storage

chips from company clients.



The company's display division, which also makes screens using organic

light-emitting diodes, probably posted a profit of 170 billion won, reversing

from the 270 billion won loss recorded in the previous quarter, according to the

Bloomberg survey.



Stronger profit from OLED as more smartphone makers adopt the technology helped

to make up for losses from liquid crystal displays.



Samsung has held exclusive talks to supply OLED screens for iPhones due in 2017,

people familiar with the matter have said. The company may also bring out its

own phones with bendable screens as early as next year, people familiar have

said.



"Investors expect the smartphone-tablet hybrid device that is made of flexible

OLED technology could be a game changer," Peter Lee, an analyst at NH Investment

Securities Co. said in a June 20 report. "Especially, they seem to have higher

hopes on foldable smartphones."



LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                 Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited





