                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung launches Galaxy S7



BYLINE: Nandagopal Rajan



LENGTH: 266  words





Samsung on Tuesday launched its flagship Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge in India,

well within a fortnight of their global launch at the Mobile World Congress in

Barcelona. The two flagship phones, being sold at competitive prices of Rs48,900

and Rs56,900 long with the Samsung Gear VR headset, will come with the heavy

component of Made in India features as well as Made for India services.



The phones arguable have the best cameras in Android devices, most of which was

tested and developed at Samsung's R&D facility in Bangalore. It is also the

second largest such facility for the Korean tech giant.



Samsung R&D institude vice-president Dr Dalwinder Singh said his team worked on

multiple user scenarios to perfect the camera which uses a new dual pixel

technology to offer better performance in low light.



Powered by Samsung's own Exynos processors, the phones will offer better network

capabilities, says the company. Incidentally, the phone will not be powered by

the Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 procession like in some other markets.



Giving some extra value to customers of the premium devices in India, Samsung is

now adding a layer of concierge services in the My Galaxy app.



Manu Sharma, director mobile at Samsung India, said along with curated services,

S7 customers will get to jump the queue at around 400 service centres and will

also have pickup and drop facility with the option of getting a standby device

if needed. The concierge will be in the form of an on-call personal assistant

powered by Haptik Inc available from 10 am to 6 pm every day along with a chat

service with longer timings.



LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





