                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                         The Evening Standard (London)



                             June 2, 2016 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



The best camera is the onne in your back pocket;

Technology A new wave of smartphones are poised to make this summer one you'll

never forget. Fred Searle takes a look at the big picture



BYLINE: Fred Searle



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 34,35



LENGTH: 775 words





CAMERAPHONES have come a long way since the dark, pixellated days of your first

Nokia brick. As smartphone snappers become ever-more advanced it's increasingly

rare to see anyone but the most seasoned of pros whip out a real camera. Tech

brands are now racing to make the longest lenses and flashiest lighting, not

just as add-ons to their phones but as a key selling point.



We don't know when the iPhone 7 is coming out but already the internet is awash

with rumours about its design. Last week a social media user in China leaked

pictures purporting to show the new smartphone. Besides what seems to be an

all-screen-no-home-button front panel, the main feature that stands out is the

bigger camera, which pops out like a compact fish eye from the back of the

phone.



The iPhone 7 - or the plusher 7 Plus version, at least - is likely to have a

dual-lens camera, according to Stuff magazine's Rob Leedham, who has seen the

rumour crop up in numerous leaks. "This improves your photo quality because the

lenses can focus on different details and combine to take a sharper shot," he

says. This should make for improved lowlight shooting and more detailed pictures

- good for landscapes, bad for blemishes.



The current iPhone 6 camera, although now a bit older than some of its new

competitors, remains "one of the best on the market", says Leedham. But it can

still be improved upon. The Samsung Galaxy S7, which has been around since

March, is "the high watermark of smartphone cameras", he says. "It gives you

these really bright, bold pictures, which pop off your Instagram feed." Tech

review site Tom's Guide agrees, naming the Galaxy S7 Edge the best allrounder.



While the iPhone focuses on natural colours, the Galaxy's palette is more

vibrant. But the Samsung camera's main plus point, according to Stuff magazine,

is its ability to cope as well when it gets dark. "It's great in low light; it's

great in most conditions," says Leedham. The Galaxy S7's prowess in low light is

due to the South Korean manufacturer's brave decision to scale back on the

number of megapixels from 16 to 12, compared with the phone's previous model.

Fewer pixels means bigger pixels, which lets in more light - perfect for those

holiday selfies as the sun dips.



When cameras first started to sprout from the backs of our phones in the early

2000s it was all: "How many megapixels have you got? the inclusion of new

features designed to cater for both the amateur and professional photographer."



A good example is the Huawei P9, which is one step ahead of the iPhone 7 with a

dual-lens camera of its own. The Chinese brand - the second biggest smartphone

manufacturer in the world but still somewhat of a dark horse in the UK game -

teamed up top-end camera specialist Leica to release a camera with two sensors

last month: one for colour and one for black-and-white. Each takes a photo and

the pictures are combined to give 300 per cent more light and 50 per cent better

contrast, without the need for snappers to fiddle around with any complicated

settings.



The LG G5, meanwhile, has a 135-degree wide-angle lens, which lets users capture

more of the scene in one image without having to change position or resort to

panorama mode. This makes the G5 a great holiday camera - perfect for capturing

cityscapes, vista and group shots.



Back in 2014 the electronics manufacturer was also one of the first to introduce

a flash for selfies, "allowing users to capture themselves in the best way under

most ambient conditions", according to the company's product marketing manager

Shaun Musgrave.



Today, for the first time, smartphone cameras are genuinely giving their

standalone equivalents a run for their money. Research by Carphone Warehouse

revealed that 65 per cent of smartphone users use their phone as a substitute

for a point-and-click device. The study also showed that almost 40 per cent of

smartphone users consider the quality of a handset camera "an important (or very

important) element of a new mobile phone".



"Smartphones have reached parity in terms of their screens and processors," says

Leedham. "The camera is where it's at in terms of technology." And the main

players' clever new features highlight their progress in dealing with the dusk.



Smartphone cameras - once a less professional but more convenient alternative -

are now the real deal whatever the time of day. @fsearle91



What's your zoom like?" Now there's much more to it. Carphone Warehouse's buying

director Andy Webb says: "It's no longer about the number of pixels but



'It's no longer about the number of pixels but new features designed to cater

for both the amateur and professional photographer'



LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Get snappy happy: above, Huawei's dual-lens P9 smartphone. Clockwise

from far left, the Huawei Leica, the Galaxy S7 and the LG G5Point and click: the

LG G5 has a 135-degree wide-angle lens



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EST





                   Copyright 2016 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





