

The stakes were raised last year - when the Galaxy S6 and S6 edge first made an
appearance. Both those phones were massive improvements over their predecessors
and we loved them.

They had great design, fantastic cameras, superb screens, blistering
performance, slick software and were full of useful features.

Which is why we were delighted to see and use the S7 and S7 edge - they take the
same excellent design, refine it further while adding in the latest hardware and
improving the camera. Rather than have three versions like last year, Samsung
chose to have just two: the more conventional S7 and the larger edge, with the
curved edges. Apart from the overall better design and hardware improvements,
there are two key changes in philosophy.

First, the micro SD card slot is back and this is a big deal. There is only a
32GB version and you can add more storage at a reasonable price. Second, both
phones are completely waterproof - an even bigger deal. You might remember that
the Galaxy S5 was waterproof too but it had some ugly plastic flaps covering the
ports and the back panel had to be securely attached to keep out the water
(since it had rubber seals).

This time, the phone is sealed from the inside and the ports (3.5mm, micro USB)
are open. Its IP68 rated, which means that you can comfortably take it to the
pool, bathtub or seaside without a worry. And if you want to capture photos
underwater, just use the volume buttons (the touchscreen won't work). There are
some reports of the speaker distorting after a dip in water, but we found that
performance was restored when allowed to dry out.

The best things about the S7 are easy to spot. Straight off the bat, the S7 edge
has the best screen in the business. There's no doubt about it! Samsung amoleds
are a cut above and they seem to push the boundaries with every new version.
Anything you see on the screen will look better - it's just that simple. The
cameras have some major upgrades too.

For starters, the unsightly camera hump on the back has almost gone. Resolution
has dropped to 12 Megapixels (which means larger pixels), the aperture is f1.7
(the widest in the business), optical image stabilisation is present and it has
something called dual pixel focusing.

This means every pixel on the sensor is cable of focusing and the results are
clear to see! In any sort of light, you'll get great results in an instant. The
wide aperture and larger pixels especially shine in low light - pit it against
any phone on the market and you'll see the difference. It's hard not to be
amazed at the kind of photos this phone captures - it's really an amazing
accomplishment. With the front camera, you'll appreciate the wide field of view,
low noise and accurate colours.

Even the 4k video is stunning, thanks to the quick focusing and dynamic range
that the sensor offers. With a little bit of video editing skills, you could
shoot a movie and viewers will think that it's captured by a high-end video
camera. As for the device itself, it's got some gorgeous design and materials.
There's Gorilla Glass 4 front and back. The performance is exceptional - we got
an AnTuTu score of over 130,000.

We also liked the game Launcher and game tools - a feature that aggregates games
and adds a floating button to perform game related functions, while in the
middle of a game. Battery life on this one is great too. You'll consistently get
5.5hrs of screen on time. So why does micro USB stay on? Quite simple really:
because of Samsung's investments in virtual reality.

The Gear VR headset uses micro USB and the new d evices this year (Galaxy S7, S7
edge and presumably Note 6) will be compatible with it.

This means that the Gear VR is compatible with a total of 6 devices for far: S6,
S6 edge, S6 edge+, Note 5, S7 & S7 edge.

Incidentally, Samsung will also be launching the Gear 360 camera soon. There are
a few things we didn't like. The curved touchscreen can be too sensitive, often
rejecting touches because it senses your grip on the sides. It's also slippery
and a fingerprint magnet. The speaker volume is a bit low and sometimes sounds
muffled, likely due to waterproofing.

The fingerprint sensor is fast, but speed and accuracy is not 100%. And finally,
Samsung tends to load some redundant apps: there are two browsers, Gmail +
email, Google + S Voice, Google Photos + Samsung gallery. But these are tiny
hiccups in a sea of awesomeness. The S7 edge is an impressive feat: it's got
that killer combination of looks and performance that will put it at the top of
any wishlist. We highly recommend it!

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

