                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                            October 11, 2016 Tuesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Burning to ditch that Samsung Galaxy Note 7?;

Several alterna- tives are ready to step up and do the job



BYLINE: Eli Blumenthal, @eliblumenthal, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 387 words





One thing about the Galaxy Note 7 is very clear: Samsung's latest smartphone is

unsafe.



After a week of reports that replacement Note 7 phones were catching on fire

from battery issues, the company has seen a wave of backlash. AT&T, T-Mobile,

Sprint and Verizon have all stopped offering replacement devices. Samsung

followed, saying it would ask all global retail partners to stop sales and

exchanges.



And the Consumer Product Safety Commission issued a stringent warning that

consumers should power down and stop using all Galaxy Note 7s as the commission

investigates reports of phones overheating and burning in multiple states.



All major carriers, including Sprint, are allowing customers to return Note 7s

and exchange them for a phone of their choosing. T-Mobile is even throwing in a

$25 bill credit.



Here are a few replacements worth considering.



Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge



If you really love your Note 7's water resistance, great camera, wireless

charging and crisp display, you should strongly consider the Galaxy S7 Edge

($749.99-$800). Samsung's top Galaxy S7 phone has a slightly smaller screen and

lacks some of the Note 7's bells and whistles but is as close as you'll find to

the Note 7. Unlike the Note 7, there have been few reports of  battery issues.



Apple iPhone 7 Plus



The iPhone 7 Plus ($769) has a large 5.5-inch display, improved camera and

offers water resistance. The battery doesn't last as long, the display isn't as

sharp and water resistance on the Note is better. Oh, and there's no headphone

jack. But it's  a compelling alternative. Apple has a free Android to iPhone app

in the Google Play store called "Move to iOS" to help make the  process easier.



Google Pixel XL



Google's first smartphone ($769) will be out Oct. 20, and like other phones on

this list, it has a 5.5-inch display, fast-charging battery that promises nearly

7 hours of charge in 15 minutes, and unlimited storage for photos and videos. It

supports Google's new Daydream virtual reality platform, giving you a

replacement for Samsung's Gear VR.



LG V20



The LG V20 ($830 at AT&T) has a 5.7-inch, high-resolution display that matches

the Note 7 and features a speedy processor and dual cameras for improved

pictures. It features a replaceable battery, a rarity amongst high-end phones.

The LG V20 hits T-Mobile and Sprint stores Oct. 28.



LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Richard Drew, AP



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





