                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      March 9, 2016 Wednesday 2:29 PM GMT



Galaxy S7 release date announced: Will Samsung's new flagship smartphone be an

iPhone killer?;

Samsung's next flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S7, will be unveiled in Barcelona

ahead of Mobile World Congress



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 471 words





Samsung has announced a launch date for its next flagship smartphone, the Galaxy

S7, which is likely to be the biggest challenger to Apple's iPhone 6s this year.



The Samsung Galaxy S7 will be unveiled at the company's annual "Unpacked" event

on 21 February 2016 - the day before the world's biggest mobile event, Mobile

World Congress , kicks off in Barcelona.



In a teaser video posted on YouTube, a man putting on one of Samsung's Gear VR

virtual reality headsets , and reaching forward with his hands.



"Get ready to rethink what a phone can do," Samsung said in the text

accompanying the video. "#TheNextGalaxy will be revealed at Unpacked on February

21."



The trailer adds fuel to rumours that the Galaxy S7 will feature a depth-sensing

camera, which could be used to provide a form of positional tracking for the

Gear VR headset.



Although the current Gear VR is a groundbreaking device, it lacks positional

tracking, which is absolutely vital for immersion and prevents nausea.



The Galaxy S7 has already been the subject of numerous rumours and leaks. Only

last week, prolific leaker Evan Blass - aka @evleaks - tweeted a picture of what

he claims is the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge.



EvLeaks tweet



Although the devices look almost identical to the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge ,

released last year, the edges are more rounded, and the top and bottom bezels

appear to be fractionally thinner.



Samsung is expected to launch two versions of its new smartphone - a 5.1-inch

flat-screen version, and a 5.5-inch, curved-screen version called the Galaxy S7

Edge - which will replace both the 5.1-inch Galaxy S6 Edge and 5.7-inch Galaxy

S6 Edge+.



It will be made from metal and glass and will feature a pressure-sensitive

touchscreen, similar to the "3D Touch" screens Apple introduced with its iPhone

6s and 6s Plus last year.



The Galaxy S7's main camera is rumouted to have a 12.2-megapixel sensor - which

is much lower than the 16-megapixel camera on the Galaxy S6.



However, the camera is expected to feature Samsung's Britecell technology, which

is designed to be both better in low light and smaller in size than the camera

on the Galaxy S6, so it will not protrude from the back of the phone like the S6

camera does.



Some leaks suggest that the Galaxy S7 will include a retina scanner, which could

be used alongside the fingerprint sensors for added security.



It is also expected to be waterproof and dustproof, contain a bigger battery,

and a USB Type-C port with fast-charging capability. It will run the latest

version of Google's Android operating system, known as Marshmallow .



The price of the Galaxy S7 is hard to guess at this stage, but prices for the S6

started at £600 last year, so the S7 is likely to be around the same pricemark.



Read more: Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge release date, specs and price rumours



Is Samsung's Galaxy S7 an iPhone killer?



LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





