                             500 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            The Independent (London)



                            February 22, 2016 Monday

                                 First Edition



Galaxy S7 shines, but virtual reality camera is the new star for Samsung;

FIRST LOOK GALAXY S7 **** GEAR 360 ****



BYLINE: REVIEW BY DAVID PHELAN IN BARCELONA



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16



LENGTH: 492 words





In the competitive business of smartphone launches, it takes something

extraordinary to overshadow the unveiling of the iPhone's biggest rival.



But Samsung's new Galaxy S7 models had the show stolen from them last night at

the opening of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, when the company revealed

a golf-ball-like camera that could change how we make and view home videos,

bringing virtual reality (VR) to the masses.



The modest-looking Gear 360 is a small, spherical video camera with two fisheye

lenses facing in opposite directions.



The two lenses capture video simultaneously, which is then transmitted

wirelessly to your phone, where software knits the two feeds together into one,

wrap-around movie.



The Gear 360, Samsung hopes, will revolutionise the burgeoning VR industry. It

is banking on holiday videos becoming more appealing if you can see the sea

behind you and the beach in front, just by turning your face while looking at

the footage using another clever accessory.



Some VR systems, like the soon-to-be-released Oculus Rift, require a high-end

computer attached by wires, but the Samsung Gear VR headset eradicates this by

relying on the Galaxy phone and high-resolution screen quality to make it work.

The phone simply slots into the contraption to become the screen.



The company showed off the technology with spectacular, vertiginous footage of

skiing - offering the choice of scanning the terrain ahead or the sportsperson

preparing to set off. Recording wildlife was also radically changed as the

viewer seemed to be surrounded by giraffes on safari.



Closer to home, it will be straightforward to shoot a cycle ride with more

coverage than a GoPro can currently offer, or film a gig and really feel like

you're in the audience.



This year is being hailed as the moment VR will take off, and Samsung's camera

can only help with that, though it will need to be priced affordably to succeed.

At its best, VR is completely immersive, almost overwhelming, so the prospect of

more-personalised content is appealing.



Rival manufacturer LG also announced its own VR camera yesterday, the LG 360

Cam, which offers a smooth way of uploading results to Google Street View.

Expect more to follow suit - Apple chief executive Tim Cook's recent hint that

VR was exciting may mean Apple will be among them.



As for the phones, the Galaxy S7, and the S7 edge (with a sloping screen that

fits around the side of the model, hence its name), are good developments of

their forerunners.



Both are waterproof and also introduce handy features like an always-on screen

clock, so you don't need to wake the handset to see the time. It won't affect

battery life by more than 1 per cent per hour. Samsung's South Korean

competitor, LG, announced a similar feature.



Even so, the battery is bigger and charges quickly (from flat to 50 per cent in

10 minutes). The phones have 12-megapixel cameras which boast very nippy

autofocus and strong, low-light capabilities.



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IA





                      Copyright 2016 Independent Print Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved

