                             506 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              Chicago Daily Herald



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday



The best Samsung Galaxy Note 7 alternatives



BYLINE: From PCMag.com



SECTION: NATION_; Pg. 2



LENGTH: 497 words





If you have a Samsung Galaxy Note 7, you need to stop using it now.



Back up all your data to Google and Samsung accounts, factory reset the phone,

and return your phone to where you purchased it for a full refund or exchange.

There's no new unit coming. The Note 7 is done.



But now what? It's not like you can work without a phone.



G's V20 is another big Android phone, this one with a removable battery. It's

coming out on Oct. 28. Google's Pixel reportedly lands on Oct. 20.



Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge



The absolute closest thing to a Note 7 out there--minus the spontaneous

combustion--is the Galaxy S7 Edge. It's made by the same people and has many of

the same components--same processor, same modem, same cameras. The screen is

only slightly smaller. We've loved it for months. All you really lose is the S

Pen.



Apple iPhone 7 Plus



Is it time to go to the other side? Depends on how much you have invested in

Android. Apple's iPhones hit carrier stores on Friday. The 7 Plus has a lower

screen resolution than the Note 7, but looks like it has great cameras, a

terrific array of apps, and a CPU that just can't be beaten.



LG V10



LG's V20 is about to hit the market, but if you can't wait (or you can negotiate

a swap), LG V devices are the leading large phones with removable batteries.



That can really contribute to peace of mind if you're scared of batteries now.



The V10 is still an excellent phone, with a big quad-HD screen and dual selfie

cameras (a year before



Moto Z Force Droid



If you're a Verizon user, the Force is a real treat. Unlike the Note 7, the

Force has a nearly unbreakable screen, eliminating one major worry about your

phone.



It also has a terrific processor and can be expanded with magnetic accessories

including a larger battery, projector, and high-quality zoom camera.



Samsung Galaxy Note 5 There is no other phone on the market with the Samsung

Galaxy Note line's stylus capabilities. While some LG phones sell with a stylus,

they're essentially red herrings. The styli are standard capacitive units that

can work with any smartphone. Only the Galaxy Note line has had the S Pen's

pressure-sensitive technology.



So if you're addicted to the S Pen and don't want to mess around with a

third-party Bluetooth stylus like the Adonit Snap, that leaves you with the

Samsung Galaxy Note 5. This is last year's phone, and it hasn't had the habit of

exploding. Compared to the Galaxy Note 7, you're left with a smaller battery, no

MicroSD card slot and no waterproofing on a slightly larger phone. But if the S

Pen is your killer app, this is what you go with.



ZTE Axon 7 If you want to save some dough, the ZTE Axon 7 is an Editors' Choice

for providing nearly Galaxy S7-like performance at a price $250 less than

Samsung charges for the Galaxy S7. The Axon 7 has a 5.5-inch screen, all metal

body, MicroSD card slot and Snapdragon 820 processor, and it'll let you save a

good chunk of your Note 7 refund for cases, accessories, and service fees.



This article originally appeared on.



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.





