

Samsung's upcoming Galaxy Note 7 is likely to be unveiled in the coming month,
and rumors have already been widespread about the probable features and specs of
the device. There isn't any official information so far about the handset.

A version of the device, allegedly restricted for the US carrier Verizon, has
been seen on the Geekbench benchmark database.

The device apparently a test unit has model number SM-N930V. It possesses the
Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor with 4GB RAM. The mentioned specs aren't the
same as the previously rumored details, according to which the Galaxy Note 7 is
going to be powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 processor and Samsung's Exynos
8893 processor in specific variants of the device, carrying 6GB RAM.

Thus according to SamMobile, the Geekbench device may just be under testing on
Verizon's network without containing the actual specifications.

It seems like the same variant of the Galaxy Note 7 was present on the AnTuTu
benchmark site, mentioning that the device has been powered by the Snapdragon
820 SoC, carries a quad-core CPU and boasts the Adreno 530 GPU.

Past week, there was another Galaxy Note 7 version which was present on
Geekbench as well, suggesting that the handset is going to have the all new
Android 7 build, also known as the Android Nougat, out of the box.

This specific Galaxy S7 variant wasn't like the alleged Verizon-bound version,
and carried the model number SM-N930F. It sported the Exynos 7420 chipset,
rather than the rumored Exynos 8893 processor.

According to a report in IBTimes by  Kukil Bora, "Rumors are rife about the
likely features and specs of Samsung's upcoming Galaxy Note 7, which is
widely-expected to be unveiled next month. While there is no official
information available about the handset, a version of the device - allegedly
bound for U.S. carrier Verizon - has been spotted on the Geekbench benchmark
database."

The device, which appears to be a test unit, carries the model number SM-N930V
and features the Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor with 4GB of RAM. These specs
don't match the previously rumored details, which suggested that the Galaxy Note
7 will be powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 processor and Samsung's Exynos
8893 processor in certain variants of the device, along with 6GB of RAM.

Another version of the Galaxy Note 7 appeared on Geekbench last week as well,
indicating that the handset will come with the latest Android 7 build, also
referred to as Android Nougat, out of the box. Unlike the alleged Verizon-bound
version, this particular Galaxy S7 variant was carrying the model number
SM-N930F and was sporting the Exynos 7420 chipset, instead of the rumored Exynos
8893 processor.

"Just recently, the Galaxy Note 7 popped up on Geekbench with model number
SM-930F, revealing some tidbits of information regarding its specifications. The
new AnTuTu listing shows some differences in purported specifications,"
according to a news report published by Tech Times.

Previous leaks, meanwhile, have revealed that the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 will be
rocking an advanced iris scanner for extra security, a dual-edged display
similar to that of the Galaxy S7 edge flagship and a new S Pen stylus with Air
Command features. The phablet is further expected to feature a powerful 3,600
mAh battery to fire up that high-end display, purportedly lasting for up to 20
hours of video playback.

Lastly, the Galaxy Note 7 will come as the successor to last year's Galaxy Note
5, skipping a numeral to be more in line with the Galaxy S7 series. The company
reportedly fears that launching the phablet as the Galaxy Note 6 would confuse
potential customers into thinking it was an older model.

