                             510 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            Belfast Telegraph Online



                      February 2, 2016 Tuesday 4:12 PM GMT



Gear 360: Samsung could unveil 360-degree camera alongside the Galaxy S7



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 355 words





We already know that Samsung is going to unveil the Galaxy S7 smartphone on 21

February, but they could be revealing a 360-degree camera at the same time.



Samsung fan website SamMobile claims to have confirmed that the company is

getting ready to launch the Gear 360, a video camera that can capture 360

degrees of footage at once, allowing viewers to see different angles within a

single video, or even watch it through a virtual reality (VR) headset.



The disc-shaped camera works by using a number of fisheye lenses to film all of

the area around it at once, before stitching these different videos together

into a single 360-degree image.



SamMobile claims it will be compatible with the S7 via Bluetooth, potentially

allowing 360-degree video streaming and phone controls.



The camera reportedly has a built-in power supply, so there's no need for long

cables, and boasts many of the variables and video customisation options that

you'd find in a high-end video camera.



Samsung helped bring VR technology to the masses with their Gear VR headset, a

low-cost device that uses an ordinary Samsung phone to give users a surprisingly

good VR experience.



Read more



Samsung Galaxy S7 to be unveiled at 'Unpacked' event on 21 February



If the Gear 360 camera really is due for an imminent unveiling, Samsung could do

the same for 360-degree filmmaking.



Most 360-degree cameras currently cost hundreds and even thousands of pounds.

The models available to ordinary consumers are a bit cheaper, but they're all

fairly limited in image resolution and how long they can record for.



Whether the Gear 360 will take off or not depends heavily on the price, which

hasn't been revealed yet.



SamMobile said they expect the new camera to make its debut alongside the Galaxy

S7, at the pre-Mobile World Congress announcement in Barcelona on 21 February.



Samsung did make a lot of hints about its VR operation in a teaser trailer for

the event, but only time will tell if we'll see the Gear 360 this month.



Independent



LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT





           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)

                              All Rights Reserved





