                             516 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Voice & Data



                                October 23, 2016



Samsung to launch only 4G devices in India



BYLINE: Sanjeeb Kumar Sahoo



LENGTH: 271  words





NEW DELHI: After the fiasco of high-end Samsung Galaxy Note 7, the South-Korean

tech giant is facing a major loss of market share across the globe. However,

Samsung Electronic India isn't giving up and is ready to strike back and bring

its lost glory with 4G devices.



Hoping to recover from the fall, Samsung announced that it will make all the

future launches in India with 4G facilities, including entry level smartphones.



Manu Sharma, Vice President, Mobile Business, Samsung India said, "There is huge

conversion happening from feature phones to smartphones at the entry level. This

migration will continue. All the future launches, including entry level segment,

will have 4G facilities and we will sell 4G devices. But at the same time, there

will be a certain set of feature phones users because of price points."



The company has already started making changes with the pre-book orders. Sharma

further said, "We have converted the Note 7 pre-booked customers in India to S7

and S7 Edge. We are humbled by the loyalty of the consumers towards the brand.

There is now a strong sales momentum on S7 and S7 Edge. By virtue of being a

full-range player with 25 models across segments, we are confident to grow our

share and sales this quarter."



According to latest data, in the smartphone market, the mobile maker at present

has 48.7 percent share in terms of value. Specifically, the sales of Galaxy S7

and S7 Edge raked up from 20 percent to 40 percent within the last 10 days.



The company also mentioned that if consumers don't want to replace the pre-order

for S7, they can go to the service center and get the amount refunded.



LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





            Copyright 2016 Voice & Data, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





