                             518 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                 Central Asian News Service (English language)



                              June 17, 2016 Friday



Samsung to start producing Galaxy Note 7 next month



LENGTH: 276  words





Samsung may ramp up a hefty supply of its Galaxy Note 7 for an August rollout,

says CNET.



The South Korea-based electronics maker will reportedly manufacture 5 million

units of its next stylus-based phablet for its initial supply, an anonymous

industry source said.







For last year's Galaxy Note 5, Samsung produced 5 million units for an entire

quarter. A larger initial supply of the Note 7 would indicate that the company

expects better sales of this year's model.



In recent years, Samsung has struggled with weaker smartphone sales. But heavy

demand for the Galaxy S7 smartphone helped revive Samsung's fortunes, triggering

a 12 percent jump in earnings last quarter. The company may be counting on that

same mojo to carry over to its next Galaxy Note device.



Samsung will outfit the Galaxy Note 7 with a dual-edge display. The company has

already adopted curved displays on both sides of its Galaxy S6 Edge and Galaxy

S7 Edge phones. The Galaxy Note Edge sported a curved display but just on one

side. This would be the first time a Galaxy Note device may include two curved

edges. The device, a hybrid of a phone and a tablet, is also rumored to sport a

5.8-inch screen and an iris scanner.



The new Galaxy Note could be unveiled on August 2, at least according to an

image leaked earlier this week, as shown by blog site Sammobile and other sites.

The tagline on the alleged image states: "The next edge is just around the

corner." The Galaxy Note 5 is Samsung's current Note model. But rumors suggest

that the company will bypass the Note 6 name to bring the Note's numbering in

line with its flagship Galaxy lineup, which currently stands at S7.AKIpress



LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 894





                            Copyright 2016 AKIpress

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





