                             520 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                     February 23, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



Samsung Announces The Enterprise Device Program to Further Business

Transformation



LENGTH: 536  words





Tuesday, February 23, 2016: Samsung today announced a series of initiatives

targeting enterprise mobility, focused on security, productivity and choice.

Samsung is committed to helping businesses with their mobility and productivity

needs, ranging from hardware to business applications as well as creating a set

of unique solutions secured by Samsung's KNOX platform. These solutions will be

available starting with the Samsung Galaxy S7.



An Expanded Commitment to Secure Mobility



Android is a secure and trusted platform ready for enterprises to deploy robust

business solutions now. Samsung delivers the industry leading mobile security

platform and starting with the Galaxy S7, Samsung extends this leadership by

delivering Android for Work (AfW) hardened by Samsung KNOX. This allows AfW

customers to realize the same core elements of hardware-backed protection that

Government and other highly regulated industries receive when they use Samsung

KNOX. Customers continue to preserve their investments and automatically benefit

from the KNOX security platform.



"Samsung is giving enterprises and professionals the most productive and secure

mobility experience available on the market today," said Dr. Injong Rhee,

Executive Vice President and Head of R&D, Software and Services, Mobile

Communications Business at Samsung Electronics. "You gain next-generation

innovation that can help bring you and your business to a new level of growth.

The robustness of Android, the award winning security benefits of KNOX cannot be

matched."



Enterprise Device Program



Starting with the Galaxy S7, Samsung is also announcing the Enterprise Device

Program (EDP). This multi-faceted program is designed to give businesses

confidence in the purchase decision with respect to security and availability of

the devices. There are two core components of the EDP:



Monthly Security Updates



In 2015, Samsung began working with industry partners and operators to

distribute monthly Android security updates on Samsung Galaxy devices. Samsung

has extended their security commitments to now include over 100 countries. These

critical security updates include both Android core and Samsung specific

security patches. This gives the global customer base assurances they will

receive security updates in a timely manner to maximize device security and

productivity.



"With Android for Work, we've invested a lot to make Android a trusted platform

for people to use in the workplace. With Samsung further reinforcing the

platform with KNOX and committing to monthly security updates, the Samsung

Galaxy S7 will be one of the best choices on the market today for enterprises,"

said Hiroshi Lockheimer, SVP of Android, Chrome OS & Chromecast at Google.



Two-year Device Purchase Program



Samsung recognizes the need for enterprises to have a complete device lifecycle

management program in place. Enterprise customers are now able to take advantage

of a two-year purchase assurance program for select device models, starting with

the Galaxy S7, giving them the ability to purchase the same device model up to

two years from the device's market availability. This program will simplify how

customers define their fleet of devices and manage their refresh cycles.



LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





