

Company plans to promote ¡®Samsung Pay' in US

The latest figures on smartphone sales in the U.S. show Samsung Electronics
beating out its rival Apple there between March and May.

Data from Kantar WorldPanel showed that Samsung's Galaxy S7 smartphone outsold
Apple's iPhone 6S and 6S Plus between March and May this year.

The research firm said Samsung Electronics was the top player with a share of 37
percent, followed by Apple with 29 percent.

In terms of shares for their flagship products, the Galaxy S7 grabbed 16
percent, while that of Apple's iPhone 6S and 6S Plus line remained at 14.6
percent, according to Kantar.

Samsung Electronics has expanded its product lineup to more than a dozen models
on the back of its in-house manufacturing capability, compared to Apple's nine
iPhones.

But Apple had stronger brand loyalty than Samsung, as 88 percent of current
Apple device users responded that they will continue to use Apple products,
compared to 86 percent of Samsung Galaxy users.

Five percent of Apple users moved to Samsung Galaxy, while the portion moving
from Galaxy to the iPhone was 14 percent.

Samsung officials and analysts say the latest results don't necessarily mean
that Samsung is a 'firm leader' in the U.S. smartphone market. But they say the
analysis is indicative that Apple is losing its luster on its home ground.

'The question is will consumers want to buy iPhones at a time when Samsung
phones and even phones from other companies are getting better and more
sophisticated in terms of software and hardware. This is why Apple will be
releasing its curved iPhones using much brighter OLED panels late next year
which Samsung Display will be handling,' said an official.

Samsung Pay in US

A senior executive said the company plans to jointly promote its mobile payment
system, Samsung Pay, with U.S. carriers.

'Talks with major U.S. carriers were successful. Samsung plans to launch
campaigns to promote Samsung Pay in the U.S.,' said Samsung Electronics
President Ko Dong-jin, who also oversees the company's handset business.

The executive added the company hopes for upcoming promotional campaigns to win
over more U.S. customers to the Samsung-developed mobile payment system.

'Initial response of Samsung Pay was quite impressive and solid. The response
from markets where Samsung Pay has already been available is also good. If U.S.
consumers are satisfied with Samsung Pay, then they will buy Samsung phones,' Ko
said in a meeting with local reporters.

'Samsung is hoping to enjoy more lock-in effects by expanding Samsung Pay in the
U.S. Whether or not we will see an increase of Samsung phone sales will depend
on the expansion of Samsung Pay,' said Kwon Seong-ryeol, an analyst at Dongbu
Securities.

Samsung Pay was introduced there last October. Galaxy S6, S6 Edge, Edge Plus,
S7, S7 Edge, Galaxy Note 5, Galaxy A9 and Galaxy A7, support the Pay system.

Ko remained confident on the outlook for Samsung's upcoming Galaxy Note 7.

Samsung sent an invitation letter to industry officials, press and developers
for a company event to release the Note 7 in New York, Aug. 2. The 'Unpacked'
event will be broadcast live in London and Rio de Janeiro.

