
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Aug. 11 -- Should you find yourself in the unenviable position of
having to write something down while underwater, you should take your Galaxy
Note 7 along because this is about the one device that will let you do it.
Samsung has taken its category-starting 'phablet' up a notch with IP68 rating
water resistance and a host of other tricks. The Note 7, launched in India
today, will be available at a price of Rs 59,900 from September 2.


 But what does it look like?
 Hold a Galaxy S7 Edge in one hand and a Note 7 in the other and you'll be hard
put to to find any major differences. The Note 7 has a slightly bigger screen at
5.7 inches to the S7's 5.5-inch display. The Note's display is dual-edged,
rounded both for beauty and ergonomics, and there are some small differences
such as the upper and lower bezel size. Samsung has obviously seen fit not to
interfere with a design that has worked since the Galaxy S6 and although there
are groans that there's no adventurous new design, the pre-orders are pouring
in, at least in South Korea. It does, after all, come with some innovations.
 Easy on the iris
 The much talked-of iris scanner is indeed present on the new Note 7, launched
today in India and to be available sometime early September.
 The feature works very well too. It takes little time to register the user's
irises and once that's done, very little time to unlock the phone when raised to
eye level. Wearers of thick glasses may have a little trouble.
 This security feature is also meant to come into play when unlocking secured
content and using Samsung Pay.
 A mightier pen
 Samsung has improved what makes the Note the Note, the stylus or S-Pen. It's
easier to hold because of its new material and edges and has a finer tip making
handwriting even closer to the real thing than before. As with the Note 5, you
can write on the sleeping screen but this time, you can write more and pin the
note to the lock screen - just in case you don't trust yourself to remember
something.
 The S-Pen goes beyond writing by getting along better with more apps via its
command menu, triggered by withdrawing the pen from its slot or clicking its
little button. Among the clever things the S-Pen now does is to let you hover
over a word and translate it into over 60 languages - though there are probably
faster ways.
 It smart-selects objects such as a portion of a video for you to write on and
share as an animation on social networks, and if none of this is your cup of
tea, it lets you paint with oil effects.
 Add-on accessories
 Samsung fully means to tempt users to pick up optional accessories to go with
the Note 7. To begin with there are some fancy cases such as the LED View case
which magically lights up to show information on the cover. There's a standing
cover, for those who plan to set the phone down to watch a video. The Gear VR,
the virtual reality headset launched earlier, has been improved with a wider
view and there's always the wireless charger. But now, add to that a wireless
pair of earphones meant, not really for music, but for those who want to workout
with music and instructions. For high quality music you still have to plug in
headphones, but to workout, you could opt for the earbuds - and hope they fit
your ears well.
 Samsung's Gear Fit has also been upgraded to version 2 and is now larger and a
tracker of specific exercise types, including yoga and Pilates. Related apps
will let Indian users track their calorie intake.
 Everything else
 The specs on the Note 7 are similar to those of the S7 and Edge. India will see
a dual-sim device.
 Quad HD 2560x1440 pixel AMOLED display
 4GB RAM
 518ppi density Octa-core Samsung Exynos 8 processor with 4GB LPDDRA RAM.
 All models have 64GB storage expandable by 256 GB
 3,500mAh battery with fast and wireless charging USB Type-C port
 12MP Dual Pixel sensor with F1.7 lens
 Iris scanner, fingerprint sensor, Knox security
 The display, thought by reviewers to be the best in the business, and camera
are the same as on the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge but with some enhancements. For
example, on the Note 7 you can view (but not capture) HDR video and zoom into
the details.
 Samsung has been riding high on its recovery from a decline in mobile sales for
the past two quarters. The Galaxy S7 has seen good sales and Samsung hopes the
trend will continue with the Note 7. For those who already happen to own either
the S7 or S7 Edge, for which they will have paid a tidy sum, the Note 7 may not
be enough of an upgrade unless there is a specific need for the stylus. For
anyone with an older version of the Note, not including the Note 5, the new
version may be compelling enough, considering the significant improvement to the
S-Pen, the best-in-class camera and features like the iris scanner.
 For first-time buyers of the Note series, it's an expensive buy but one that
brings the most capable Android phone so far.

