

Samsung just unveiled its latest phone-the Galaxy Note 7.

You may have noticed that the last Note was number 5, meaning the Note 6 was
skipped. Well, there's a good reason for that. Basically, the new Note has the
capabilities of its line while borrowing the best features from the Galaxy S7.
This phone boasts top-notch technology and some never-before-seen features,
which the Observer got a sneak peek of last week. The phone is set for release
on August 19th, but you can pre-order it as early as tomorrow.

Here's what you need to know about Samsung's new Galaxy Note 7:



The iris scanner is the future More security.
#GalaxyNote7pic.twitter.com/rGQ7Y9mumX - Samsung Mobile US (@SamsungMobileUS)
August 2, 2016

Straight out of a science fiction movie, the new Galaxy Note 7 allows you to
unlock your phone with your eye. It's extremely fast and accurate, making it as
quick as your fingerprint and making it possible to open your phone even faster
than you can with a passcode. And the best part? The iris scanner is simply
activated when you pick up your phone and look towards it, so you won't be
struggling to stare into the right place. It even works with glasses! (But not
sunglasses).



It's water-resistant Don't worry about getting it wet. The #GalaxyNote7 is water
resistant. pic.twitter.com/Pe4H72OWXB - Samsung Mobile US (@SamsungMobileUS)
August 2, 2016

For the first time, a note phone is water resistant. The Galaxy Note 7 can be
submerged in up to five feet of water for up to 30 minutes and still make it out
alive. This is what we were talking about when we said the phone is borrowing
the best features from the Galaxy S7.

The camera is amazing

Another feature borrowed, the Galaxy Note 7 features the same 2-megapixel camera
as the S7 line, which is considered one of the best (if not the best) cameras on
a smart phone. I've tested it against many, and it beats the iPhone's by a mile.

A brand new color is available

In addition to black and gold, the Galaxy Note 7 also comes in a new color
Samsung calls "coral blue," which features rose pink border. While the idea of
colored phones may, at first, bring our minds back to the days of the hot pink
Motorola Razr, we promise these colors are cool and sleek.

The edges are curved

The curved glass of the Galaxy S7 Edge has made its way onto the new Note,
helping the larger work-ready phone stay sleek and easier to hold and use.



Productivity is in full-force Tackle every to-do.
#GalaxyNote7pic.twitter.com/I1V9qVjxlV - Samsung Mobile US (@SamsungMobileUS)
August 2, 2016

Like every Note before it, the Galaxy Note 7 will help you get things done.
Obviously there are more tips and tricks this time around. The S Pen has a
thinner tip, giving you a more accurate tap. You can also write and save notes
on the screen while it's locked. One truly time-saving feature is that you can
now hover over anything to zoom, which is perfect for shopping, working and
general Internet browsing.

It's powerful Make room for more. Expandable storage for the #GalaxyNote7 is
here. pic.twitter.com/Wd1aOp0G8j - Samsung Mobile US (@SamsungMobileUS) August
2, 2016

With a large 14400 5.7-inch AMOLED screen, 4GB of RAM, a powerful quad-core
processor and expandable storage, you won't even need your laptop.


