                             533 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                           February 20, 2016 Saturday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



What to expect from Mobile World Congress 2016



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 393 words





All the biggest names in the world of mobile telecoms and internet technology --

with the exception of Apple -- will be heading to Barcelona, Spain, February

22-25, for the 2016 Mobile World Congress (MWC). New-generation flagship

smartphones from Samsung, LG, Huawei and Sony are expected at the event, as well

as appearances from prestigious special guests.



Stars of the show: Samsung Galaxy S7, LG G5



New versions of some of the most innovative and high-performance smartphones on

the market are being lined up for the Barcelona trade show, with replacements

for the Samsung Galaxy S6, the LG G4 and the Huawei P8 expected at MWC 2016.



Samsung is likely to grab the most column inches with the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy

S7 Edge, which brings curved edges to the handset's display. These new models

should be up for release from March, while a "Premium" version with a 4K screen

and a 14-core processor could be heading for the Asian market.



As well as unveiling its flagship G5, South Korean manufacturer LG is expected

to launch two models in a specialist new mobile phone range. The LG X Cam

handset gets twin 13- and 5-Megapixel rear-facing cameras, while the X Screen

comes with a dual-display design.

Although new handsets are likely from Huawei, in the form of the P9, and Sony,

other innovative models could steal some of the limelight. The Cat S60, for

example, is a waterproof, high-resistance handset that's billed as the world's

first smartphone with a built-in thermal imaging camera.



Alongside smartphones, plenty of connected devices will be on show at the

Barcelona event, with freshly unveiled models plus products presented back in

January 2016 at CES in Las Vegas.



Mark Zuckerberg takes center stage



Each year, the Mobile World Congress invites big names from the telecoms

industry to share their vision of the sector in a series of conferences and

debates. After outlining Facebook's mobile strategy at MWC 2015, Mark Zuckerberg

will once again be the undisputed star of the Barcelona trade show. Other

prestigious guests include Chuck Robbins (Cisco), Hans Vestberg (Ericsson),

Shang Bing (China Mobile), Vittorio Colao (Vodafone), Brian Krzanich (Intel),

Dan Schulman (PayPal) and Jonah Peretti (BuzzFeed).



Follow the keynotes live at mobileworldlive.com



Mobile Word Congress runs February 22-25, 2016 in Barcelona. Website:

mobileworldcongress.com







LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





