                             539 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review



                             July 9, 2016 Saturday



LENGTH: 566 words





Regulators consider setting cybersecurity standards for banks



Federal regulators plan to require banks to adopt baseline safeguards to shield

themselves from cyberthreats after a series of assaults cost the industry

billions of dollars and shook consumer confidence, Bloomberg News reported.



The Federal Reserve is leading other agencies in crafting the protections, which

would be minimum standards, said the people who asked not to be named because

work on the measures isn't public. The effort stems partly from a concern that

as digital breaches become more frequent and aggressive, an attack could cripple

the entire financial system.



The Fed is working with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the

Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the people said. Further details on the

agencies' plans couldn't be determined, so it's not clear whether costly efforts

that lenders have already undertaken would put them in compliance with what

regulators propose.



Galaxy S7 model fails Consumer Reports testing



Consumer Reports says a Samsung phone that's advertised as being "water

resistant" isn't.



The problem appears limited to the Galaxy S7 Active, a rugged model available

only through AT&T in the United States. The standard S7 and S7 Edge models have

the same claims on water resistance and passed tests.



Consumer Reports, a nonprofit organization that is well respected for its

product testing, said Friday that it can't recommend the Active because it

doesn't meet Samsung's claims. By contrast, Consumer Reports rates the S7 and S7

Edge phones as "Excellent" for their displays, battery life and cameras.



Samsung said it has received very few complaints and had subjected the phone to

strict testing for quality assurance, but "there may be an off chance that a

defective device is not as watertight as it should be." The company said it was

in touch with Consumer Reports to learn more about its tests.



Uber reportedly raises $1.15B in sale of high-yield loan



Uber has reportedly raised $1.15 billion in a new high-yield loan that will

allow the company to take advantage of low interest rates without diluting the

equity of early investors.



Uber will pay a yield of about 5 percent on the loan, underwritten by a group

led by Morgan Stanley and including Barclays PLC, Citigroup Inc. and Goldman

Sachs Group Inc., according to the Wall Street Journal. The Los Angeles Times

previously reported that Uber had asked banks such as Barclays and Morgan

Stanley to help it sell a loan valued between $1 billion and $2 billion.



The move is the latest strategy implemented by the San Francisco startup as it

fuels its worldwide expansion. After years of aggressive investment from venture

capital and private equity firms, the company turned last month to Saudi

Arabia's sovereign-wealth fund for a $3.5 billion investment.



Monster Beverage suit over caffeine content reinstated



Monster Beverage Corp. must face class action claims that its labeling failed to

warn consumers of caffeine content. The federal appeals court in San Francisco

on Friday partially reinstated a previously dismissed case.



The court rejected Monster's claim that the Food and Drug Administration, which

regulates nutrition labeling, pre-empted the consumer claims.



The appeals court upheld dismissal of separate claims that Monster's off-label

marketing campaigns improperly targeted children.



"" Wire reports



LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Tribune Review Publishing Company

                              All Rights Reserved





