                             543 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            April 20, 2016 Wednesday



'Cheil, Founded deal unlikely to affect stake sale process'



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 566 words





Mobile chief Ko remains upbeat about S7 sales



Cheil Worldwide CEO Lim Dai-ki said Wednesday that its decision to acquire

Founded, a creative agency with offices in London and San Francisco, is unlikely

to affect the firm's ongoing stake sale.



'Cheil Worldwide acquired Founded as planned as this deal will significantly

boost Iris' expertise in B2B marketing and strategic planning,' Lim told

reporters.



He made the remarks on the sidelines of the weekly regular meeting of senior

Samsung executives, held Wednesday at the Seocho Samsung Tower.



Cheil, an advertising arm of Samsung Group, itself owns Iris, McKinney and

Barbarian Group.



The senior executive declined to specify terms of the Founded deal. Established

in 2012, Founded was named 'Best Breakthrough Agency of the Year' last year. Its

sales last year were $8.7 million, with the agency generating $2.2 million in

operating profit.



Lim said the acquisition of Founded won't affect the ongoing discussions with

Publicis of France over the possible sale of Cheil Worldwide.



Talks are currently underway between Cheil and Publicis to sell a 30 percent

stake in Cheil to the French firm.



'This is a totally separate issue. Major shareholders were in talks with global

ad agencies for improved partnership on multiple fronts. But no significant

progress has so far been made,' Lim told reporters.



However, some claim Cheil's acquisition of Founded was part of its strategy

shift for international growth rather than selling its stake to the French

company, as the talks were at one point stalled after Samsung and Publicis

differed on the value of Cheil Worldwide stocks.



For example, Samsung Electronics spent $2.4 billion on global advertising in

2015.



Cheil's Iris has contracts with P&O Cruises, Uniqlo, HSS Hire, SAP, Financial

Times, Moneycorp, WSAtkins, WePay, Capita and Zipcar as its clients, meaning

that the alliance will also give Cheil greater access to those under the same

network.



Galaxy S7 goes well



Separately, Samsung Electronics' mobile chief Ko Dong-jin told reporters that

the company is positive about brisk sales of its latest flagship handsets -

Galaxy S7 and S7 edge - in the United States.



'Samsung Electronics is still on track to continue the ¡®one-plus-one'

promotional event for American customers - get another product free with one

purchase. Samsung is positive about further healthy sales of S7 even after the

promotion,' the senior executive said. 'This promotion is led by mobile

carriers.'



Verizon Wireless, America's top mobile carrier, has joined with Sprint and

T-Mobile for the special deal. A customer using AT&T's networks can get

Samsung's 48-inch flat-screen TV with one S7 purchase this month.



Counterpoint Research, a market research firm, said the S7 sold 26 percent more

than its predecessor Galaxy S6 for the first month since the device's debut.



The company's semiconductor chief Kim Ki-nam made clear that the market leader

Samsung is developing next-generation memory chip variants such as MRAM and

ReRAM.



'Yes, Samsung will commercialize MRAMs and ReRAMs according to our own schedule.

We are on our way and will be ready soon,' Kim told reporters.



MRAM is an upgraded version of DRAM with advantages in data-processing speed.



Also, unlike conventional DRAMs, MRAM can store information in digital devices

even when switched off. ReRAM enhances speed and efficiency more than today's

NAND flash memory chips.



LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





