                             545 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               Los Angeles Times



                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday

                                  Home Edition



BUSINESS BEAT;

Swapping a faulty Galaxy Note 7



BYLINE: Hayley Tsukayama, Tsukayama writes for the Washington Post.



SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 223 words





Last week, Samsung halted sales of its latest flagship smartphone, the Galaxy

Note 7, after reports of battery explosions and said it would voluntarily

replace every device.



"We acknowledge the inconvenience this may cause in the market, but this is to

ensure that Samsung continues to deliver the highest-quality products to our

customers," the company said in a statement last week.



Samsung said it had shipped 2.5 million of the devices and confirmed 35 cases in

which the batteries exploded either during or after charging normally. The

phones have a failure rate of about 24 per every million, the company said.

Although only a few dozen cases have been confirmed, those who have bought the

devices may be wondering: Do I really need to trade it in? The answer is yes.



Samsung will let smartphone users swap their current Galaxy Note 7 for a new one

when they become available. Samsung is also going to give customers the option

to swap their Note 7 for another Samsung phone -- the Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7

edge -- that has not had battery issues. The company will refund the difference

in price.



The company has also said that "consumers will receive a $25 gift card or bill

credit from select carrier retail outlets when choosing a Galaxy S7 family

device or the Galaxy Note 7 within the exchange program." AT&T is one of those

retailers.



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times

                              All Rights Reserved





