                             546 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 EKantipur.com



                             April 12, 2016 Tuesday



Upgrades and updates



LENGTH: 771 words



DATELINE: Nepal





Nepal, April 12 -- I think my computer is infected with a very potent virus

because it is not turning on at all. I want to format the computer but I can't

do that either because the computer just refuses to turn on. What can I do to

get my laptop working again



-Namish Poudel



Dear Namish,



You haven't provided a lot of details in your question that I can work with. How

can you be so sure that it's affected with a virus because unless a virus is a

really complex virus, they don't affect hardware as much. There are viruses that

infect the boot sector of your hard drive or even affect your MBR partitioning

tables but these viruses are really rare. Most common viruses won't behave like

this and even if did affect your Windows, the BIOS should boot. You'll know the

BIOS has booted when your laptop's manufacturer's logo will pop-up. But if

you're computer is not turning on at all, then a virus is most likely not the

issue because software will very rarely affect hardware. I think your laptop is

suffering from a hardware issue that is not letting it boot up at all, if

hardware is to be blamed, you might have to take your computer in for repair and

figure out which part of your hardware has been compromised. If your computer is

not booting up at all then there is nothing you can do anyway, so might as well

take it for repair.



I currently own a Galaxy S6 but with the release of the new Galaxy S7, I am

thinking of upgrading to the newer model. What would you recommend? Do you think

the S7 offers greater value that warrants an upgrade?



-Prajesh Pradhan



Dear Prajesh,



If you already own last year's Samsung flagship, an update might not be

necessary in terms of performance but if you want to upgrade because you want to

stay on top of the game and own the latest and the greatest, you can upgrade.

Upgrading would not offer you great value, however, because the S6 is already a

powerful phone on its own and it's just a year old. The S7 is definitely faster

than the S6 but your current phone can easily hold its own against anything that

the Play Store has to offer. There are some really cool features on the Galaxy

S7, however, like the always on display and better support for their edge

display but you'll be paying premium money for a device that is slightly better

than you current one. So, I would suggest holding on to your Galaxy S6 and

upgrading to the S7 when the prices have dropped or once your S6 starts behaving

sluggish. Be happy with what you have, sometimes our judgments are clouded by

the gimmicky features and advertising that these big companies are known for.



I have a Windows 8.1 PC and am pretty happy with the performance of the

operating system but I get annoyed when it starts updating when I need to work.

I will be nearing my deadline or will be getting ready for a presentation and

all of a sudden, my Windows will go into update mode and I'll have to wait for

the update to finish before even being able to work on my computer. This is

embarrassing when I am ready with a presentation and I just have to make

everyone wait until my Windows system updates before even being able to start my

presentation. This has gotten so annoying that I simply want to disable all

Windows updates. I don't want updates, I just want my computer to work, how do I

do this?



-Sunil Sherchan



Dear Sunil,



I can understand your frustration and I have been in similar situations. This

has been a constant problem on all Windows systems and it's baffling that

Microsoft has not done anything to rectify the issue. Turning off Windows

Updates is simple actually and all you need to do is navigate to your control

panel and open up the System & Security option. Here, turn off Automatic

Updating and within the Important Updates menu, select the Never Check For

Updates and you should be done. I do not recommend not updating since your

system will have a lot of security holes that will be patched over by these

updates but I can also understand your frustration; so disable updates when you

have work but when you have time, or even at night, just leave your computer to

update. This should avoid any hindrances in your work-flow and still keep your

data safe.



If your technological devices are giving you a hard time or if you're just

curious about certain technological questions, please drop us an email at

technopolis.tkp@gmail.com and we'll try to answer your questions as best as we

can.



Published: 12-04-2016 08:46



Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query

with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact

Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





