                             548 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             Spruce Grove Examiner



                            October 21, 2016 Friday

                                 Final Edition



Tough month for Samsung



BYLINE: Yasmin Mayne, Spruce Grove Examiner



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19



LENGTH: 589  words





Transport Canada (TC) has banned passengers from bringing Samsung Galaxy Note 7

smart phone's onboard aircraft.



In a release issued last weekend, TC said the new rule applies to both carry-on

and checked baggage on flights within Canada.



"Canada has one of the safest aviation systems in the world, and protecting the

safety of passengers and flight crews is paramount. When notified of any

potential threat to aviation safety, the government does not hesitate to take

action in the best interests of Canadians ," said Marc Garneau, minister of

transport, in a press release.



The U. S. Transportation Department also issued an order banning the device from

U. S. air travel effective Oct. 15.



Samsung began recalls of its Note 7 in September, after reports of the phone

catching fire because of a battery cell issue.



According to Health Canada, "the lithium-ion battery has the potential to

overheat and burn, posing a potential fire hazard."



Samsung Electronics Canada received four reports of phone batteries overheating

and one report of a minor burn injury on a consumers'forearm.



Health Canada said there were no reported incidents on the replacement Note 7

devices in Canada.



On Oct. 11, Samsung announced it was stopping production of the Galaxy Note 7.



Data from Health Canada found that approximately 39,000 of the recalled smart

phones were sold or distributed in Canada and 22,000 were included in the

original recall.



Samsung is now asking Galaxy Note 7 or replacement Galaxy Note 7 owners to power

down the device and stop using it.



Residents have to bring the device to the original authorized seller to receive

a refund for the phone and its accessories.



They can also exchange the phone for Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge.



"The team has been consistent in our resolve in putting consumers first and

worked as quickly as possible ," said Paul Brannen, COO and EVP of Mobile and

Enterprise Solutions, in a press release.



"We are committed to working closely with our carrier and retail partners to

make this as easy as possible for consumers."



Samsung also announced that customers who exchange their Note7s for a Galaxy S7

and S7 edge would receive a $100 credit.



Customers exchanging their Note7s for a refund or other smart phone will receive

a $25 credit.



For Note7 return inquiries, Canadian customers should contact 1-855-747-6520.

Washing machine recall Phones weren't the only item being recalled by Samsung

this month.



On Oct. 4, Samsung recalled several top-loading high efficiency washing machine

models, because of abnormal vibrations.



Samsung Electronics Canada has received 64 reports of the tops detaching in

Canada, with 11 reports of minor property damage.



"Washing bedding, bulky or water-resistant items at certain settings may cause

the machine to experience abnormal vibrations which could pose a risk of

personal injury or property damage ," said Samsung in a press release.



"A small fraction of washers sold have a reported incident. There have been no

reports of personal injury in Canada."



The recalled models were manufactured between March 2011 and April 2016,

including one model manufactured between March 2011 and June 2016.



Samsung is advising Canadians with affected models to use the lower speed

delicate cycle when washing bedding, bulky or waterresistant materials.



To determine if you have an affected washer, visit www.samsung.com /ca

/TopLoadWasher-Remedy and www.samsung.com /ca /KenmoreTopLoadWasherRemedy.



Approximately 245,000 affected washing machines were sold in Canada.



ymayne @postmedia. com Twitter : @YasminMayne



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 Spruce Grove Examiner

                              All Rights Reserved





