

Technology sector and smartphone enthusiasts are waiting for Samsung to launch
the next variants in Galaxy series, the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge.
Samsung has teased about some of the features that could be included in the next
smartphone from Galaxy series but has escaped providing any concrete information
about the phone and its features.

Samsung has shared a video on Samsung Indonesia website with a tagline "Get
ready for #TheNextGalaxy." While Samsung has not revealed anything new about its
next Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones, the company has provided a teaser about
the features in the newer model from Galaxy line. Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge
weren't successful in grabbing the market share that Samsung had anticipated.

The video posted on Samsung Indonesia website shows Indonesian archer Dellie
Threesyadinda as she takes her Galaxy S phone during a training session. The
phone has a wireless charger, as the video indicated. The video also showcases
Threesyadinda using the phone while rain drops bounce on the screen of Samsung
smartphone. Samsung hasn't officially said anything about the features of the
new Galaxy S 7 smartphone.

At the bottom of the video, Samsung has indicated that the phone is not water
resistant and shouldn't be submerged in water. The company added that the video
is for dramatization purposes only. The video description added, "Success, not
only achieved with talent but also with hardwork and the right partner to bring
you to a higher level. #TheNextGalaxy."

Samsung is facing tough competition in the premium smartphone segment from
Apple. Apple has been successful in improving its market share in Chinese market
as well, an achievement which surprised technology market analysts. In the
budget phone segment, Samsung is facing competition from Chinese brands and many
other smartphone vendors like Motorola and Lenovo.

Samsung website announced that it will release the next Galaxy smartphone at
Mobile World Congress in Barcelona on February 21.

Rumors suggest that Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge will come with a larger 5.5
inch screen, matching the specifications of Apple's latest iPhone. It is still
not sure if Galaxy S7 will have force-touch technology. Apple already offers 3D
Touch in its latest iPhone.

Wireless charging and water resistance isn't anything that will entice buyers
towards Samsung Galaxy S7. Many other phones already offer these features and in
future, most of the phones will have them. Samsung will have to think out of the
box and still offer the smartphone with a competitive price tag. Pressure
sensitive touch will be a feature that most consumers will want to see it Galaxy
S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge.

Rumors suggest that Galaxy S7 will have an improved camera with better imaging
quality in low light as well. And, Galaxy S7 could also do away with rear camera
bulging out as in S6.

Samsung is possibly offering a stronger battery at 3,600 mAh in Galaxy S7 Edge
compared to 2,600 mAh in Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge.

According to a JD Power survey about smartphone owner satisfaction, "Nearly
one-third (31%) of customers select their phone based on its features, followed
by price at 22 percent; operating system at 17 percent; and style/design at 15
percent. Satisfaction is highest among customers who choose their phone based on
operating system, with 79 percent of these customers saying they 'strongly
agree' or 'somewhat agree' that they feel loyal to the smartphone brand."

A MacRumors report added, "Samsung's Galaxy S5 was IP67 water resistant, a
feature that didn't make it into the flagship Galaxy S6 but is expected to be
included in the Galaxy S7."

