                             551 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             August 9, 2016 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Feature-filled Note7 could well be Samsung's best mobile phone yet;

Digital life



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 20



LENGTH: 1160 words





Every year at the launch of Samsung's Galaxy Note phone, I ask Samsung

engineers, designers and developers (basically anyone who will listen) the same

question.



Where's the app that lets users record meetings and take handwritten notes that

are synchronised with the recording, like a Livescribe? It would be the icing on

the cake for the Note that, to those of us in the Digital Life Laboratories, is

the best and most useful phone on the market.



And every year they give me the same answer: what a good idea! This year, at the

launch of the Note7, they actually said it was an "awesome" idea.



I'm beginning to give up hope. I've begged and pleaded so many times now, I'm

barely even disappointed when the app isn't built into the phone.



So if we don't count that as a disappointment, then the list of disappointments

with this year's Note7 is very short indeed. Maybe one or two items, which for a

sophisticated device like a modern smartphone is practically nothing. Maybe it

could have had the latest version of Android, known as Nougat, and maybe it

could have had the fastest processor in history, as the rumours said it would.



On the other hand, the list of impressive things about the Galaxy Note7 is

substantial. This is a significant upgrade, both in form and functionality, that

will solve some real issues for Note fans like me and that will win the phone

new fans.



Storage was the biggest issue. Because the Note is a phone you can use in so

many aspects of your life - from scribbling down quick notes using the

electronic pen on the lock screen, to watching videos on its huge, 5.7-inch

AMOLED screen - it tends to fill up fast, especially last year's model that was

limited to 32 gigabytes of internal storage.



The Note7 solves that in spades. It's got double the internal storage, and it

now has a slot for a memory card, taking the total storage to at least 320

gigabytes, 10 times the storage of last year's Note5. Indeed, if you pre-order

the Note7, it actually comes with 320 gigabytes of combined storage. (It will

come with a 256 gigabyte memory card, free of charge.)



The camera has had a significant upgrade, too. In the 30 minutes I had with the

Note7, I didn't get a chance to test the new camera, but there was almost no

need to: it's the very same camera that's in the Galaxy S7, the best camera on

the market.



That doesn't solve a problem with the Note, so much as problem with temptation.

Despite the Note being a more useful phone than the S7, it's tempting to pick up

the S7 just for the incredible camera. Now that thought has been banished. Now

there's no downside to the Note7, and plenty of upside.



Or, rather, I should say there should be no downside. Samsung has made a

slightly risky move in insisting that the screen on the Note7 now comes only in

a curved variety, which presents the risk that, when you're holding your phone

and taking notes or drawing on it (that is, after all, what the Note is designed

for), the fingers holding the phone will accidentally activate something on the

screen.



Now, Samsung says that the curve on Note7's screen is more gentle than the curve

on the S7 edge, which should reduce accidental screen touches. In the time I had

with the Note7, I can't say I had any problem with the curved edges of the

screen, but that's not to say it's not going to be an issue.



Worst case, you could always just buy a case for the phone to prevent accidental

activations. It would be a pity, because the curved glass front and back on the

Note7, combined with the way the metal frame no longer protrudes out from the

line of the glass, means the phone feels pretty sensational in the hand.



Not to mention, the Note7 is arguably the best-looking phone on the market, and

a case is only going to detract from that. But on the plus side, the S-View case

that you can get for the Note7 now folds out to make a stand for the phone,

which should turn the Note7 into the perfect video viewing device. Not that the

Note5 wasn't already, but with the addition of High Dynamic Range (HDR)

capabilities on the OLED screen, it should be more perfect than ever once the

HDR content actually arrives. (At the moment, only Amazon has announced HDR

versions of its films for the Note7.)



For business users in particular, Samsung has beefed up the security on the

Note7, adding infrared iris recognition on top of the existing fingerprint

scanning. But unless the iris recognition gets widespread adoption by online

payments systems or is at least as fast as the fingerprint scanning - and in

demonstrations I saw, it was slower - it's going to be a feature that only the

most paranoid of organisations and users will use.



Water and dust resistance has been added, too, also bringing the Note7 into line

with the Galaxy S7, and in my brief tests the waterproofing worked well, even

when the Note7's electronic stylus is out of its slot, leaving a big hole in the

bottom of the phone. The stylus is waterproof, too, and even works underwater.



The S-Pen stylus is, of course, what the Note7 is all about. It's the main

reason you'd buy this phone, especially now that Samsung has released the Galaxy

S7 edge, which is almost as large as the Note7 (the S7 edge has a 5.5-inch

screen, versus 5.7-inch on the Note7), meaning you no longer need to buy the

Note if all you want is a big-screened Samsung.



Samsung says the biggest improvement to the stylus is the feel of it: it's said

the stylus now feels like a ballpoint pen when you write on the screen. I can't

say that in my very brief comparisons I could tell the difference between the

feel of the stylus on the Note5 and the Note7, but I can tell you there is one

other improvement that may sound small, but is actually huge: the button on the

stylus now works as an eraser, exactly the way it always should have.



The stylus-related software is better, too. In all the previous versions of the

Note, notes could get a little hard to find because they could be composed, and

stored, in a number of different apps. Now all of those have been merged into

the one, new app, which should simplify things.



And new features have been added, too, such as a magnifying glass that you can

use just by hovering the stylus over the screen (it works very well), a pretty

impressive app that lets you create animated GIF just by using the S-Pen to

select (non-DRM'd) videos on the screen, and a translation system that uses OCR

to translate any text you hover the stylus over (I didn't get to test that one).



Samsung has even added voice recording to the note taking app, so now you can

record a meeting, and take notes about that meeting, both in the same app. That

feature sparked a moment of excitement, until I figured out that the handwritten

notes are not synchronised with the recording, so you can't go back and tap on a

note to play the related audio.



So close, Samsung, so close. Maybe next year? That would be awesome, thanks.



John Davidson attended the launch in New York as a guest of Samsung.



LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Galaxy Note7 is a significant upgrade, both in form and

functionality.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





