                             552 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)



                            February 22, 2016 Monday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Surprise visit by Facebook founder at mobile show



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6



LENGTH: 194 words





NEW smartphones and 360-degree video have been at the centre of attention at the

Mobile World Congress (MWC).



The technology show, taking place in Barcelona, saw Samsung unveil the Galaxy S7

and S7 edge smartphones, while LG revealed the G5 phone, which has a modular

design where new parts, such as a speaker or a camera can be attached to the

device.



Both Samsung and LG confirmed they would be releasing 360 cameras in the coming

months.



Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg also made a surprise appearance at Samsung's

press conference to discuss 360 video, which the social network supports. The

billionaire added he hoped to film his daughter's first steps using the

technology. Chinese firm Huawei also introduced a new hybrid laptop, the

MateBook, while LG introduced a mini robot for home security called the Rolling

Bot, which can also monitor and even play with pets.



MWC has become a key smartphone event, with hundreds of accessories shown off

for the first time alongside the new devices, as well as future technologies

also being broadly discussed.



This year is also expected to see discussion on 5G internet - the next

generation of wireless data for phones .



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: <BFounder and CEO of Facebook Mark Zuckerber gives a speech during the

presentation of the new Samsung Galaxy S7 and Samsung Galaxy S7 edge devices in

Barcelona, Spain yesterday David Ramos



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: TJN





               Copyright 2016 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





