

NEW YORK - Consumer Reports says a Samsung phone that's advertised as being
"water resistant" actually isn't. The problem appears limited to the Galaxy S7
Active, a rugged model available only through AT&T in the US. The standard S7
and S7 Edge models have the same claims on water resistance and passed tests.

Consumer Reports, a non-profit organization that is well respected for its
product testing, said Friday that it can't recommend the Active because it
doesn't meet Samsung's own claims. By contrast, Consumer Reports rates the S7
and S7 Edge phones as "Excellent" for their displays, battery life and cameras.

Maria Rerecich, Consumer Reports' director of electronics testing, said she was
surprised the Active failed. She said Samsung's claims are usually "fairly
good."

Samsung told Consumer Reports that it is investigating and has received very few
complaints. Samsung told The Associated Press that while the Active is meant to
be one of the most rugged phones out there, "there may be an off-chance that a
defective device is not as watertight as it should be."

Samsung says all S7 phones, including the Active, are designed to survive in up
to 5 feet of water for 30 minutes. Consumer Reports says that after a half-hour
in water, the Active's screen flashed green and other colors and didn't respond
to touch. Tiny bubbles appeared on the camera lenses.

Consumer Reports tested a second Active phone to verify results and it also
failed.

Rerecich said it's likely that the problems affect only some of the units
manufactured, but "we bought two and they both failed." Both units were bought
online.

Samsung says the Active can withstand drops of up to 5 feet on a flat surface,
though Consumer Reports did not test those claims.

In the US, the Active phone costs $795, which is the same price as the Edge, and
$100 more than the regular S7.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/51/146808892241.jpg

A man tests Samsung Electronics' Galaxy S7 at its showroom in Seoul. - AFP

