                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung Galaxy S7: Should Galaxy S6 users upgrade?



BYLINE: Debashis Sarkar



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 556 words





The new flagships from Samsung -- Galaxy S7 and S7 edge -- willfrom March 18 in

India. Market experts have already stated that the timing and pricing of the new

S7 smartphones is a clever competitive move from Samsung. However, consumers --

many who are yet to get a hang of the earlier S6 series -- feel it is too early

to consider the new flagships. Also, those who already use any of the S6 series

smartphones might consider waiting a bit before upgrading.



So, is it too early to think about the Galaxy S7? Or should you really look at

upgrading now? Here are 4 things you need to keep in mind...Hardware: Hard to

gauge the real difference in experienceFor Galaxy S6 users, there is very little

meaning to upgrade to the plain Galaxy S7. While the new version offers a new

Exynos chipset, more RAM, better camera, a microSD card slot and water-resistant

body, these will not be enough to provide a differentiated experience, thanks to

the nearly identical Android Marshmallow-powered TouchWiz UI in the new

flagships. For someone using Galaxy S6, upgrading to the S7 edge makes more

sense as the Edge Screen adds more value.Consumers who are using the Galaxy S6

edge or S6 edge+ might look forward to the compact design, waterproofing and an

improved edge screen.As far as Gear VR is concerned, it is supported by all

Galaxy flagships -- S6, S6 edge, S6 edge+, Note 5, S7 and S7 edge.Software:

Android M update expectedSamsung is yet toall S6 series smartphones in the

country to Android Marshmallow. Once the upgrade is complete, there will hardly

be any differentiating factor when compared to S7 flagships which come with

Android Marshmallow-based TouchWiz out-of-the-box.There is a possibility that

Samsung might silently roll out an update for the older S6 edge and S6 edge+

later, offering the same Edge Screen features currently present in the S7 edge

only.Samsung had earlier done the same by introducing software features of the

S6 edge+ to the smaller S6 edge. Galaxy S7 or S7 edge?The new Galaxy S7 phones

appear to be an incremental upgrade when compared to the earlier S6 series,

featuring a similar glass and metal design. Both feature a familiar metal and

glass design.However, for people who have not used any S6 series smartphones, it

will be a delight. It is light and compact with a good build quality. Consumers

won't feel that they are actually using the 5.1-inch S7 smartphone.Even the

bigger 5.5-inch Galaxy S7 edge can be easily used with one hand. The new

flagship feels premium and can be called a polished version of the older S6

series.When it comes to choosing between the two, the S7 edge offers more value

any day.Price cuts and exchange offersSamsung is known for slashing prices of

its high end smartphones drastically. It had done the same with the early

flagships models as well. The Galaxy S6 and S6 edge started to sell for as low

as Rs 36,000 and Rs 40,000 within just six months of launch at a price of Rs

49,900 and 58,900, respectively.Samsung's free Gear VR bundle for consumers who

pre-ordered the new flagships is no doubt a good deal. But people who have not

opted to pre-order might want to wait for a couple months. While Samsung has no

plans to introduce any buy-back or exchange offers, there might be such offers

on leading e-commerce websites later.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





