                             561 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                              June 20, 2016 Monday



'Vulkan' to boost mobile gaming experience -



LENGTH: 522 words





A visitor to the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2016 plays Nexon's mobile game

'Heroes of Incredible Tales,' upgraded to use Vulkan graphics technology on

Samsung Electronics Galaxy S7 phones at the Los Angeles Convention Center, June

14./ Courtesy of NexonBy Yoon Sung-won



'Vulkan,' a mobile application programming interface (API), is catching

attention in the smart device and mobile gaming industry for its ability to

provide better graphic effects even in smart devices with low hardware

specifications.



As Google is planning to adopt the new technology for its next-generation

Android mobile operating system, expectations are that this will extend further

business opportunities to game development companies.



During the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) held in Los Angeles last week,

Samsung Electronics exhibited its Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones, the first

smartphones that support the Vulkan API. At a dedicated exhibition zone, the

company collaborated with Nexon to display its mobile game 'Heroes of Incredible

Tales (HIT)' for the S7 series. 'HIT' is one of the first mobile games

supporting the Vulkan technology.



An executive from NAT Games, which developed 'HIT,' said, 'We have realized

better graphics performance and boosted battery efficiency by applying the

Vulkan API to HIT under cooperation with Samsung Electronics. This will help us

promote HIT in the global market.' Nexon said it plans to distribute a

Vulkan-based global version of 'HIT' in more than 140 countries.



Samsung Electronics said, 'Vulkan's fast performance delivers an optimal gaming

experience to every player providing a 30 percent increase in average frame

rate.'



The new graphics API, however, has yet to be widely distributed because the

Galaxy S7 series is the only smartphone that supports the technology as of now.

In the gaming industry, Super Evil Megacorp's 'Vainglory,' Electronics Arts'

'Need for Speed' and 'HIT' are among the few mobile titles that will support the

Vulkan API as of now.



Google has said it will support the Vulkan API in the next upgrade of its mobile

operating system, tentatively called Android N, which is expected to be released

later this year.



'As a mobile-friendly development tool, the Vulkan API uses limited system

capacity more efficiently to provide better graphics quality with a more stable

frame rate while playing mobile games,' an industry source said. 'All

3D-rendered games, be it with high-quality or relatively less-sophisticated

images, will actually benefit with the Vulkan API in gaming experience in

general because it will reduce both battery consumption and heating.'



Developed and provided by U.S. non-profit organization Khronos Group, the Vulkan

API has been designed to produce better 3D graphics with less system overhead on

application processors in operating systems including Android, Tizen and

Windows, replacing the existing API standard called OpenGL.



Before the Vulkan technology, the OpenGL API required massive system capacity to

process sophisticated 3D images. For this reason, Android users needed expensive

high-specification smartphones to play the latest mobile games.



LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





