                             562 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)



                              July 8, 2016 Friday



Galaxy phones boost Samsung in Q2



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D3



LENGTH: 399 words





SEOUL, South Korea * Samsung Electronics said Thursday that its second-quarter

operating income jumped 17 per cent over a year earlier to the highest quarterly

profit in more than two years, as strong sales of its Galaxy smartphones drove

profit growth in the mobile business.



In its earnings preview, the South Korean company put its operating income at

8.1 trillion won ($7 billion), compared with 6.9 trillion won a year earlier.



That was much higher than forecasts. Analysts predicted 7.4 trillion won of

operating income according to FactSet, a financial data provider.



It was the best performance in nine quarters. The last time Samsung raked in

more than 8 trillion won of operating income was during the January-March period

in 2014 when it reported 8.5 trillion won in operating profit.



Sales rose 3 per cent to 50 trillion won. Samsung did not give its net profit or

breakdowns among its business divisions.



The company is the world's largest maker of smartphones, televisions, memory

chips and display panels. Each of Samsung's four business divisions likely

showed strong results during the latest quarter, according to analysts. Key

products of each business division - the Galaxy S7 smartphones, ultra-high

definition TVs, solid state computer storage devices and thin and light displays

known as OLED - all saw solid demand.



The most important drive behind its forecast-beating earnings was smartphones.

In recent weeks, analysts revised up their forecasts on Samsung Electronics

saying that Samsung's mobile business performed better than expected thanks to

robust sales of the Galaxy S7 smartphone models.



The optimistic view reflects a shift from earlier this year when analysts

thought Samsung's best year was behind it and that its annual profit would fall,

largely because they saw Samsung's mobile growth coming to a halt.



After the release of the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones in spring, however,

the mood has changed. While Apple's flagship iPhone sales slowed, analysts

predicted that Samsung's mobile profits would gain this year.



"Foreign investors' sentiment toward Samsung Electronics is quickly changing

after the second quarter," CW Chung, an analyst at Nomura Financial Investment

Co., said before Samsung's disclosed its earnings preview.



Shares of Samsung Electronics have surged nearly 20 per cent since January.

!@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)



LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 The Telegraph Journal

                              All Rights Reserved





