                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              The Nation (AsiaNet)



                              May 30, 2016 Monday



7 reasons why you'll fall in love with this new smart device



SECTION: Vol. 30 No. 88



LENGTH: 988  words





A phone is no longer just a phone.



Today, many people see their smartphones as the center of their galaxy and

require a device that defies the barriers.



The recently launched Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge is inspired by the people

who have a passion for meaningful progress.



Samsung designed a phone that empowers users to break boundaries and do what

they love better, faster and easier.



In fact, reviews from around the world have lauded the Samsung Galaxy S7 as the

'best Android phone you can buy'1and 'the phone to beat'.



2



When considering smartphone technology in the market today, what is it that

makes the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge stand out from a sea of other devices in

the Middle East region?



Here are the seven clear distinctive reasons:



You'll own the night



Living in a region where the night is as vibrant as the day, you'll want to

capture memories in high quality images during the darkest hours, as you would

expect during the day.



The technology behind the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge ensures superlative image

quality, even in low-light conditions.



And with Ramadan fast approaching, the automatic HDR technology will enable you

to capture every memory in a higher range of colours and brightness.



You can forget blurry photos too, thanks to the optical image stabilisation and

if you're at the beach, with one simple tap on the screen, the phone will

automatically adjust the brightness to deliver a perfect image - every time.



Return of the expandable storage



Space is increasingly becoming a commodity when it comes to smartphones, as

consumers are doing more and more with their devices.



Nowadays mobile devices are expected to accommodate, not only higher resolution

video and images, but also an increased number of files ranging from work to

play, substantially increasing storage demands.



Samsung has addressed these requirements by resurrecting the micro SD card slot

on the latest Galaxy S7 and S7 edge devices, expanding your horizon and storage

up to 200GB.



Take mobile gaming to new heights



If you're passionate about gaming and want to stay ahead of your league,

challenge friends regardless of the hour and last longer - you can.



The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge battery is now bigger so you can play for hours and

hours longer.



And the enhanced RAM and processors keep everything running smoothly, at full

capacity - so there'll be no more lags.



The larger 5.1-inch screen of the Galaxy S7 and the 5.5-inch screen of the

Galaxy S7 edge, together with Quad HD and a higher pixel density mean that the

image is clearer and more defined, while Samsung's liquid cooling technology

ensures that you'll never have to worry about your game overheating.



Make a splash



Gaming isn't the only way we play in this region.



If you're lucky enough to live by the beach, or you like to spend your days by

the pool, the Galaxy S7 or S7 edge will be next to you, every time.



Water-resistant in up to 1.5 meters of water for up to 30 minutes means that you

can take underwater images by the pool, or even play your favorite game while

you're in the bath - without worrying about dropping your phone.



It also means small mishaps, such as dropping your phone in the kitchen sink or

even the toilet is no longer a pain point, as your Galaxy S7 or S7 edge will

simply continue to function normally.



You'll have the ultimate travel companion



If you have a passion for the outdoors, the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge is your

ultimate travel companion.



Having passed military specification testing against a subset of 20 specific

environmental conditions, including temperature, dust and sand, shock and

vibration, low pressure, and high altitude means that your smartphone is your

ultimate companion, wherever you go.



Play in the mud, spill on it, splash it, dunk it-then wipe it off and keep

going.



Functionality and craftsmanship come together



Samsung has taken high-end technology and encapsulated it in an inviting

comfortable design.



This perfect marriage has been brought about by paying attention to usability,

but also keeping a sharp eye on craftsmanship.



Using 3D Forming glass technology, Samsung has combined the curved glass and

metal to create a seamless singular smooth yet natural shape.



Paying close attention to detail, everything from the buttons to the rear camera

has been streamlined to not disrupt the contour of the device.



A slight sliver has been shaved off the sides to increase the sensation of

holding the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge in your hands.



A seamless experience



The large 5.1-inch screen size of the S7 and the phablet size of the S7edge at

5.5-inches makes it more difficult to use the device with one hand.



However, there is a way to adjust the device so it is easier to control - the

One-Handed operation feature reduces the home screen size and moves the

keyboards, making it easier to use the device with one hand.



And with the strengthening of this third party ecosystem, users can experience a

differentiated and richer edge experience through specialized news, sports, and

finance on the Galaxy S7 and S7-edge, as well as the mobile shopping apps on the

Galaxy S7-edge.



The rounded square icons create a more organized, visually pleasing appearance,

and the lock and home screens have also been simplified.



Quite simply, the Samsung Galaxy S7 range offers something more than simple

progress in mobile technologies.



It combines form and functionality without compromise.



What's more, the phone perfectly caters to people living in the Middle East.



This smooth, sleek, functional device is so much more than just a phone.



About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.



Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. inspires the world and shapes the future with

transformative ideas and technologies.



The company is redefining the worlds of TVs, smartphones, wearable devices,

tablets, cameras, digital appliances, printers, medical equipment, network

systems, and semiconductor and LED solutions.



For the latest news, please visit the Samsung Newsroom at news.samsung.com.



LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





