                             570 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                              March 4, 2016 Friday

                                Kolkata Edition



Samsung to Spend Rs 100 cr to Market Galaxy 7



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: THE ECONOMIC TIMES



LENGTH: 343 words





The fight between Samsung Electronics and Apple in India is set to intensify ,

with the Korean company planning to spend a record sum on marketing and

promotion for the new flagship Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge that will be unveiled next

week and its US rival drawing up a counter-strategy .



Samsung may invest about ' . 100 crore on marketing its latest smartphones,

which will be launched in India around March 8 and go on sale from the third

week of March at prices that could match Apple's iPhone 6s models. It has asked

dealers to ensure maximum mileage for the Samsung brand on shop floors, three

senior industry executives said.



To take on Samsung, Apple has told dealers that it will have additional consumer

promotion and is considering reducing prices on some models. The company has

lined up a counter-marketing budget of ' . 30-40 crore, the executives said.



"This is the first time Apple is reacting to a flagship



launch from Samsung in India, signifying how important the Indian market is

emerging for both the smartphone giants," said one executive. "While Samsung is

tightening the trade, Apple has told us to expect something big."



Samsung India has issued an advisory linking payments to dealers to the

visibility of its branding on store fronts and inside. It asked retailers to

ensure its brand billboard is the first one above the shop entrance and only its

brands be displayed on store walls.



Industry executives said Samsung may offer the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge at a

cheaper rate than the Rs 50,000-plus launch price for last year's flagship

Galaxy S6. The company is looking at a price of about ' . 45,000 to compete with

the iPhone 6s that's currently selling at . 44,000-45,000. The Korean company

has advised deal' ers that any discounting will entail strict disciplinary

action, including blacklisting, since it does not want a price war on the new

models, industry executives said.



Apple distributors have started taking feedback from key trade partners in India

on the level of support that might be required to counter Samsung's new

launches.



LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





