                             577 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               Belfast Telegraph



                            October 14, 2016 Friday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Tech That



BYLINE: MATT GAULT



SECTION: WHAT WOMEN WANT;FEATURES; Pg. 51



LENGTH: 578 words





?Trying to think what to ask Santa or the missus for this Christmas? Here are

some of the latest goodies to come on the tech and gadget market.



? Power bank - Endure A2, £25 We all love our smartphones. The problem, though,

with being emotionally attached to them is that it eats up battery life.



We've all been there. Well, this accessory is a haven for people who are

hopelessly addicted to Snapchat. It's the real deal, too: performance, size and

capacity means that slipping this sleek device into your jeans pocket could be

the answer to your battery woes.



? Fitbit Charge HR, £119 Wearable tech is in right now, whether you like it or

not. The Fitbit Surge is the perfect gadget for performance-obsessed fitness

freaks, allowing you to track your progress, one run at a time. With a

comfortable watch-like clasp and a heart-rate monitor, this stylish gadget is

the only thing missing from your daily fitness routine.



? Fuji film Instax Share SP-1, £140 The 21st century: the death of the physical

photograph? Perhaps, but it doesn't have to be. With people glued to their

phones and sharing photos digitally over Facebook and Instagram, hard copies of

photographs have become something of a rarity.



However, the Fujifilm Instax Share SP-1 allows you to bypass using a traditional

printer and print Polaroid-style images directly from your phone.



? Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge, £419-469 There's no two ways about it: the Galaxy S7

Edge is the best phone on the market. In terms of design, performance and

screen, the S7 Edge is unbeatable. Yes, the price is hefty - but this is a phone

you'll be itching to show off. Refined, sophisticated and highly desirable with

an ultra-powerful spec - this is the phone that is giving Apple manufacturers

sleepless nights.



n ? Nintendo NES Mini, £49.99 Retro gamers behold! Nintendo is bringing back the

NES - only more petite. With 30 games built-in, this delightful, nostalgic cube

connects to your TV via HDMI, while its controller mirrors the iconic design of

the rectangular NES gamepad. Built-in games include Donkey Kong, Super Mario

Bros and The Legend of Zelda. Games night sorted.



? Momentum 2.0 IEi Headphones, £78.95 Consider your quest to cancel out annoying

noise on public transport over. Sennheiser are heavyweights when it comes to

in-ear headphones and they live up to the billing here. They boast not only

crystal clear sound but a smartly designed earbud that adjusts the angle of

degrees they sit in your ear, meaning you can have them in for hours without

even noticing. Craftsmanship and comfort combined for the ultimate earphone.



? Playstation VR, £349.99 After two years of tantalising build-up and previews,

Sony's entry into virtual reality is finally here. While it may not be the most

affordable gadget on the market, this high-end, immersive experience is set to

take the gaming world by storm. With a comfortable headset, a thrilling

collection of games and an excellent interface, this is must-have for gamers and

tech freaks alike.



? Garmin fenix Chronos, £849.99 This latest watch from Garmin will see you from

the office to the mountain top whether you want to know what time it is or what

your heart rate is at any time of the day or night.



This smart timepiece has built in GPS and advanced fitness metrics so you can

track your recovery time after a workout. All that aside, it receives alerts

from your smartphone so you don't even need to worry about getting your phone

out in the middle of a workout.



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Momentum 2.0 IEi HeadphonesFitbit Charge HRFujifilm Instax Share

SP-1Samsung Galaxy S7 EdgeNintendo NES MiniPower bank - Endure A2Garmin fenix

ChronosPlaystation VR



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: BTT





                Copyright 2016 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





