

NEW DELHI: After the launch of the flagship Galaxy S7 last month, Samsung will
reportedly unveil its Galaxy Note 6 phablet in July. The sixth generation might
arrive in two versions- flat screen and curved screen, according to a. The
curved screen Galaxy Note 6 can be introduced as the successor of Galaxy S6
Edge+. However, both the version will feature a 5.8-inch QHD display, as per the
report.Here are 10 things you can expect from the next Galaxy Note from
Samsung.1) IP 68 dust and water-resistant- After the, nothing stops Samsung from
adding IP 68 dust and waterproofing to the upcoming Note 6. As the Note 6 will
be priced higher than the Galaxy S7 series, Samsung might face a tough time in
justifying the non-existence of it.2) Exynos and Snapdragon versions: Following
the trend, Samsung is expected to launch two version of the Note 6. One will be
powered by a Exynos processor while the other will reportedly run Snapdragon 823
SoC. Samsung will most likely launch the Exynos version in India.3) Massive 6GB
RAM: Samsung might follow its Chinese competitors like Meizu and Vivo and add a
massive 6GB RAM to the Note 6.4) MicroSD card slot: The Note 6 might offer 32GB
internal storage along with a microSD card slot, similar to the S7 series.5)
Android N: Samsung will reportedly launch Note 6 with the nextoperating system
out of the box.

Android N will be rolled by Google on May 18 at Google I/O. The Note 6 might be
among the first batch of smartphone to run the latest OS.6) Improved stylus:
Samsung has always improved its stylus with every Note launch. The company had
introduced an innovative pen-like. Also, the stylus could be used even without
unlocking the device. In the upcoming Note 6, people can expect something new in
the stylus department as well.7) Fingerprint scanner: It goes without saying
that Samsung will include a fingerprint sensor in the Note 6.8) Bigger battery:
Several reports state that the Note 6 will pack a bigger battery along with new
power saving features. The Note 6 is rumoured to come with a 4,000mAh battery.9)
No USB Type-C: The Note 6 will obviously include wireless and fast charging
support. But the smartphone will not come with a USB Type-C port for sure, as
Samsung would not be interested in withdrawing Gear VR support.10) Glass and
metal body: Samsung will most likely continue with its 'Glass and metal' design
philosophy for its Note 6 as well.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

