                             585 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            Belfast Telegraph Online



                      February 1, 2016 Monday 3:39 PM GMT



Samsung Galaxy S7 to be unveiled at 'Unpacked' event on 21 February;

Just like the Galaxy S6, the S7 will be unveiled just ahead of this year's

Mobile World Congress



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 242 words





Samsung appears to have revealed the announcement date for its new smartphone,

the Galaxy S7.



The company has sent out invitations to an announcement event called 'Unpacked',

which is due to take place on 21 February in Barcelona.



Just like they did last year, Samsung will be unveiling the S7 just ahead of the

Mobile World Congress, which this year runs from 22 to 25 February in the

Catalan capital.



As well as sending 'Unpacked' invites out to the press, Samsung posted a teaser

video to its YouTube channel in the early hours of 1 February, which shows a

mysterious black box and a man putting on a Gear VR headset, possibly suggesting

there could be a VR-related announcement at the event as well.



The unveiling of the new phone will naturally take centre stage, but some

additional new details about VR would make fans even happier.



The event takes place on Sunday 21 February, and begins at 6PM GMT. The whole

event will be streamed live from the Barcelona International Convention Centre

on Samsung's YouTube channel and press site.



We haven't got an official glance at the S7 yet, but all rumours suggest it'll

look fairly similar to the S6. A few upgrades to the internals are likely to

include a MicroSD slot, IP67 water and dust-proofing, and a beefed up battery

and processor to keep it running smoothly.



It'll also likely come in the regular, Edge and Edge+ models that we first saw

with the S6.



Independent



LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT





           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)

                              All Rights Reserved





