                             589 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                              May 24, 2016 Tuesday



To halt smartphone slide, Samsung rewrites playbook



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 979 words





S7 camera, line-up cull among the tough decisions



Reuters



SEOUL



From the way it chooses smartphone components to the models it brings to market,

Samsung Electronics has undergone a painful process of breaking from its past to

reverse a slide in its handset business.



For example, the world's largest smartphone maker agonised over camera specs for

its flagship Galaxy S7 until the last moment 창[#x20ac]" ultimately defying

industry convention by opting for fewer pixels in exchange for improved

autofocus features and low-light performance, a move that contributed to early

success.



It also pared back its product line-up, overcoming internal resistance, enabling

it to streamline production, an executive said.



The handset business has now stabilised, and had its best profit in nearly two

years in January-March, though historically low smartphone industry growth still

leaves Samsung looking for the "next big thing".



"We've now gotten to a point where we can secure a baseline profit even if the

market stagnates, so long as we don't make a bad mistake," said Kim Gae-youn,

vice president in charge of Samsung's smartphone product planning. "I'm

confident we can hold our ground."



After peaking in 2013, a sharp drop in mobile profits exposed Samsung as slow to

adjust to the changing market: its budget devices were overpriced and

unappealing versus Chinese offerings, and the 2014 version of its Galaxy S

flopped.



That prompted a cull among executives and stoked investor worries Samsung might

not be able to recover as rivals including Apple and China's Huawei Technologies

and Xiaomi gained market share at its expense.



There was no sweeping, across-the-board fix. Rather, Samsung embarked two years

ago on an overhaul that included a shift from a phone-for-all-needs approach

towards a line-up that emphasised economies of scale.



It revamped design, using metal frames and curved screens, and gave high-end

features such as organic light-emitting diode (OLED) screens to its low- and

mid-tier products.



As Samsung prepared to launch its Galaxy S7 phones this year, executives went

back and forth over whether to use a 12-megapixel rear camera that shoots better

in the dark and has improved auto focus, or stay with a 16-megapixel count. At

the last moment, they opted for 12-megapixels 창[#x20ac]" a rare step down in an

industry fixated on higher numbers. This meant a change in approach for a

company known to tout the highest specs for its flagship products, and

executives required convincing, Kim said. They were swayed by data showing

consumers want more than just a high pixel count.



"In the past, based on our past decision-making process, we never would have

gone back," Kim said in an interview at Samsung's headquarters campus in Suwon,

south of Seoul.



The move worked. More than half of US S7 buyers surveyed cited camera quality as

a key selling point, compared with a third of all smartphone buyers in the first

quarter, according to Kantar US Insights.



The same mindset shift gave Samsung confidence to release a Galaxy 7 series that

looks similar to its predecessor. This incremental upgrade drew initial

scepticism, but the S7 phones have beaten expectations and could set a new

first-year sales record for the South Korean firm.



Samsung must still convince investors its recent improvement is sustainable, and

that innovative products are in the works to grow revenue. Some attribute its

rebound partly to Apple's weaker performance, and cost-cutting.



"I think they will try to imbue the Note [phone] with a more transformative

change such as new technology under the new leadership, than the fine-tuning we

saw with the Galaxy S7," said Kim Hyun-su, a fund manager with IBK Investment &

Securities, which holds Samsung shares.



Long-time mobile chief JK Shin ceded day-to-day management in December when

Dongjin Koh became president of the handset unit in the biggest leadership

change to date under the conglomerate's heir-apparent Jay Y Lee.



Samsung's operating profit is expected to be flat this year and grow just 3 per

cent next year, according to 43 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.



Slimming down its product portfolio was another departure from the past, when

Samsung launched variations to soak up as much demand as possible. As market

growth stalled, that approach was no longer cost effective.



It phased out unpopular models and created common platforms,with more phones

using the same parts. Researcher Counterpointsays Samsung has shed close to a

third of its product portfolio.



That move also had to overcome internal resistance.



"If you're in the trenches, you want to have a machine gun,a grenade, a mine on

hand," Kim said. "There are also differentneeds depending on individual markets,

so regional sales staffnaturally can't be happy when the company moves to

rationalizeand restructure from a global structure. The transition processis

painful."



The product cull paid off; the revamped models helpedSamsung recover in big

markets such as India. "There was afeeling the sheer number of phones in the

market was confusingfor customers," said a Samsung India executive, declining to

beidentified as he was not authorised to speak with the media.



Despite a solid first quarter, analysts remain cautiousabout Samsung's outlook,

with researcher Gartner predictingglobal smartphone sales growth will slow to 7

percent this year.



Samsung has also yet to recover in China, the world's topsmartphone market,

where it ranks sixth with 7 percent marketshare, according to Strategy

Analytics, well behind local rivalssuch as Huawei, Xiaomi and OPPO.



Samsung's Kim says his focus now is on premium-endsmartphones 창[#x20ac]" those

costing $600 and above 창[#x20ac]" where not allindustry players have the muscle

to compete.



"There's still room for growth in the market," he said."This segment wants

innovation, which has turned it into an areathat requires huge capital equipment

investments."



LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





