                              58 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



First look: how Samsung's new Galaxy S7 is different;

Digital Life



BYLINE: John Davidson - John Davidson is attending the Mobile World Congress in

Barcelona as a guest of Samsung.



SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 832 words





Someone needs to write a guide on how to tell Samsung's new Galaxy S7 apart from

Samsung's old Galaxy S6.



For the Galaxy S7 does look an awful lot like the Galaxy S6, almost as much as

the iPhone 6s looks like the iPhone 6. Which does suggest that the similarity is

not a bad thing in itself. It has worked well for Apple, keeping the same

designs going for a couple of years, and having played with the Galaxy S7 and

its bigger sister phone, the S7 edge, for around an hour, just ahead of its

launch here at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, my guess is it will work

for Samsung, too.



When you're on to a good thing, as they say ... and the Galaxy S6 was certainly

a good thing, certainly the prettiest phone that Samsung had ever come up with

when it launched a year ago, and arguably the prettiest phone that anyone had

come up with in the short history of smartphones.



So it's hardly surprising that the S7 stays very faithful to its predecessor.

It's downright sensible, in fact.



Though of course it wouldn't be Samsung if the new model didn't have a few

design enhancements of its own, most notably a curve to its back (borrowed in

part from the curve on the back of the Galaxy Note 5) which makes the Galaxy S7

feel a little smaller in the hand than the Galaxy S6, even though, upon very

close inspection, the S7 is fractionally thicker.



So there's the slight curve to the back edges, the feel in the hand and the

thickness of the phone, as ways to distinguish the old phone from the new phone.

Also there's the thickness of the camera, which protrudes out the back of the

phone far less, which is an impressive feat considering how much more capable

the camera now is.



Not only does it have a faster, f1.7 lens, which usually makes a lens bigger,

not smaller, but it's also got bigger photosites in the light sensor, which also

should have made the camera bigger, but somehow hasn't. The camera unit is

significantly smaller, and is probably the easiest way to tell the S7 from the

S6.



That, and the photos themselves. In brief demos I've seen of the S7's camera

compared to the cameras in the Galaxy S6 and the iPhone 6s, photos from the S7

are easily the best, especially in low light where that faster lens and those

bigger photosites come into play. Focusing, too, is much faster in the S7 than

on either of those other phones, especially in low light.



But I hasten to point out that those demos were designed by Samsung, so who

knows what jiggery-pokery was happening? It's possible they were designed to

showcase only the rare examples where the S7 has the best camera, and hide the

more common examples where the S7 takes worse photos due to its undersized

camera. It's possible, though I doubt it.



Photos from the S7 were so much better than photos from the iPhone 6s, I expect

we'll find the same thing when we do a thorough review of the camera ourselves

in coming weeks, just as soon as we get our hands on one for more than an hour.



But getting back to the task at hand, which is telling the S7 apart from the S6

from external appearances.



What's most impressive about the similarities between the old Galaxy and the new

Galaxy is that, though they look almost identical, there really are some radical

changes under the hood.



When Samsung came up with its first pretty Galaxy phone, the S6, the price of

that prettiness was pretty steep. Users had to give up weather-proofing (the

Galaxy S5, for all its ugliness, was IP67 rated), they had to give up a microSD

card slot that gave them vital extra storage, and they had to give up a

removable battery, all in the name of marvellous good looks.



Yet in the space of just a year, Samsung has reversed two of those three losses,

in one case with interest. Without looking any different, the Galaxy S7 once

again has a microSD slot, this time built into the SIM tray the same way Oppo

did it, with a multi-purpose second slot that can hold either a second SIM card

or a microSD card.



In Australia we'll only have the option of the microSD card, which makes sense

when you consider the high price of the phone ($1149) and the fact that dual-SIM

phones mainly appeal to cost-conscious consumers.



Better than the return of the microSD card is the return of weather-proofing,

which has even been improved to an IP68 rating. IP68 means the phone is

completely dustproof, and can be submerged under 1.5 metres of fresh water for

30 minutes. I saw it submerged for perhaps 30 seconds, to no ill effect.



Even better than the improved waterproof rating is the fact that, when you don't

have the phone submerged in a vase of water, you can't even tell the

waterproofing is there. There are no ungainly plugs, no watertight seals you

have to wrestle with every time you want to plug your phone into something. All

the waterproofing is internal. Externally, the S7 is just like the S6.



Yes, someone needs to write a guide on how to tell Samsung's new Galaxy S7 apart

from Samsung's old Galaxy S6. It may as well be me. This may as well be that

guide.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Externally, the new Samsung Galaxy S7 is just like the old

Galaxy S6.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





