                             593 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                         May 2, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Top 5 Premium Smartphones Above Rs 30,000 (April 2016)



BYLINE: Phalgunn Maharishi



LENGTH: 708  words





You can check this list out only if you are willing to shell out thousands of

rupees in the name of a premium smartphone.



Smartphones above Rs 30,000 price tag come with premium features, and let us

face it; only a fraction of the mobile users in India actually use a costlier

premium phone. If you are planing to buy one, you should either be a diehard fan

of the premium-ness or you should be having plenty of money. Whatever the reason

may be, we at TechTree are listing out what we feel to be the best ones

available currently in this segment.



1. Apple iPhone 6s Plus



When it comes to premium features, the first company that comes to our minds is

Apple. No matter how costly their smartphones are, there are people standing in

queue on the launch date to purchase the latest smartphone by Apple. With 3D

Touch display incorporated into the smartphone, the 5.5 inch device comes with a

exceptional camera that is capable of capturing 4K video and Live Photos, along

with great detailed photographs. The price range starts from Rs 55,789 (16 GB

variant) and goes upto Rs 73,150 (64 GB) and Rs 84,249 (128 GB). However, there

may be slight variations in the price depending on different retailer.



2. Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge



Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge is definitely one of those best devices available out in

the market today. With a 5.5 inch Quad HD display screen, 4 GB RAM, and 32 GB

internal storage, the smartphone runs on Android 6.0 Marshmallow. You can also

find a fingerprint scanner on the home button of the Galaxy S7 Edge. The battery

is of 3,600 mAh capacity. While we can definitely get these features in almost

most of the budget phones nowadays, the exclusive feature that comes with the S7

Edge is the saturated AMOLED display, with a curve which allows you to utilize

your device on a better level. Apart from all, it's the Samsung flagship device

for the year 2016 and wouldn't you want to have it? Price range starts from

somewhere around Rs Rs 48,900 for the 32 GB variant.



3. Huawei Nexus 6P



This flagship device from Google is a premium device that was launched alongside

the affordable rival, LG Nexus 5X. This is the first Huawei smartphone being

manufactured under the Google's Nexus programme, making this a special phone for

every Huawei and Nexus fan! Sporting a metal body, the 5.5 inch device comes

with USB Type-C for fast connectivity. The device runs on Android 6.0

Marshmallow and the camera is capable of capturing some mind boggling shots. The

price range of the device varies according to the internal memory that comes

out-of-the-box. For a 32 GB variant, you will have to pay somewhere around Rs

34,499 and for a 64 GB variant the price goes up to approximately Rs 40,999.



4. BlackBerry Priv



Now, this is something that is more close to the heart of those people who are

typical BlackBerry fans, and have been using a BlackBerry phone even in the era

of Android smartphones. This 5.4 inch device runs on Android and what else would

you want? It comes with all the goodness of an Android device, yet being as

secured as the original BlackBerry device. Along with this, the smartphone also

comes with a physical QWERTY keyboard that actually allows you to type in like

the original BlackBerry device. The smartphone comes with a 18 MP primary

camera, and is backed by a 3,410 mAh battery. The internal storage capacity is

of 32 GB while the device is powered by a 3 GB RAM. The Priv comes with a price

tag of around Rs 55,550.



5. Microsoft Lumia 950 XL



This smartphone marks the return of Microsoft into the smartphone business, and

if you are a Windows phone fan, then you are going to definitely love this

device. With a 5.7 inch display, 3 GB RAM, and 32 GB internal storage, the

smartphone comes with a 20 MP primary camera and 5 MP front facing sensor for

selfies. To keep the smartphone cool, the company has incorporated the liquid

cooling technology right into the phone itself, making it a perfect choice as

your personal computer. Adding on to this fact, the smartphone can be used as a

portable computer using the Continuum. The smartphone runs on Windows 10 Mobile

operating system.



While we have made our best to come up with a list of five best premium

smartphones, there might be a device which has been left out.





LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





