

NEW DELHI: In celebration of the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, Samsung Electronics ,
Worldwide Olympic Partner in the Wireless Communications Equipment category,
unveiled the Galaxy S7 edge Olympic Games Limited Edition in Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Samsung also announced the Rio 2016 app and on-the ground activations throughout
Brazil to mark the official launch of Samsung's global Rio 2016 Olympic Games
campaign.

In collaboration with the International Olympic Committee (IOC), Samsung will
deliver 12,500 Galaxy S7 edge Olympic Games Limited Edition and Gear IconX to
all Rio 2016 Olympians, helping them to enhance their experiences in Rio and
communicate with family and friends around the world more conveniently.

For the first time ever, the Rio 2016-inspired device incorporates an Olympic
Games design embedded into the phone itself, featuring a custom colorway pattern
including the five official colors of the Olympic Rings. The colors of the
Olympic Rings will also be prominent in the phone's user interface in the home
and lock screens as well as the message, dial and contact screens and
notification bar. Pre-loaded Rio 2016 Olympic Games themed wallpapers will also
be available. Athletes will also receive Samsung's newest smartphone accessory,
the Gear IconX cord-free earbuds, which offer a new fitness experience with an
in-ear heart rate monitor and standalone music player. When paired with
smartphones, they can track fitness updates through the S Health app.

"Sports are all about an individual's relentless journey of challenging
complacency, and the Olympic Games are the ultimate global celebration of the
progress and achievement of athletes, countries and their fans coming together
to unite the world," said Younghee Lee, Executive Vice President of Global
Marketing, Mobile Communications Business at Samsung Electronics.

"Samsung admires the spirit of Olympians and fans across the globe who
continuously push boundaries for the better," added Lee.

Samsung is also offering fans and consumers a chance to commemorate the Rio 2016
Olympic Games by creating a limited number of Galaxy S7 edge Olympic Games
Limited Edition that will be available beginning July 18th. 2,016 phones will be
available in selected countries including Brazil, the United States, China,
Germany and Korea.

"Samsung's technology has helped to engage with fans and especially young people
around the world. The IOC is grateful for their partnership in providing Samsung
Galaxy S7 edge Olympic Games Limited Edition to the athletes that will compete
in Rio de Janeiro. This will enable the athletes to connect with their friends,
family and fans and share their amazing experience at the Olympic Games. With
Samsung's support, we look forward to inspire people everywhere with Olympic
Values, the unique experience of the Olympic Games and the power of sport," said
IOC President Thomas Bach.

Samsung will celebrate the spirit of the Olympic Games through a variety of
initiatives leading up to and during the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, including:

In the lead-up to and during the Games, fans are invited to interact with
Samsung's latest technology and connect with the Olympic Games at Samsung Galaxy
Studios. The interactive studios will feature a variety of activities, including
enhanced virtual reality experiences where fans can feel the exhilaration of
various Olympic sports first-hand. A new and unique 4D VR offering will be
available at select Studios where fans can step outside their comfort zones and
into specially designed seats to feel the high-speed thrill of kayaking, a ride
that has to be felt to be believed.

Studio visitors will also have the opportunity to collect specially-designed
Olympic Games pins, including 22 Olympic Games sport-themed pins, as well as
eight sets of special pins designed with symbolic elements of Brazil. The Galaxy
Studios will also provide opportunities to test out and purchase Samsung's
newest products, participate in games, and more. In addition to three Galaxy
Studios in the Olympic Park, Samsung will have several studios throughout Rio,
Sao Paulo, and local cities in Brazil.

The Rio 2016 App: Enhancing the Olympic Games through Innovative Technology

The official application of Rio 2016, "The Rio 2016 App", developed by Samsung
in collaboration with the Rio 2016 Organizing Committee, provides athletes, fans
and consumers with 24/7 updates on all of the latest Olympic news. The app will
be updated in early August to provide the official Olympic Games schedule, venue
and event information, results, medal counts, and more real-time updates.
Samsung Galaxy phone users can also use the S-translator customized for the
Olympic Games. The Rio 2016 Official Application is available for free download
through the Samsung Galaxy Apps, Google Play for Android, App Store for iOS, and
selected App Store in China as well as the Windows App Store.

The Olympic Athletes' Hub App

The "Olympic Athletes' Hub" app, developed by the IOC, will be installed on each
Olympian device, where they will find relevant information to make the most of
their experience at the Olympic Games Rio 2016. With the app, athletes will be
able to reach out directly to the IOC and the IOC Athletes' Commission and can
also learn about all the resources and programmes the IOC is making available to
athletes.

