                             598 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                            August 4, 2016 Thursday



Samsung's iris-reading Note 7 keeps Apple at bay



LENGTH: 594  words





After extending its lead over Apple Inc in the global smartphone market with the

Galaxy S7, Samsung Electronics Co is now trying to keep that spirit alive before

a new iPhone arrives.



A Samsung employee shows an attendee a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 smartphone during a

launch event in New York. Provided To China Daily



South Korean group draws attention to extra security the scanner provides



After extending its lead over Apple Inc in the global smartphone market with the

Galaxy S7, Samsung Electronics Co is now trying to keep that spirit alive before

a new iPhone arrives.



The South Korean company announced the latest version of its large-screen

smartphone with the 5.7 inch Note 7 that can be unlocked with an iris-scanning

camera. Sporting a display that curves down both sides, Samsung's successor to

the Note 5 skipped a number to synchronize its name with the technology used for

its top-selling Galaxy S7.



With consumers putting greater emphasis on multimedia when choosing devices, the

Note 7 also supports so-called high-dynamic range video content and the company

partnered with Amazon.com Inc to make such streaming content available in

selected regions in time for the launch. HDR is seen as one of the next big

advances in television and movie picture quality, alongside 4K Ultra HD and

virtual reality.



Samsung drew attention to the extra security that an iris-scanner provides,

because the human retina is virtually impossible to replicate. That may help

security-conscious users warm to the new phone but, without wider acceptance of

mobile payments and biometric verification, may not prove enough of a selling

point to many would-be buyers.



"Adding an iris-reading sensor was a positive move. But to make a bigger splash,

it needs to be backed up by more of the financial and payments industry," said

Park Kang-ho, an analyst at Daishin Securities Co in Seoul.



"It isn't something that consumers would flock to. I don't think the phone will

sharply outsell the previous Note 5 model."



The device's unveiling comes at least a month before Apple is expected to launch

its revamped iPhones.



The Note 7 will go on sale starting Aug 19 and roll out gradually across the

globe, Samsung said. The new product comes with Samsung Pay services and will be

offered in four different colors, including gold, black, silver and blue. The

South Korean company also unveiled an upgraded version of its Gear VR, a gadget

that twins with a Samsung phone to display virtual reality images.



The iris-scanning technology, which relies on an infrared camera lens mounted on

the front of the phone, can also be used to unlock a secure folder within the

Android operating system. Users can store sensitive documents and apps in the

directory, which remain encrypted even if the phone is unlocked. Iris-detection

is fast, identifying a registered face and unlocking the device in less than a

second during a demonstration in London.



Users will be able to authenticate Samsung Pay transactions via the new

technology.



Other features of the phone include an improved stylus that can be used

underwater or when the screen is wet. Waterproofing the pen makes it easier to

use when it rains as liquid on the screen generally makes fingers less

effective, while the new pen nub will work just the same. This will be

particularly useful to people who work outside, like delivery drivers, Eric

McCarty, vice-president of Samsung America mobile, told reporters in New York

before the product announcement.



Bloomberg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/80/147028803072.jpg



eca86bd9df04190cd4921c.jpg



LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





