
DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, March 8 -- Samsung Electronics is set to launch its newest flagship
phones -- Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge Samsung -- in Nepal this Wednesday. The
launch of these two smartphones was confirmed Monday, after the Samsung Nepal
Office sent an official invitation for the launch.

Samsung called invitees to the event "to experience the unrivalled, top of the
world features of a phone, and to rethink what a phone can do".

The South Korean smartphone manufacturer is launching Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7
Edge in Nepal a day after they are launched in India on Tuesday. However, the
exact prices of these two phones are still to be released officially. But,
according to Indian news reports, the Galaxy S7 is likely to be priced between
IRs 45,000 and IRs 50,000 while the Galaxy S7 Edge is expected to be priced at
IRs 54,000 to IRs 60,000.

"Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge will cost similar to their prices in India," an
official of Samsung Nepal Office told Republica.

The official said that pre-booking of these two smartphones will start from
Thursday with exciting offers to pre-bookers.

Launched globally on February 21, Samsung has added a hybrid dual-SIM in both
Galaxy S7 and galaxy S7 Edge, one of the major additions to its flagship phones.

Both smartphones supports expandable storage via micro SD cards of up to 200 GB.
However, the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge mainly differ in terms of their screen sizes,
battery capacities and some design.

While Galaxy S7 comes with 3000 mAH battery, the Galaxy S7 Edge sports a 3,600
mAh battery.

The Galaxy S7 has a 5.1-inch QHD Super Amoled display. On the other hand, Galaxy
S7 Edge incorporates a 5.5-inch QHD Super Amoled display. Both Galaxy S7 and
Galaxy S7 Edge are powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processors.

Similarly, both Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge feature 12-megapixel main cameras
and 5-megapixel front cameras.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

