                             600 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                   Gulf Times



                            March 12, 2016 Saturday



Note 5, S6 help raise Samsung sales 20%



LENGTH: 427  words





..





By Joey Aguilar/Staff Reporter



Two of Samsung's flagship smartphones - Note 5 and Galaxy S6 - significantly

helped increase the tech giant's sales in the region by 20% last year, its

mobile division information technology head Tarek Sabbagh told Gulf Times.





"Despite the situation in the market, these models helped us to achieve positive

growth in 2015," he said. "Consumers tell us they like the technology we

provide."

Speaking on the sidelines of the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge launch event in Doha

recently, Sabbagh noted that their two smartphones also helped increase

Samsung's market share in Qatar by 48%.

"Whenever we launch anything, Qatar is a major contributor to the results within

the Gulf region, when we achieved 20%, Qatar had a big role in that number," the

IT head said.

He described Qatar consumers as knowledgeable, up-to-date, and always looking

for the latest technology in electronics and gadgets.

The 5.1-inch S6 features a 16mp camera, 3GB RAM internal memory with no card

slot, and uses a 2,550mAh battery. The 5.7-inch Note 5 also features a 16mp

camera, 4GB RAM internal memory with no card slot, and uses a 3,000-mAh battery.



Sabbagh expressed confidence that new technologies and features they added in S7

and S& Edge will continue to set a trend in the smartphone market.

It is learnt that many customers see S7 and S7 Edge's "Super Amoled Display",

dust proof, and water resistant features as innovative and unique.

About the challenges amid the oil price slowdown, Sabbagh said they are "not

affected by what is happening in the market".

Smartphones have become a necessity to many and the demand continues to grow, he

noted. These included professionals such as journalists who follow news reports

by the minute, take photos, and chat with friends and family.

"Phones used to be a luxury couple of years back and people, whenever there is a

crisis or lower income, they usually cut on luxury," he said.  "Today, phones

are your day-to-day life and you spend more time with it."

"We need the latest technology that makes our work and life easier, and to help

facilitate and communicate," he added.

About the S7 and S7 Edge, he expressed optimism that sales will increase

further.

"When we see our market share growing, we know that we are providing the

consumer with the best proposition in terms of quality and value because the

prize of the S7 was carefully studied in a way that it is affordable," Sabbagh

said. "It is a flagship that provides you with a lot of features."



http://imgs.syndigate.info/60/183/19/145785872342.jpg







LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 183





                      Copyright 2016 Gulf Times Newspaper

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





