                             603 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung resets smartphone strategy with VR -



LENGTH: 545 words





Ko Dong-jin, president of Samsung Electronics' mobile business division, speaks

at a dinner meeting with Korean reporters held in a restaurant in Barcelona,

Spain, Tuesday (KST), on the sidelines of this year's Mobile World Congress

(MWC)./ Courtesy of Samsung ElectronicsBy Kim Yoo-chul



BARCELONA, Spain - With the launch of its new Galaxy S7, Samsung is looking for

ways to differentiate its handsets from other Android makers and bring a new

user experience to market in competition with its key rivals.



Ko Dong-jin, president of Samsung's mobile division, said early Tuesday (KST),

that the company has shifted its focus toward the main smartphone features

customers are most concerned with - camera function, viewing quality, battery

life and virtual reality (VR).



'Samsung's top priority is to offer what customers want. This is why the Galaxy

S7 handsets have microSD slots; while we made little design overhaul. We are

strengthening open collaboration to bring something new to devices,' Ko said

during a dinner with Korean reporters on the sidelines of this year's Mobile

World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona, Spain.



The top executive said the two Galaxy S7 handsets - one rigid and the other

curved - have received a warm initial response from major carriers and partners.

But he declined to comment about the devices' sales targets. Typically Samsung

preferred to provide its guidance in sales on the release of its new flagship

models.



But, with the S7, it has the confidence to leave the design of its latest phones

very similar to last year's S6 range thanks to other improvements, he said.



This contrasts to the strategies of other companies, as some of Samsung's rivals

have struggled to communicate improvements when keeping their smartphone models'

exterior industrial design consistent between years.



Ko said Samsung has found VR technology is the 'right thing' that consumers

want, providing new experiences in the mobile space.



'Samsung Gear VR is the best device that can bring high value to consumers,' Ko

said. 'With VR addition, you will enjoy experiences that you couldn't imagine

before.'



He said its VR technology is expandable not just for the business-to-consumer

(B2C) market but also for the business-to-business (B2B) market for use in

education, defense and health.



In a rare move, Facecbook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appeared at an event to unveil the

two new Samsung handsets, praising Facebook's partnership with Samsung.



Ko stressed that Samsung is no longer a hardware-focused company, as it's been

selling its mobile payment platform - Samsung Pay - and mobile security platform

- Samsung Knox - in international markets.



'Samsung hopes to earn respect from partners by offering the best usability and

affordability,' he said. 'We are ready to find new alternatives upon requests

from our clients and I can say the company has been maintaining a healthy

partnership with those customers.'



Analysts say Samsung's new strategy shift is correct, as in the mature

smartphone market, companies compete with their older selves to drive consumers

to upgrade their existing smartphones.



'VR is the key tool which has been expected to be used by smartphone

manufacturers in 2016 to market flagship models,' said IHS, a market research

firm, in a note to clients.



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





