                             606 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                       April 25, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



HTC hopes to revive with its HTC10



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 772  words





HTC, which has witnessed a decline in its revenue and profit, is hopeful that it

will bounce back with its HTC 10, in Australian market. The phone will go on

preorder in many markets like the US and the UK. The HTC 10 was announced last

April 12.



The phone has received mostly favorable reviews. The HTC 10 is 5.2 inch QHD

Super LCD with a sizable 3,000 mAh battery, USB-C connector, along with other

features. On the Australian shores, the HTC10 will reach.



Off contract and unlocked, the HTC 10 was available for $1,080. Many have found

the price of the phone to be quite expensive. But there are many features that

make HTC 10 to be a desirable phone. Australia's Three is the first network

operator partner in the nation that has started taking preprders for the HTC10.



Those who have subscribed to Three or plan to make a switch to the carrier will

pay an upfront fee of 49 on a plan that costs 38 per month. It has to be noted

that the price will go up an extra 5, in the case, when the recurring method of

payment is not used. In this plan, the unlimited text messages and unlimited

calls are included. The data limit has been set at 1GB every month.



Those who require more data can have an unlimited type plan that can be had for

a bit more at 57 per month, but will also include the initial 49 fee. The phone

plus points are considered to be great quality, a more subtle approach to

software than HTC has in its other phone, great audio when connected through

headphones and top-tier performance and first android phone that supports

Airplay streaming out of the box.



"The Taiwanese company has seen its revenue and profit fall considerably since

the first HTC One, but with the HTC 10, it does hope to bounce back and win over

customers in Australia. The 5.2-inch QHD Super LCD flagship phone equipped with

a sizable 3,000 mAh battery, USB-C connector, and a long list of other features,

is indeed coming to the former British colony," according to a news report

published by TechTimes.



News of the HTC 10's arrival on Australian shores on May 3 was welcomed, but no

carriers at the time had picked up the device to offer the flagship on a more

affordable plan. Off contract and unlocked, the HTC 10 was pegged at a cost of

$1,080 AU (a little over $830 U. S.). Needless to say, it costs a lot but it's

also about $100 AU (about $77 U. S.) less than Samsung's Galaxy S7 and a whole

$200 AU (about $150 U. S.) cheaper than the Galaxy S7 edge. Fortunately, the HTC

can still be had for much cheaper. Australia's Three is the first network

operator partner in the country to step up and finally start taking preorders

for the HTC 10.



According to a report in Thenewsindependent by Pauline Angela Quiambao, "HTC's

profits have skidded substantially since it released the first HTC one, and it

is pinning its hope with its HTC10 to get back into the thick of things and make

its presence felt once again in Australia. The 5.2 inches QHD Super LCD flagship

phone comes up with a 3,000 mAh battery, USB-C connector, and bevy of other

functionalities and it is zeroing on the Land Down Under. But it appeared like

the Australian market would take some time before the flagship will make its

mark here. The HTC 10 was available on preorder in countries such as the U. S.

and the UK at the time it was unveiled on April 12."



Previous reports about HTC 10 landing in the Australian soil on May 3 was

welcomed although there are no carriers at that time had embraced the device to

offer the flagship on a reasonably-price plan. HTC 10 was fetched at a price of

$1,080 AU (a little over $830 U. S.) whether off contract and unlocked. As

expected the flagship phone is quite price although it's cheaper than Samsung's

Galaxy S7 by about $100 AU (around $77 U. S.) and a full $200 AU(about $150 U.

S.) less expensive than the Galaxy S7 edge.



A report published in Android informed, "Earlier this month, Taiwanese

smartphone maker HTC introduced its latest flagship smartphone, the HTC 10.

Being the first recent flagship HTC flagship to drop the "One" branding, the HTC

10 is a significant upgrade over its predecessor and is undoubtedly among the

most impressive flagship smartphones on the market currently."



HTC has addressed most of the issues that plagued the One M9 from last year,

making the 10 one of its most compelling flagship smartphones ever. The HTC 10's

main rival is no doubt the Galaxy S7 from Samsung, yet another stunning 2016

flagship Android smartphone. Can the latest HTC flagship take on Samsung's most

refined Galaxy flagship yet? That's exactly what we aim to find out in our HTC

10 vs Samsung Galaxy S7 specs battle today.



LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





