                             611 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                           November 17, 2015 Tuesday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Rumors point to premium 4K version of the Samsung Galaxy S7



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 274 words





As already seen with the Sony Xperia Z5, Samsung's next flagship phone could

have a 4K display plus a whole range of new components, according to leaks

posted on China's Weibo social network which have been picked up by the

international specialist press.



Just like the Samsung Galaxy S6, which is available in the classic version plus

the Edge (curved screen) and Active (unbreakable) variants, the South Korean

tech giant's future benchmark model is expected to be launched in several forms

with varying degrees of sophistication. The most powerful of them, a "Premium

Edition" initially reserved for the Asian market, could have a 4K display as

well as a 14-core processor and a dual-sensor camera module developed by Sony.



In addition to official content, users will be able to impress their friends

with their own creations in ultra-high definition. Note that Samsung is already

said to be working on an 11K screen, meaning an exceptional resolution of

2250ppi, bearing in mind that the current high-end phones rarely get above

500ppi.



As for the classic version of the future Galaxy S7, which will be available

worldwide, it is expected to include a QHD display, an Exynos octo-core

processor and its principal camera could also have two sensors.



The Galaxy S7 could be unveiled in February 2016 at the Mobile World Congress in

Barcelona, Spain, as was the case for its predecessor in 2015. The Galaxy S6

seems reasonably strong with its metal body, but it has neither a removable

battery nor the option of adding a microSD card. The S6 Edge is characterized by

its curved screen on both its right and left edge, a first on the smartphone

market.



LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





