                             612 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)



                              July 17, 2016 Sunday



Top 10 brands for UAE consumers in 2016 revealed



LENGTH: 1146 words





This year's rankings explore the major reasons that make these names tick among

UAE residents



Cleofe Maceda, Senior Web Reporter



Dubai: Emirates airline has earned the most positive buzz among consumers in the

UAE this year, knocking off electronics giant Samsung and internet heavyweight

Google, a global market research firm announced on Sunday.



With its continued ambitious expansion and creative marketing and advertising,

the UAE's home-grown carrier has topped the 2016 Mid-Year Best Brand rankings by

YouGov, which regularly reviews more than 400 names in the consumer market

place.



"The past six months saw the airline continue a high profile sponsorship

strategy. It also caused a stir celebrating its football partnerships with six

clubs and seven football themed aircraft take-offs in one day," YouGov says.



Taking the second spot is mobile messaging platform WhatsApp, which has recently

earned a boost in popularity after opening up its services to businesses this

year. Occupying the third position is another tough brand to beat Samsung, which

created some buzz in the Middle East with the launch of Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge.



A clear social media favourite, Facebook secured the fourth place, ahead of

Apple in the fifth. Rounding off the rest of the top ten are YouTube, Emaar,

Google, Etihad Airways and iPhone.



YouGov regularly measures the popularity of consumer brands using its BrandIndex

Buzz score and by asking respondents, "If you've heard anything about the brand

in the last two weeks through advertising, news or word of mouth, was it

positive or negative?" Each brand was assigned buzz scores ranging from 100 to

negative 100, with a zero score indicating equal positive and negative feedback.



Both WhatsApp and Samsung are non-movers in the latest ranking, while Facebook

climbed two places higher and Apple slipped one place. YouTube inched up one

place and Emaar moved two positions higher. Google, on the other hand, dropped

three places, while Etihad and iPhone also slipped two positions down.



YouGov further explains the reasons that make the ten brands tick among UAE

consumers:



(1) Emirates



Emirates remains the buzziest brand in the UAE. The past six months saw the

airline continue a high profile sponsorship strategy including elevating its

sponsorship of the ATP World Tour to premier status. It also caused a stir

celebrating its football partnerships with six clubs and seven football themed

aircraft take-offs in one day. 2016 also saw the popular airline launch a brand

new global advertising campaign aimed at showcasing its inflight experience to

consumers.



(2) WhatsApp



WhatsApp. 2016 saw the highly popular mobile messaging platform open up its

service to brands allowing notifications to be exchanged between customers and

companies. Dubai Municipality subsequently launched its very own WhatsApp number

to receive images, videos or messages from concerned residents which was

promoted on Facebook.



(3) Samsung



Samsung continued to create some buzz with the launch of its new Galaxy S7 and

S7 Edge smartphone. Despite copycat reports in the wake of iPhone's seemingly

similar "Shot on iPhone" campaign, the world's largest smartphone manufacturer

launched its "Captured on the Galaxy S7" campaign and appears to have

successfully engaged consumers in the quality of its Galaxy video footage shot

in 4K Ultra HD. The brand also took to print advertising to showcase its new

'Samsung-Soak out the mess' washing machine campaign centered around the concept

of how easy it is to dirty one's clothes.



(4) Facebook



The social media giant has been linked to exciting developments in virtual

technology with Samsung in 2016 to date and was quoted to have 120 million

monthly active users in the Middle East and North Africa (Mena) in February

2016. YouGov had earlier reported that the social media platform is the most

regularly used by 82 per cent of residents in the UAE.



(5) Apple



After the successful launch of its first flagship stores in the UAE towards the

end of 2015, Apple chief executive Tim Cook caused a stir in the Mall of the

Emirates with a personal visit to the brand's Dubai-based store in May 2016. Two

new Apple stores have also opened at the Dubai Duty Free (DDF) in Dubai

International Airport, in 2016 representing the largest-ever Apple outlets in

travel retail.



(6) YouTube



Continuing to increase its user base significantly in the Arab world, not least

due to the magnetism of smartphone viewing, it is increasingly appealing to

businesses to connect with their consumers. 2016 saw Dubai One TV launch their

first dubai ON demand (dONd) channel on YouTube bringing English language

lifestyle content to the small screen. The video online platform also launched

the first edition of The Lantern, the first award to recognize the most

impactful commercials offered by the advertisers in the MENA region during the

month of Ramadan.



(7) Emaar



A string of exciting developments announced by the property developer have

dominated the media in 2016 including The Tower at Dubai Creek which is reported

to be 100 metres taller than the Burj Khalifa, currently the tallest tower in

the world, on completion. Despite the fire-hit Address Hotel in Downtown Dubai

hitting the media on New Year's Eve 2015, the brand's reputation has not been

dented and looks to remain strong with first quarter profits reported to be up

22 per cent in 2016.



(8) Google



Google teamed up with local hospitality business Jumeirah to launch "Jumeirah

Inside," a Google street-view experience that travels through 23 Jumeirah

hotels. The brand also launched Ad Words Express with YouTube to help SMB's in

the UAE to start advertising online easily. Women@Google also reached MENA - an

employee resource group comprising female Googlers committed to providing

networking and professional development and a sense of community to Googler

women across 27 countries.



(9) Etihad Airways



The airline continues to connect with consumers with the theme 'Flying

Reimagined'. It released a brand new 360-degree fully immersive short film

featuring Nicole Kidman in 2016 to provide potential customers with a "real

experience"' of the Airbus A380. The film is part of a comprehensive campaign to

promote the piece via social and digital display, with custom Google Cardboard

headsets being distributed at conferences and events.



(10) iPhone



Apple reported its flagship smartphone sales were responsible for its first

quarterly decline in a decade. However the launch of the new iPhone SE in the

Emirates together with the re-launch of its global "Shot on iPhone" advertising

campaign across 25 countries including the UAE could help the brand create more

buzz. The campaign featured photos from the Emirates' very own residents. With

the largest ever Apple outlet in travel retail now also open at Dubai

International Airport iPhone remains one to watch for the second half of the

year.



LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 57





               Copyright 2016 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





