                             615 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  Arab Finance



                             June 1, 2016 Wednesday



Givori transforms Samsung Galaxy S7 edge into refined luxury accessory



LENGTH: 425  words





Arab Finance: Luxury smartphone designer Givori has debuted its latest bespoke

creation for Android devices, the Samsung Galaxy S7 edge 'Siena'. Givori is

renowned for transforming high-end mobile devices into luxury accessories,

customized with the finest craftsmanship and materials. The 'Siena' range is

defined by its understated elegance, finished in richly sienna-toned alligator

leather to add a layer of old world style and distinction, with the phone

encased in rose gold. The high-grade Mississippiensis alligator leather is known

for its exceptionally durable, softer, and suppler texture than traditional

crocodile leather.



One of the most highly sought-after raw materials by makers of luxury items,

alligator leather also boasts a smooth, three-dimensional feel, and a more

uniform scale pattern. With this refined style already coveted by iPhone

aficionados, the Samsung Galaxy S7 edge 'Siena' is certain to pique the interest

of discerning enthusiasts for the Korean technology firm. The timeless designs

are available for USD 1,640 at Harvey Nichols - Dubai, Bloomingdales - Dubai,

select Damas jewellery boutiques, select Mohammad Rasool Khoory & Sons stores in

Abu Dhabi, Virgin Megastore Dubai and Qatar, as well as select Axiom Telecom

showrooms across the UAE and KSA. "Samsung's premium devices are leaders in

technology, style, and design, and command a loyal following among customers,"

said Layal Akouri, General Manager of Givori. "We lovingly enhance the device's

superb qualities, giving something more to those who appreciate design by adding

exquisite craftsmanship and timeless style. With the Givori 'Siena', the quality

speaks for itself, creating a naturally commanding presence in any setting."

Givori transforms today's most prized possession, the smartphone, into luxury

handwear by custom building each phone using the finest materials, from precious

metals and high-grade diamonds, to premium exotic leather and vintage rare

elements. All Givori customizations are meticulously handcrafted in Italy, the

UK, and Switzerland to create exclusive editions of some of the most popular

smartphones. Givori devices are coated with a nanotechnology film, applied to

combat oxidation, fingerprints and color fading, and also come with extensive

post-sales support, including one-year warranty on all software, cosmetic, and

jewellery elements. Customers can also avail Givori's free pick-up and delivery

service for phones that require repair in the first 12 months.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/195/598/83/146479058644.jpg







LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 598





                 Copyright 2016 Arab Finance Brokerage Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





