                             618 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                              July 5, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung Electronics set for best quarter in over 2 years on second quarter

smartphone boost



LENGTH: 459  words



DATELINE: Seoul





Seoul, July 5 -- Tech giant Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is poised to issue

guidance for its best quarterly profit in more than two years, propelled by a

surge in mobile earnings on the back of robust sales of its flagship Galaxy S7

smartphones.





 The South Korean giant will disclose its estimates for second-quarter earnings

on Thursday, with analysts predicting a strong mobile division contributed to a

13 percent jump in operating profit from the same period a year earlier.

 The average forecast from a Thomson Reuters survey of 16 analysts tips Samsung

to report April-June operating profit of 7.8 trillion won ($6.8 billion), the

highest since an 8.5 trillion won profit in January-March of 2014.

 The mobile division of the world's top maker of smartphones and memory chips

was likely its top earner for the second straight quarter with a 4.3 trillion

won profit, according to the survey. Samsung surprised many with

better-than-expected first-quarter earnings, and issued guidance for a further

pickup in April-June.

 "Galaxy S7 sales are better than expected in the first half, and the

semiconductor business is also outperforming rivals," said KTB Asset

Management's Lee Jin-woo. The fund manager estimated the firm's quarterly

operating profit would also stay strong in both the third and fourth quarters at

between 7 trillion won and 8 trillion won in each.

 Samsung's smartphone business had been squeezed before the start of this year

between Apple Inc , at the high end of the market, and Chinese rivals like

Huawei Technologies in the budget segment. But the Galaxy S7 has provided a

catalyst for the earnings rebound, likely putting the mobile business on track

to record its first annual profit growth in three years.

 Some analysts say Samsung shipped around 16 million Galaxy S7s in April-June,

with a higher-priced curved-screen version outselling its flat-screen

counterpart and boosting margins. Lacklustre sales of offerings from rivals such

as Apple and LG Electronics <066570.KS> also helped reduced marketing expenses,

they said.

 "While operating profit margins for the mobile phone business will decline in

the third and fourth quarters as the Galaxy S7 effect fades, operating profit

will continue to grow on an annual basis," Korea Investment & Securities said in

a report.

 As its smartphones thrive, Samsung's chip business - last year's key profit

driver - probably saw quarterly profit sink to its lowest in nearly two years

due to weak demand from makers of other smartphones and personal computers.

 But signs of some price recovery for DRAM chips starting last month and

Samsung's dominance in the premium solid-state disc drive market with its 3D

NAND chip production technology suggest a pickup in coming months, analysts

said.



LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





