                             625 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                           The Mercury (South Africa)



                             April 08, 2016 Friday

                                   E1 Edition



S7 gives Samsung edge over its rivals



BYLINE:  Jungah Lee |Seoul



SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 19



LENGTH: 589 words





Samsung Electronics posted a better-than-expected first-quarter profit after the

early release of Galaxy S7 smartphones gave it a head start on Apple and Chinese

rivals and helped counter an industry downturn.



Operating income rose to 6.6 trillion won (R86 billion) in the three months

ended March, the company said in preliminary results released yesterday. That

compares with the 5.53 trillion won average of analysts' estimates compiled by

Bloomberg.



Samsung debuted its high-end smartphones in March, about a month earlier than

last year, with sales of the S7 line-up estimated to have hit 9 million units

during their first month - triple those of the S6 in the same time frame.

Production of curved displays for its Edge version went more smoothly this time,

avoiding the hiccups that plagued last year's wraparound screen line.



"The biggest reason for the sharply improved profitability is largely due to

much lower marketing spending," Yoo Eui Hyung, an analyst at Dongbu Securities

in Seoul, said. "The faster release surely helped but it's dubious whether the

S7 can continue to surprise the market in the longer run."



Shares rose 0.6 percent to 1.29 million won as of 9.02am in Seoul, extending

this year's advance to 2.6 percent. The stock declined for a third consecutive

year in 2015.



Sales were 49 trillion won in the quarter, Samsung said, compared with the 48.8

trillion won analysts expected.



Most of Samsung's revenue was in phones. However, smartphone sales in 2016 were

expected to rise by a single-digit percentage for the first time, according to

Gartner.



Operating profit at the mobile unit probably rose 19 percent to 3.25 trillion

won in the first quarter, according to the median estimate of six analysts

surveyed. The popularity of the S7, as well as a refreshed portfolio of cheaper

Galaxy models, such as the A and J series, have given the division's earnings a

shot in the arm.



Cost cutting



Samsung is continuing to reduce the number of phones in its line-up as it tries

to cut spending and focus on competitive devices. Total smartphone shipments for

the first three months were estimated at 78 million, compared with 82 million

units during the peak holiday quarter, according to four analysts surveyed by

Bloomberg.



Operating income at the semiconductor business probably fell about 15 percent to

2.5 trillion won in the first quarter on sales of 11.5 trillion won, according

to the analyst survey. The S7's introduction did little to boost earnings at

that unit because it came with few significant chip upgrades.



The unit had been Samsung's main driver of profit since 2014, when it began

shifting its focus toward chips and displays to offset declining phones and TVs.

But persistent price declines mean it may have again been surpassed by the

cellphone business.



To revive margins, the Galaxy maker started mass production of more advanced

dynamic random access memory (DRAM) from February. Its new process shrinks

circuit widths, which reduces the size of the chip, to produce more from each

slice of silicon wafer and boost profit.



The company's display division probably posted an operating loss of 160 billion

won, according to the Bloomberg survey. The slower-than-expected pace, at which

Samsung was moving to advanced LCD production technologies, was also hurting the

business.



Foxconn Technology Group's takeover of Sharp might take a toll on South Korean

display makers in the longer haul. The Taiwanese group agreed to take control of

Sharp, intensifying competition in a Samsung-led market. - Bloomberg



LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NM





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





