

SAMSUNG GALAXY

S7 EDGE

*****

SAMSUNG'S Galaxy S6 SAMSUNG'S Galaxy S6 edge was by far the best phone of 2015.

Now the Korean tech firm is back with its refreshed and fully updated device,
the Galaxy S7 edge.

These two devices may look similar but there are plenty of tasty upgrades tucked
inside the shiny new handset.

The question is, should you buy the Galaxy S7 edge or grab a bargain and pick up
last year's S6?

THE DESIGN

ON the outside the S7 hasn't changed much, but that's no problem as this phone
is still as stunning - and as curvy - as a Page 3 beauty.

The curved edge display, metal frame and glass back means we're glad Samsung
hasn't tinkered too much with the design.

However there are a few welcome changes that set it apart from the older S6.

Firstly, Samsung has got rid of the unsightly camera hump which stuck out of the
S6 like a boil on its bottom, and the rear case has been slightly curved to make
it more comfortable to hold.

However, the best new design feature is surely the S7's waterproof case.

StarTech dropped the S7 in the drink and it emerged soggy, but totally
unscathed.

Our only criticism of the S7 Edge is the glass case is a magnet for fingerprints
and keeping it pristine is a full time mission. WINNER: Galaxy S7 Edge

THE SCREEN

WHEN it comes to what's on the screen there's one big difference between the S6
and S7 Edge and that's the size of the display.

Samsung has beefed up the S7 Edge with a new 5.5in Quad HD Super AMOLED screen
and this beast is a beauty.

The bigger display is brighter and sharper than before and features always-on
technology which allows time, date and notifications to be constantly displayed.
Just be warned. This is a big phablet-style phone and your pockets will feel
full once it's tucked in your jeans. WINNER: Galaxy S7 Edge

THE BATTERY

IT'S the news we've all been waiting for: finally a phone with a decent battery
that comes as standard.

In fact the S7 Edge has a whopping 3600mAh battery squeezed inside and our tests
have revealed it lasts around 10% longer than the S6 Edge.

The S7 can also be filled to 50% in just 10 minutes and has the ability to be
charged wirelessly. WINNER: Galaxy S7 Edge

SPEED & MEMORY

AS well as more brawn, the S7 also has more brains.

Samsung reckons its new smartphone is around 50% faster than the S6 and having
played with the S7 for a few days, it certainly feels packed with power.

From start-up to playing a memory-hungry racing sim, this device is slicker than
John Travolta on the dance floor.

The S7 also sees the return of expandable storage which will please the Samsung
faithful.

This means you can boost the S7's memory to 200GB with a MICROSD card, which is
handy as the S7 currently only ships with 32GB of in-built storage.

WINNER: Galaxy S7 Edge

CAMERA

SAMSUNG'S S6 Edge has one of the best cameras on a smartphone, but the S7 is
even better.

With a super fast focus and improved low light image quality, this phone could
give a DSLR a run for its money.

And the front-facing snapper is ideal for a celebrity selfie. You can also shoot
video footage in Ultra HD 4K quality, although, be warned, 20 seconds of footage
shot i4K will use a whopping 100MB of your precious disk space, so download
quickly. WINNER: Galaxy S7 Edge

PRICE

IF you fancy an S7 Edge you'd better clear the credit card as this smartphone is
not cheap.

Buying the device SIM-free will cost you a massive £639.

If you want the phone on contract, prices start from around £40 per month.

Meanwhile, with the S7 Edge taking centre stage, the older S6 has plummeted in
price and now costs £200 less than its shiny cousin. WINNER: Galaxy S6 Edge

EXTRAS

LIKE the S6, the S7 Edge comes packed with a fingerprint scanner, heartrate
sensor and quick access to your favourites via a swipe on the edge of the
screen.

The S7 also features a new Game Launcher which lets you play the latest apps
without getting interrupted by texts, calls and emails.

VERDICT

SAMSUNG has done it again and if you thought the S6 edge was good, wait until
you get the S7 in your hands. Everything the S6 can do the S7 does better.

With stunning looks, dazzling display, waterproof case and superior camera, this
is without doubt the smartphone to beat in 2016.

The competition should be very, very afraid.

