                             631 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                    Trak.in



                      September 5, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Samsung Offers Samsung Galaxy S7 As Replacement For Recalled Note 7 Owners in

the US



BYLINE: Abhishek Joshi



LENGTH: 411  words





Samsung's flagship product, Galaxy Note 7, has been in the limelight for quite

some time owing to multiple battery failures around the world. Some people have

claimed that the battery exploded out of the blue while some say the phone went

blank dead.



This is a very serious issue which Samsung seems to have taken up in the right

spirit. The company has issued a statement that all the 2.5 Million Note 7

pieces sold worldwide will be recalled to replace the batteries with fresh ones.

The company also says that nearly 1 in 42 devices has faulty battery.



"There was a tiny problem in the manufacturing process, so it was very difficult

to figure out. It will cost us so much it makes my heart ache. Nevertheless, the

reason we made this decision is because what is most important is customer

safety," said Koh Dong-jin, President - Samsung Mobile business.



There have already been 35 instances of the phone blowing up and the company

cannot at any cost put its customers' lives in danger because of one

manufacturing defect. Such recalls are not unknown of but this is definitely the

first time for such a famous flagship product from Samsung.



Samsung will offer S7 to Note 7 owners



To mend the damage already done by Note 7, Samsung is offering its customers

with an option to swap Note 7 with the S7 series. The company will start the

process in a week or so and the customers will be able to swap Note 7 for either

the S7 or the S7 Edge.



"The US carriers have already halted sales and offered ways for customers who

have already purchased the device to get refunds. Now Samsung has announced its

own exchange programme, which will provide customers with a new device as soon

as next week," a report by Verge said.



US customers will also get a credit of $25 on their phone bill or a $25 gift

card. The sales of the phone have been stopped immediately and the company did

not comment on when it will be made available to the public again.



Halting sales of a flagship product indefinitely can cause some serious

financial troubles to the company, also a time when Apple is going to unveil the

new set of iPhones on September 7. Apple is taking full advantage of this by

activating its Twitter account just before the event.



To remind you, Samsung Galaxy Note 7 was launched in for Rs. 59,990, but is

unavailable for purchase online in India. The smartphone series is famous for

its stylus and large display, along with nifty features like biometric scanner

and edge display.



LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





               Copyright 2016 Trak.in, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





