                             634 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                              Sunday Business Post



                                  June 5, 2016



Buyer's Guide



BYLINE: Stephen Errity



LENGTH: 1025 words







HIGHLIGHT: With yet another new generation of smartphones on the shelves,

there's a lot for buyers to think about. Stephen Errity takes a closer look at

these recent arrivals in what remains a highly competitive market



HTC 10



Price: From [#x20ac]129 depending on contract



The HTC 10 has a slimmer, more slender look than previous HTC offerings, with

its full glass front merging seamlessly into the metal body. Both the front and

rear camera feature optically stabilised, larger aperture f/1.8 lenses, while

the rear gets faster laser autofocus and the front a wide-angle lens and screen

flash. The HTC 10 also features 4K video capability, 24-bit stereo recording and

excellent playback quality, whether through headphones or the built-in speakers.



The manufacturer claims the quad HD display is 30 per cent more colourful and 50

per cent more responsive to touch than its predecessor, so even small, fast

finger movements track precisely.



At the heart of the HTC 10 is a Qualcomm Snapdragon processor with enhanced 4G

LTE, as well as a feature the manufacturer calls Boost+, designed to make the

phone faster, consume less power and provide effective security and application

management. Finally, a standard rapid charger promises up to 50 per cent charge

in just 30 minutes.



Samsung Galaxy S7



Price: From [#x20ac]199 (Three) or [#x20ac]179.99 (Tesco) depending on contract



Unveiled in February, the Galaxy S7 is Samsung's latest smartphone heavyweight.

In common with several other recent smartphone releases, it majors on camera

improvements, boasting what Samsung is calling the first Dual Pixel camera on a

smartphone.



This promises to deliver brighter and sharper images, even in low light, thanks

to a brighter lens with wider aperture, a bigger pixel, faster shutter speed and

a more accurate autofocus. Additionally, a new camera mode called Motion

Panorama brings movement to the now familiar panoramic photos.



The Galaxy S7 also promises fast wired and wireless charging, while a hybrid SIM

card tray allows users to insert a microSD card for up to 200GB of additional

storage. Samsung says it's also made significant hardware and software updates

to optimise the gaming performance of the S7: a powerful processor and bigger

battery capacity ensure longer playing time, while an internal cooling system is

said to prevent the device from overheating.



Sony Xperia X



Price: From [#x20ac]29 depending on contract



Arriving this summer, Sony's next-generation Xperia X series smartphone features

the latest in camera, and battery technology, wrapped in a very stylish design.

The phone's camera promises sharp focus for even spur-of-the-moment shots,

thanks to a 'Predictive Hybrid Autofocus' feature that lets you choose your

subject and then predicts its motion, so you can capture action without blur.



The Xperia X also features smart battery management to offer up to a claimed two

days' battery life, as well as adaptive charging technology to prolong the life

of the battery overall. Processing power is taken care of by a Qualcomm

Snapdragon 650 in the standard Xperia X and a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 in the

more powerful Xperia X Performance.



The Xperia X, Xperia X Performance and Xperia XA will be available in four

finishes; White, Graphite Black, Lime Gold and Rose Gold.



Both the X and the X Performance have a curved glass display within a rounded,

continuous frame, while the Xperia XA has an edge-to-edge display.



Microsoft Lumia 650



Price: From free depending on contract



Launched in mid-February, the Lumia 650 is particularly suited for business use.

Microsoft says it works seamlessly with its various IT platforms, while the

phone also includes robust built-in security features and one-click Office 365

set-up. The latest mobile versions of Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook and

OneNote are built in and fully optimised for touchscreen use. Users' Microsoft

apps and services are also synchronised across Windows 10 devices thanks to

Microsoft OneDrive.



The 650's five-inch HD OLED display promises to be visible even in direct

sunlight, while the phone packs 16GB of internal memory into a lightweight,

6.9mm frame. The built-in SD card slot, meanwhile, can be used to expand the

memory by up to 200GB. There are also front (5MP) and rear (8MP) cameras.



Huawei P9



Price: From free depending on contract



Already available on Vodafone and launching on other networks from this month

onwards, the Huawei P9 was created in collaboration with camera brand Leica.

Huawei says the dual-lens P9 "takes smartphone photography to the next level"

and is ideal for capturing both vivid colour and striking black and white

images.



The phone's RGB camera specialises in capturing colour, while the monochrome

camera focuses on acquiring picture detail. The two rear cameras work in tandem

to capture detail, depth and Huawei says the H9 is particularly adept at

low-light conditions. The phone also features 'Hybrid Focus', with focus based

on three methodologies -- laser, depth calculation and contras. It automatically

selects the one that yields the best result in any given environment.



Outside, the P9 is made from superior-grade glass and aerospace-class aluminum,

with diamond-cut edges.



Key technical aspects include a 5.2-inch 1080p display, a Kirin 955 2.5GHz

64-bit processor, a high-density battery and a 'virtual triple antenna' to boost

connectivity. Security, meanwhile, is taken care of by biometric

fingerprint-recognition technology.



Apple iPhone SE



Price: From free depending on contract



For those who want much of the performance and features of the latest iPhone 6s,

but in a more compact form, Apple has come up with the iPhone SE. The brand says

it's the most powerful phone with a four-inch display, boasting the same 64-bit

A9 chip as the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, as well as a 12-megapixel iSight camera

capable of capturing Live Photos and 4K video, plus Touch ID with Apple Pay.



Apple says the iPhone SE offers wifi up to three times and LTE up to 50 per cent

faster than the iPhone 5s, the look of which it strongly recalls. The SE runs

iOS, with the familiar suite of apps such as Messages, FaceTime, Photos, Music

and Maps.



Finally, a new Night Shift feature uses the phone's clock and geolocation to

automatically adjust the colours in the display to the warmer end of the

spectrum after dark -- something Apple says may help you get a better night's

sleep.



LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





