

(PRWeb) - Morgan & Morgans ClassAction.com has announced that the firm has filed
a product liability lawsuit (case number: BER-L-6537-16; Superior Court of New
Jersey, Bergen County) against Samsung on behalf of Daniel Ramirez, a
23-year-old man from California. The complaint alleges that on the morning of
May 30, 2016, at the Campus Book and Supply Store in Akron, Ohio for a
construction project in the scope of his employment for National Property
Solutions Group (NPSG), Mr. Ramirezs Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge cell phone exploded
and caught fire in Mr. Ramirezs pants  burning directly through his boxers and
pants and engulfing Mr. Ramirezs leg in flames.

The explosion allegedly cause extensive damage to Mr. Ramirez, including but not
limited to second degree burns to his right thumb and index finger as well as
second and third degree burns to his right upper leg. Mr. Ramirez was
transported to Akron Childrens Hospital, where he was, according to court
documents, treated for extensive burns; which included a significant skin graft
injury to his right leg.

Mr. Ramirezs cell phone, according to the complaint, was completely charred and
destroyed as a result of the explosion. (The complaint includes photos of the
charred S7 Edge.)

Although Mr. Ramirez was able to remove the cell phone, he was unable to quickly
remove his pants and boxers because the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge cell phone
ignited his pants and melted them to his leg leaving Mr. Ramirez in shock and
extreme pain, the complaint states.

The complaint, filed by Morgan & Morgan, claims that as a result of Samsungs
negligence, Mr. Ramirez sustained severe, permanent and life-altering injuries
including but not limited to his groin, legs, and lower back and is currently
undergoing extensive physical therapy.

Mr. Ramirez seeks damages for medical bills, pain and suffering, and physical
and financial harm. (The full amount of those damages has yet to be determined.)

The complaint states that Mr. Ramirez heard a whistling and screeching sound and
noticed his pockets vibrating and moving around, as well as thick smoke
ascending from his pocket.

The complaint also alleges that Samsung delayed rollout of all of its [Galaxy
Note] phone related devices in response to various reports on social media
showing charred and burnt phones as a result of explosions from the battery.

Only two weeks later, the complaint continues, Thursday, September 1, 2016,
SAMSUNG representatives released an official statement explaining that they were
ceasing all sales of the Samsung Galaxy Smartphone and issuing a global recall
as a result of reports of 35 faulty phone batteries. 2016 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

