

Outlook positive on strong demand for Galaxy S7

Samsung Electronics posted 8.1 trillion won ($7.57 billion) in operating profit
in the three months to June, up 17.4 percent from a year earlier, driven by
robust demand for its flagship handset Galaxy S7.

In its earnings guidance, the company said its sales came in at 50 trillion won,
up 3.01 percent from a year ago. The electronics giant will unveil a breakdown
of its divisional performances later this month.

Its operating profit is the largest in about two years and beats the market
consensus of about 7.3 trillion won by a large margin.

This is the first time that Samsung's quarterly operating profit topped 8
trillion won since the first quarter of 2014 when it posted 8.49 trillion won.

'The strong popularity of the Galaxy 7 models and brisk sales of flash memory
chips were key factors behind the stronger-than-expected second quarter
results,' a company official said.

The combined shipment of the Galaxy S7 is estimated at some 16 million in the
quarter.

Samsung hopes to continue to maintain the momentum by launching a new Galaxy
Note series early next month.

Samsung Electronics' chip division, led by 3D NAND flash memory chips, also
contributed to the strong quarterly growth, analysts said. The chips, mainly
used by corporate clients, have drastically improved memory production
efficiency, compared to existing ones.

Analysts are upbeat about the outlook for the third quarter on increased
shipments of chips and the launch of the Galaxy Note 7.

'We expect its operating profit at 8.4 trillion won in the third quarter and 8.7
trillion won in the fourth on strong demand for NAND chips,' said Hi Investment
& Securities in a report.

Analysts are also positive about the company's stock price. Samsung Electronics
closed at 1,450,000 won, up 2.04 percent, lifted by the earnings surprise.

Still, the company's IT and mobile communications (IM) unit may face tougher
threats from Chinese handset makers and Apple in the third quarter, said Mirae
Asset Investment analyst Doh Hyun-woo.

'Apple's iPhone 7 and Chinese rivals may dent Samsung's mobile division in the
third quarter,' he said.

Daishin Securities analyst John Park said slower sales growth reflects slowing
growth in the overall smartphone division and a slowdown in television
shipments.

Park said a rebound of the won against the dollar in the second quarter also
brought down its sales in terms of the local currency.

'The average won-dollar exchange rate in the second quarter was 1,163 won, down
from 1,200 won in the January-March period, which we believe is another factor
for the narrow sales growth,' he said.

