

SAMSUNG versus Apple is one of the fiercest mobile tech rivalries ever and, with
the right timing and its latest "phablet" device, the South Korean giant may
have found the right formula to steal customers from the iPhone maker.

Last week, Samsung released the Galaxy Note 7, a 5.7 inch "phablet" that comes
with an S Pen stylus. It's the company's latest high-end premium device that
packs some top features, such as an iris scanner to unlock the smartphone, a
curved edge screen, and the impressive camera technology showed off with the
Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge earlier this year.

Analysts have hailed the device as an example of how the company can remain at
the leading edge of innovation. The Note 7 will "act as a premium showcase which
will improve Samsung margins, [and] define how Samsung's strategy differs from
Apple and Huawei," analysts at IHS said.

Now Samsung has chosen to release this in the summer at its own event -- instead
of a major consumer electronics show in Europe as is the custom. The timing is
key as it comes just a month before Apple is expected to unveil the iPhone 7.
Apple has recently been struggling with declining iPhone sales and, if the leaks
are anything to go by, the iPhone 7 could be a lackluster launch with nothing
really to make it stand out. There will be plenty of iPhone users who bought the
iPhone 6, are coming to the end of a two year contract and are now looking at an
upgrade. If Samsung gets the marketing right on this one, it could manage to
poach Apple customers looking for a standout device.

UBS noted last week that there are 200m iPhone users yet to upgrade to a large
screen, and Samsung could go after this group as well. After all, large-screen
devices are one of the fastest-growing segments in the smartphone market, while
the broader industry slows down.

The Note 7 may be Samsung's best chance in a long time to make a dent in Apple's
customer base. For years the Cupertino colossus has seen sales of its
money-maker rising while Samsung lost its way with the Galaxy S5. Now with the
South Korean company's revamped portfolio of top-range smartphones in the S7, S7
Edge and Note 7, the tables have turned.

It will by no means be an easy battle. Speak to any long-time Apple user and
they will say the idea of switching from iOS to Android is daunting, even though
it's not that hard. And that's what Apple has done so well - lock users into its
software ecosystem of iTunes, Apple Music, Apple Pay and the rest of its
www.services.No wonder it has become its fastest-growing segment in terms of
revenues.

But if Samsung can break the shackles of Apple's ecosystem, it has the chance to
wrap users in its own world of smartphones, virtual reality, payments and
wearables. All eyes are now on Apple and the iPhone 7.

£ Arjun Kharpal is tech reporter on www.CNBC.com.

