

KATHMANDU: The much-awaited smartphones from Samsung - Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6
Edge are all set to debut in the Nepali market by mid-April. Similarly, Gionee
is also planning to introduce its latest offering - Elife S7 around similar
date. Both the mobile brands had unveiled their latest flagship phones at the
Mobile World Congress 2015 in Barcelona on March 1 and 2 respectively. Moreover,
Samsung Galaxy J1 will be launched within a week's time in the market. "We are
planning to launch Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge in the second week of April,
once it is simultaneously launched in around 20 different countries on April
10," said Dikesh Malhotra, President at Integrated Mobility Solutions. "One of
the most exciting features of the new Galaxy S6 is its camera, which has a
stellar specification going beyond the capabilities of any other smartphones
available," he claimed, adding that the smartphones are also better in terms of
design, processor and charging.

According to him, the standout feature of the Galaxy S6 Edge is its curve-edged
display, which is made from Corning Gorilla Glass 4. Both mobiles have 5.1-inch
screen and is powered by android OS, v5.0.2 (Lollipop) processor and comprise
quad 2.1GHz and quad 1.5Ghz. The handsets are packed with 3GB of RAM and either
32 GB, 64 GB or 128 GB of internal memory, powered by a non-removable 2550 mAh
battery in S6 and 2,600mAh in S6 Edge. According to him, Samsung J1, on the
other hand, is powered by android OS, v4.4.4 (KitKat) and has an internal memory
of 5GB and supports micro SD card up to 128GB. This dual-SIM handset has 5MP
primary camera and 2MP secondary camera. He informed that the tentative price of
Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge would be around Rs 85,000 to Rs 89000 and Rs 95,000 to Rs
99,000 respectively. Meanwhile, the price of Galaxy J1 will be around Rs 13,000.

"Gionee Elife S7 comes with 5.2-inch Super AMOLED screen and is probably the
first slimmest dual-SIM phone," said Samir Dhungana, Marketing Manager of
Teletalk. "The body of the phone has grooved sides which give it a U-shape and
make it comfortable to hold," he added. "We are optimistic about this
smartphones and hope to receive positive feedbacks from the customers," he said,
adding that they are planning to launch the upgraded version of E series mobiles
subsequently after the launch of Elife S7. "We will also bring various mid-range
mobiles in the market in near future," he notified.

It is powered by android OS, v5.0 (Lollipop) and has the internal memory of 16
GB, 2 GB RAM. In addition to being slim, stylish and super-fast, it is the most
powerful model yet. This high-end phone has aviation-grade alloy unibody design.
The phone features ultra-smart primary camera of 13MP and secondary camera of
8MP. One of the impressive features of this mobile is that the focus can be
changed after shooting pictures and its smart capture feature will allow users
to take selfies with gesture control.

Another of its outstanding features is that it has a zero degree camera angle.
The mobile also boasts of long battery life.

