                             648 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                Himalayan Times



                             April 11, 2016 Monday



New treats for the New Year



BYLINE: Rebecca Shrestha



LENGTH: 430  words





Kathmandu: New Year definitely amasses anti-cipation from all. Each day is a

celebration and even more each year. Its significance is aligned with growth,

prosperity and new beginnings. With Nepali New Year upon us, one can imagine the

eagerness of Kathmandu denizens to start new along with popular smartphone

brands trying to meet their expectations.



The embargo and the earthquakes throttled the nation as the tech market also

took a dip last year; slowly but surely, it has picked up and now is more ready

than ever. Here are few brands who have come up with special offers, new

launches, and are all geared up for the New Year with high hopes.



Irresistible offer



Especially for the New Year, companies bring new and attractive offers for

customers. Similarly, Samsung Nepal has also invested a lot in schemes over the

years and they believe that this 'Haat Khali Najane' scheme will also bring good

sales this New Year season.



Samsung has a grand scheme for the Nepali New Year. Loaded with unlimited gifts,

the 'Haat Khali Najane' offer intends to please every buyer. The scheme ensures

that on the purchase of any Samsung smartphones of any series buyers will

receive a scratch coupon, which will not disappoint them at Samsung booths all

over.



According to Samsung Nepal, official national distributor of Samsung Mobiles,

"The market is back. With the recent launch of Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, sales have

improved significantly compared to the last year."



But on the purchase of S7 or S7 Edge, it will require you to send an SMS

mentioning the serial number of the specific model to 5051. Upon meeting such

requirements exciting gifts such as leather bags, the Samsung level wireless

headphones and phone covers will be given out on the occasion of the New Year

while Galaxy S7 itself is the bumper prize.



A fresh start



Huawei has introduced its latest smartphone Y6 Pro in the market for the New

Year. Launched on April 10, the sleek yet powerful device is available at the

price tag of Rs 22,499. It is a high performing smartphone with a lasting

battery, and a treat to the eyes with a 5-inch HD IPS screen. The trendy, slim

phone is fully loaded with a Quad-core 64-bit processor a great camera to

capture all your greatest moments. It is definitely the perfect value for money

kind of product.



Summit Pradhananga, Marketing Manager at Huawei Techno-logies states, "The Y in

Y6 Pro itself signifies youth. For the price, the powerful RAM and quality of

functions are a perfect combination that targets youngsters," adding that

hopefully it will turn out to be successful as expected.



LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





           Copyright 2016 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





