

Australian telcos in conjunction with Samsung are handing out sweeteners to
Galaxy Note 7 customers in a bid to prevent them switching to competitors.

Telstra, Optus and Vodafone are all giving customers who choose to recontract on
a Samsung device $250 of credit against their plan. Samsung has the Galaxy S7,
Galaxy S7 Edge, Note 5 and S5 devices in the local market.

The move follows similar measures taken by the world's top smartphone maker in
the US, where it is offering a $US100 credit for a carrier or retail outlet to
pass on to customers who switch to another Samsung device in -exchange for their
Note 7s.

The Note 7, one of the most -expensive smartphones in the market, was very well
received by consumers and seen as the leader in the "phablet" category.

While the S7 may not have the bigger screen of the Note 7, it does share most of
its features and Samsung is hoping that might be enough to placate customers.

Whether the incentives will keep customers loyal remains to be seen but early
indications suggest Australian users are by and large sticking with Samsung.
However, that goodwill could evaporate as a slew of new -Android devices enter
the market.

Research firm Telsyte analyst Foad Fadaghi said that while the Samsung brand had
taken a significant hit, the full impact of the company permanently putting the
Note 7 on ice would not be known for a while. Samsung, and the Note 7 -device in
particular, does have a strong fan base and Mr Fadaghi said keeping them happy
may depend on how long it takes for Samsung to get a replacement for the Note 7
on to the market.

"It's a real double-edged sword for them," Mr Fadaghi said. "On one hand they
don't want to rush out a device, but they can't wait too long before the
sentiment sours." He added that Samsung faced an additional risk of losing
commercial customers that buy device components from it.

"A lot of other companies look to Samsung for components and another recall will
knock Samsung out of its orbit. They need to isolate this problem quickly," Mr
Fadaghi said.

Discontinuing the Note 7 is set to cost Samsung about $US3 billion ($3.9bn),
with the total damage expected to exceed at least $US5.3bn. Samsung has also
slashed its third-quarter profit forecast by $US2.6bn.

So is Samsung's pain going to be Apple's gain? Mr Fadaghi said that while some
Samsung users might jump ship, they were unlikely to abandon the Android
platform and both Google and Sony look set to benefit."This is a great
opportunity for the Sony Xperia XZ and the Google Pixel."

