

SEOUL: Samsung Electronics Co Ltd flagged a 10 percent jump in quarterly profit
yesterday - a sign of robust early sales for its new Galaxy S7 smartphones,
although there are doubts whether momentum can be maintained in the face of
rival offerings.

The firm's estimate for first-quarter operating profit handily beat market
forecasts and has boosted hopes that its struggling mobile business will post
its first annual profit gain in three years, also benefiting from an improved
performance for mid-to-low tier devices and cost-cutting efforts.

Samsung said the January-March operating profit was probably 6.6 trillion won
(R86bn), well above the 5.6 trillion won profit tipped by a Thomson Reuters
StarMine SmartEstimate derived from a survey of 23 analysts.

The firm will not disclose a full breakdown of its results until later this
month, and gave no comment on the performance of its business divisions.

More than a dozen brokerages had lifted forecasts for Samsung earnings since
late last month, encouraged by reports of better-than-expected sales of its
Galaxy S7 models, which has an improved camera, waterproofing and microSD
storage support. Samsung's mobile business was probably the top earner for the
first time in seven quarters, analysts said.

A decline in the value of the South Korean won is also expected to help lift the
firm's first-quarter bottom line. But even so, competition from new products
such as Apple Inc's recently launched iPhone SE and Huawei Technologies Co Ltd's
upcoming flagship P9 phone are tempering investor enthusiasm.

"First quarter earnings will be the peak this year," said HMC Investment analyst
Greg Roh, adding that marketing costs for the mobile business will increase in
the next quarter, pushing profits lower.

Investor caution stems from last year's launch of Galaxy S6 phones, which
boasted major design changes and features and were widely praised. Initially
expected to be Samsung's best-selling phones to date, sales fizzled after the
launch.

Alpha Asset Management fund manager CJ Heo said: "S7 sales popped at first, but
could fade as rivals launch new models. We have learned from the past."

Other analysts said Samsung's decision to launch the Galaxy S7 models a month
earlier than their predecessors may simply have brought forward sales that would
have been made in later quarters.

Samsung's shares gave up early gains to be down 1.6 percent in midday trade,
compared with a 0.2 percent fall for the broader market. - Reuters

