                             654 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                            January 25, 2016 Monday



Samsung Galaxy S7, LG G5 to be fitted with faster mobile technology



LENGTH: 354 words





While expectations are high for the Galaxy S7 and G5, the new flagship

smartphones of Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics, respectively, an

announcement by mobile carrier SK Telecom on Monday offers hints to a new

feature on the handsets.



SK Telecom employees work at a laboratory of the firm in Seoul. (SKT)Korea's

leading mobile carrier said that it would deploy an advanced uplink carrier

aggregation technology, which will increase the upload speed of the long-term

evolution network, up to fourfold, in the first half of this year in Korea.



With the current LTE network, mobile users can upload a file at a speed of

25Mbps on the 10 MHz band.



"When the new mobile network technology is up and running, the maximum upload

speed, in theory, can reach 100 Mbps," an SKT public relations representative

said.



Since the faster upload technology is incompatible with the existing

smartphones, it is anticipated that the Galaxy S7 and the G5 will become the

first handsets sporting the faster network technology.



Both handsets will be unveiled during the Mobile World Congress trade show to be

held in Barcelona in February.



The deployment of the advanced uplink CA technology is inevitable in order to

cope with explosive data traffic growth due to streaming services, multichannel

networks, and social media, SKT explained.



SKT's network division head Lee Jong-bong said in a statement, "SKT will

continue to take the technology lead in the looming 5G era."



At the core of the upload technology is the UL 64QAM, which improves efficiency

in transitioning data into LTE signals, and the MC-PUSCH, which combines

disparate frequencies in the same spectrum into one frequency, according to the

mobile carrier.



The recent completion of the standardization works of the UL 64QAM and MC-PUSCH

by global mobile carriers and network equipment developers sped up the

commercialization of the uplink CA, according to the Korean network operator.



The new mobile network technology will be first commercialized in Seoul and its

adjacent regions and metropolitan cities by February, and expanded to other

regions down the road.



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





