                             657 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          The Cairns Post (Australia)



                            March 12, 2016 Saturday

                                 Cairns Edition



Virtual reality in sight



BYLINE: Kerstin Kehren kerstin.kehren@news.com.au



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18



LENGTH: 245  words





EXPERIENCING virtual reality has now become even easier for Samsung smartphone

users after the technology giant's Gear VR headset went on sale at Telstra

stores around Cairns yesterday.



The headset allows users to enter 'virtual' and immersive worlds when used in

conjunction with Samsung's Galaxy S6 and S7 and Note 5 products.



To use the technology, users download apps, including games and experiences,

from a dedicated app store.



Users can even watch movies in their headset through the Netflix app. Student

Tarni Fisher, 20, tried out the Gear VR for the first time in Telstra's Cairns

Central store yesterday.



"It was heaps of fun," she said afterwards.



"The graphics and the colour were incredible." Telstra Cairns Central store

licensee Troy Stone said the Gear VR headsets were able to put users in the

front row of a concert or "send them sightseeing to far-flung cities".



"The immersive effect has to be seen to be believed." He revealed that his own

first experience using the Gear VR had involved dinosaurs.



"I've never put one of those sort of headsets on before," he said. "It's a bit

strange.



"It's almost kind of like you're right there." The arrival of the $159 virtual

reality headsets in Telstra stores Australia-wide coincided with the release of

Samsung's latest smartphone offerings, the Galaxy S7 and the Galaxy S7 edge.

Both phone models are dust and water resistant."This has been the highest demand

Galaxy launch that we've ever had before," Mr Stone said.



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Cairns Post





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





