                             658 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Irish Times



                              July 8, 2016 Friday



Samsung's profits rise to EUR 6bn



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 359 words





Samsung posted better-than-anticipated profits as continued demand for its

Galaxy S7 smartphones helps turn around its mobile devices business.



Operating income rose to 8.1 trillion won (EUR 6.3 billion) in the three months

ended June, the world's largest maker of phones and memory chips said in

preliminary results released yesterday.



That compares with the 7.38 trillion-won average of analysts' estimates compiled

by Bloomberg and 6.9 trillion won a year earlier.



Galaxy S7 models have capitalised on a lull in new iPhones from Apple, helping

to boost profit margins at the South Korean company and stoking demand for its

components.



That's helped the biggest maker of devices using the Android operating system

defy a slowdown in the smartphone market.



"S7 smartphones turned out to be a greater hit than what the market had thought

without competing iPhones," said Lee Seung Woo, an analyst at IBK Securities in

Seoul.



"Samsung's end-user products, such as smartphones and TVs, all performed

unbelievably well in the first half and looks like they did a lot of cost

reduction."



Revenue was 50 trillion won (EUR 39 billion) in the quarter, the Suwon-based

company said, compared with the 50.9 trillion won analysts expected.



Samsung won't provide net income or break out divisional performance until it

releases audited results later this month.



Shares have risen 13 per cent in 2016, putting them on track for their first

annual increase in four years. Samsung probably sold 15 million units of the S7

in the June quarter after selling 10 million in March when it debuted, said Greg

Roh, an analyst at HMC Investment Securities in Seoul.



Operating profit at the mobile unit probably rose 53 per cent to 4.23 trillion

won (EUR 3.3 billion) in the second quarter, according to the average estimates

of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.



Higher sales of the S7 Edge with a wraparound screen, compared with the flat

version, along with solid demand for cheaper models helped earnings grow. In the

absence of a new iPhone, many carriers boosted marketing spending to drive

purchases of the S7, shifting the cost of promotion away from Samsung.



- (Bloomberg)



LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times

                              All Rights Reserved





