                             671 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Irish Times



                              April 8, 2016 Friday



S7 sales boost profits at Samsung



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 317 words





Samsung Electronics flagged a 10 per cent jump in quarterly profit yesterday - a

sign of robust early sales for its new Galaxy S7 smartphones although doubts

abound whether momentum can be maintained in the face of new rival offerings.



The South Korean tech giant's estimate for first-quarter operating profit easily

beat market forecasts. It has boosted hopes that its struggling mobile business

will post its first annual profit gain in three years, also benefiting from an

improved performance for mid-to-low tier devices and cost-cutting.



Samsung said January-March operating profit was likely to be 6.6 trillion won

(EUR 5bn), well above the 5.6 trillion won profit tipped by a Thomson Reuters

StarMine SmartEstimate derived from a survey of 23 analysts.



The firm will not disclose a full breakdown of its results until later this

month, and gave no comment on the performance of its business divisions.



More than a dozen brokerages had lifted forecasts for Samsung earnings since

late last month, encouraged by reports of better-than-expected sales of its

Galaxy S7 models, which boast an improved camera, waterproofing and microSD

storage support. Samsung's mobile business was probably the top earner for the

first time in seven quarters, analysts say.



A decline in the value of the South Korean won is also expected to help lift the

firm's first-quarter bottom line. But even so, competition from new products

such as Apple's recently launched iPhone SE and Huawei Technologies' upcoming

flagship P9 phone are tempering investor enthusiasm.



"First quarter earnings will be the peak this year," said HMC Investment analyst

Greg Roh, adding that marketing costs for the mobile business would rise in the

next quarter, pushing profits lower.



Some analysts said Samsung's decision to launch the Galaxy S7 models a month

earlier than their predecessors may have simply have brought forward sales. -

(Reuters)



LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times

                              All Rights Reserved





