                             674 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                Essex Chronicle



                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday



'My burning phone was so hot it burned concrete pavement'



BYLINE: Richard Brown richard.brown@essexchronicle.co.uk



SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 382  words





THIS is the moment a mum's £500 mobile phone "exploded in her hands" and filled

a restaurant with thick white smoke.



Sarah Crockett, 30, was eating in Hold the Anchovies in Witham with husband

Matt, 29, when her Samsung Galaxy S7 began to overheat, expanding in her hand

before melting the surface of the table.



The shocking incident, which happened at about 9.30am on Friday September 9, was

captured on CCTV inside the Newland Street restaurant. Sarah, a supply teacher,

said: "I had hardly been using my phone all morning and it seemed absolutely

fine.



"My husband asked me a question, so I picked my phone up and felt the back swell

up in my hands. The next  second it was boiling hot. I dropped the phone, and

that is why you can see me jumping up in the CCTV. As I let it go, smoke started

coming out and it just fizzled and smoked away for about an hour. It burnt the

table in the restaurant and when we took it outside onto the pavement, it melted

a phone shape into the concrete."



Tech giant Samsung has already had to issue a full recall of the £750 Note 7,

after similar incidents in which devices burst into flames while charging.



While Sarah lost all of her contacts, and pictures of her two children,

four-year-old Ollie and five-year-old Layla, she acknowledged that the incident

could have been much worse.



"It is more scary to think about what could have happened and how dangerous it

could have been. If I had been driving, the car would have filled up with smoke

in seconds and the way it got hot so quickly, if it had been in my pocket I

could have been badly burnt."



With the help of waiter Jordan Pierce, 32, Sarah got the phone outside in a

tea-towel, before sending CCTV footage  inside the restaurant off to Samsung.



Despite the shocking images, however, they were unwilling to provide Sarah, who

lives in Silver End, with a new phone. While she does now have a replacement

Galaxy S7, she said there was an element of fear in using it.



"Without sounding dramatic, I am a bit nervous," she added. "I feel a little bit

anxious and I don't really want my children picking up my phone."



A Samsung spokesperson said: "There are no known safety issues with Galaxy S7

devices. Samsung takes customer queries extremely seriously and inquiries are

investigated  on a case-by-case basis."



LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: CREDIT IS VERY IMPORTANT Sarah Crockett from Essex with her Samsung

Galaxy S7 mobile phone which exploded while she was out having dinner with her

husband. Material must be credited "The Sun/News Syndication" unless otherwise

agreed. 100% surcharge if not credited. Online rights need to be cleared

separately. Strictly one time use only subject to agreement with News

Syndication

BURNING UP: Sarah Crockett is seen in the restaurant with her mobile as it

starts to get hot and smoke Photo: News Syndication



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                           Copyright 2016 Localworld

                              All Rights Reserved





