                             681 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            September 2, 2016 Friday



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 review: Your best business partner



BYLINE: Komal Mohan



SECTION: REVIEWS



LENGTH: 1393 words





The Galaxy Note series of smartphones from Samsung have always garnered

accolades for its specifications, design, and not to miss the S Pen. The South

Korean giant launched its flagship phone, the Note 7 in India recently at a

price tag of Rs 59,990 .



This is a phone of many firsts for Samsung. Not only is this the first Galaxy

Note to feature a USB Type C port and iris scanner, it is also the first

smartphone to feature a Gorilla Glass 5 protection . Though its the sixth

smartphone of the Note series but the company decided to name it Note 7 and is a

successor to the Note 5 launched last year.



We played around with the device and here is our complete review.



Design and display



In terms of design, the Galaxy Note 7 comes across as an improvised version of

the Note 5 and the Galaxy S7 Edge featuring a dual-curved glass display.



The curves make the phone easy to hold and facilitate one-hand operations

despite sporting a 5.7-inch screen size.Though we tested the Black Onyx variant,

the smartphone is available in Gold Platinum and Silver Titanium as well.



The Galaxy Note 7 features a metallic unibody design gently-rounded at the

corners. Though sporting a Gorilla Glass 5 protection to sheild it from any kind

of damage on the front and back, it makes the smartphone a fingerprint magnet

and a bit slippery too.



It sports a protruding 12MP camera along with dual LED flash and a heart rate

sensor on the back similar to the Galaxy S7 Edge. The metal-clad edges have the

power button on the right and volume rocker keys on the left. While the hybrid

dual-sim card slot is at the top, the charging port, S-Pen slot and 3.5mm

headset jack are at the bottom.



A major change, Samsung has ditched the micro-USB port for the USB-Type C in the

Galaxy Note 7. The new S-Pen design enables one to insert and extract the

accessory either ways without damaging it.



The screen is a 5.7-inch curved Super AMOLED Quad HD display with a 1440 x 2560

pixels resolution, similar to the Galaxy S7 Edge thereby rendering an excellent

image quality. The phone comes with an 'Always On Display' feature that allows

you to see the date, time and notification icons onscreen even when the phone is

locked or in sleep mode.



The physical Home button is at the bottom along with two capacitive navigation

keys. The home button also integrates an extremely responsive fingerprint sensor

. On the top, the front-facing camera and iris scanner are placed above the

receiver grille. The Galaxy Note 7 is the first Samsung smartphone to come up

with this security feature.



Performance



Conforming to its flagship status, the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 sports an octa-core

processor and a 4GB RAM. No heating issues or lags were encountered during the

test (though there have been reports of some units exploding). Graphic-heavy

games, such as Asphalt 8 and Modern Combat 5 were easily playable and so were

popular videos.



The call quality, in weaker reception areas, was good (However this differs from

operator to operator). The sound through the speaker outlet was loud and is best

when kept horizontally. However, since the only speaker grille is placed at the

bottom, it is not suitable for landscape viewing.



Though the Galaxy Note 7 runs on the Android 6 Marshmallow platform, the company

has promised an update to the Android 7 Nougat soon. It comes with an app

launcher with a search bar at the top and comes pre-loaded with the usual Google

apps, Galaxy Apps, Samsung Gear app, S health, and Microsoft apps to name a few.



The smartphone is an IP68 waterproof unit, which means that it can withstand up

to six feet of water for 30 minutes. During our tests, the phone survived a

thorough rinsing under the sink, and immersion in a bowl of water.



An interesting feature of the phone is the Secure Folder which lets you lock

away your pictures, memos and apps protected by a fingerprint, iris scan,

password or a passcode.



READ ALSO: Samsung Galaxy Note 7 shipments delayed over reports of exploding

units



However, unlike other S series models, the Galaxy Note 7 has only one variant -

with the edge screen. The edge panel comes with easy customizations in terms of

its placement on the left or to the right, size, and even transparency. You can

use the panel to add shortcuts to apps, contacts, calendar, weather and more.



The Smart Stay feature detects your face with the front camera to keep the

screen on even when you are not touching it. There's also a blue-light-filter

mode meant to reduce eye-strain, a smart gesture control to take screenshots

with the swipe of your palm, and direct calling by bringing the phone close to

your ear after opening the contact details. Such features, although not

necessary, certainly add to the 'wow factor' of the smartphone.



In terms of battery, it comes with a 3,500mAh battery, a bit less than the

Samsung S7 Edge and can last for an entire day comfortably with moderate usage,

a couple of hours of phone calls, and some casual gaming and internet browsing.



Camera



Moving on to the cameras, the Galaxy Note 7 has the same camera as the Galaxy S7

Edge, which means that it is splendid. The smartphone has a 12MP rear camera

with LED flash and a 5MP front camera. Among the many shooting modes that the

camera app offers are Pastel, Monogram, and Retro. The 'pro' mode in the camera

app now has support for controlling the shutter speed and an even greater ISO

range. It also comes with features such as selective focus, slow motion,

Hyperlapse and Virtual Shot.



The camera focuses quickly and pictures captured are sharp with accurate

colours. The front 5MP camera is as impressive as the rear camera and won't

disappoint you at all.



Productivity and security



The major highlight of Galaxy Note phones is the S-Pen. It snugly fits into the

phone till you push to eject it out with the new spring-loading mechanism. Just

like the phone, the S Pen is also water-resistant and has a 0.7 mm tip. It has

4096 levels of pressure sensitivity, double than that of the Galaxy Note 5.



The S Pen works similar to how it did on the Galaxy Note 5. Ejecting the S-Pen

converts the lock screen of the phone into a writing memo screen. In an unlocked

screen, you will find Samsung's Air Command wheel with which you can create a

note, translate and screen write. The smart select feature is basically another

way of capturing a screenshot that you can crop. It even allows you to create

GIFs from a video on steaming sites such as YouTube or Vimeo. The translate

feature works when you hover the pen over a word and the phone translates it

automatically. However, the feature still requires some work as neither is it

fool-proof nor does it support all languages.



READ ALSO: Samsung Galaxy S8 camera details surface online



In terms of security, apart from offering a fingerprint sensor, the Note 7 comes

with an iris scanner - a first for Samsung . It is easy to set it up and works

super fast. It is noteworthy that although at the time of set up, it asks you to

not wear any contact lenses or glasses, it works just fine when you're wearing

them as well. You can have both (the iris scanner and fingerprint sensor)

enabled at the same time to unlock your phone.



Verdict



The Samsung Galaxy Note 7 is a complete device in itself. It is hard for us to

pin point what is missing in it. It packs a powerful punch with its performance

and camera. Samsung, with the Galaxy Note 7, has definitely taken the 'fight of

flagships' to its competitors. At a steep price tag of Rs 59,990, it is

definitely not for everyone, but available only to the productivity-focused.



Advice: Don't jump to buy this one already. There are other interesting launches

coming up soon.



For all Samsung aficionados, here's a quick wrap of the specifications again:



Operating system: Android 6 Marshmallow



Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 octa-core 64-bit



RAM: 4GB



Storage: 64GB UFS 2.0 internal and microSD expansion card slot



Cameras: Dual pixel rear 12MP with f/1.7 aperture and 5MP front facing camera



Sensors: Iris scanner, fingerprint scanner, accelerometer, barometer, gyro, and

heart rate monitor



Battery: 3500 mAh non-removable with fast charging and fast wireless charging

technology



Water resistance: IP68 water and dust resistance



Dimensions: 153.5 x 73.9 x 7.9 mm and 169g



Wireless connectivity: 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac WiFi, MIMO, Bluetooth 4.2 LE, ANT+,

NFC, GPS, GLONASS, MST



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





