                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 EKantipur.com



                            March 10, 2016 Thursday



Samsung Galaxy S7, S7 edge rolled out



LENGTH: 424 words



DATELINE: Kathmandu





Kathmandu, March 10 -- Samsung Electronics Nepal on Wednesday launched the

Samsung Galaxy S7 edge and the Galaxy S7, the newest additions to the Galaxy

family of smartphones amid a function



The newly launched Galaxy phones have a sleek design with powerful performance

including advanced camera features, water resistant technology and external

memory, the company said.



"We believe in a world that is brighter, sharper, more convenient and more fun,"

said Pranaya Ratna Sthapit, head HHP division, Samsung Electronics Nepal.



"We strive to deliver on that vision with the Galaxy S7 edge and Galaxy S7 by

marrying elegant design with functionality and providing a seamless mobile

experience."



The Samsung Galaxy S7 edge is priced at Rs88,900 while the Samsung Galaxy S7

costs Rs77,900. Both the phones will be available in the Nepali market from

mid-March, according to the company. Samsung Electronic Nepal has launched a

pre-booking offer starting March 10 under which everyone placing an advance

order will get a leather bag worth Rs20,000 or a Samsung gear worth Rs13,900

free, the company said.



Both the phones have Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) operating system and dual pixel

camera delivering brighter and sharper images, even in low light.



The smartphone distributor claims that dual pixel technology allows a brighter

lens with a wider aperture, bigger pixel, faster shutter speed and more accurate

autofocus even in low light. The 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and the 5.5-inch Galaxy S7

edge are constructed with 3D glass and metal-all in a sleek design with

durability and ergonomic curves for a comfortable grip.



Both the phones deliver fast wired and wireless charging technology, the company

said. Additionally, the hybrid SIM card tray allows users to insert a micro SD

card for up to 200 GB of additional storage.



According to the company, it has also made significant hardware and software

updates to optimize gaming performance on the Galaxy S7 and the Galaxy S7 edge.



The powerful processor and bigger battery capacity ensure longer playing time,

and the internal cooling system keeps the device from overheating.



Game launcher, a new add-on for game lovers, allows users to manage battery

consumption and minimize notifications. Additionally, users can record their

gaming experience or share their screen to play with others.



Published: 10-03-2016 08:54



Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query

with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact

Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





