                             691 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                             May 18, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung Pay sees surge in transaction volume



LENGTH: 298 words





Tech giant Samsung Electronics said Wednesday that its mobile payment system

Samsung Pay has surpassed the 1 trillion-won ($847 million) mark in transaction

volume in South Korea.



First launched in the nation in August last year, the mobile payment system

which is available on Samsung's high-end smartphones, including the Galaxy S7

and S7 Edge, has seen constant growth in its number of subscribers due to robust

sales of the smartphones.



Models pose with Samsung Electronics' Galaxy S7 smartphones installed with the

payment solution Samsung Pay. (Samsung Electronics)



The mobile payment solution, which was previously available only at

brick-and-mortar shops with traditional payment terminals, or NFC-based

terminals, is now compatible with ATMs. It can also be used as a transport card

and a membership card, and Samsung Pay users can pay for purchases online.



The tech behemoth explained that the online availability of the payment solution

has contributed to the surge in transaction volume.



Online purchases through Samsung Pay stood at 200 billion won, or 20 percent of

entire transactions, according to the company.



"Samsung Pay has been growing at a rapid speed and changing the payment patterns

of consumers," Samsung said in a press release.



Samsung Pay, which now has more than 5 million users in countries including

China and the U.S., will hit more global markets in the coming months.



As the global expansion of Samsung Pay speeds up, competition with U.S.-based

Apple's mobile payment solution Apple Pay is expected to heat up down the road.



Apple CEO Tim Cook said earlier this month that the iPhone maker's mobile

payment system was gaining traction as it attracts a million new users per week

and its transaction volume was up five times compared to a year ago.



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





