                             695 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                        June 24, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST



LeEco's Le Max2 Outshines Rivals With CDLA Technology



BYLINE: Team TechTree



LENGTH: 362  words





The company claims the CLDA technology gives ita definitive edge against Samsung

Galaxy S7 and iPhone 6s Plus.



LeEco's second generation Superphone, Le Max2 has created substantial buzz in

the smartphone industry in India, leaving its competitors far behind. Powered by

unmatched specs, sublime aesthetics besides pioneering technology that is

futuristic, Le Max2 has a definitive edge against Samsung's Galaxy S7 and iPhone

6s Plus.



With the growth in content consumption on-the-go, millennials demand that the

overall video experience on their smartphones is well complemented with the

audio. Therefore, not only how content is viewed but also heard on a smartphone

becomes critical from a consumer perspective and an area that most smartphone

manufacturers have not shifted their focus on. LeEco's Le Max2 boasts the

company's proprietary and world's first Continual Digital Lossless Audio (CDLA)

technology, which LeEco says enables users to experience digital lossless audio.



What gives Le Max2 a clear edge as compared to Samsung's Galaxy S7 and iPhone 6s

Plus are its superlative specs, one of them being its pioneering CDLA

technology. In its second generation Superphone, LeEco has ditched the 3.5mm

audio jack, and has instead opted for a USB Type-C port. The new CDLA music

standard is all set to redefine the audio experience in smartphones with its

breakthrough technology and intelligence.



As competition surges in the smartphone industry, it becomes imperative for

phone manufacturers to offer a distinct benefit proposition to users, but minus

the hefty premiums that are usually attached to such unique features. Keeping

this in mind, players like LeEco have taken impressive steps to ensure that

their second generation Superphone Le Max2 that offers users an unmatched audio

experience.



An apple-to-apple comparison also shows that Le Max2 wins hands down when it

comes to its display and camera quality and storage capacity, in addition to

flaunting the Type-C port. Le Max2 also sports a powerful 21-megapixel rear and

8-megapixel front camera, supports PDAF, optical image stabilization (OIS) and

has 4K video recording capabilities,way ahead of its peers.



LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





