                             698 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             August 12, 2016 Friday



Samsung launches Gear VR for Note 7, Gear Fit 2 and IconX earbuds in India



BYLINE: Robin Sinha



SECTION: MORE GADGETS



LENGTH: 438 words





Samsung today launched its latest flagship phablet Galaxy Note 7 in India. The

smartphone is priced at Rs 59,900. Along with the Galaxy Note 7, the company

also launched a Gear VR for Note 7, Gear Fit 2 fitness tracker and Gear Icon X

wireless earbuds. The devices are priced at Rs 7290, Rs 13990 and Rs Rs 13,490

respectively.



Pre-booking for these devices starts on August 22nd. Besides Galaxy Note 7

support, the Oculus-based Gear VR also has features like a USB Type-C port and

micro-USB port for connecting the device to Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 Edge, Galaxy

Note 5, Galaxy S6 Edge+, Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge. Featuring Accelerator,

Gyrometer and Proximity sensors, the new Gear VR weighs 345gm and offers

101-degree field of view. It will be available in Blue/Black colour options. The

design of the new Gear VR is the same as that of the original Gear VR, but with

a new colour and USB Type-C connectivity."By pairing the Galaxy Note 7 with the

new Gear VR powered by Oculus, users can experience premium virtual reality

almost anywhere. Galaxy Note 7's incredible Super AMOLED screen and powerful

processor deliver an ultra-immersive experience. The vast and ever growing

library of apps, photos, games and more puts users in the center of the action,"

said Samsung.The company also launched its Gear Fit 2 fitness band that comes

with an embedded GPS tracker and a heart rate monitor. Samsung says that the

Gear Fit 2 has an ergonomic, sleek and slim design. It also sports a

Super-AMOLED curved display with a high-resolution color touchscreen and comes

with Auto Activity Tracking feature. It's easy to transfer fitness data between

S Health and other select fitness apps.The fitness band includes a standalone

music player and automatically recognizes activities like running, walking,

cycling, or using rowing machine or elliptical trainer.Samsung Gear IconX

wireless earbuds look similar to the Moto Hint but are slightly better

under-the-hood. The earbuds come with three different sizes of eartips and

wingtips. They can be activated by simply placing them in the ears. The earbuds

also enable tracking of data such as distance covered, speed, time taken, heart

rate and calories burned. All of this data can be synced to the S-Health app as

well.The earbuds include a Voice Guide feature that provides voice feedback to

users about their workout progress, besides providing standalone music playback.

They connect via Bluetooth and also have enough in-built storage for up to 1000

MP3 files. To control the music playback, users just need to tap or swipe on the

earbuds' surface.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





