

Blayne Slabbert tests the latest Samsung devices to see if they are worth the
upgrade and financial outlay.

--------------------

The details Both Samsung phones are available in stores now. The S7 costs $1199
(32GB) while the S7 Edge costs $1399 (32GB).

--------------------

Samsung's latest phones are great - they're fast, good-looking, waterproof and
have an excellent camera. There is little doubt about their abilities, but is it
worth upgrading to a Galaxy S7 (5.1-inch) or S7 Edge (5.7-inch) from your
current smartphone model?

That depends on what you've got, what you need and how much money you ca spend.
Here are six reasons to upgrade your device:

You must have the latest tech

This is the greatest smartphone Samsung has made.

It's got the best from last year's model while fixing a few problems with the S6
range, such as expandable storage (up to 200GB extra).

However, you might pause when it comes to their design, especially for the S7
Edge, with its distinctive curved screen.

When it came out last year, it was the most innovative looking phone around, but
this year's model looks the same, which means there's less need to have the
"latest-looking" phone.

Your phone is your camera

The camera on the S6 is fantastic. It's almost impossible to take a bad photo
when the conditions are good.

Smartphone cameras are one area that is improving each year as competitors push
one another to have the best tech.

Samsung has a few new features inspired by others including "live photos" and
being able to use the screen as a flash when taking selfies at night.

It also has new tech (dual pixel sensor) to make focusing more accurate and
faster in low light. This makes quite a bit of difference and the S7 easily
outperforms an iPhone 6 when shifting focus from one subject to another.

You are clumsy around water

Having a waterproof phone is by no means a necessity, but it's good to know your
$1000-plus investment is safe if you're taking a photo in the rain or have a
slip when you're near the pool.

The tech used (sealing from the inside) is clever and a step toward making
phones more durable, but it's probably not enough of a reason alone to buy one.
Consider it a bonus feature.

Your phone is old

If your device is more than a few years old then using one of the latest phones
will blow you away. The screens are so sharp and clear and they whiz along
without a hint of lag.

The Samsung S7 range has a new processor and 4GB of RAM to make it faster than
its predecessor and also features fast-charging tech along with a longer-lasting
battery and the latest version of Android. You won't find this on your
3-year-old device, and trying a new phone (not just a Samsung) will be a digital
delight.

Also, moving from an older 4-inch phone to one with a bigger screen makes a lot
of difference if you use it a lot to read or to watch videos.

You use your phone as your watch

The new phones feature an Always On function, which means time time, date and
battery level show even when the phone is turned off. It's only a small thing,
but it is handy if you are always pulling your phone out to check the time.

However, the Samsung S7 range is not without its shortcomings.

You are interested in virtual reality

VR is one of the coolest things in tech at the moment and you can pair one of
these phones (or the S6 range) with a headset to experience it at an affordable
price.

The Samsung Gear VR costs about $300 and takes viewing movies or games to a
whole new level.

However, nothing is perfect - so here are three reasons not to upgrade:

They cost between $1199 and $1399

That's a lot to spend on a phone, especially when you can get a Galaxy S5 for
$600. That's a good phone though it's a bit plasticky compared to its younger
siblings.

You do get a lot of tech for your money, but you can save yourself a lot of
money if you can handle not having the latest device with all the best features.

The Samsung version of Android

Many smartphone companies put their own tweak on the Android operating system by
adding in extra features.

I prefer the pure version of Android which can be found on many phones,
including Google's Nexus range.

This alone shouldn't put you off buying a Samsung phone as you can hide a lot of
the installed apps. It's just a bit of a hassle.

There's plenty of other great options

All the top manufacturers make excellent devices and if you're looking at
high-end phones then there's a lot to choose from.

There's not a huge difference between them, and a lot comes down to personal
taste around design and branding. If you are an Android fan, Huawei, LG and Sony
have just released devices (though not all are available here yet).

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Samsung S7, left, and S7 Edge smartphones are now for sale in New Zealand.

