                             700 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Asian Image



                            February 21, 2016 Sunday



First look at new Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 321 words





Samsung has unveiled two new flagship smartphones, the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge.



The smartphones will come with an "always on" display, which can be used to

constantly show the time, while the camera in both devices has also been

reworked to provide better photos in low light.



The all-metal design that was introduced on last year's S6 continues, with the

Edge remaining the only phone with a curved screen on both sides of the device.



The Korean technology giant has also reintroduced waterproofing and expandable

storage through a space next to the SIM for an SD card.



A 360-degree camera, called the Gear 360, was also introduced and will enable

users to film and take pictures up to 360 degrees, and post the results on

Facebook and YouTube, both of which support the technology.



The unveiling came amid a press conference which Samsung delivered via virtual

reality, placing a VR headset on every seat in the hall for those in attendance.



The curved screen that appears on the S7 Edge was first introduced on the S6

last year, and has proved popular with consumers and industry experts.



The 5.1in screen on the new Edge also has an expanded side menu, meaning two

rows of apps can now be shown, and third party apps can now use the space to

show images and news stories, Samsung said.



Samsung added that battery life on the new devices has also improved, and that

both fast charging and wireless charging have improved too.



Samsung confirmed the S7 and S7 Edge will go on sale on March 11, and that

customers who pre-order in the US and Europe will receive a Gear VR headset for

free.



Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg also made an appearance at the event to discuss

virtual reality and 360-degree video, calling the platform "the best social

experience".



Facebook owns VR firm Oculus, which partnered with Samsung to create the Gear VR

headset.



Mr Zuckerberg added that he hoped to film his daughter's first steps using

360-degree video.



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





