                             702 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                                August 18, 2016



Galaxy Note 7: Apple Supplier Qualcomm Leads Broadcom, Qorvo, IDT



BYLINE: ALLISON GATLIN



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 305 words





http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/IT15_samsung_081816_company.

jpg



Apple (AAPL) supplier Qualcomm (QCOM) leads Broadcom (AVGO), Qorvo (QRVO) and

Integrated Device Technology (IDTI) in the Samsung Galaxy Note 7, industry

tracker iFixit found Thursday in a teardown of Samsung's newest phablet.



Qualcomm boasts six chips inside the latest of "Samsung's line of

phones-that-don't-fit-in-your-pocket," iFixit wrote in a teardown report. The

Galaxy Note 7 touts an Apple iPhone 6S-quashing battery. But its power falls

short of the Galaxy S7 Edge.



Among Qualcomm's offerings -- a processor, an audio codec, two radio-frequency

chips and two power management chips. Fellow RF Qorvo chipmaker brings three

chips to the mix: a high-band RF fusion module, a front-end module and a

receiver.



IBD'S TAKE: Dot-com boom darling Qualcomm sports a fast-growing dividend. Check

out IBD's Dividend Leaders.



Broadcom has at least one confirmed chip, but its Wi-Fi system-on-a-chip is also

likely contained within Samsung's Wi-Fi module, iFixit found. Samsung itself

supplies two other chips for flash memory and dynamic random-access memory

(DRAM).



Integrated Device Technology supplied a wireless power receiver, an iteration of

the component it supplies for the Apple Watch.



The chipset is nearly identical to those of the S7 and S7 Edge, iFixit found.

The Note 7 scored a four out of a best-possible 10 in repairability. Many of the

components can be replaced independently, but the chassis is vulnerable to

cracking.



Noted iFixit, "Because of the curved screen, replacing the front glass without

destroying the display is probably impossible."



In afternoon trading



Integrated Device Technology stock closed up 3.25% on the stock market today,

and Qorvo rose 1.2%. Broadcom ticked up 0.5%, and Qualcomm added 1.2%. Apple

stock dipped 0.1%.



LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





