                             703 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                            April 28, 2016 Thursday



Samsung proves resilience with earnings surprise



LENGTH: 691 words





Tech giant Samsung Electronics has posted surprising earnings in the

January-March period on the back of strong sales of its mobile devices, beating

market estimates.



Its net profit jumped 13.6 percent to 5.25 trillion won ($4.56 billion) in the

first quarter, according to the company's regulatory filing on Thursday. The

firm's operating profit came to 6.68 trillion won -- higher than the market

estimate of some 5 trillion won -- with its revenue standing at 49.8 trillion

won. The figures were up 11.65 percent and 5.65 percent on-year, respectively.



Samsung Electronics' Galaxy S7 Edge. (Yonhap)



The IT and mobile communications division, which oversees the company's

smartphone business, saw its operating profit jump 42 percent on-year to 3.89

trillion won, taking up nearly 60 percent of the firm's operating profit.



The improvements in profits came as a surprise as many critics had often

predicted that the glory days of the world's largest handset maker as well as

Apple of the U.S. are nearing their end due mainly to dog-eat-dog competition in

the global smartphone sector.



Apple saw its revenue drop for the first time in 13 years in the fiscal second

quarter that ended March 26, due to lackluster sales of its iPhones.



Samsung, however, has been showing resilience to keep its throne. Samsung said

its marketing scheme for the Galaxy S7 that pushed forward the release date of

its flagship Galaxy handset a month earlier than usual nailed it.



"This increase (in operating profit of the mobile business) was largely due to

the early launch and strong global performance of the flagship Galaxy S7 and S7

edge, as evidenced by robust sell-out figures and low inventory levels compared

to their predecessors," the company said.ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]



The company expected that sales of its smartphones and tablet PCs would remain

flat due to seasonal factors in the second quarter, saying it would try to

maintain sales momentum with mid- and low-range smartphones, including its

Galaxy A and J lineups.



Meanwhile, Samsung's businesses for semiconductor and display products saw their

operating profits decrease.



The semiconductor business posted an operating profit of 2.63 trillion won while

the display business logged an operating loss of 270 billion won, down 0.3

percent and 0.79 percent on-year, respectively.



Some critics cited the price drop of DRAM and competition in the world's

semiconductor market as affecting Samsung's chip business, while profits for the

display business worsened due to mediocre demand in the liquid crystal display

segment.



The consumer electronics division saw its operating profit increase slightly up

by 0.7 percent on-year to 510 billion won.



The Seoul-based tech giant said it would try to focus on improving profitability

with premium TV products during the upcoming Olympics and other sporting events,

which it said would drive global demand for large-size TVs.



Samsung spent 2.1 trillion won of capital expenditure on its display business,

which is thought to have been spent on ramping up its production facilities,

including those for OLED displays. Samsung is rumored to be supplying flexible

displays for Apple's next iPhones.ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]



Samsung said it would try to maintain the sales momentum in the coming months by

rolling out mid- and low-range smartphones, including Galaxy A and J lineups. It

also plans to tighten its grip on other businesses, including semiconductor,

display and consumer electronics, by rolling out cutting-edge products.



Among the products are 14-nanometer chips, ultra high-definition TVs and solid

storage drives equipped with up-to-date 3-dimensional NAND Flash memory chips,

all of which are top-notch technologies coveted by other market players in

respective sectors.



In an apparent move to shore up its share price as well as increase dividends

for investors, Samsung said on Thursday it would buy an additional 1.3 common

stocks and 320,000 preferred shares for three months and more until the end of

this year.



The company, which had announced that it would buy back 11 trillion won worth of

stocks in total last October, has repurchased 7.4 trillion won worth of stocks

so far.



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





