                             704 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                           October 28, 2015 Wednesday



Samsung to roll out new mobile chip for Galaxy S7: report



LENGTH: 354 words





Samsung Electronics will soon roll out its new mobile application processor, the

Exynos 8890, which is likely to be mounted on the next flagship smartphone

Galaxy S7, according to news reports.



Samsung will mass produce its own mobile chip as late as December at its

production lines in Giheung, Gyeonggi Province, according to a local news

outlet.



Samsung refused to comment on the production plans of the next-generation chip

model.



Samsung Electronics' Exynos 7 Octa featured in the Galaxy S6. (Yonhap)



The new Exynos model will be Samsung's first customized application processor

chip built upon U.K. chip designer ARM's core architecture, meaning that Samsung

will add some tweaks to a standard chip design by the U.K. firm to boost

performance.



Apple and Qualcomm are among several application processor manufacturers that

have customized ARM-designed chips in order to have the mobile processors

optimized for mobile devices.



An industry official commented: "Designing its own mobile core will allow

Samsung, which produces both smartphones and semiconductors, to gain competitive

edge over Apple and Qualcomm in reducing cost and optimizing chip products for

smartphones."



Samsung, one of the largest chip fabrication firms, is also said to be rolling

out Qualcomm's Snapdragon 820, which will also go through a customization

process by the Korean firm.



The new Snapdragon chip is forecast to power the Galaxy S7 alongside the Exynos

model.



The new Exynos 8890 is clocked at 2.3 gigahertz and has reportedly set a new

high in a benchmark test, scoring a combined 6,908 points in a single-core and a

multi-core test, beating that of Apple's A9 featured in iPhone 6S at 6,817

points.



Going full throttle to develop its own customer core, Samsung is reportedly

making efforts to attract chip architects including Jim Keller, who left U.S.

chipmaker AMD last month. Jim Keller is credited with developing Apple's A4 and

A5 processors deployed in the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S.



But Samsung dismissed the report as groundless, saying the news about hiring the

former AMD executive was no more than "an unfounded rumor."



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2015 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





