                             706 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                              May 29, 2016 Sunday



Samsung introduces Batman-themed Galaxy smartphone



LENGTH: 346 words





Tech giant Samsung Electronics rolled out another film-inspired mobile phone on

Friday, continuing its years-long marketing efforts to boost sales of its

flagship smartphones through collaboration with filmmakers.



This time, the Korean smartphone maker released a Batman-themed smartphone, the

Galaxy S7 edge Injustice Edition, in partnership with movie production company

Warner Bros. and entertainment firm DC Entertainment, aiming to lure fans of the

superhero movie.



The release is also aimed at commemorating the third anniversary of a mobile

game of the movie series, "Injustice: Gods Among Us."



The game, developed by U.S. game firm NetherRealm Studios, features a

collectible card mechanic and engages players in three-on-three tag team combat

that features many of DC's iconic characters.



The Korean firm said the limited edition of the smartphone will be only

available in select markets, including China, Singapore, Latin America, Russia

and Korea, in June, but hinted that more countries might be added to the list.



"We are excited to partner with Warner Bros. and offer a special edition of

Galaxy S7 edge for fans of 'Injustice: Gods Among Us,'" said Lee Young-hee,

executive vice president of Samsung's global marketing.



"Samsung always seeks to provide the best mobile gaming experience for its

users, and this partnership reinforces our commitment to the game's fans," the

executive vice president said.



The specifications of the Batman-themed smartphone are the same as the original

Galaxy S7 edge smartphone, but the new model comes in black with the signature

Batman logo (in gold color) emblazoned on the back



Samsung Electronics' joint marketing strategy with Hollywood filmmakers dates

back to the pre-smartphone era.



Teaming up with Warner Bros., Samsung rolled out a limited edition of a

semi-automatic slider with the alias, Matrix Phone, in 2003. The phone was

featured in the science-fiction action movie, "The Matrix Reloaded."



Samsung also rolled out limited Galaxy smartphone models featuring the

characters of the movie "Iron Man" last year.



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





