

NEW DELHI: The Galaxy Note 7 flagship phablet wasn't the only thing Samsung
launched at its New York event. The company also unveiled the a companion VR
headset for the phablet, aptly named Gear VR for Note 7. In addition, the Gear
Fit 2 fitness tracker and Gear Icon X wireless earbuds were launched as
well.Besides Galaxy Note 7 support, the Oculus-based Gear VR also has features
like a USB Type-C port, as well as a Micro USB port for connecting it to the
Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 Edge, Galaxy Note 5, Galaxy S6 Edge+, Galaxy S6 and Galaxy
S6 Edge.Featuring Accelerator, Gyrometer and Proximity sensors, the new Gear VR
weighs 345 grams and offers 101-degree field of view. It will be available in
Blue/Black colour only.

The design of the new Gear VR is the same as that of the original Gear VR, but
with a new colour and USB Type-C connectivity."By pairing the Galaxy Note 7 with
the new Gear VR powered by Oculus, users can experience premium virtual reality
almost anywhere. Galaxy Note 7's incredible Super AMOLED screen and powerful
processor deliver an ultra-immersive experience. The vast and ever growing
library of apps, photos, games and more puts users in the center of the action,"
said Samsung.The company also launched its Gear Fit 2 fitness band that comes
with an embedded GPS tracker and a heart rate monitor. Samsung says that the
Gear Fit 2 has an ergonomic, sleek and slim design. It also sports a Super
AMOLED curved display with a high-resolution color touchscreen and comes with
Auto Activity Tracking feature. It's easy to transfer fitness data between S
Health and other select fitness apps.The fitness band includes a standalone
music player and automatically recognizes activities like running, walking,
cycling, or using rowing machine or elliptical trainer.Samsung Gear IconX
wireless earbuds look similar to the Moto Hint but are slightly better
under-the-hood. The earbuds come with three different sizes of eartips and
wingtips. They can be activated by simply placing them in the ears. The earbuds
also enable tracking of data such as distance covered, speed, time taken, heart
rate and calories burned. All of this data can be synced to the S-Health app as
well.The earbuds include a Voice Guide feature that provides voice feedback to
users about their workout progress, besides providing standalone music playback.
They connect via Bluetooth and also have enough in-built storage for up to 1000
MP3 files. To control the music playback, users just need to tap or swipe on the
earbuds' surface. The Gear IconX will be available in Q3 of this year, and are
said to carry a price tag of $199.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

