                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                      December 28, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Samsung planning Five Million Galaxy S7 Smartphones before Launch



BYLINE: Matt Hensley



LENGTH: 401  words





Samsung Galaxy S7 is currently the most-awaited smartphone on any technology

expert or market analyst's list of things to look forward to. Samsung has

remained tight-lipped on the latest Galaxy smartphone, rumors have been making

rounds on technology websites about S7, its features. A new report published in

South Korea's Electronic Times suggests that Samsung has already planned

production of five million Galaxy S7 smartphones before its launch in February

(tentative).



Electronic Times has cited unnamed sources in its report. Samsung has declined

to comment on the report. The Electronic Times report suggests that Samsung will

produce 3.3 million flat screen devices and 1.6 million Galaxy S7 edge.



Galaxy series has been the flagship smartphone series for Samsung and S7 will be

the seventh model in the series. According to reports, Samsung could launch two

versions of S7, Galaxy S7 (5.2 inch flat screen smartphone) and Galaxy S7 Edge

(5.5 inch curved screen).



Samsung faced inventory issues and wasn't able to meet demand for Galaxy S6

edge. Surely, Samsung management is preparing itself for the major launch event.

According to some reports, Samsung could share more details about Galaxy S7 on

January 19.



According to a Forbes report, "Production issues on the S6 Edge depressed

availability on the more technically advanced handsets and consumers did not

take to the vanilla S6 as strongly as Samsung had predicted. The impact of the

Galaxy S7 will not be seen unit the Q2 2016 earnings, which is more than six

months away."



According to past trends followed by Samsung, the Galaxy smartphones have been

announced by the company before the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.



After Apple's iPhone 6 and 6S launched, the company has received tremendous

response in the Chinese market. As the demand for high-end smartphones has

increased in China, the market has become even more important for smartphone

vendors. Samsung has been challenged by Apple in many of its key markets.



Samsung has a tough task to deal with the cut-throat competition in the

smartphone market. Only with impressive features and an affordable price tag,

the battle can be won.



Topics: Featured (http://wtexas.com/topics/featured)Business: Technology

(http://wtexas.com/business/technology)Company: Samsung

(http://wtexas.com/company/samsung)



LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





