                             710 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           October 13, 2016 Thursday



Samsung India may take Rs 420-crore hit this quarter



BYLINE: Writankar Mukherjee



SECTION: ELECTRONICS



LENGTH: 552 words





KOLKATA: Samsung Electronics India will take a potential revenue hit of about

`420 crore this quarter because of its decision to kill its marquee Galaxy Note7

phone after it failed to fix the manufacturing flaw that was causing the device

to catch fire.



The Korean company had estimated that it will sell around 70,000 units of Note 7

during the quarter, while it had plans to give a stretch target of a lakh units

to its India sales team to take on Apple's new iPhones, said two people aware of

the development.



The Indian team has calculated and updated the potential revenue loss to its

headquarters after taking stock of the demise of Note 7.



Samsung India may also revive its earlier Note series flagship, Galaxy Note 5,

later this quarter to salvage some of the losses and not leave the field

entirely open for Apple's iPhone7 or even the Google Pixel which is due to be

launched later this week.



Samsung had recently discontinued Note 5 model to focus on the Note 7, one of

the persons said. Additional focus will be also given on the Galaxy S7 and S7

Edge models.



When contacted, a Samsung India spokesperson declined to comment on the sales

target.



He said Samsung India has a robust range of mobile phones across categories and

the company is headed for record sales of handsets in India this year. Globally,

Samsung has cut its operating profit guidance by 33% ($2.3 billion) for the last

three months because of the Note7 fiasco.



Analysts say the decision to scrap the device could end up costing up to

$17billion.



Samsung India was all ready to start manufacturing Note 7 in India in its Noida

plant with the aim of launching the device just ahead of Diwali, almost 45 days

later than the originally scheduled launch which had gotten pushed back due to

safety worries.



The company is now planning to offer the Galaxy S7 Edge to the approximate

20,000 Note 7 pre-booked customers in India, or an option to return their money.

It will also relaunch the Note 5 at an aggressive price point.



Since the next flagship will be launched only around March 2017, Samsung India

is going to revive the Note 5 to rebuild it premium portfolio, since at the

moment Apple has a complete free-run," one of the persons quoted earlier said.



Meanwhile, Apple has ensured there is enough supplies of its latest iPhone7 and

7Plus in the Indian market unlike earlier years when it had to grapple with

supply issues.



Retailers said the maximum demand has been for the pricier iPhone 7 Plus model

which sells upwards of `72,000 due to additional features such as dual camera

and availability in the jet black colour.



"Apple has ensured availability of sufficient stocks since it wants to make the

most of Note 7's absence. In fact, iPhone supplies are still not steady in tier

II and III cities, but Apple will now beef up stock there as well.



Around 40% of the sales is that of iPhone 7 Plus compared with 15-20% earlier

for the pricier variant," said the CEO of a leading cellphone retail store.

However, retailers say the recall of Note 7 has not dented Samsung's other

smartphone model sales in India as yet.



The company had worked around the issue by launching a newer model every 10-12

days and also ensuring that there was no discount on its models during the just

finished online discount sales.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





