                             713 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Irish Times



                             July 28, 2016 Thursday



Taking Note: what can we expect from Samsung's newest phone?



BYLINE: Ciara O'Brien



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 7



LENGTH: 617 words





As August approaches, so too does the expectation of a new Samsung phone,

specifically the next addition to the Note range.



Samsung is set to hold an Unpacked event on August 2nd, and has dropped some

heavy hints that the new Note will be debuted - the stylus in the invitation is

a dead giveaway.



So what could the event bring? The rumours, as usual, are flying.



Name



 The next Note looks set to be the Note 7 - skipping the Note 6 completely.

Making this change will pull the range into line with the Galaxy S phones, the

newest of which is the S7. It's sure to annoy those who like a bit of order to

things, in much the same way that the leap from Windows 8 to Windows 10 rankled

with some people.



Look



The Note 7 could draw inspiration from the Galaxy range for more than just its

name. The word on the street is that the new Note will have the curved screen of

the Edge range, making it a more attractive handset - in our opinion - and stand

out from the phablet crowd.



Will there be a flat version? Rumours indicate not, but that remains to be

confirmed. Either way, it will be a glass and metal affair, and is expected to

come in blue, silver and black. It will be waterproof and impervious to dust

too, with an IP68 rating.



Screen



 Apart from the curve, it looks like the screen will be quad HD instead of 4K.

Journalist Evan Blass, who has a reputation for being right when it comes to

this kind of thing, says it will measure 5.7 inches. Whatever the exact specs,

you can expect it will be great quality.



The advantage of 4K would come with virtual reality, especially given Samsung's

Gear VR. The closer your eye is to that screen, the better it has to look, and

4K would be another step up for the firm.



Tech



 Samsung usually puts out two versions of its flagship phones: one powered by

its own Exynos processor and another with a Snapdragon chip. Expect this to

continue for the Note 7. There is also some speculation that the new phone will

have as much as 6GB of RAM.



Power



Which brings us nicely to an important consideration: battery. A spec sheet

claims the latest Note will come with a 3,500mAh battery. That's not

insubstantial but it falls short of 4,000mAh that people were hoping for.



It looks like Samsung will be making the leap to USB C for the Note 7, adopting

the new standard for the handset. What exactly does it mean? Well that stash of

micro USB cables will be defunct.



USB C is, like the lightning cable on Apple's devices, reversible so there is no

wrong way to use it. The S7 failed to include it, preferring to stick with micro

USB, but the Huawei P9, the Lumia 950 and Nexus 6P all use the new connection.



Security



 Fingerprint scanners are on most of the flagship phones these days; in fact,

it's unusual to find a model that doesn't have it. But Samsung may have decided

scanning fingerprints is passe, with word that the Note will come with an iris

scanner. Will it be another gimmick? Possibly. Samsung also flirted with facial

recognition as a security measure in the past - the Galaxy SIII had it - but it

was a little too ambitious and prone to frustration.



Storage



 Could Samsung have ditched the 32GB version of the Note? There are strong

rumours that the 64GB will be the smallest version of the Note 7, with the

handset topping out 256GB. Plus, there will be the option to add a micro SD card

too, something Samsung brought back with the S7. The more space the better, we

say.



Camera



 The Galaxy S7 has a great camera, so the Note 7 should be worth looking at.

There are indications that the new Note will come with 12 megapixel Dualpix

camera, and a five megapixel front facing camera. We have high hopes for this

one to be at least as good as the S7.



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times

                              All Rights Reserved





