                             716 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             May 14, 2016 Saturday



Android makes rapid gains in EU, iOS share falls: Report



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 526 words





The latest smartphone OS data from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech for the three

months ending March 2016 shows Android continuing to grow sales across the EU5,

US, and Urban China. There were solid gains in the EU5 (Great Britain, Germany,

France, Italy, and Spain), up 7.1% points to 75.6%. In the US, Android share

increased 7.3% points to 65.5%, and in China, it rose nearly 6% points to over

77%."This is the strongest growth for Android across the EU5 in more than two

years," said Lauren Guenveur, mobile analyst for Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.

"What's more, the growth is coming not just from one or two players, but from

different brands and ecosystems, varying from region to region."In the EU5, iOS

share declined from 20.2% to 18.9% in the three months ending March 2016.

Windows phone sales dropped five percentage points to become 4.9% of overall

smartphone sales in the region. Nearly 7% (6.6%) of new Android customers came

from Windows, vs.



just 3.3% from iOS. Among new iOS buyers, 2.6% migrated from Windows."For those

switching from Windows, Android has offered a better user experience, with a

variety of brands and models across a multitude of price points," said Dominic

Sunnebo, business unit director for Kantar Worldpanel ComTech Europe. "In Italy

and France, the strongest Windows Phone markets for a time, nearly 10% of

Windows mobile users moved to Android in the three months ending March 2016.

What's more, they opted for brands like Huawei, Wiko, and Asus, featuring

mid-range devices that represent good value for the money. Contrast that with

Great Britain, where Android growth is still dominated by Samsung, and driven in

this period by mid-range devices like the J5 and A5."Android's gains in the US

came from increased sales by ecosystem partners Samsung, Motorola and

LG."Although it was available for only a few weeks during this sales period, the

Samsung Galaxy S7 was the fifth best-selling device in the three months ending

March 2016, capturing 4.2% of sales," Guenveur said. "The Galaxy S6 also

performed well, due to price reductions before the S7's release. Motorola

experienced higher sales, particularly with Verizon, and grew to 9.8% of the

smartphone market, up from 6.9% a year previously.""In urban China, iOS

continued to decline to 21.1% in the three months ending March 2016, down from

26.1% in the same period a year ago. Android had its best year-on-year growth

since the three-month period ending October 2014, moving up 5.9% points

year-on-year to 77.7%," said Tamsin Timpson, strategic insight director at

Kantar Worldpanel ComTech Asia."In EU5, share growth from the Samsung Galaxy S7,

expected to be one of the most popular phones of the year - has not yet

occurred. As the impact of the S7 materializes, it may change the nature and

path of the Android market," Guenveur added."Android share could also be

negatively affected by high demand for the Apple iPhone SE. iPhone SE sales will

be particularly important in China, where success in the mid-tier will determine

the top player in the region. These factors should play out further in the next

quarter," she noted.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





