                             722 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               Los Angeles Times



                           October 15, 2016 Saturday

                                  Home Edition



TECHNOLOGY;

Smartphone recall will cost at least $5.3 billion;

Samsung says it will overhaul its quality assurance processes to improve safety.



BYLINE: Associated Press



SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 527 words





Samsung Electronics said Friday that the discontinuation of the Galaxy Note 7

would cost the company about $3 billion during the current and next quarters,

bringing the total cost of the recall to at least $5.3 billion.



The discontinuation will cost in the mid-2-trillion-won range during the

October-December period and an additional 1 trillion won ($884 million) during

the January-March quarter, the company said in a statement.



Samsung already slashed its third-quarter profit forecast by $2.6 billion this

week, an amount that could wipe out its entire mobile business profit. That did

not include the cost of Samsung's first recall, which analysts estimated at 1

trillion won to 2 trillion won.



Samsung has enough cash and other businesses to absorb the shock from the phone

recall. It said that it expected to generate 5.2 trillion won ($4.6 billion) in

operating income during the third quarter after the recall cost. Analysts said

most of the income will be generated by sales of advanced displays and

semiconductors.



Samsung added that it will make significant changes in its quality assurance

processes to enhance product safety for consumers. It did not elaborate.



The company said it will expand sales of two other smartphones released in

spring, the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge, quashing rumors that it may try to

release updated versions of those devices. Samsung usually releases a new

iteration of the Galaxy S series in spring, so the company may have to provide a

strong incentive to sell the 6-month-old phones, such as lowering their prices.



Due to unexplained fires and overheating problems, more than 2.5 million Galaxy

Note 7 smartphones were recalled before the product was discontinued this week

just two months after its launch in August.



In the United States, 1.9 million Note 7 phones are subject to the two recalls.

Samsung also recalled about 200,000 phones in China and about 500,000 in South

Korea.



The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said there were 96 reports of

batteries in Note 7 phones overheating in the country, including 23 new reports

since the first recall announcement last month. The company received 13 reports

of burns and 47 reports of property damages associated with the phones.



"Consumers should immediately stop using and power down all Galaxy Note 7

devices, including Note 7 devices received as replacements in the previous

recall," the agency said.



The botched recall raised questions about Samsung's initial analysis of the Note

7 phone's problems. At first, Samsung said a minor manufacturing error in the

batteries for the Note 7 was causing the phones to overheat.



The problem with the replacements is still unclear. Experts say Samsung may have

rushed to conclude the Note 7's problem was a battery issue, and it may take a

long time to find the real cause.



Seeking to retain customers, Samsung is giving an incentive of a $100 credit to

Note 7 owners who switch to another Samsung phone.



The Note 7 device was one of the most expensive smartphones in the market with

all the latest technologies from Samsung, including the ability to unlock the

phone by scanning a user's iris.



It was sold for $850 to $890.



LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A WOMAN in Seoul walks past ads for Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 and

S7. In the U.S., 1.9 million Note 7 phones are subject to two recalls. Samsung

also recalled about 200,000 phones in China and 500,000 in South Korea.

PHOTOGRAPHER:JUNG YEON-JE AFP/Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times

                              All Rights Reserved





