                             736 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 therecord.com



                             April 7, 2016 Thursday



Samsung beats estimates as early debut of S7 boosts sales



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 360 words





Samsung Electronics posted a better-than expected first-quarter profit after the

early release of Galaxy S7 smartphones gave it a head-start on Apple and Chinese

rivals and helped counter an industry downturn.



Operating income rose to 6.6 trillion won (US$5.7 billion) in the three months

ended March, the world's largest maker of phones and memory chips said in

preliminary results released Thursday. That compares with the 5.53 trillion-won

average of analysts' estimates compiled by Bloomberg.



Samsung debuted its high-end smartphones in March, about a month earlier than

last year's, with sales of the S7 lineup estimated to have hit nine million

units during their first month - triple those of the S6 in the same time-frame.

Production of curved displays for its Edge version also went more smoothly this

time, avoiding the hiccups that plagued last year's wraparound-screen line while

holding down costs.



"The biggest reason for the sharply improved profitability is largely due to

much lower marketing spending for the mobile business," said Yoo Eui-hyung, an

analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. in Seoul.



"The big disparity between the earlier profit estimates and the latest revisions

stems entirely from the mobile business. The faster release surely helped but

it's dubious whether the S7 can continue to surprise the market in the longer

run."



Most of Samsung's revenue is in phones, a decelerating market in which it also

competes with Huawei Technologies Co. and Xiaomi Corp. Smartphone sales in 2016

are expected to rise by a single-digit percentage for the first time, according

to Gartner.



Samsung is continuing to reduce the number of phones in its lineup as it tries

to cut spending and focus on competitive devices. Total smartphone shipments for

the first three months were estimated at 78 million, compared with 82 million

units during the peak holiday quarter, according to four analysts surveyed by

Bloomberg.



"We expect Samsung's Galaxy S7 to be the world's bestselling Android smartphone

in 2016," said Neil Mawston, executive director at Strategy Analytics Inc.

"Samsung's range of lower-cost models, like the J series, is also selling well."



LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





