                             746 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena



                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday



DSP Group jumps on high volume Samsung deal;

Dougherty & Company estimate DSPG's proceeds from the deal will be $10 million.



BYLINE: Shiri Habib-Valdhorn



LENGTH: 325 words





The DSP Group Inc. (Nasdaq: DSPG) share jumped 11.6% on Nasdaq yesterday to a

price reflecting a NIS 215 million market cap, after the company announced that

it had won a substantial contract in the cellular market to supply large

quantities of its HDClear chip.



DSPG, which develops special chips for connectivity and voice, did not identify

the customer, but said it was "a leading devices manufacturer." The volume of

the deal was also undisclosed, but analysts covering DSPG shed a little light on

the new contract.



The Dougherty & Company investment bank yesterday said it believes that the

customer is Samsung, and that the chip would be put into Galaxy S7 devices,

together with Qualcomm's SoC. Dougherty & Company estimated that a third of the

devices sold in 2016, 15 million units, would have the chip. The other two

thirds of the Galaxy S7 devices will use Samsung's own technology, not that of

Qualcomm.



The investment bank's analysts estimated DSPG's 2016 revenue from sales of its

chip at $10 million, and now, "If we assume an ASP of ~$0.90, the S7 win alone

could be worth north of that."



DSPG's usual market is wireless telephony, but the company has expanded its

business to other markets, including cellular.



DSPG CEO Ofer Elyakim said, "We are excited to announce a high volume design win

for our HDClear products with a leading mobile OEM, which is expected to

contribute to our results this year. This is a milestone event for DSP Group and

our mobile business, marking a successful entry into this market."



Another Israeli company linked to Samsung is chip technology provider Ceva Inc.

(Nasdaq:CEVA); LSE:CVA). In the two thirds of Samsung's S7 devices that do not

include Qualcomm's technology, the Samsung technology used in the device

includes a chip based on Ceva's technology.



Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on

January 13, 2016



© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2016



LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





               Copyright 2016 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





