                             753 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                             April 29, 2016 Friday

                                Kolkata Edition



Samsung Commands a Premium Over Apple



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: THE ECONOMIC TIMES



LENGTH: 451 words





Buoyed by the successful launch of Galaxy S7 as well as price cuts of its

earlier popular models, Samsung has overtaken Apple to emerge as the clear

market leader in India's premium smartphone segment in the January-March

quarter.



The two companies were neck-toneck in the preceding OctoberDecember quarter with

market research agencies differing on who was ahead. But the Korean handset

maker appears to have pulled ahead of its Cupertino-based competitor in the

previous three months in the high-value Rs 30,000-plus smartphone segment,

according to both GfK and Counterpoint Research, the two biggest outfits

tracking handset sales in the country.



Hong Kong-based shipment tracker Counterpoint Research's figures show that

Samsung's volume share in January-March rose to 62% from 35% in the preceding

quarter. Apple's share, in contrast, fell to 37%



from 55%.



GfK, which tracks end-consumer sales in 50,000-plus population markets, had

narrowly placed Samsung at the top in the OctoberDecember quarter. However its

lead has widened substantially and as per GfK estimates, the Korean company's

market share in the January-March quarter is 50% as opposed to Apple's 41%.



Apple's drop in volume market share has happened despite a 56% increase in

iPhone sales revenue in India. The iPhone maker, which reported its first drop

in quarterly sales in 13 years on Wednesday, has pinned its hopes on India, with

the company's chief executive Tim Cook saying the Indian market was at the same

stage of development as China was about 7-10 years ago.



The success of Samsung's latest blockbuster model Galaxy S7 launched last month

and price drop on older popular models such as Galaxy S6 and Note 5 has turned

the market in its favour, analysts said.



"The impact of Galaxy S7 sales was for half month in March and



the full impact will be in the current quarter whereby we expect Samsung may

further expand its lead in the premium segment considering iPhone SE has been

lukewarm demand till now," said Counterpoint Research Senior Analyst Tarun

Pathak.



Industry executives said Apple is also losing ground in India due to the huge

online discounting on iPhones which had led the brickand-mortar stores to cut

down stock. This led Apple to recently ask its distributors in India to bring

about online and offline pricing parity and stop arbitrary discounting on

iPhones.



Emails sent to Samsung and Apple did not elicit any response till Thursday press

time.



India is the latest war zone between Apple and Samsung with global smartphone

sales becoming flat for the first time ever during January-March. According to

Counterpoint Research, global shipment of Samsung smartphones declined 6%

year-on-year as compared to Apple's 16%.



LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





