

Buoyed by the successful launch of Galaxy S7 as well as price cuts of its
earlier popular models, Samsung has overtaken Apple to emerge as the clear
market leader in India's premium smartphone segment in the January-March
quarter.

The two companies were neck-toneck in the preceding October-December quarter
with market research agencies differing on who was ahead. But the Korean handset
maker appears to have pulled ahead of its Cupertino-based competitor in the
previous three months in the high-value ' . 30,000-plus smartphone segment,
according to both GfK and Counterpoint Research, the two biggest outfits
tracking handset sales in the country.

Hong Kong-based shipment tracker Counterpoint Research's figures show that
Samsung's volume share in January-March rose to 62% from 35% in the preceding
quarter. Apple's share, in contrast, fell to 37%

from 55%.

GfK, which tracks end-consumer sales in 50,000-plus population markets, had
narrowly placed Samsung at the top in the October-December quarter last year.
However, its lead has widened substantially and as per GfK estimates, the Korean
company's market share in the JanuaryMarch quarter is 50% as opposed to

Apple's 41%.

Apple's drop in volume market share has happened despite a 56% increase in
iPhone sales revenue in India. The iPhone maker, which reported its first drop
in quarterly sales in 13 years on Wednesday , has pinned its hopes on India.

The company's chief executive officer Tim Cook said the Indian market was at the
same stage of development as China's about 7-10 years ago. The success of
Samsung's latest blockbuster model Galaxy S7 launched last month and price drop
on older popular models such as Galaxy S6 and Note 5 has turned the market in
its favour, analysts said.

"The impact of Galaxy S7 sales was for half month in March and the full impact
will be in the current quarter when we expect Samsung may further expand its
lead in the premium segment considering iPhone SE has been lukewarm demand till
now," said Counterpoint Research Senior Analyst Tarun Pathak.

Industry executives said Apple is also losing ground in India due to the huge
online discounting on iPhones which had led the brick-andmortar stores to cut
down stock.This led Apple to recently ask its distributors in India to bring
about online and offline pricing parity and stop arbitrary discounting on
iPhones. Emails sent to Samsung and Apple did not elicit any response till
Thursday press time.

India is the latest war zone between Apple and Samsung with global smartphone
sales becoming flat for the first time ever during January-March.

