                             756 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                        Progressive Media - Company News



                              July 29, 2016 Friday



Samsung continues to lead smartphone market with strong Galaxy S7 sales



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Mobility



LENGTH: 379 words







HIGHLIGHT: How the global smartphone market is breaking down by numbers

according to two new reports.





Samsung has extended its lead in the worldwide smartphone market over Apple in

the second quarter of this year, due to better-than-expected Galaxy S7 sales,

according to two separate reports.



Research firm International Data Corporation (IDC) said that Samsung delivered

77 million smartphones in Q2, up 5.5% from a year ago, for a market share of

22.4%, compared with a 15% decline in sales for Apple's iPhones.



Apple shipped 40.4 million units in Q2, which was the lowest quarterly volume in

seven quarters, despite the mid-cycle introduction of the iPhone SE.



Huawei stood at third place, with a 9.4% market share, catching up to Apple's

11.8% share.



Oppo and Vivo stood at fourth and fifth places, with 6.6% and 4.8% market share,

respectively.



Overall, the global smartphone market remained flat, increasing just 0.3%

year-on-year in the second quarter to 343.3 million units, according to

preliminary results from IDC.



The market did however show greater sequential growth, as shipments were up 3.1%

compared to the first quarter of 2016.



IDC mobile phones team research manager Anthony Scarsella said: "Outside of

Samsung's Galaxy S7 flagship, a majority of vendors, including Apple, have found

success with more affordable models compared to their flagship handsets.



"As smartphone prices continue to drop and competition escalates at the

high-end, vendors will need to continue to push 'flagship-type' devices at

affordable price points to encourage upgrading on a more frequent basis."



 A separate survey by Strategy Analytics had a similar estimate, with Samsung

taking a lead with 22.8% market share. Apple and Huawei stood at second and

third places with 11.9% and 9.4% market shares, respectively.



Global smartphone shipments increased 1% annually to reach 340 million units in

Q2.



Strategy Analytics director Linda Sui said: "Smartphone growth has slowed due to

increasing penetration maturity in major markets like China and uncertainty

surrounding major political events such as the Brexit EU referendum result.



"However, there are emerging signs that the global smartphone market has reached

a bottom in the first half of 2016, and the growth outlook for the second half

of this year is brighter due to multiple big new product launches from Samsung,

Apple and others."



LOAD-DATE: August 01, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Progressive Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





