

A new flagship handset and an even greater focus on virtual reality are expected
to top the bill when Samsung's latest Unpacked event takes place on February 21.

Invitations to the company's annual pre-MWC press event and the accompanying
teaser video make it clear that the next Galaxy handset will make its debut and
that with its unveiling we should "Get ready to rethink what a phone can do."

The video also suggests that this re-thinking should be done around the subject
of virtual reality. Despite a reputation as a "fast follower," Samsung has been
very quick and very pioneering when it comes to VR. Its own headset, the Gear VR
is both good-quality and affordable, if limited, while its components and
display technologies are also essential to the very premium Oculus Rift.

For many in the tech industry, 2016 is going to be the year of Virtual Reality.
As well as Samsung, HTC, Microsoft, Sony and LG are investing heavily in the
technology, and reports that surfaced over the weekend suggest that Apple too
has a dedicated VR team exploring the possibilities.

However, like with the phablet, Samsung has a head start and the Samsung Galaxy
S7 could be the handset that sets the company further apart from its competitors
while simultaneously bridging the gap between full-on VR systems and headsets
like the Gear VR or even Google's Cardboard, by being able to track positional
data, such as how a headset wearer's hands move. That could be huge, but, for
the moment at least, may be something only those already keen on VR would
embrace with excitement.

As for the rest of us, the Galaxy S7 and the curved screen S7 Edge models are
expected to keep the same excellent form factor but see the return of two
features that have been missing from recent handsets -- water resistance and
expansion via microSD slot.

Most of the updates are expected to be under the hood, with faster processors
and, if the reports are true, a better, longer-lasting, faster-charging battery.
In other words, the things that consumers really want from a handset.

