

Expect Apple, as has widely been speculated, to unveil a new iPhone next month.

And expect the yardstick by which many folks will measure it against to be the
Samsung Galaxy Note 7 that becomes available Aug. 19.

I've gotten to test Samsung's latest pen-based phablet in advance, and it's a
winner, a handsome slab of metal and glass that is slightly bigger and modeled
after the South Korean company's other flagship smartphone.

That would be the Galaxy S7, or, to be more precise, the Galaxy S7 edge, since
the Note 7 can convert a narrow portion along either edge of its dual-curved
5.7-inch screen into a secondary display. With a gentle swipe, you can surface
shortcuts along the edge to apps or people, Yahoo news snippets, even a ruler or
compass.

Both curvy Galaxys have a substantial feel to them, with narrow bezels and
smooth, almost slippery, backs. Both have fast-to-fire cameras that can produce
splendid pictures and video.

If I'm nitpicking, I still think Samsung's hardware outshines its software,
which I find a bit less friendly than Apple's.

That said, Note 7 is a powerhouse, with features and capabilities Apple has
failed to deliver on the iPhone so far, including fast wireless charging,
expandable storage and water resistance.

It becomes the leading Android alternative to whatever Apple cooks up in a new
iPhone, especially for those of us who appreciate phablet-size devices, the
category of large phone/small tablet hybrids Samsung pioneered five years ago.

The Note 7 also makes use of a digital stylus Samsung calls the S Pen, improved
for this version.

Of course, at $850 on up (from all the major U.S. carriers), Note 7 doesn't come
cheap.

Let me call out one feature right off the bat: Note 7 has a conventional
headphone jack, something I wouldn't normally go out of my way to mention. But
Apple is rumored to be leaving out the jack on the new iPhone, giving way,
apparently, to increasingly popular wireless Bluetooth headphones, or headphones
that connect via Apple's proprietary Lightning port.

We'll see.

Note 7 also includes the emerging USB Type-C connector. There's an adapter in
the box for those of you who still need to connect a USB cable.

Here's a look at what else in Note 7 is noteworthy:

S Pen. The latest digital stylus has a ballpoint pen- type tip that feels more
natural to write with than prior versions. While I reckon most of you will use
the S Pen to jot notes or draw, its bag of tricks has been expanded.

For one thing, you can hover over a word with the pen to translate it into a
foreign language. For another, you can hover to magnify text. And you can
capture and crop video content that you can turn into an animated shareable GIF.
Nice.

Moreover, when you're on the lock screen and pull the S Pen out of the
compartment where you stash it, you can immediately write a memo on the
"always-on" screen and pin it there, a handy reminder, say, to pick up milk or
the laundry.

Since the pen, like the phone, is water-resistant, you can even write on the
screen when your mischievous kid takes it into the pool, not that I'm condoning
such behavior.

Eye-pleasing security? The idea that you can stare into the phone to unlock the
screen, get past Web logins or pay for stuff sounds really cool, and it is. And
it doesn't take long for the phone to train the phone to recognize your iris.

Once my eyeballs were scanable, this form of hands-free authentication worked
way more often than it did not.

The truth, though, is that at least when it comes to unlocking the phone, I
found it easier and even faster to employ other methods: drawing a pattern on
the screen (with your finger) or using the fingerprint scanner.

The phone comes with 64GB of storage, which is generous. You can expand capacity
(up to 256GB) via microSD.

Samsung also claims the Note 7 display is the first to take advantage of High
Dynamic Range or HDR mobile-video streaming on a smartphone, similar to video
used on 4K TVs, and not to be confused with the HDR photography feature on many
phones.

Without getting bogged down in the details, what I can report is that the
display looks terrific.

In fact, terrific applies to the Note as a whole. The focus now shifts to Apple.


