                             774 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 13, 2016 Thursday

                               Bangalore Edition



Samsung Hits a Wrong Note, may Face Rs 420-cr Loss in Third Qtr



BYLINE: Writankar Mukherjee



SECTION: COMPANIES: PURSUIT OF PROFIT



LENGTH: 431 words





Samsung Electronics India will take a potential revenue hit of about '420 crore

this quarter because of its decision to kill its marquee Galaxy Note 7 phone

after it failed to fix the manufacturing flaw that was causing the device to

catch fire.



The Korean company had estimated that it will sell around 70,000 units of Note 7

during the quarter, while it had plans to give a stretch target of a lakh units

to its India sales team to take on Apple's new iPhones, said two people aware of

the development.



The Indian team has calculated and updated the potential revenue loss to its

headquarters after taking stock of the demise of Note 7. Samsung India may also

revive its earlier Note series flagship, Galaxy Note 5, later this quarter to

salvage some of the losses and not leave the field entirely open for Apple's

iPhone7 or even the Google Pixel which is due to be launched later this week.



Samsung had recently discontinued Note 5 model to focus on the Note 7, one of

the persons said. Additional focus will be also given on the Galaxy S7 and S7

Edge models.



When contacted, a Samsung India spokesperson declined to comment



on the sales target.



He said Samsung India has a robust range of mobile phones across categories and

the company is headed for record sales of handsets in India this year.



Globally, Samsung has cut its operating profit guidance by 33% ($2.3 billion)

for the last three months because of the Note7 fiasco. Analysts say the decision

to scrap the device could end up costing up to $17billion.



Samsung India was all ready to start manufacturing Note 7 in India in its Noida

plant with the aim of launching the device just ahead of Diwali, almost 45 days

later than the originally scheduled launch which had gotten pushed back due to

safety worries.



The company is now planning to offer the Galaxy S7 Edge to the approximate

20,000 Note 7 pre-booked customers in India, or an option to return their money.

It will also relaunch the Note 5 at an aggressive price point.



Since the next flagship will be launched only around March 2017,



Samsung India is going to revive the Note 5 to rebuild it premium portfolio,

since at the moment Apple has a complete free-run,\x93 one of the persons quoted

earlier said.



Meanwhile, Apple has ensured there is enough supplies of its latest iPhone7 and

7Plus in the Indian market unlike earlier years when it had to grapple with

supply issues. Retailers said the maximum demand has been for the pricier iPhone

7 Plus model which sells upwards of '72,000 due to additional features such as

dual camera and availability in the jet black colour.



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





