                             776 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             Waterloo Region Record



                            October 14, 2016 Friday

                                 First Edition



IN BRIEF



BYLINE: Record staff and news services



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C10



LENGTH: 569 words





SOFTWARE



Descartes Systems buys



supply chain integration firm



WATERLOO - Descartes Systems Group has acquired a U.S. company that specializes

in business-to-business supply chain integration services. Descartes, a

Waterloo-based provider of a wide range of software services for the logistics

industry, said it paid US$5.8 million for Appterra. It could pay up to an

additional US$1.6 million if Appterra achieves certain revenue-based targets.

Appterra, based in Texas, provides solutions that help its customers connect

electronically, automate supply chain process, and improve collaboration among

trading partners.



ELECTRONICS



Canadians can start returning



Galaxy 7 Note smartphones



MISSISSAUGA - Samsung says Canadians with Galaxy Note 7 smartphones can start

returning the devices as part of a global safety recall following reports of

overheating batteries that pose a fire hazard. Samsung Electronics Canada Inc.

has advised consumers to return the phones to the stores where they were bought.

Devices returned to retailers and carriers can be exchanged for a Galaxy S7 or

Galaxy S7 Edge phone, or customers can opt for a full refund for the recalled

Note 7s and specific accessories. Samsung.com customers are being offered a

refund upon receipt of the Galaxy Note 7s.



REAL ESTATE



New home price index rose 0.5% in Waterloo Region



OTTAWA - Statistics Canada's index for tracking new housing prices rose 0.2 per

cent in August compared with July, driven by gains in Toronto and Oshawa. The

agency says the combined region of Toronto and Oshawa gained 0.7 per cent as

builders cited market conditions and higher costs for materials. Waterloo Region

gained 0.5 per cent, while the combined region of Greater Sudbury and Thunder

Bay, Ont., added 0.4 per cent. The new housing price index was up 2.7 per cent

compared with a year ago.



FOOD



Belmont Meats acquired



by Premium Brands for $50M



VANCOUVER - Belmont Meats Products Ltd. has been purchased for $50 million by

Premium Brands Holdings Corp., the Vancouver-based company that owns Piller's

Fine Foods in Waterloo. Toronto-based Belmont provides beef burger patties and

other products to restaurants and retailers including supermarkets, warehouse

stores and specialty frozen-food outlets. The 50-year-old company has annual

sales of about $120 million.



PHARMACEUTICAL



Generic drug maker



cutting 90 jobs in Montreal



MONTREAL - Pharmascience says it's eliminating about 90 positions in Montreal as

pricing, regulatory pressures and market instability are also forcing the

generic drugmaker to review major new investments in Canada. The company said

the restructuring announced Thursday will improve its competitiveness and

operating efficiencies in the face of challenges mainly in Quebec, but also in

the rest of Canada and globally. Pharmascience says it's Canada's 10th largest

pharmaceutical company.



FOOD



McDonald's special sauce



may be headed for stores



CHICAGO - Is McDonald's special sauce coming to U.S. stores? McDonald's applied

for a trademark for "Mac Sauce" in the United States late last month, which

could open the door for it to sell bottles of the spread that tops its Big Macs

in grocery stores and other food retailers. In a statement, McDonald's said it

files trademark applications "as part of our regular course of business" and

"can't share details at this time as to how this trademark may or may not be

used." McDonald's sells its McCafe coffee in stores.



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





