                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                              April 8, 2016 Friday

                                 Mumbai Edition



With S7 Range, Samsung may Trump Apple in India



BYLINE: Gulveen.Aulakh@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 468 words





Mobile phone retailers and industry insiders reveal Samsung's Galaxy S7 and

Galaxy S7 Edge models have had massive success in India just after launch, which

can potentially catapult the South Korean company to the front of the premium

devices segment, outpacing rival and pack leader Apple.



Retail channels said Samsung has sold over 60,000 S7 models within a month of

launch -roughly twice the number of its predecessor S6 in the same time.Analysts

said the strong initial demand could well put Samsung in the lead in the

April-June quarter in the premium segment, outpacing current leader Apple.



Cupertino-based Apple, which held the No 1spot in the OctoberDecember quarter,

launches a smaller screen rival, iPhone SE, on April 8, but that hasn't

generated any buzz among consumers, retailers told ET.



"We believe S7 series, in the April-June quarter, will help Samsung strengthen

and occupy pole-position in the Indian premium smartphone market,



looking into the seasonality cycle of iPhone 6s series and lukewarm response to

new Apple iPhone SE," said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at Counterpoint

Research.



The research firm's initial estimates for sell-in (stocks going to distributors)

for initial two weeks suggest a 65% on-year increase for Galaxy S7 series in

India, compared with Galaxy S6 series last year.



According to some large for



mat retailers, the demand for S7 series has soared since launch, far higher than

what they saw for the S6, which was launched last year. Some said their stocks

have dried up due to high de



mand. The sales spurt will help Samsung cement its position against Apple, and

as a result, the segment is expect to grow 60% on-year in the second quarter

this year, Pathak said.



Industry executives aware of the demand-supply gap said orders for about 20,000

phones



are in the pipeline, and of the total sales so far, about 80% belong to the

higher quoting Galaxy S7 Edge.



"Galaxy S7 and S7 edge are receiving a great response from our customers with

pre-orders which are almost double than that of the Galaxy S6 and S6 edge," said

Manu Sharma, VPproduct marketing at Samsung India Electronics.



The strong pre-order performance for the new Galaxy S7 and S7 edge illustrates

strong customer appetite for our premium smartphones in India, he added.

Industry executives,



who did not wish to be named, said the company was doubling shifts at its Noida

plant to ramp up supplies. Samsung didn't comment on this.



"Demand for the Galaxy S7 has been very good and we don't have enough stock to

meet orders," said Subhash Chandra, managing director of Bengaluru-based

Sangeetha Mobiles.



Samsung launched the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge in India on March 18, priced '

. 48,900 and . 56,900, respectively. The com' pany has been bundling or giving

sharp discounts on VR headsets along with the devices.



LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





