                             780 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               paymentssource.com



                             March 29, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung Pay Launches in China a Month After Apple Pay



BYLINE: Joseph Kellard



SECTION: GLOBAL Vol. 1 No. 1



LENGTH: 300  words





Samsung Electronics and China UnionPay have joined forces to launch Samsung Pay

in China.



Samsung's mobile payment service operates on modern Samsung handsets including

Samsung Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 Edge, Galaxy S6 Edge+ and Galaxy Note5 devices. In

China, the mobile wallet currently supports credit and debit cards from nine

banks: China CITIC Bank, China Construction Bank, China Everbright Bank, China

Guangfa Bank, China Minsheng Banking Corp. Ltd, China Merchants Bank, Hua Xia

Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and Ping An Bank.



The mobile wallet will eventually support six additional banks that include Bank

of China, Bank of Beijing, Bank of Communications.



"In compliance with national laws and regulations, thanks to cooperating with

CUP and many banks, we ultimately want to make Samsung Pay available to as many

consumers as possible in China, so that everyone can have the opportunity to

enjoy the simplicity, safety and convenience of this mobile payment solution,"

said Injong Rhee, Samsung's head of research and development for software and

services of mobile communications business, in a press release.



Samsung's announcement comes after Apple secured banking partnerships for

thelaunch of Apple Pay in Chinawith China UnionPay in February. The support of

the two rival payment systems in China is seen as a possibledefensive moveby

China UnionPay to ward off competition from rising domestic mobile payment

rivals in China, including Alipay and Tencent.



"With the joint efforts of banks and Samsung, based on the safety testing and

certification by relevant national testing agency, [China UnionPay] QuickPass

starting Samsung Pay service will bring users safer and more convenient mobile

payment choice." said Hu Ying, assistant president of China UnionPay, in the

release.



URL: http://www.paymentssource.com



LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine



JOURNAL-CODE: PAYMENTSSOURCE_NEWS





                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





