                             781 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

                                 Final Edition



Galaxy Note 7 is history; Samsung offers refunds



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1



LENGTH: 355 words





Samsung Electronics said Tuesday that it is stopping production of Galaxy Note 7

smartphones permanently, a day after stopping global sales of the devices amid

reports that its batteries were catching fire.



The South Korean company said in a regulatory filing that it decided to stop

manufacturing Note 7s for the sake of consumer safety.



Samsung's division in Canada issued a statement asking all retail outlets to

stop sales and exchanges of the Galaxy Note 7. Beginning Thursday, Samsung Note

7 owners can take their device to the point of purchase for an exchange to a

Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 edge, the company said in a statement Tuesday.



It said consumers are alternatively entitled to a full refund for the Note 7 and

accessories for the Note 7. For customers who purchased their Samsung Note 7 on

Samsung. com, the company will be in touch to provide details regarding the

return process.



Samsung said customers seeking more information can call 1-800-SAMSUNG.



Samsung Electronics Canada, based in Mississauga, Ont., said Canadian consumers

with either an original Galaxy Note 7 or replacement Galaxy Note 7 should power

down and stop using the device.



Samsung is struggling to regain consumer trust after a first round of recalls

that prompted criticism both for the faulty devices and for the company's

handling of the problem. After the earlier recall, the company said it had

identified a manufacturing defect in the batteries of its top-of-the-line

smartphone.



It started shipping new Note 7 phones that were supposed to be safer. But

reports that the replacements were catching fire led Samsung to announce it was

stopping sales of the devices.



Authorities in the U.S. and South Korea are investigating why the replacement

Note 7 phones that Samsung equipped with a safer battery are catching fire. An

official at the South Korean safety agency said the replacement phones might

have a different defect than the problem with the original Note 7s.



Samsung's shares fell eight per cent Tuesday in Seoul, their biggest fall since

the 2008 financial crisis. And that was before the company announced it was

discontinuing the Note 7.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Shawn L. Minter Via The Associated Press; This Galaxy Note 7 caught

fire on a table in Richmond, Virginia, over the weekend.;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 Times Colonist

                              All Rights Reserved





