                             789 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Samsung unveils S7, VR devices



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 710 words





Participants wear Gear VR headsets, virtual reality (VR) devices, provided by

Samsung Electronics during an announcement made by the firm at the CCIB center

in Barcelona, Spain, Sunday, on the eve of the opening of the Mobile World

Congress 2016. / YonhapZuckerberg joins Unpacked event



BARCELONA, Spain ? Samsung Electronics unveiled the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge, the

latest models in its flagship smartphone lineup, at the CCIB center here,

Sunday.



Samsung hopes the new Galaxy series will win back customers lost to Apple and

Chinese vendors.



On top of upgraded features and components, the new handsets introduce a virtual

reality (VR) ecosystem with new pairing devices the Gear 360 camera and Gear VR

headset, Samsung said.



The Gear 360 features two fisheye lenses enabling consumers to film 360 degrees

with their cameras.



Ko Dong-jin, president of Samsung's mobile business, said the company seeks to

improve people's lives with its smartphones and VR devices.



'I feel deep responsibility to hundreds of millions of people around the world

who love our products,' Ko said during a presentation. 'We can transform our

customers' lives.'



The two S7s have metal and glass designs. They have improved water resistance,

very-fine image sensors for better pixels and upgraded battery life.



'Better pixels equal better picture image,' Ko said. 'Expanded battery capacity

and life is aimed at helping consumers record their daily memorable moments with

a clearer image.'



The S7 comes with a 5.1-inch super AMOLED display, and the S7 edge with a

5.5-inch.



The new series will be available for pre-order on March 11 globally. Consumers

in selected countries will get a free Gear VR headset when they place pre-orders

during the promotion.



During the event, Ko stressed the company's move to expand Samsung Pay and its

mobile security software Samsung KNOX.



'Samsung Pay will be expanded to Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Singapore,

Spain and the United Kingdom by the end of this year,' he said.



The new models feature a rear camera with 'dual pixel' technology which helps

deliver sharper, brighter pictures even in lower lighting.



Samsung Electronics Mobile Business President Ko Dong-jin, right, poses with

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg during the Unpacked event for the new Galaxy

smartphones at the Congress Center Barcelona (CCIB), Spain, Sunday./ Courtesy of

Samsung ElectronicsMark Zuckerberg



Monday's event also had another surprise, as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg took

the podium to talk about VR devices.



He said Samsung Electronics has made significant contributions to introducing VR

at affordable prices.



'VR is the next platform, where anyone can create and experience anything they

want,' Zuckerberg said. 'For right now, it's mostly used for gaming. That's

quickly evolving.'



Zuckerberg said VR will allow people to do lots of things in a wholly different

way ? from sitting around a virtual campfire with friends any time they want to

holding spontaneous meetings.



'That's why Facebook is investing so much in VR, so we can deliver these new

social experiences. VR is going to be the next social platform. And that's why

we're working with Samsung. Samsung is the only company that can build the OLED

screens at the scale needed to deliver the low-persistence rending, which is

necessary to make VR a mainstream technology.



'We've been working to make Facebook the best platform for 360 video. 360 videos

are even more immersive. You feel like you're actually there,' the Facebook CEO

said.



He said Facebook has created new teams with Samsung to develop new social

applications for VR.



Analysts expect the release of the two Samsung phones to reinforce its position

as this year's largest smartphone vendor.



'Mobile games generate over 85 percent of total mobile content and services

revenues. Because of this, Samsung should use the S7's gaming capabilities to

accelerate partner marketing opportunities. VR is the key tool for smartphone

manufacturers to use in 2016 to market flagship smartphone models,' said Ian

Fogg, head of mobile analysis at IHS Technology, a market research firm.



Fogg said the Gear 360 is critical to help Samsung persuade consumers it is time

to upgrade their two- or three-year-old smartphones, which cannot benefit from

new VR experiences.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





