                             793 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Pakistan Today



                             April 9, 2016 Saturday



Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow update out to Samsung Note 4 What about Android N?



LENGTH: 335  words





Android 601 M update is now rolling out to Samsung Galaxy Note 4The electronics

manufacturer Samsung has begun torollout the Android 601 M update for the users

of Galaxy Note 4 According to reports, the new update is currently rolling out

in the US regions, Turkey, Poland and India inthe formof anOTA update.The update

weighs in at 13GB and comes with the AprilAndroid securitypatch that was

recently released by the search giant Google.



Reports also suggest that some of the features of Samsung Galaxy Note 5 have

been included in the Samsung Galaxy Note 4's update.The more granular

apppermissioncontrols and Doze standby power-saving feature are some of the

updates.



It is not known whether the tech company included the ability to adopt MicroSD

cards as internal storage or not.According to reports, the mobile carrier Sprint

has already rolled out the software to the owners of Samsung Galaxy Note 4 Other

US carriers will also release the Android Marshmallow update on their network

soon,SamMobilereported.



Several reports claim that Samsung Galaxy Note 4, Galaxy Note 5, S6 Edge, S6

Edge Plus, S7 Edge, Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S7 will be updated with Android N

operating system after it is unveiled.Rumors are also doing the rounds that

Galaxy Note 6 will come preinstalled with Android N Some reports indicate that

Samsung Galaxy S5 will also get the update.



Meanwhile, the Android 601 Marshmallow over-the-air update is rolling out to the

Samsung Galaxy S5 Sport and Galaxy S5 underSprint.The build number to Android

601 update for Samsung Galaxy S5 is G900PVPU3CPCA and the size of thefirmwareis

900 MB Also, the mobile carrier is rolling out the update in phases and,

therefore, it may take some days before it hits all the handsets.



Sprint's Galaxy S5 Sport is not available widely. Users of Samsung Galaxy S5

Sport should check for over-the-air notifications under Settings.



Samsung has also rolled out the Android 60 Marshmallow update to the Galaxy S6

edge Plus, Galaxy S6 edge, Galaxy S6 and Galaxy Note 5



LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





