

Samsung Electronics could lose up to 25% of its sales in India -and its
longstanding No. 1 ranking -in the premium smartphone segment in the current
quarter after scrapping the production and sale of the troubled Galaxy Note 7
globally.

The world's largest phone maker \x93stopped sales and exchanges of the Galaxy
Note 7\x93 and \x93consequently decided to stop production\x93 of the device,
citing consumer safety concerns, according to a statement from Samsung on
Tuesday.

The company had said earlier it was temporarily adjusting Note 7's production
schedule, but now it has pulled the plug on the device completely due to
incidents of fire erupting in models handed out to replace recalled devices.

\x93Samsung could lose 20-25% of sales in the premium segment in the
October-December quarter in India,\x93 said Tarun Pathak, a senior analyst at
Counterpoint Technology Market Research. \x93(We estimate) Apple to reach 60%
share by volumes during this period,\x93 he added, reasoning that Samsung,
\x93did not have a substitute product to back up the Note 7 like the Galaxy S6
Edge+ it had last year.\x93

Analysts had expected a milder impact on market share because of delayed sales
and the sharp revision comes after the device was scrapped on Tuesday. Although
the premium

segment accounts for only a small fraction of the market by volume, it makes up
over a quarter of the industry's revenue and commands high margins.

The absence of new products in this segment, especially during the festive
season when demand and purchases peak, would be a hard-hitting loss for Samsung,
analysts said.

Samsung had a 62% share of the premium segment in the January-March quarter,
while Apple was a distant second with a 37% share. In the following quarter
ended June, Apple narrowed the gap with a 47% share although Samsung still led
with 49%, as per Counterpoint Research data. As of August, Samsung had a 57%
share of the premium segment, according to CyberMedia Research (CMR), while
Apple had 32%.

\x93These rankings will now dra

matically change and Apple will jump to the No. 1spot,\x93 said Faisal Kawoosa,
a senior analyst at CMR, adding that a tieup offering iPhone 7 buyers free
access to Reliance Jio services for over a year will help the Cupertino-based
smartphone maker to gain.

The Galaxy Note 7 was to have gone on sale in India from September 2, a month
ahead of Apple's iPhone 7. That got delayed as the South Korean company recalled
2.5 million devices sold elsewhere after reports of the phones catching fire.

Samsung said it identified the cause of fires as faulty batteries and recently
started distributing replacement devices. However, after reports of some re

placement phones also catching fire, the company decided to stop production
altogether.

In India, Samsung had about

15,000-20,000 bookings for the Note 7. Retailers told ET that they had already
started informing customers that their devices won't be coming. \x93We're
planning to be pro-active and we're cancelling orders and refunding token money
taken as advances,\x93 said the CEO of a leading retail chain, who did not want
to be identified.

Sources said that Samsung would offer refunds to consumers who had booked the
Note 7 and is likely to give offers on the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge models.
However, industry insiders said Samsung will be more concerned about the impact
of the Note 7 on the brand and the perception on its other products.

\x93Consumers expect top quality in a flagship, but with situations like this,
that trust gets shaken because people will think twice before buying a Samsung
device,\x93 said a senior executive who asked not to be identified.

Analysts said customers in the '15,000-30,000 mid segment who typically look to
upgrade to higher-end phones during the festive season around Diwali will now
find their options limited to Apple's iPhone 7 and older Samsung models \xAD
Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge.

\x93Samsung is still five months away from its upcoming flagship (rumoured to be
S8) with a crucial festive and year-ending season involved within. This is going
to be a tough, long wait for Samsung,\x93 Pathak said.

