                             811 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Toronto Star



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Ringing up what might be shown at Mobile World Congress;

Annual event showcases what's next for smartphones



BYLINE: Raju Mudhar Tech Reporter



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. S8



LENGTH: 620 words





The latest in smartphones and telecommunications gear is set to debut at the

annual Mobile World Congress in Barcelona on Monday.



In the past few years, it was the place BlackBerry teased the slider phone that

became the Priv, and HTC wowed with the first look at its Vive virtual reality

headset.



This industry event sets the stage for what's coming next in the world of

handset technology. Here's a look at what to expect:



Tech trends



Perhaps the biggest trend this year will come from the major player who won't

even be at the World Mobile Congress. The absent Apple is rumoured to be

bringing a smaller phone, the 5Se, to market in March.



It will be interesting to see if other smartphone makers will also try to fill

out the smaller end of their product lineups at Barcelona. Also likely to

generate buzz are virtual and augmented reality, with Samsung and HTC giving

some updates on their Gear VR and Vive headsets. Overall, the congress will

likely show 2016 to be more an evolutionary than a revolutionary year, with 4K

screens, bigger batteries and metal bodies likely to feature prominently.



Flagship phones



This is what this conference is all about - phone-makers rolling out their

high-end devices. Samsung is preparing to show off the Samsung Galaxy S7, S7

Edge and perhaps the S7 Galaxy Edge Plus. Rumours are that it might be a little

cheaper than last year's model and, catching up with Apple, may have

pressure-sensitive screens and some version of live photos. The distinctive Edge

screen feature may open up for more functionality and the phone may be

waterproof.



LG has already teased the LG G5, which may have an always-on screen that

constantly displays basic info such as time and date. HTC is also rumoured to

launch the new One M10, with possibly a higher-resolution screen. BlackBerry

will also be on hand, rumoured to show off its Vienna, a lower cost Android

phone with a physical keyboard.



Wearables



Wearables still rule, with the growing product category looking to fill a real

niche for consumers.



Chipmaker Qualcomm has announced Snapdragon Wear, a new chip set for

smartwatches.



There are rumours of refreshes of smartwatches for the existing players in the

field, although nothing had leaked prior to the event.



Dot Inc., a firm owned by Korean-based electronics company SK-Telecom, announced

that it would be introducing the world's first Braille smartwatch, which sounds

like a good idea.



LG is also rumoured to be bringing out another phone with a stylus.



Samsung is reportedly launching a smart shoe, because obviously wrist fitness

trackers are just so pass#233;.



Mobile Payments



This is an area that sparks dollar signs in the eyes of every player in the

market, but despite a growing number of options, consumers have yet to embrace

the idea of using their smartphone to pay for things.



LG reportedly pulled its LG Pay service apparently because it didn't want to

take the focus away from its G5 phone, or because it didn't have enough support

from major credit card vendors.



There are smaller players making announcements, but Visa is also making its way

to Barcelona to talk about the future of mobile payments. The company recently

bought a 10-per-cent stake in Square and, like everyone, wants to cash in on

this.



Down the road?



Following on the heels of last week's announcement of the Reflex, a bendable

phone prototype created by the Human Media Lab at Queen's University, there will

likely be a few high-concept phones showing some kind of bendable technology.



As well, there will definitely be some noise about 5G, although most experts

feel it likely won't become a real thing for consumers for a few more years, as

there are still regulatory issues to be worked out in several jurisdictions.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                 Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited





