

Gitex Shopper 2016 is putting on the smartest display of new technology models
at the best possible prices.

With over a third of the world's population projected to own a smartphone by
next year - an estimated 2.6 billion smartphone users - it is likely that almost
all Middle East-based consumers own - or will own - at least one smartphone.



Visitors to the show, which runs until Saturday (October 8) at the Dubai World
Trade Centre will find the world's top technology companies and the region's
power retailers offering fantastic deals on smartphone devices, including the
iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, HTC 10, LG 5G and Sony
Xperia Z5 among others.

Axiom, one of the biggest mobile retail chains in the UAE and Saudi Arabia, is
showcasing the latest smartphones from the world's top technology brands. Fahad
Al Bannai, CEO of axiom, said: "The UAE is home to a tech-savvy population,
including many early adopters who are eager to get their hands on the latest
mobile innovations. Gitex Shopper gives us the opportunity to reconnect with our
customers and bring the hottest products to the region's biggest show for
consumer electronics.

"This year, our new offers include the Huawei Honor 8, the Samsung Galaxy S7
Edge as well as the world's most secure Android smartphone - the BlackBerry
DTEK50, and the much-anticipated iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus. Of course, this
will all be combined with a host of value-packed deals and promotions, including
discounted prices and giveaways."

Commenting on their activities at this year's Gitex Shopper, Nadeem Khanzadah,
Jumbo Group's head of omni-channel retail, said: "We are showcasing the latest
and most comprehensive line-up of products, along with a fabulous range of
competitive offers, promotions and premium giveaways like no other retailer. We
have the much-awaited iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus at the show as well as Sony's
latest Xperia XZ."

Emax also has big plans and offers for Gitex Shopper visitors, according to CEO
Srikant Gokhale. "We have an exciting line-up of the latest and trendiest
smartphones with some great deals. We are expecting to see keen interest across
all flagship brands, especially with the new launches of iPhone 7, Huawei Honor
8 and LG Powercam."

- abdulbasit@khaleejtimes.com

http://imgs.syndigate.info/28/44/10/147549499626.jpg



