                             817 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          International New York Times



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung widens strategy with virtual reality camera



BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 15



LENGTH: 362 words



ABSTRACT



The Gear 360, which records 360-degree videos, will go on sale later this year.

The company also announced two new Galaxy smartphones.



FULL TEXT



With competition continuing to heat up in the handset market, Samsung

Electronics is relying heavily on virtual reality to help distinguish its

smartphones.



The South Korean manufacturer, which is the world's largest phone maker by

units, announced on Sunday two new Galaxy smartphones along with the Gear 360, a

camera for recording virtual reality videos. The company made the announcements

at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain.



The Gear 360 accompanies Samsung's Gear VR, the virtual reality headset that the

company developed with the Facebook unit Oculus, which was released in November.

The Gear 360 has two cameras to allow consumers to shoot 360-degree videos. The

videos can then be viewed through the Gear VR, which works only with Samsung

Galaxy phones.



As for the phones - the Galaxy S7, with a 5.1-inch screen, and the Galaxy S7

Edge, with a 5.5-inch curved screen - there isn't much new about them. The

devices are water-resistant up to five feet deep, and their cameras have been

improved to autofocus on images faster.



With the lack of new phone features, Samsung is betting hard on virtual reality

to help maintain its lead.



''Samsung continues to push the boundaries of the mobile experience to extend

beyond the smartphone,'' D.J. Koh, a Samsung executive, said in a statement.



In the fourth quarter of last year, Samsung had 21.4 percent of the smartphone

market, followed by Apple, with 18.7 percent, according to the research firm

IDC. Notably, the Chinese phone maker Huawei increased unit sales by more than a

third, to grab 8.1 percent market share.



''Usually, the conversation in the smartphone market revolves around Samsung and

Apple, but Huawei's strong showing for both the quarter and the year speak to

how much it has grown as an international brand,'' Melissa Chau, a research

manager for IDC, said in a statement.



Samsung did not reveal price details on the new products. The phones will be

released on March 11 in the United States, and the Gear 360 will be available

later this year.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





