                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                      October 25, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



After Galaxy Note 7, Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge Explodes



BYLINE: Phalgunn Maharishi



LENGTH: 239  words





Just when the company recalled Galaxy Note 7 devices, it looks like Galaxy S7

Edge units are exploding!



It looks like the number of smartphone explosion cases are increasing every day,

and the most being reported are Samsung smartphones! While the recently launched

in-famous Galaxy Note 7 was pulled back for the same reason, it looks like a

recent report points at a Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge being exploded.



It is being said that the user had put his smartphone to charge with the

original Samsung charger overnight, when this incident occurred. The Galaxy S7

caught fire automatically, according to the sources.



Adding to this, PhoneArena has reported that the same user had settled for

Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge after replacing his Galaxy Note 7 after the company

announced to kill the device permanently. The images of the burnt Galaxy S7 have

been published on PhoneArena, and it looks like, it is definitely not

repairable.



However, this is not the first that that a report about the explosion of Galaxy

S7 has surfaced. In-fact, last month, we came across a report that alleged about

a Galaxy S7 Edge being exploded inside the pocket of a Ohio resident, resulting

in burn injuries to him.



While the company has sent out pop-up messages that the Galaxy S7 units are safe

and no devices will be recalled, it seems to high time for the company to

investigate once again seriously, especially after the rise of the recent

explosion incident.



LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





