

Samsung Malaysia Electronics Sdn Bhd expects to see a steady growth for its
smartphone devices this year as more consumers are striving for innovations,
despite the slower retail environment.

Its VP of mobile and information technology (IT) business unit, Lee Jui Siang,
said Samsung's products are still doing well despite the current economic
situation as the young generation and techsavvy consumers are still looking for
newer technology and functions.

"We expect to see growth in our smartphones sales just purely because of the
innovation that we continue to bring in. This translates to the good sales of
our Samsung Galaxy Note 5 last year.

"The current economic situation will not stop us to continue developing the best
smartphones and we believe the Goods and Services Tax (GST) that started last
year would not really impact our sales.

"We are also expecting the sales of devices and many other Samsung products to
grow this year," Lee told reporters after the launch of the Samsung Galaxy S7
Edge in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.

Lee added that consumers are accustomed to the new tax regime, and the demand in
retail products especially smartphones will come back this year.

"GST is a norm as many countries have already implemented it. After almost a
year of its implementation, I believe the consumer sentiment will ease and
demand will improve soon," said Lee.

As for the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge, Lee said it is already receiving great
response, based on its pre-order sales.

According to reports, the new smartphone pre-order sales of 3,000 units were
recorded within hours of its release on the first two days - even before it
officially arrives in Malaysia.

Samsung smartphones are now the market leader worldwide and the brand has a
strong position in Malaysia.

Meanwhile, it was reported that its parent company Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's
net profit for the fourth-quarter of financial period ended Dec 31, 2015,
dropped 40% to 3.2 trillion won (RM11.2 billion), due to a slowdown faced by its
two core businesses - smartphones and semiconductors - amid the weakening global
demand for consumer electronics products.

For the full-year, the group earned 19.1 trillion won, down 19% from the
previous year and the lowest level in four years. The drop was the second year
in a row with a decline in annual net income after the company's earnings peaked
at 30.5 trillion won in 2013.

Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge is now available in Malaysia with a retail price of
RM3,099, inclusive of GST. The model comes in three colour options - black onyx,
silver titanium and gold platinum.

