                             825 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                           September 8, 2016 Thursday



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 explosions: Recall may not hit brand, say analysts



BYLINE: Ankita Rai



LENGTH: 584  words





Even as Samsung has promptly recalled its flagship Galaxy Note 7 just two week

after reports emerged that the phone's batteries were fire-prone, the bigger

question now is how this would impact the South Korean consumer electronics

conglomerate, both in terms of brand and business as sales are halted in 10

markets. As Samsung has set out to mass recall all Note 7s, (approximately more

than 1.5 million units) since the launch on August 19, analysts said it could

potentially cost Samsung billions in dollars, but is unlikely to have much

impact on the brand reputation. "As of September 1, 35 cases have been reported

globally and we are currently conducting a thorough inspection with our

suppliers to identify possible affected batteries in the market," said Samsung

in a statement as it delayed the India launch.



The official launch in India was scheduled on September 2. According to sources,

close to 20,000 people have pre-booked the phone and Samsung is now expected to

launch the phablet in India within 2-3 weeks with first priority towards

pre-booking customers. "Postponing a launch always generates negative reviews

and Samsung's loss is someone else's gain. The loss of volume to an extent is

irrecoverable. But overall at the brand imagery level, I don't think Samsung

will suffer too much. Because no mobile phone company has been devoid of

problems of these kinds," said Harish Bijoor, chief executive officer of brand

and business strategy firm, Harish Bijoor Consults. "For Samsung, it is not much

a brand hit, as it is a commercial/financial hit in terms of volume," he added.



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 had raving reviews and was considered the king of phablets

with pre-orders far exceeding estimates. "There is growth momentum that Galaxy

S7 and S7 edge have handed over to Samsung. The S7 has been globally very

successful and Note 7 is expected to further boost the momentum in Samsung's

favour. But the battery issue can now give competitors a leg-up," said Tarun

Pathak, senior analyst, Counterpoint Research.



There is no doubt that Samsung has lost the critical window of opportunity given

that most of the premium launches are scheduled in the second half. Also, second

half of the year is the peak season for telecom in terms of equipment purchase

and handset purchases.



"The timing of the recall from competition perspective is crucial as iPhone 7 is

set to debut this week. The competition can try to take advantage of it like we

saw in the case of iPhone 6 Plus bendgate," said Pathak. "The best Samsung can

do in this situation is to be very transparent in their communication and

marketing," he added.



Suhel Seth, managing partner, Counselage India, a strategic brand marketing

advisory, said, "The recall is due to the faulty battery and neither the

operating system or design. Battery in any smartphone is the most commoditised

feature of that phone. It won't have any impact on the brand as it has taken

proactive measure which sends out a very positive signal."



With iPhone 7 expected to reach India in October, Samsung India still has a

month's time to change the perception. But the premium consumer is very finicky

and is driven by perception. "Galaxy Note 7's battery issue can make a consumer

re-examine her purchase decision. However, Samsung's integrity of communication

and quick pullout would give them a positive stroke," said Bijoor.



According to Gartner, market leader Samsung had 22.3% market share in second

quarter of 2016, nearly 10% more market share than Apple.



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





