                             826 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                           The Peterborough Examiner



                           August 17, 2016 Wednesday

                                 Final Edition



No phones for you!; North Korea confiscates Galaxy S7 Edge smartphones Samsung

planned to gift to its Olympians POSTMEDIA



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B6



LENGTH: 354  words





Samsung, a major Rio 2016 sponsor, came to Brazil this month bearing gifts: an

Olympicthemed smartphone for every athlete at the Games. Most delegations

accepted the Galaxy S7 Edge phones - decorated with the Olympic rings and

Gamescentric wallpapers - without second thought.



But not North Korea. The country's Olympic committee reportedly withheld the

complimentary S7s from its 31 Olympians, preventing them from displaying the

North Korean flag on the phone's "flag app" during the Games' opening ceremony

on Aug. 5. "(The athletes) can use the entire screen of the S7 to become a

flag," Pio Schunker, a Samsung marketing official, told the Associated Press

before the opening ceremony. "They will be waving (their) national flag through

the S7."



North Korea, though, may have been suspicious of Samsung's intentions, according

to a report from Radio Free Asia. An International Olympic Committee

spokesperson said a North Korean manager confiscated the phones from a Samsung

Olympic office - possibly, they said, to stop the country's Olympians from

visiting the office, where Samsung, a South Korean company, was showcasing more

of its electronics.



"Smartphones would ... raise the suspicions of a North Korean government that

takes great pains to control citizens' contact with the outside world," RFA

wrote.



Samsung confirmed the North Korean manager took the delegation's allotment of

phones. Rio 2016 organizers identified the manager as Yoon Sungbum, but couldn't

say whether or not they were eventually distributed to the athletes.



Kim Song I, a North Korean table tennis player, reportedly shook her head

wordlessly when asked by RFA last week if she had been given one of the Samsung

phones.



South Korean Olympians that have competed against North Korea before told RFA

that the country's confiscation act isn't new; they said North Korean offi-cials

regularly seize gifts their athletes are meant to receive at world events.



North Korea has sent athletes to every Summer Games since 1972, except for two:

the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles and 1988 in Seoul. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Osprey

Media Group Inc. All rights reserved.



LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 The Peterborough Examiner

                              All Rights Reserved





