                             833 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                       May 12, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Over 1 million people used Oculus Gear VR in April



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 734  words





Even though Oculus VR is currently working on limited number of Samsung phones,

including Galaxy S7, the Galaxy S7 Edge, the Galaxy Note 5, it has been used by

more than one million people in April.



As per Oculus VR, developers have generated more than 250 applications for the

Samsung Gear VR platform, which is powered by Oculus VR technology. Currently,

some of the top-selling applications for Gear VR include EVE Gunjack, Star

Chart, Dreadhalls, End Space, Escape Room VR, Land's End and Bandit Six.



Some of the listed 'must haves' are Hulu, Goosebumps Night of Scares, Mike VR

and Orion Trail VR. Seven of the top 10 most used apps are videos and on any

given data, nearly 80% of people who use Gear VR watch video content.



The company has announced that it will start adding 360 photos to the News Feed

in the coming months. These photos can be taken with a phone or a 360 camera and

viewed in VR form using the Oculus Photos app provided for the Gear VR headset.



Oculus VR has also revealed that Oculus Home for Gear VR will be updated in

June. It will be having a revamped design to make search for recently downloaded

content a bit easier. In November 2015, Samsung launched the Gear VR headset,

which is considered to be cheaper than Oculus Rift.



The device has an inertial measurement unit (IMU) for rotating tracking, which

connects to the smartphone's micro USB port. A proximity sensor detects whenever

the headset is worn. But if you want to enjoy cost-effective taste of VR then

you can try Google Cardboard, which is compatible with all Android and iOS-based

phones.



According to a story published on the topic by Engadget, "Oculus' mission is to

help people experience anything, anywhere," Max Cohen, Oculus' head of mobile,

told a roomful of journalists this Tuesday. There's the high-end experience of

the Rift, of course, but there's also the portable easy-to-use version of the

Gear VR. "The secret [with VR] is it can't just be slightly better than other

experiences that you've had," said Cohen. "It has to be even better."



Part of the reason why the million mark is so exciting, then, is because it'll

hopefully push developers to create even more content for the platform. Cohen

admits that it's sometimes daunting to get developers to spend time making VR

content. "They tell us, 'Give us a call when you've a hit a million users.'"

Well, now it has. Plus, Cohen says, the average time that users spend on the

Gear VR is around 25 minutes a day. "They're highly engaged with the product."



"Unlike 360-degree videos, virtually anyone with a smartphone will be able to

create these new photos. Panoramas, photo spheres and photos shot with

360-degree camera units will all be supported by Facebook when the update drops.

On the other hand, if you want to take professional 360-degree photos, you're

going to need a full 360 camera rig (for which Facebook happens to have

introduced a set of blueprints last month). You can also pick up a GoPro Odyssey

if you have a spare $15,000 lying around, or the Ricoh Theta S if you don't,"

according to a recent BGR report.



Along with being a neat addition to the platform, 360-degree photos are also

another push for users to begin adopting VR head-mounted displays (HMDs).

Facebook now owns Oculus, which is responsible for both the Oculus Rift and the

software that runs Samsung's Gear VR headset as well. "We've been beta-testing

360 photos internally for awhile now," writes Eugene Wei, head of video for

Oculus. "It's a lot of fun. You get to share where you are; the story of your

life with other people."



A report published in CNET News informed, "VR is only as cool as the content you

interact with. Right now this ranges from games and education to roller coasters

and even pornography. Just as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu today are grabbing up

marketshare by creating their own shows, Facebook-backed Oculus will gain a lot

of momentum by giving its users stuff they can't find on any other platform."



"A million is kind of a magic number for a lot of people to start taking this

seriously," Oculus head of mobile, Max Cohen, told me. "It starts making more

economic sense for others to join in." For example, Cohen continued, Microsoft

wouldn't have been involved with releasing a VR version of Minecraft if it

didn't think Oculus' platform was going anywhere. The potential is huge, too,

just like it was when Facebook itself first took off.



LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





