                             836 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                              July 29, 2016 Friday



Video shows Samsung Galaxy Note 7 in full glory days before launch



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 348 words





NEW DELHI: Samsung is all set launch its next Galaxy Note flagship at an event

in New York, US scheduled for August 2. But if you can't wait until that, this

is the news for you.Days before its official unveiling, the Galaxy Note 7 has

leaked in all its glory, starring in a full-length video.And that's not all.

There's also an official TV advertisement which confirms several 'rumoured'

specifications of the upcoming phablet, including iris scanner, S-Pen and

waterproofing. Read also: Samsung Galaxy Note 7: Ten likely features The

11-minute long video, as reported by GSMArena website, showcases a prototype

(for South Korean cellular operator SK Telecom) of the Galaxy Note 7. The device

variant is reportedly powered by Samsung's own Exynos 8890 processor coupled

with 4GB of RAM.



The video also reveals that the Galaxy Note 7 will have the same locking

mechanism for the S-Pen, as the one found on the current Galaxy Note 5.The next

Galaxy Note phablet is also confirmed to be named Galaxy Note 7 and not Note 6.

Explaining the 'new naming' Samsung earlier said - "There are a couple reasons

why. First, the Galaxy Note 7 will complement our Galaxy S7 and S7 edge, and

unify our product portfolio. Second, the Galaxy Note 7 will minimize confusion

about the latest mobile technology from Samsung, and provide full alignment with

Galaxy S smartphone."Samsung Galaxy Note 7 will reportedly start at a price of

EUR 849 in Europe, roughly translating to around Rs 63,000. The device is

confirmed to run Android Marshmallow and not Nougat. The phablet will likely

sport a 5.7-inch QHD display of 1440x2560 pixel resolution.In the official

invite, Samsung says that its upcoming Galaxy Note 7 "will help people do more

at work, at home and everywhere in between."There's also mention of the device's

S-Pen stylus. "With added functionality of the S-Pen and large screen, the

Galaxy Note 7 is a powerful instrument for achievement and self-expression, and

is made for those who want to get the most from their phones - and their

lives."Watch the video:



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





