

Samsung Galaxy S7 specifications have appeared online and a Wall Street Journal
report suggests that the latest Galaxy smartphone from Samsung could support
pressure sensitive display and fast charging. According to reports, ClearForce
pressure- feedback technology will be used in Samsung Galaxy S7.

After Apple's latest iPhone model came up with many innovative features, South
Korean electronics major Samsung is under pressure to release its new smartphone
with pressure sensitive screen. Samsung Galaxy S7 is expected to launch in March
2016. Samsung has declined to comment on WSJ report.

The WSJ report has cited Samsung's touch controller supplier Synaptics as the
company might supply the controller for the latest Galaxy variant. Samsung
Galaxy S7 could also support fast charging. Under fast charging, customers might
be able to get a full-day charge within 30 minutes.

According to 'people familiar with the matter', the new smartphone could also
feature high-speed charging USB Type-C port.

The curved variant of Samsung Galaxy S7, the S7 Edge could bring back the focus
on Samsung. Samsung has been working hard to grab the market share back from
Apple after the company managed to pick up pace in major markets including China
after its recent iPhone launch.

Samsung Galaxy S7 could also offer external memory card slot.

A TechCrunch report informed, "The S7 is also set to include an improved camera
optimized for low light photography and with hardware that is flush with the
back of the phone, rather than a lens that bulges out. Other possible additions
for the S7 line include a retina scanner, and the return of an external memory
card slot (in the S7, not the S7 Edge)."

The WSJ report added, "The new devices will go on sale in the U.S. in mid-March,
these people said, after its expected announcement on the sidelines of the
Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona in late February. By comparison,
the Galaxy S6 was available in stores only about six weeks after its
announcement earlier this year."

Seeking Alpha has estimated that Samsung could improve its shipments with new
Galaxy smartphone, "IDC estimates Samsung had a 23.8% Q3 smartphone unit share
(down 10 bps Y/Y) via 84.5M shipments (+6.1% Y/Y). The company saw healthy
initial sales for the S6 earlier this year, but underestimated demand for the S6
Edge and overestimated demand for the standard S6."

