                             843 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                   Daily Examiner (Grafton, New South Wales)



                           February 27, 2016 Saturday



Headsets are virtually reality



BYLINE:  Mark Furler



SECTION: Pg. 8



LENGTH: 568  words







HIGHLIGHT: Rolling bots, flash phones and 360-degree videos are coming to a home

like yours





IF you think your house is already swimming with mobile devices, you ain't seen

nothing yet.



Tech giants Samsung, LG, Huawei, Sony, Microsoft, Intel, Qualcomm and more have

unveiled a mind-boggling array of new gadgets at Mobile World Congress in

Barcelona.



The event is the mobile phone industry's biggest gathering with more than 95,000

people checking out new products and prototypes from more than 2000 exhibitors.



LG arguably stole the show with its super bright "it's time to play" display.



The Korean giant launched its new G5 phone with a removable battery and super

wide 135-degree camera.



But it's the line-up of accessories that go with it that has everyone talking.



They're called Friends and apparently the more you have, the happier you will

be. You even have a Friends Manager app on your phone to quickly connect and

control them all.



Top of the range is the Rolling Bot, a ball-shaped drone that can take photos

and video, chase your cat, tease it with a red laser on the floor, or remotely

control your TV and audio equipment.



It hooks up to your wireless network at home and can be controlled via your G5

from anywhere you have a connection.



The built-in camera can shoot 1080p video or 8-megapixel stills and it comes

with 512MB of RAM, and a bundled 16GB microSD card. It is expected to sell for

about $US500 later this year.



LG's range also includes a virtual reality headset that is a lot slimmer and

lighter than Samsung's Gear VR. There's also a new attachment to your phone for

photography that includes easier controls and extra battery life.



LG also unveiled a 360-degree camera and plug-in module developed by Bang &

Olufsen to deliver high-end 32 bit DAC sound to your phone via a headset or your

home stereo.



But when it comes to phones, Samsung's spectacular Galaxy S7 and S7 edge will be

hard to beat in 2016.



The S7 features one of the best cameras ever released with extreme low light

capabilities and super quick focus.



The new Galaxy edge has a stunning curved display, better battery life, water

and dust resistance and the return of the microSD card. More on the S7 on our

website.



Samsung too has its own clever little ball which is designed to capture 360

degree vision from two 180 degree cameras shooting images of up to 15

megapixels.



Its video capability is just shy of 4k quality.



What makes the Gear 360 particularly clever is the way you can 'stitch' images

and video from the two cameras together on your Samsung smartphone.



You can even share it straight to a Gear Virtual Reality headset or to others

via 360 capabilities in Facebook and YouTube.



Samsung and Facebook see 2016 being the year of an explosion in virtual reality

devices and 360-degree videos.



Those who order the S7 in the next couple of months will be given a Gear VR

headset worth more than $150.



Other cool stuff we checked out



Sony's Xperia Ear: Is a small Bluetooth device that sits in your ear and syncs

to your smartphone. It will read the news and weather to you as well as SMS,

Facebook and WhatsApp messages while you are driving, walking or just at home.

It has 80 hours standby time, three hours talk time and a built in

accelerometer. It weighs just 6.8g. There is no price yet.



Xperia agent: A bot that comes with its own built-in projector that can beam

your own pictures, news, weather or traffic. It has a speaker microphone and

camera to allow video calls. It will also help control your home devices.



LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EDE





                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





