                             846 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                              July 8, 2016 Friday



@New screen S/C head;Samsung flags big jump in profit on strong S7 sales



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 509 words





Agence France-Presse



SEOUL



@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;



Samsung Electronics yesterday flagged its biggest operating profit in more than

two years, boosted by cost-cutting efforts and solid sales of its latest

flagship smartphone.



The South Korean electronics giant, also the world's top handset maker,

predicted an operating profit of 8.1 trillion won (Bt246.8 billion) in April to

June, up 17 per cent from 6.9 trillion won a year ago.



It is the company's biggest operating profit since the first quarter of 2014 and

beat the average estimate of 7.4 trillion won from analysts surveyed by

Bloomberg News.



Analysts attributed the better-than-expected figures to the firm's aggressive

cost-cutting efforts and brisk sales of the Galaxy S7, the latest version of its

high-end, flagship smartphone.



"Samsung's mobile unit is believed to have performed well thanks to robust sales

of Galaxy S7s as well as an overhaul of its low-and mid-end handset line-up,"

said Peter Lee, analyst at NH Investment and Securities.



He estimated that in the second quarter the firm had sold more than 16 million

units of the S7, which was introduced in March ahead of new launches by

competitors, including Apple.



Samsung's mobile business accounts for the lion's share of the firm's overall

profit, which has been increasingly squeezed by competition both from Apple's

iPhone and by lower-end devices from Chinese rivals like Huawei.



Samsung shares rose 1.8 per cent to about 1.45 million won in early afternoon

trade.



@New Subhead;'Technological gap'



@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Samsung has bolstered its mid- to low-end

smartphone line-ups in a bid to expand in emerging markets, which are growing

faster than the largely saturated high-end markets.



The firm's aggressive cost-cutting in marketing played a key role in the strong

profit forecast, Greg Roh of HMC Investment said, warning of more competition

from Apple later this year.



"With Apple releasing new products in the latter half of the year ... I think

[Samsung's] earnings may drop in the second-half," he said.



But the firm's semiconductor business, which produces memory chips for Samsung

gadgets as well as clients including Apple, is likely to help offset a slump in

the mobile business, Lee said.



The semiconductor unit has helped buttress Samsung's profit margins, with its

operating profit largely outpacing the mobile business since late 2014. It

racked up operating profit of 12.8 trillion won last year, beating the 10.1

trillion won earned by the mobile unit.



The world's number two chipmaker has dominated production of faster,

larger-capacity chips using a technology called 3D NAND.



Samsung was the first to mass produce chips using the technology and is

producing the high-margin chips, used in mobile gadgets and hard drives for

servers, at its factories at home and in China.



Yesterday's forecast, which comes ahead of audited results to be released this

month, did not provide a net income figure or breakdown of divisional earnings

for the firm's mobile, TV, semiconductor and display units.



LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





