                             850 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                              June 27, 2016 Monday



Biggest hardware leak Galaxy Note 7 identifies its important specs



LENGTH: 312  words





One of the biggest hardware leaks of the year has unveiled the specifications of

Galaxy Note 7, the upcoming phablet from Samsung



While we were always conflicted with the hardware specifications belonging to

Galaxy Note 7, one Chinese media has made the information available to us in the

form of a crucial leak. It was initially believed that the smartphone would be

coming with 64GB of internal storage, but the leak suggests something else

entirely because the Galaxy Note 7 will be available in the following storage

capacity models:



64GB

128GB

256GB



While the Galaxy Note 7 will be coming with a storage expansion slot, there's

nothing like gold old-fashioned flash memory that will really tip the scales in

your favor when you want high read and write speeds, which will also come in

quite handy when you're constantly recording 4K footage. Galaxy Note 7 is also

expected to come in the following colors:



Black

Silver

Blue



The phablet has also been rumored to come with a dual-camera, in order to stay

ahead of the competition. According to the leak, both cameras will be a 12.3MP

sensor present in Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge. The phablet has also been

rumored to come with a 4,000mAh battery. After all, if you're going to spend

over $900 on a flagship smartphone, then every penny will count. The question

now arises as to which chipset is going to be present inside the flagship.

Rumors state that it is either going to be a Snapdragon 821, which is different

from a Snapdragon 820 in the sense that its quad-core Kryo processor is running

at a higher clock speed.



Additionally, Galaxy Note 7 could also be running an Exynos 8890 with its CPU

running at a higher frequency. The smartphone is going to be announced during

the month of August, and whatever cool new features that we have not been

enlightened with this point will be made available to us at that time.



Source



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





