                             851 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday



Two Galaxy S8 models could be arriving during February; one with a 4K display



LENGTH: 327  words





Before MWC 2017 officially kicks off, Galaxy S8 could be unveiled in two models,

with one of them featuring a 4K display



With Galaxy Note 7 out of the picture, Samsung is going to have to rely on its

Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 edge and of course it's upcoming Galaxy S8, which is said

to get announced on February, which is exactly a day before MWC 2017 officially

kicks off. Now, according to Chinese sources, there isn't going to be a single

Galaxy S8 announced on the aforementioned date, but a total of two models, with

different screen sizes and surprisingly, different resolutions.



According to sources close the matter, the 5.1-inch Galaxy S8 is going to

feature a 2K display while the 5.5-inch model is going to feature the much

awaited 4K display. Samsung will most likely continue to use its Super AMOLED

displays on both models, and we all know that the company makes the best

possible smartphone displays on the planet, so seeing a Super AMOLED panel on a

4K resolution will certainly spice things up.



Unfortunately, the only problem here is that the 4K resolution will consume a

ton of battery life, which might end up frustrating customers. Remember that

Samsung can take advantage of the Galaxy S8's 5.5-inch screen size to bump up

the battery capacity, but the company can only go so far with this.



It is possible that the 4K resolution will be a smart display, and will actually

render content when it is absolutely necessary, such as viewing 4K videos and

rendering VR content. Remember Google's Daydream, the added horsepower and the

4K resolution of Galaxy S8 is going to play a pivotal role in augmenting the VR

smartphone experience for users out there.



There are two chipset models expected from the Galaxy S8; one will be running a

Snapdragon 830, while the other one will be running Exynos 8895. Both of these

will have hefty levels of horsepower necessary to render VR content and we'll be

looking forward to the official announcement soon.



Source



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





