                             852 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                             June 25, 2016 Saturday



Galaxy Note 7 gets a logo leak and its not what you expected



LENGTH: 364  words





Galaxy Note 7 has its name confirmed thanks to an image leak showcasing the

smartphone's logo, but it's definitely not what you expected



Samsung has effectively told us that the name of its upcoming Galaxy Note

flagship is not going to be called Galaxy Note 6, but Galaxy Note 7 thanks to

the latest leaked logo. The smartphone is expected to be this year's hottest

phablet Android smartphone and because of everything stacked inside it, Samsung

has probably given it a price tag that could cost you an arm or a leg, that is

of course if you decide to opt for a carrier service that best suits your

budget. According to a source, the unlocked model of Galaxy Note 7 is going to

carry a price of $799 Euros, or $904, which is not an affordable handset by any

means.



In fact, it puts the pricing of the unlocked model of iPhone 6s to shame, as it

costs $649. However, Samsung is going to make this Galaxy Note its greatest

ever, meaning that we will get to see quite a few changes, particularly from the

hardware side.



Galaxy Note 7 has been rumored to come with a dual-camera, in order to stay

ahead of the competition. We reckon that both cameras will be a 12.3MP sensor

present in Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge. With a Galaxy Note 5 coming without an

expandable storage card slot and a smaller battery compared to a Galaxy Note 4,

Galaxy Note 7 has been rumored to come with a 4,000mAh and bring back the

microSD card slot to facilitate users, so we really want to see more features as

we move up a generation. After all, if you're going to spend over $900 on a

flagship smartphone, then every penny will count.



The question now arises as to which chipset is going to be present inside the

flagship. Rumors state that it is either going to be a Snapdragon 823, which is

different from a Snapdragon 820 in the sense that its quad-core Kryo processor

is running at a higher clock speed. Additionally, Galaxy Note 7 could also be

running an Exynos 8890 with its CPU running at a higher frequency. The

smartphone is going to be announced during the month of August, and whatever

cool new features that we have not been enlightened with this point will be made

available to us at that time.



Source



LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





