                             855 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                   Gulf Times



                           August 10, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung launches Galaxy Note 7



LENGTH: 630  words





Samsung Gulf Electronics' IT and Mobile Division head Tarek Sabbagh led the

regional launch of Galaxy Note7 in Dubai.





Samsung has launched the all-new Galaxy Note7 in Dubai recently, described as

its 'most intelligent smartphone' ever.

The Note7 will be available in the region, including Qatar, from August 19 in

Gold Platinum, Silver Titanium and Black Onyx colours with a recommended retail

price of QR2,999. A 128GB microSD card will be supplied to complement the 64GB

of internal memory.





Similar to the S7 and S7 Edge, the new Android sensation features a

water-resistant body backed by an advanced S Pen (IP68) and equipped with an

advanced camera.

The dual-pixel sensor technology, wide aperture and fast auto focus, work

together to create sharp and beautiful photos even in low-light environments.





In a press statement, Samsung noted that the Note7 also features top-of-the-line

security that combines Samsung Knox with biometric authentication, including a

new iris scanning feature, and immersive entertainment features with HDR video

streaming capabilities.

"With the Note7 we have reinvented the large-screen smartphone segment with a

unique combination of productivity tools, entertainment services and security

features," Samsung Gulf Electronics' IT and Mobile Division head Tarek Sabbagh

said.

"In addition, the Note7 powers a robust ecosystem that strikes a balance between

work and play, enabling people to achieve more than what they thought possible

on a smartphone not just faster but wherever and whenever," he added.

Besides offering an expandable storage and microSD support up to 256GB,

Samsung's new smartphone is also equipped with a 3,500mAh battery, easy Power

Management, and charges quickly using the new USB-C port.

While with the enhanced S Pen, users can bring ideas to life the moment

inspiration strikes without unlocking the screen by using Screen off memo and

simply pinning the memo to the Always On Display.

The S Pen also gives users the ability to easily create and share GIF animations

with Smart Select.

In addition, the new Air Command functions, including Magnify and Translate,

enable users to zoom in on the screen or convert languages with a simple hover

of the S Pen.

It is even easier to access the best of the S Pen's creative abilities with

Samsung Notes, a new unified app allowing users to jot down handwritten notes,

draw, or edit memos from one location.

The smaller 0.7mm tip and improved pressure sensitivity provides a real pen-like

experience. Due to its IP68 water resistant certification, the Note7 S Pen lets

users jot down their thoughts without interruption, even when the screen gets

wet.  The Note7 features a gorgeous, curved 5.7-inch QHD Super Amoled screen

delivering a bold and immersive picture on a smartphone. It is ready to stream

HDR video, enabling a cinema-like experience including brighter colours and a

deeper black, which ensure users get the full experience that the filmmaker

intended.

For people who live to create, tell stories and transport people to entirely new

worlds, the Note7 can be used with the new high-resolution (3840x1920) Gear 360

camera, to capture, edit and share 360-degree images videos on the go. These

memories can then be shared with friends via platforms including YouTube 360 and

Facebook, and can be relived with the ultra-immersive Gear VR.

Samsung has partnered with Holiday Factory, the leading package tour operator in

the Middle East, to offer holiday packages on the basis of "Buy One Get One

Free".

The packages are inclusive of round trip tickets, hotel accommodation, airport

transfers and a dedicated tour guide- savings can be more than QR4,000 for Qatar

residents who can choose to travel to locations including Dubai and the

Maldives.



(Syndigate.info).



LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 183





                      Copyright 2016 Gulf Times Newspaper

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





