

NOT all mice are created equal. Introduced at Computex 2013, the Asus VivoMouse
comes with unique peripheral functions that allow it to act as a standalone
touchpad.

The new generation mouse may look strange at first glance and may need getting
used to, but I believe that the learning curve should not be too steep.

Its wide and flat design allows the VivoMouse to be used interchangeably as a
mouse and desktop touchpad.

Since it has wireless PC connectivity, it can also double up as a one-handed
control device, making it the perfect peripheral if your PC is set up in the
living room.

There is no word on pricing yet, but the Asus VivoMouse should be available in
the third quarter of this year. http://www.asus.com/

More Galaxy Tab 3 choices

SAMSUNG has expanded its Galaxy Tab 3 series by rolling out the 8-inch and
10.1-inch models which will deliver an expanded range of options.

The 8-inch Galaxy Tab 3 can be held and used with one hand, making it suitable
to view videos, play games and read e-books regardless of where you are. It
sports a slim bezel, and has Samsung's reading mode technology so that your eyes
will not tire after going through a few pages of your e-book.

Samsung's Sound Alive for Audio and Dolby Surround for Video Play cannot replace
the home theatre experience, but it maximises every sound so that you can enjoy
clearer dialogue, consistent volume levels, and superior audio. Navigation is
kept uniform with that of a smartphone experience, thanks to keys on the bezel
that are located at bottom.

Other features of the Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 series include S Translator and S
Travel. Pricing depends on the regions where the new Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 is
released. http://www.samsung.com

First 8-inch Windows 8 tablet

ACER'S Iconia W3 sets the tone forward by being the first 8-inch Windows 8
tablet in the industry. It is no pushover by any means, considering how it can
deliver entertainment and full PC capabilities in a single hand. You will get
Microsoft Office Home & Student 2013 pre-installed for free.

The Acer Iconia W3 weighs only 500g and is 0.45-inch thin. It comes with an
optional full-size Bluetooth keyboard, allowing you to type documents on the go
without relying on a virtual keyboard.

Considering how it runs full Windows 8, the Acer Iconia W3 will also be
compatible with x86 legacy Windows programs. An Intel Atom processor runs
proceedings from underneath the hood, where it can run for up to 8 hours on a
single charge, and sports WiFi connectivity. The 8.1-inch LED-backlit display at
1,280 x 800 resolution delivers stunning 720p video, and you have two cameras as
well at 2-megapixels each in the front and at the back. Other connectivity
options include a micro-HDMI and a micro-USB port, while you can augment the
32GB or 64GB internal memory with a microSD memory card. http://www.acer.com

Aspire S7 Ultrabook upgrade

ACER unveiled the upgraded version of its highly successful Ultrabook, the Acer
Aspire S7, at Computex 2013. The Aspire S7-392 comes with 30 per cent increased
battery life, giving users a whopping 7 hours, improvements to the keyboard as
well as support for WiDi (wireless displays). It comes with a 1080p IPS
touchscreen (10-point multi-touch) display that can be upgraded during your
online order to 2,560 ? 1,440 resolution. It will also be powered by the latest
Intel Haswell processor, which happens to be the 4th generation Core processor.

The Ultrabook sports a single-block aluminum unibody, and with support for
Intel's WiDi technology, you can now extend your Ultrabook's display to a TV or
another compatible large screen display in a wireless manner. This enables you
to stream video to your big screen TV in the living room for others to watch a
recently recorded video, as you work on the Aspire S7 itself.

The new model includes dual-array microphones and Acer's proprietary
PurifiedVoice technology, a Raid 0 solid state drive, and a Gorilla Glass 2
surface among others. It measures 12.9mm thin and weighs 1.3kg. Available from
July at RM1,450. http://www.acer.com

( END )

