                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 Times of Oman



                             March 20, 2016 Sunday



The New S: Samsung Galaxy S7 review



LENGTH: 821 words





by Faisal Mohammed Naim faisal@timesofoman.com  The new S7 has bigger battery,

extendable memory, is waterproof and packs a bigger current generation processor

than the S6.





Back in time gone by, 'New' used to be really new: it possessed novelty. The new

didn't need to be cross examined to validate or actually discover its newness;

it could do that on its own. Today, however things have changed quite much ever

since the definition of new took a whole new dimension. From being a state,

'New' has morphed to being a trend.







The trend is hot in electronics, and even hotter in the smartphone market.

Around this time every year mobile phone biggies have to come up with a new

flagship model, even if there isn't anything actually new to offer. Leading the

bandwagon is Samsung, which religiously offers a new model every year for its

smartphone crown jewel; the 'Galaxy S' series. Since its initiation in June

2010, the 'S' series has seen seven instalments (in six years), with the latest,

the S7 launched just recently.



So how does the phone add up while many are still relishing the newness of the

S6 (which actually was something new with a total design overhaul)? Does it

really have something to fascinate further or just another hasty attempt to

remain on top? The honest answer is: "Not much really".



Compared to the S6, the S7 is almost identical. Just like the S6, the S7 also

has two avatars; the Flat and Edge, wearing the same stylish glass and metal

construction which did away with the Samsung's plastic affair. There is

difference in the size game though this time. While both S6 versions; flat and

Edge shared the same 5.1-inch QHD Super AMOLED screen, only that one screen was

flat and the other screen was curved-- this year the curved Galaxy S7 Edge jumps

up to 5.5-inches, while the flat Galaxy S7 stays at 5.1 inches. The bigger phone

also comes with a bigger battery -- 3600mAh versus the 3000mAh battery on the

S7.



The edges of the new S7's rear panel curving towards the frame make the phone

less slippery and more ergonomic, fitting into the palm of hand much better than

the S6. The rear camera sensor bump is also significantly reduced (almost

four-fold), allowing the device to look more compact and smoothly constructed.



On the technical front, the Galaxy S7 packs a Snapdragon 820 processor, while

the Galaxy S6 houses the Exynos 7420 processor, slightly lower but still very

much comparable to the Snapdragon 810. With a current generation processor and

an extra gigabyte of RAM - 4GB compared with 3GB -- the S7 is certain to be

faster than the S6. But the S6 is already a pretty speedy gadget and how

practical would the further increment be is a thing to wait and watch. For most

users it would probably be negligible. However, it is the camera where the S7

improves significantly. That is not at all to say the S6 camera lacked in any

manner. It is just that S7 has bettered the best. The S7 camera has lower specs:

12MP on the back, compared to the S6's 16MP, and 5MP on the front.



While the new camera may produce a lower number of pixels, it makes up for this

with dual-pixel technology; a feature that promises a substantial increase in

image clarity despite the lower pixel numbers.



At F/1.7, the lower camera aperture (rule of thumb: lower the better), means

even better low-light performance. Combined, the S7 focuses up to four times

faster in low-light conditions and twice as fast in daylight.



Chastised for reducing the battery size on the Galaxy Note 5 and S6, Samsung has

aptly responded to critics packing the S7 with a 3,000mAh battery, which is

bigger than even that of the Galaxy S5. However, Samsung still hasn't adopted

USB Type-C; the S7 remains on MicroUSB.



With the Galaxy S6's launch many users complained losing the MicroSD slot,

removable battery, water resistance, and MicroUSB 3.0 port of the S5. Samsung

has re-introduced some features from the Galaxy S5 with the S7, with MicroSD

slot supporting an upto 200GB expansion and much improved and very practical

IP68 certified water resistance; no clunky, unreliable external port covers to

protect the innards. The protection is all on the inside now.



The heart-rate monitor and fingerprint scanner remain as before, but the one

catchy feature you might dearly miss is the IR blaster. While both S5 and S6 had

the TV remote capabilities, we wonder why the S7 is bereft of it.



So finally is the Galaxy S7 a go or no go? Of course for the Galaxy devout it's

definitely a go-go, and it is also among the best options for someone looking to

buy their first top end smartphone.



And even if it doesn't sound good enough to the real smart smartphone user, who

cares? 'Latest is the best' is the buzzword in the smartphone arena, until some

real technological breakthroughs like augmented reality, flexible screen, or 3D

playback maybe.





© Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2016 Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.

(Syndigate.info).



LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 89





     Copyright 2016 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





