                             862 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            August 13, 2016 Saturday



Samsung Galaxy Note 7: First Impressions



BYLINE: Robin Sinha



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 859 words





NEW DELHI: Samsung has come a long way since it launched the first Galaxy Note

back in 2011. The latest in the series is the new Galaxy Note 7 phablet, which

as the company claims is the "most intelligent" smartphone till date. Samsung

launched its Galaxy Note 7 in India on Thursday at Rs 59,990 and will make it

available starting September 2. The device comes as a successor to the Galaxy

Note 5 that was launched last year along with the Galaxy S6 Edge+. Notably,

Samsung skipped one digit in the naming series to unify its portfolio across

products.Explaining the name Galaxy Note 7 instead of the Galaxy Note 6 the

company said, "There are a couple reasons why. First, the Galaxy Note 7 will

complement our Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge , and unify our product portfolio. Second,

the Galaxy Note 7 will minimize confusion about the latest mobile technology

from Samsung, and provide full alignment with Galaxy S smartphone."So now that

you know the reason behind the naming scheme of the Galaxy Note 7, let us dive

into the details as we spent some time with the flagship device at the

launch.The Galaxy Note 7 runs Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow out-of-the-box and

sports a 5.7-inch Quad HD dual-edge Super Amoled display with Corning Gorilla

Glass 5. It includes both an iris scanner and a fingerprint sensor.



The Indian version sports an octa-core Exynos processor clubbed with 4GB RAM.The

Galaxy Note 7 houses 64GB of in-built storage which can be further expanded by

microSD cards of up to 256GB capacity. Users will also receive 15GB of free

cloud storage on Samsung Cloud. On the camera front, the handset has a 12MP

dual-pixel rear-camera with Optical Image Stabilization, along with a 5MP

front-facing shooter.Some of the connectivity features included are 4G LTE, NFC,

Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS and USB Type-C. Backed by a 3,500mAh battery, the Samsung

Galaxy Note 7 also sports fast-charging technology as well. Samsung Galaxy Note

7 carries the same design profile that the company introduced with the Galaxy S6

and the Galaxy S6 Edge smartphones last year. The handset build is a mix of

glass and metal and has a dual-edge curved screen, all of which look

aesthetically pleasing. The Black Titanium colour variant was the best looking

among all because of its stealthy look.However, since the device features a

5.7-inch display, it might be difficult to use it with one hand. That is

expected as the Galaxy Note series was never made for one hand use. And that is

why a stylus, S Pen was included. The Galaxy Note 7 weighs 169 gram and measures

153.5mmx73.9mmx7.9mm in dimensions. It is also the company's first Galaxy Note

device to feature USB Type-C port.Not only the build is pleasing, the phablet is

impressively fast in launching applications and easily handles complex functions

of the S-Pen. Talking about the S Pen, the stylus has also been improved by the

company. It now has a 0.7mm thin diameter, making it more precise. We used the

stylus for some time and became familiar with its functionality quickly. While

most of the work can be done without using the S Pen, the device comes in handy

in cases when you need to take notes, sign a document, crop images quickly and

share it, or while doodling. The overall design looks almost the same as the

Galaxy Note 5's S Pen.The S Pen also lets users create and share GIF animations

with Smart Select option. There are new Air Command functions as well including

Magnify and Translate functionality. The Air Commands can also enable users to

zoom in on the screen or convert languages with a simple hover of the S Pen. It

possible to translate in 71 languages including 11 Indian languages using the

stylus.Flaunting the same camera sensor as used in the Galaxy S7 smartphones,

the Galaxy Note 7 comes with the ability to Live Broadcast content, Hyperlapse

mode, slow motion mode and more. The camera is snappy, which could be attributed

to its f1.7 aperture. The low-light images were also impressive. Samsung has

ramped up the security by introducing the iris scanner with the Galaxy Note 7.

The iris scanner makes use of the front-facing camera and asks user to keep the

handset at a particular distance from the face from where it can read both the

eyes. We used the feature and it worked flawlessly. Setting it up was easy as

well. Mind you, the tech requires to recognize both the eyes to unlock the

handset.Unfortunately, we were not able to test the performance and the battery

life in our limited time with the handset. However, we tried several apps along

with some S Pen functionalities, all of which worked without any glitches. We

are hoping the powerful octa-core Exynos processor won't disappoint. For the

battery, the device comes with three Power Saving mode profiles where users can

customise the brightness of the display and its resolution. According to us,

this is a much-needed feature as it could boast the battery life of the device

by few hours in crucial situations.However, not much could be deciphered about

the performance, battery life and other features of the Galaxy Note 7 until a

complete review has been done. So stay tuned.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





