                             865 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



So you have a Galaxy Note 7 ... Here's what you need to do



BYLINE: Eli Blumenthal, @eliblumenthal, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 509 words





It's official: The Galaxy Note 7 is dead.



After a tumultuous week of reports that replacement Galaxy Note 7s were

overheating and catching fire, and a warning from the U.S. Consumer Product

Safety Commission that users should turn off and stop using their devices,

Samsung on Tuesday announced it was discontinuing the popular but problematic

phone.



Here are a few answers to some questions you might have:



How can I exchange my Note 7?



All  major carriers and  retailers  have stopped sales of the Note 7 and are

allowing you to bring the phones in to exchange them for a phone of your choice.



If you have a Note 7, head to your local AT&T, Best Buy, Sprint, T-Mobile or

Verizon store and you can get rid of the phone today. AT&T will even give you a

loaner phone if the phone you want, such as an iPhone 7 Plus, is back-ordered.



But not every carrier is doing this. T-Mobile told USA TODAY it was not doing a

similar offer.



But before you leave home, back up your phone's data, including your contacts.

You can do this via several apps, including through Google in settings. Just go

to Settings, then Accounts, Backup and Reset. Make sure the "backup my data"

option is toggled on in the Google account section (though if you're staying

with Samsung you can backup there as well) and that you're on Wi-Fi.



What if I've already paid for the phone or am on a payment plan?



No worries. The carriers are refunding any payments you've made for the phone,

regardless of whether you paid for it all upfront or are using one of the

monthly payment plans. If you are on a payment plan that will be canceled,

there's no need to worry about future payments.



What if I want to keep it?



The Note 7 was an excellent device and inspired a lot of love from customers.

That said, the problem with the Note 7 and its  battery is very real. There is a

reason why Samsung, the Federal Aviation Administration, wireless carriers and

the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission have all said to stop using the

phones.



We still don't know what's causing them to catch on fire, just that the problem

is widespread enough to result in the drastic step of Samsung killing off the

product less than two months after it went on sale. Phones, even the

replacements, have been catching on fire.



Even if your phone seems fine, it could overheat at any moment. Return it.



What are the best replacement options?



If you want to stick with Samsung, check out the Galaxy S7 Edge, which has many

of the Note's impressive features. Samsung is even partnering with carriers to

offer a $25 gift card, bill credit or store credit to incentivize returns.

Check with your carrier for exact details (AT&T's only applies if you buy a new

Samsung phone such as the Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge).



Apple's new iPhone 7 Plus is in stores and it, too, has nice improvements.



The LG V20 and Google Pixel XL are two other strong contenders coming out over

the next couple of weeks. The latest Moto Z phones from Motorola, the HTC 10

from HTC and OnePlus 3 are solid options if you want to stick with Android but

not with Samsung.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo cpsc.gov



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





