                             867 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Irish Times



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Facebook backs new Samsung phones



BYLINE: Ciara O'Brien



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 16



LENGTH: 315 words





Samsung unveiled its new S7 and S7 Edge phones in a virtual reality-heavy

presentation that also included the launch of a 360-degree camera, the Gear 360.



But the announcements took second place to a surprise appearance by Facebook

founder Mark Zuckerberg, who took to the stage to explain why Facebook and its

VR company Oculus was backing Samsung.



"VR is the next platform," he said, adding that the current trend for using the

technology for gaming and entertainment was already changing. "That's why

Facebook is investing early on," he said.



Samsung has dabbled in virtual reality for some time, releasing the consumer

version of its Gear VR headset late last year.



But Samsung is facing competition from fellow mobile phone firms HTC, which has

developed the Vive system in collaboration with Valve, and LG, which showed off

its virtual reality headset earlier yesterday.



Although Samsung has worked with Oculus on the headset, it still requires a

smartphone - the S6, S6Edge, Note 4 or S6 Edge Plus - to work.



The Gear 360 will allow consumers to create their own content, sharing it with

friends and family.



Samsung had been widely expected to debut the Galaxy S7 at the Unpacked event in

Barcelona, with some details leaking in recent days.



The new Galaxy handsets have been made more powerful, and bring back some of the

features removed from its predecessor, including the MicroSD card slot to expand

memory and the water resistant IP68 rating.



Mobile World Congress (MWC) has become a key smartphone event in the technology

calendar, with future technologies being broadly discussed.



This year is also expected to see discussion on 5G internet - the next

generation of wireless data for phones which will bring faster internet speeds

to mobile devices   which could arrive by 2017.



Mobile World Congress officially opens today and runs until Thursday.

-(Additional reporting Reuters)



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times

                              All Rights Reserved





