                             869 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)



                            August 18, 2016 Thursday



Samsung optimistic about Thai smartphone growth



LENGTH: 419  words





The local smartphone market is likely to improve in the second half this year

after growing by 1-3% in the first half, says Thai Samsung Electronics, a Thai

unit of South Korea's smartphone maker.



The improvement will be driven by intense competition among international phone

makers as well as 4G service operators, said Wichai Pornpratang, corporate

vice-president for IT and mobile communications of Thai Samsung Electronics.



Smartphones still recorded growth during the economic slowdown, he said. The

device remains important to Thais, who spend over four hours a day on mobile

phones.



"We see positive signals of economic improvement and consumer purchasing power

happening in the second half of the year," said Mr Wichai.



Smartphone sales for the year will grow only 5%, with at least 60% of new

smartphones 4G-enabled, he said. Under current economic circumstances, the

replacement cycle for smartphone is 18-24 months.



Samsung introduced the Galaxy Note 7 yesterday, its flagship smartphone, to

cement its market leadership in Thailand.



Samsung Thailand's sales beat its projection in the first half thanks to the

popularity of the Galaxy S7, J and A series. In the second half, the Galaxy Note

7 is expected to attract 1 million existing Galaxy Note users to change their

phones.



"Our pre-booking orders for the Galaxy Note 7 in Thailand are higher than the

Galaxy S7 by 30-40%, while in South Korea they were doubled," said Mr Wichai.



The new model has a 5.7-inch display screen, 64 gigabytes of storage, an S Pen

that can write on wet screens and an iris scanner for security control including

instant translation.



The product will be available from Sept 9 for 28,900 baht, though users who

pre-book can pick one up on Sept 2-4. The launch was delayed from Aug 19 because

of the complexity of advanced features like the iris scanner as well as the

flood of orders.



He said big-screen smartphones larger than 5.5 inches and priced around US$600

are gaining in popularity, driving premium smartphone sales globally, including

in Thailand. Large-screen smartphones will account for 35% of total unit

shipments and half of revenue globally in 2016, said Mr Wichai.



Larger-screen smartphone users also spend more time with their devices than

those with regular-sized screens -- 20% longer for entertainment applications,

32% longer when playing games and 59% longer for business and finance apps, he

said.



Mr Wichai said premium smartphones account for 15-20% of smartphone shipments

and 40-50% of revenues in Thailand.



LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Bangkok Post

                              All Rights Reserved





