                             871 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          The Business Times Singapore



                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung banks on virtual reality to stand out;

It is playing for a bigger game by differentiating from lower-cost brands.



BYLINE: Amit Roy Choudhury , Samsung banks on virtual reality to stand out



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Top Stories; COOL STUFF



LENGTH: 1244 words





REPORTS coming out from Samsung Electronics show that the company is on course

to post a better-than-expected 10 per cent increase in its first-quarter

profits, riding on robust sales of its new flagship smartphones, the Galaxy S7

4G+ and the S7 Edge 4G+.



The South Korean company said its January-March quarter profits are expected to

be around 6.6 trillion won (S$7.77 billion), up from six trillion won a year

ago. This beats analyst estimates which, according to Bloomberg News, was 5.53

trillion won. This kind of wide discrepancy between analysts' consensus and

actual results are quite rare, especially for a company as closely followed as

Samsung.



One reason for analysts being off-target could be that they did not anticipate

just how much of a hit this year's flagship phones would be. According to

reports coming out of Korea, Samsung expects to sell around 10 million units in

the one month since the phones' debut in March. This is around three times the

number of S6 phones sold last year in the one month after release.



It's interesting that the two versions of S7 are so popular despite being,

essentially, just an incremental improvement over last year's model. The jump

from the S5 of 2014 to the S6 in 2015 was a much more radical move for Samsung.

After turning a deaf ear to complaints on the use of cheap plastic on its

phones, Samsung finally gave users a full metal and glass phone, which was

aesthetically up there among the best designed phones of 2015.



In hindsight, one can say Samsung didn't get some things right with S6. In

previous years, users liked Samsung, despite its love for plastic, because it

was only one of the few companies which made phones with expandable storage,

replaceable battery and waterproofing. Inexplicably, Samsung ditched all three

when it came out with the S6. And so despite coming up with a lovely looking

phone, Samsung didn't excite buyers.



This year, Samsung listened and made amends. Expandable storage is back as is

waterproofing. A replaceable battery was not included but the battery size was

bumped up considerably, enough to get through a day's worth of usage. It's no

surprise that the buyers are back, everybody loves a company that listens to its

customers.



At one level, one could say, Samsung's intention with its flagship smartphone

this year was to build a phone that people like and buy. But this is something

every mobile phone company aspires to do. In today's world of mass produced

components, China manufacturing and economies of scale, that is not enough. It's

getting increasingly difficult to distinguish one top end phone from another,

especially if they run on the Android operating system. Just ask HTC, for

example.



Even Apple, with its built-in exclusivity, is finding it difficult to

distinguish itself - one reason why it is also changing strategy, abandoning its

one-phone-for-all strategy and coming out with different-sized phones which

operate behind its walled garden.



With the onslaught from the Chinese phone makers such as Xiaomi, Oppo and

Huawei, which offer powerful phones at much lower price points, established

phone giants need to change tactics in order to differentiate themselves and

justify the premium that they charge. The operating word here is eco-system.



Phone buyers are willing to pay extra because they are spending not just on the

device but also the eco-system that comes with it. This is one reason Apple can

afford to price their phones higher than anyone else.



Samsung has also been trying to build for itself an eco-system that

distinguishes its phones from copy cats. It has the financial muscles as well as

risk-taking appetite to try something different. And it's betting big on the

emerging technology of virtual reality (VR) by trying to create a VR eco-system

centred around its flagship smartphones. Last year's S6 was a trial balloon of

sorts. This year, it's the real deal. The S7 fits into this VR niche perfectly.



The new S7 phones have a "VR optimised" Snapdragon 820 chipset which takes care

of the phone heating issues that the S6 suffered from when used with the Samsung

Gear VR headsets. The South Korean company also has a Gear 360 camera in the

works which will allow users to make VR content themselves.



Explaining the company's strategy, Samsung's Eugene Goh told The Business Times:

"With the bundle offer of the Gear VR with the Galaxy S7 4G+ and S7 Edge 4G+;

which was only available upon the successful pre-order of the phones, Samsung

hopes to reward our loyal customers for their support while providing them an

opportunity to enjoy an elevated mobile experience with the Gear VR."



Mr Goh is vice-president, IT & Mobile, Samsung Electronics Singapore.



He added that Samsung wanted to enhance the way its customers experience life

and redefine the way they use their mobile devices. "We are developing and

continuously enriching an eco-system that goes beyond hardware and device

connectivity for them."



Mr Goh noted that VR has grown to be one of the biggest tech trends to watch for

and has evolved to be one of the dominant parts of consumer mobile

entertainment. "Samsung believes that there is an incredible amount of potential

for VR and the possibilities it brings for the mobile experience of our

customers, which is why we are continuously exploring ways to build on this

technology since the introduction of the first innovator edition in 2014."



He noted that, with access to an eco-system of experiential content, the Gear VR

allows users to enjoy a truly immersive and cinematic virtual reality experience

while letting them redefine how they share experiences and memories. "From

experiencing roller coaster rides, riding a Harley Davidson motorcycle or

reliving the memories of winter skiing at the mountains, the Gear VR reinforces

Samsung's goal to elevate the mobile entertainment experience for consumers to

the next level, opening up a world of possibilities for them."



Another ace up Samsung's sleeve is its payments service, Samsung Pay, which is

its version of an e-wallet. The service, which works in tandem with the finger

print sensor on the phones, is already available in South Korea and the US - and

will kick off later this year in Singapore, possibly before Apple Pay. Samsung

has already signed up banks such as DBS, OCBC and Standard Chartered Bank for

the service.



One advantage that Samsung Pay has over Apple Pay is that it can be used on

existing POS (point of sales) terminals, unlike Apple Pay which needs special

POS terminals. This can ensure a seamless rollout - any NFC (near field

communication) enabled POS device will be able to accept Samsung Pay.



Mr Goh noted that smartphones were an integral part of consumers' daily lives.

"Samsung understands the importance of our customers' experience and interaction

with their devices."



While looking at numbers showing how many units are shipping is an important

measure of success in the cut-throat world of smartphone sales, Samsung is

playing for a bigger game, one that it hopes will differentiate itself from

lower-cost China brands. The Korean giant understands it can never compete on

price with these brands.



What it wants is to create an eco-system where users will buy phones not just

because of price or looks but also the total experience that the devices offer.

This year's flagship models by Samsung may be remembered more for pushing the

South Korean company further on this path, rather than for just for how million

units are shipped.



LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





