

NEW DELHI: The invites are out for Samsung's upcoming 'Galaxy Unpacked' event.
The event is scheduled to take place on August 2 at New York on 11am EDT (8.30PM
IST). The South Korean tech giant has confirmed that it will be launching the
Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phablet, successor to Galaxy Note 5, at the event. The
company will also be holding simultaneous events at Rio de Janeiro and London.

In the invite, Samsung says that its upcoming Galaxy Note 7 "will help people do
more in work, at home and everywhere in between." The company also talks about
the device's stylus S Pen. "With added functionality of the S Pen and large
screen, the Galaxy Note7 is a powerful instrument for achievement and
self-expression, and is made for those who want to get the most from their
phones - and their lives."In the 'detailed invite', the South Korean tech giant
also clears the air as to why the company has decided to the name the upcoming
phablet as Galaxy Note 7 instead of the Galaxy Note 6. Giving two reasons, it
says "There are a couple reasons why. First, the Galaxy Note7 will complement
our Galaxy S7 and S7 edge, and unify our product portfolio. Second, the Galaxy
Note7 will minimize confusion about the latest mobile technology from Samsung,
and provide full alignment with Galaxy S smartphone," says the company. As per
leaks hoping around , the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 is expected to run Android 6.0.1
Marshmallow out-of-the-box along with a new Grace UX interface on top. It is
likely to sport a 5.7-inch QHD display of 1440x2560 pixel resolution. The device
is also supposed to feature an iris scanner. There are varying reports about the
Galaxy Note 7's RAM, while some reports claim that the phablet will house 6GB
RAM, others hint at 4GB RAM. Other reports suggest that the smartphone to be
powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor and have 32GB in-built storage
with microSD card support. Other rumoured specifications include a 12MP rear
camera with a dual-pixel setup. The phone will most likely be water resistant as
well.The Samsung Galaxy Note 7 will reportedly start at a price of 849 in
Europe, roughly translating to around Rs 63,000.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

