

The latest Samsung Galaxy S8 concept could give some helpful tips to Samsung on
how to design the next best Android flagship

Samsung is currently relying on its Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 edge and of course it's
upcoming Galaxy S8, which is said to get announced on February, which is exactly
a day before MWC 2017 officially kicks off. Before that, we'd like to introduce
to you a beautiful Galaxy S8 concept, and we feel that you will drool after
taking a look at the video below. This concept has no bezels whatsoever, which
we feel is going to be the future of smartphones. If Samsung is able to design
its Galaxy S8 that comes close to this concept, then everyone who wanted to
upgrade to a Galaxy S8 is going to be a very lucky customer.

According to previous rumors, the 5.1-inch Galaxy S8 is going to feature a 2K
display while the 5.5-inch model is going to feature the much awaited 4K
display. Samsung will most likely continue to use its Super AMOLED displays on
both models, and we all know that the company makes the best possible smartphone
displays on the planet, so seeing a Super AMOLED panel on a 4K resolution will
certainly spice things up.

Unfortunately, the only problem here is that the 4K resolution will consume a
ton of battery life, which might end up frustrating customers. Remember that
Samsung can take advantage of the Galaxy S8's 5.5-inch screen size to bump up
the battery capacity, but the company can only go so far with this.

It is possible that the 4K resolution will be a smart display, and will actually
render content when it is absolutely necessary, such as viewing 4K videos and
rendering VR content. Remember Google's Daydream, the added horsepower and the
4K resolution of Galaxy S8 is going to play a pivotal role in augmenting the VR
smartphone experience for users out there. For now, the only other hardware
specifications we know is the Galaxy S8 will come in two chipset models:
Snapdragon 830 and Exynos 8895 (could be a different name). We'll naturally
update you on all the possible information, but for now, enjoy this concept.

Source

