                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                             March 11, 2016 Friday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Samsung Galaxy S7 goes on sale worldwide, promising boosted performance and a

new camera



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 378 words





After presenting its new flagship smartphone at this year's Mobile World

Congress in Barcelona, Spain, the Samsung Galaxy S7 goes on sale worldwide on

Friday, March 11, 2016.



Samsung kept things pretty classic for this 2016 upgrade to its flagship

handset. The 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and 5.5-inch Galaxy S7 edge (with rounded edges)

are similar in design to the current S6 and S6 edge, but get improved processing

performance of around 30% and 4GB of RAM. Both models run the latest version of

the Android operating system, Android 6.0 (Marshmallow), with Samsung's TouchWiz

interface.



Upgraded camera, fast autofocus



The real innovation in the Galaxy S7 (and S7 edge) comes in the camera. The

main, rear-facing camera sees its pixel-count drop from 16 to 12 megapixels, in

turn promising improved image quality, particularly in low-light conditions and

with moving subjects. This is thanks to Dual Pixel technology, which sees the

camera take two pictures at once and then fuse them into one final super-sharp

image. A 5-megapixel, wide-angle, front-facing camera is also on hand for selfie

fans.



The Galaxy S7and S7 edge are water-resistant handsets that mark the return of

the microSD memory card slot, dropped from Samsung's S6. The smartphones also

have a new "AlwaysOn" function to display certain information constantly

onscreen (time, calendar, meetings, etc.) while keeping power use extremely low.

In fact, Samsung promises over 10 hours of battery life.



Samsung is busy building a whole product ecosystem around its Galaxy S7, with

current add-ons including the Gear S2 smartwatch, the Gear VR virtual reality

headset and the new Gear 360 camera, which films 360-degree footage.



Not an essential upgrade for Samsung Galaxy S6 owners



In the end, the Samsung Galaxy S7 isn't necessarily the most stylish or the most

innovative smartphone of the moment (check out the LG G5 with its modular

design), but it's still in the running as one of the best smartphones on the

market thanks to its performances and its camera.



So while upgrading from a Galaxy S6 to an S7 doesn't seem essential, this

smartphone is sure to suit users looking to invest in a good-quality high-end

handset.



Check out the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge in this promotional video:

youtu.be/cyohHyQl-kc



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





