
DATELINE: TORONTO


A class action lawsuit has been filed in Canada over Samsung Galaxy Note 7
phones, which were recalled last month following reports of overheating
batteries that pose a fire hazard.

The lawsuit againstboth the U. S. and Canadian divisions of Samsung was filed in
Ontario Superior Court by London-based McKenzie Lake Lawyers, LLP.

The claim alleges Samsung was negligent because they knew or should have known
that the devices could harm consumers.

The allegations have not been proven in court.

The lawsuit, which was filed on behalfofCanadian residents who bought the Note
7, seeks damages and a declaration that the defendants ' actions were false and
misleading and contravened the Consumer Protection Act and the Competition Act.

The South Korean electronics giant stopped making and selling the devices and
advised owners to turn them off and stop using them last month.

Samsung Electronics Canada Inc. says customers who return the phone can either
exchange it for a Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 Edge, or receive a full refund.

The plaintiff ' s in the case are Hannah Shaheen of Burlington and Daniel
Fuller, a Michigan resident in the process of moving to Burlington.

While returning from their honeymoon in the Turks and Caicos Islands, the couple
says they were forced to destroy and discard their Note 7 phones because they
had been banned from air transportation. They allege that in the process of
destroying the devices, one caught fire.

Because they hadbeen forced to destroy the phones, Shaheen and Fuller lost all
the personal information, photos, videos and contacts that were on the devices.

The couple says they have not received any compensation from the company or a
replacement device.

" We believe that through this action, the defendants will be required to
account for their actions in bringing these devices to market ," lawyer Matthew
Baer said in a statement.

" Canadians who owned these devices deserve to be properly compensated ."
Samsung did not immediately respond to a request for comment. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016
Sun Media Corporation. All rights reserved.

