                             898 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 28, 2016 Sunday



LG declares 'niche player' in mobile



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 464 words





LG Electronics' mobile devices chief Cho Juno talks to Korean media about the

company's business strategies on the sidelines of this year's Mobile World

Congress in Barcelona, Spain, last week . / Courtesy of LG Electronics



BARCELONA, Spain - LG Electronics has adopted a new business strategy in the

mobile arena as the LG Group's technology affiliate wants to become a

'niche-player' in the handset market.



'What LG Electronics should do is release unique and appealing products to help

consumers widen their choice in a market led by Samsung and Apple,' LG's mobile

devices chief Cho Juno said last week on the sidelines of this year's mobile

expo, Barcelona, Spain.



The remarks were seen as a move not to directly compete with Samsung by shipment

volume but to create more 'LG fanboys.'



'LG's branding strategy isn't to seek for volume growth but to have more LG fans

for brand loyalty,' Cho said.



While Samsung's Galaxy S7 made little surface changes to its predecessor -

Galaxy S6 - the LG G5 has adopted a modular-type detachable design in what LG

officials say is part of the company strategy for alliances with third-party

developers and device manufacturers.



According to the executive, its transition was due to the lukewarm response of

its G4 smartphone.



'The G4 failed to make a real difference. I think LG Electronics can't compete

with existing leaders, effectively, with the same marketing plan. Appealing

hardware specifications won't work for LG,' Cho said.



LG was the leader in an era of feature phones, devices with sleek and appealing

design; however, it was late in entering the smartphone business, costing the

company a lot. Now, due to the rise of cheap Chinese manufacturers, LG's global

position in the smartphone industry is out of the 'top 5.'



Cho didn't mention about the sales target for the G5; rather, he said LG will

invest more to put third-party developers into its own ecosystem.



The LG G5 is able to connect to a lot of external devices. Cho said it will

release 'new friends' and offer competition programs for application developers.

The G5 will be available from late March.



Unlike LG, Samsung Electronics showed its confidence to lead over rivals in the

competition for volume growth - the Galaxy S7 has enhanced camera and display

functions. With the collaboration of Facebook, Samsung plans to recover its

share in China, the world's biggest smarpthone market, which was taken by

Chinese rivals such as Xiaomi.



Samsung's mobile chief Ko Dong-jin said the initial response to the Galaxy S7

'was good,' adding that sales will be far better than those of the S6.



'It will be interesting to see if LG's strategy to become a niche player works.

It seems smart given LG's status - being unable to grow its smartphone business

as it did before,' said an official.



LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





