                             899 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Voice & Data



                                 July 28, 2016



Samsung Q2 profit up 2 % to $5.17 billion



BYLINE: Sanjeeb Kumar Sahoo



LENGTH: 1637  words





NEW DELHI: World's largest smartphone maker Samsung said its April-June net

income rose 2 percent over a year earlier to 5.85 trillion won ($5.17 billion),

compared with 5.75 trillion ($4.9 billion) won a year earlier.



" Samsung's revenue for the quarter was KRW 50.94 trillion, an increase of KRW

2.40 trillion YOY, while operating profit for the quarter was KRW 8.14 trillion,

an increase of KRW 1.24 trillion YOY," a statement said.



The second quarter saw significant earnings growth led by strong performance

both in the set and component businesses. Overall earnings of the set business

improved YOY as well as QOQ due to the continuous sales increase of premium

products.



The IT & Mobile Communications (IM) Division saw substantial earnings

improvement led by expanded sales of flagship products such as the Galaxy S7 and

S7 edge. A streamlined mid-to low-end smartphone lineup also contributed to

improved profitability. Operating profit for the IM Division was KRW 4.32

trillion.



The Consumer Electronics (CE) Division achieved significant earnings growth YOY

led by strong sales of its premium lineup such as SUHD TVs, Chef Collection

Refrigerator, AddWash washer and newly launched air conditioner.



The component business achieved solid performance although overall earnings

decreased YOY due to ASP declines in the industry. Earnings for the Display

Panel segment improved QOQ led by increased OLED capacity utilization and

stabilized LCD panel yields. Demand for semiconductors for mobile and SSD

increased and the company achieved solid growth with a competitive edge in

differentiated products, including 20-nanometer DRAM, V-NAND and 14-nanometer

mobile AP.



The company estimated that the stronger Korean won against major currencies in

the second quarter negatively impacted operating profit by approximately KRW 0.3

trillion, reflected mainly in the component business earnings.



Looking ahead to the second half of 2016, the company expects its solid

performance to continue compared to the first half, mainly driven by earnings

increase in the component business due to sales growth in high value-added

products and stable demand and supply conditions. The set business is expected

to continue its stable earnings while the IM Division expects marketing

expenditure to increase.



In the third quarter, the company expects the component business to maintain its

solid performance due to improved demand and supply conditions for memory chips

and LCD panels and stable earnings for OLED and System LSI. For the set

business, the company forecasts marketing expenditure for the IM business to

increase mainly due to a new flagship product launch and fierce competition in

the industry. Meanwhile, weak seasonality is likely to impact the CE business.



Capital expenditure (CAPEX) for the second quarter was KRW 4.2 trillion, which

includes KRW 2 trillion for the Semiconductor business and KRW 1.6 trillion for

the Display Panel business. The accumulated total CAPEX for the first half was

KRW 8.8 trillion.



The annual plan for CAPEX has not yet been confirmed but is projected to

increase slightly compared to last year. This year's CAPEX will be concentrated

on OLED and V-NAND capacity as the company sees strong market demand for OLED

panels for smartphones and V-NAND SSD.



The Semiconductor business posted KRW 12 trillion in consolidated revenue and

KRW 2.64 trillion in operating profit for the quarter.



The memory business enjoyed solid growth in demand in the second quarter. Orders

for high-density NAND and DRAM products contributed to solid earnings QOQ. This

was coupled by a reduction in cost from continuous process migration.



In NAND, shipments of SSD remained strong in the quarter, as enterprise

companies increasingly made the transition from HDD to SSD so as to reduce total

cost of ownership (TCO).



Orders for high-density mobile storage products over 32GB also helped drive

sales, mainly due to the expanded adoption by Chinese companies. Samsung

actively responded to orders for high-density mobile products over 64GB and

enterprise SSD over 4TB and increased supply of the industry's first 48-layer

V-NAND.



In DRAM, demand climbed QOQ as smartphone manufacturers bought more high-density

mobile DRAM and demand for high-density products increased following the launch

of a new server platform.



A supply imbalance of some applications led to greater demand for Samsung's

20-nanometer high-density, high value-added mobile and server products.



Looking ahead, for NAND, increased adoption of high-density products and strong

seasonality will further drive demand growth in the second half. Growth in

high-density, premium SSD products will continue, and the launch of new products

by smartphone manufacturers is expected to raise demand for mobile storage.

However, supply and demand will be tighter in the second half, due to soft

industry supply growth.



For DRAM, the launch of new smartphones and the increasing adoption of 6GB

memory chips in high-end smartphones will spur shipments of mobile DRAM in the

second half. Shipments of high-density server products will be strong, as more

data centers make the transition to a new server platform.



The System LSI business saw gains QOQ, thanks to stronger demand for

14-nanometer mobile AP in premium smartphones and increased sales of high

megapixel image sensors. In the second half, increased sales of mid- to low-end

mobile AP and LSI products are expected to provide a stable revenue stream.



The Display Panel segment posted KRW 6.42 trillion in consolidated revenue and

KRW 0.14 trillion in operating profit for the quarter driven by increased

shipments of OLED panels and enhanced yields for new LCD TV panel production

technology.



For the OLED business, second quarter earnings improved QOQ due to healthy sales

of flagship smartphones and increased demand for flexible panels. High fab

utilization rates with the help of an expanded mid to low-end product portfolio

also contributed to improved earnings.



For the LCD business, the second quarter saw a continuation of QOQ growth under

a gradual recovery in the supply-demand balance. The company was able to achieve

growth thanks to improved yields for new TV panel production technology as well

as expanded TV sales particularly for large-sized UHD panels.



Looking ahead to the second half, the OLED business, Samsung expects demand for

OLED panels to rise despite a likely slowdown in the smartphone market. To

remain competitive, the company plans to actively address customer demand and

reinforce profitability by expanding the proportion of high value-added products

such as flexible and high-resolution displays. Samsung will also seek to secure

supply capacity according to market demand while expanding its customer base and

new applications.



As for the second-half outlook for the LCD industry, Samsung expects supply and

demand to improve thanks to increased demand under strong seasonality as well as

continuous UHD TV market growth and size migration towards larger screens. In

response, the company will focus on enhancing profitability by improving cost

competitiveness and expanding its portfolio to high value-added products

including ultra-large size, high-resolution and curved panels.



The IM Division posted KRW 26.56 trillion in consolidated revenue and KRW 4.32

trillion in operating profit for the quarter.



Samsung's earnings improved QOQ thanks to strong sales of its flagship Galaxy S7

and S7 edge smartphones. Additionally the company achieved growth in the second

quarter by maintaining the profitability of mid- to low-end models, such as the

Galaxy A and J series, and improving the product mix by raising the sales

proportion of the Galaxy S7 edge to over 50 percent.



Demand for smartphones and tablets in the second half is forecast to increase,

however, market competition is expected to strengthen as other companies release

new mobile devices. Despite this outlook, Samsung will focus on YOY earnings

increase by strengthening its high-end line-up and maintaining solid

profitability of mid to low-end products.



Looking into the third quarter, the release of a new large-screen flagship

smartphone will help to maintain solid sales of high-end smartphones led by the

Galaxy S7 and S7 edge.



Samsung will also focus on expanding smartphone sales including this year's new

Galaxy A and J series and the debut of the Galaxy C series exclusively for the

China market.



Samsung will focus on increasing smartphone sales under strong seasonality with

the launch of a new model, while expecting marketing expenses to increase QOQ

due to seasonality.



As for the Networks business, earnings improved due to increased LTE investment

of major carriers in the second quarter.



The Consumer Electronics Division - encompassing the Visual Display (VD),

Digital Appliances (DA), Printing Solutions and Health & Medical Equipment (HME)

businesses - posted KRW 11.55 trillion in consolidated revenue and KRW 1.03

trillion in operating profit for the quarter.



In the second quarter, global TV demand remained flat YOY due to sluggish

economic conditions in major emerging markets that offset the growth experienced

in developed markets. Amid these challenging conditions, Samsung achieved solid

YOY earnings by successfully launching new products, including SUHD TVs, and

increasing sales of premium products on the back of global sporting events.



For the appliances business in the second quarter, although growth momentum

continued in North America, global demand declined YOY due to slower growth in

China and the impact from the economic slowdown in emerging markets. Despite

these circumstances, earnings improved from the same period of the previous year

thanks to increased sales of premium products such as the Chef Collection

refrigerator and the AddWash and activ dualwash washing machines.



LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





            Copyright 2016 Voice & Data, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





