                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                           Philippines Daily Inquirer



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday



The new Samsung Galaxy S7, S7 Edge best enjoyed with Globe plans



LENGTH: 382  words





As the leader in the digital lifestyle, Globe Telecom is gearing up to welcome

the newest Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge to the Philippines. With this, the

mobile savvy will now be able to take their digital lifestyle to the next level

as they complement these latest devices with the topnotch Globe myLifestyle

plans.



Designed to cater to the evolving digital lifestyles of Filipinos, myLifestyle

plans allow customers to personalize their plans to fit their interests and

bring them closer to what they love.



With the launch of the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, Globe customers will be

able to fully enjoy the best content from Globe such as movies from online

entertainment service HOOQ or the latest game updates from your favorite teams

in the NBA.



Over the next few days, our customers will find out why it is best to get the

Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge as we introduce our unbeaten myLifestyle Plan

offers soon. True to our commitment to provide nothing but the best content and

service, and as the leader in postpaid and preferred telco carrier of the latest

smartphones, our loyal customers can be assured that the Globe myLifestyle plans

will let them maximize what the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge can offer, says Erli

Magtubo-Valdez, Vice President for Postpaid Business at Globe.



At the recent Samsung unpacking event in Barcelona, Spain lead by its CEO D.J.

Kho, Samsung showcased the innovative new features of Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge.



Both models are IP68 water and dust resistant in up to 1.5 meters of water and

for up to 30 minutes protection against dust ingress. It carries a DSLR like

Real Pixel Camera that is the world's 1st dual photodiode sensor (2PD) in mobile

that provides superfast autofocus. The new models promise brighter and clearer

images with f/1.7 lens and faster shutter speed that minimizes motion blur.



Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge has an expandable memory up to 200GB and faster processor,

smoother graphics, 4GB RAM and a larger battery and faster charging. The S7 Edge

also enhanced its Dual Edge display with the all new task edge that provides

shortcuts to the most used functions.



Finally both phones allow users to experience an expanded Galaxy Ecosystem with

Gear VR compatibility for a virtual reality experience and Gear S2 compatibility

for on-the-go convenience.



LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Philippines Daily Inquirer

                              All Rights Reserved





