

The speakeasy Bank Bar was transformed into a Mexican cantina complete with
banderitas, sombreros and a giant pinata for the 29th birthday celebration of
Mayor Pie Alvarez of San Vicente, Palawan.

While entering the secret door, every guest had to agree to the sign: 'Mandatory
tequila shots for party guests. No shot, no entry.'

Then we were given pom-pom sombreros and gorgeous fresh flower crowns or
headbands, like what Mexico's iconic artist Frida Kahlo wore.

Close friends of the celebrator arrived in the most creative, Latin
fiesta-themed outfits with tops and skirts from Temperley London, headpieces and
earrings from Dolce and Gabbana, and clutches from Mola Sasa.

The colorful crowd danced the night away to the fabulous music spun by DJ Nix
Damn P and DJ Euric.

Tequila and other 'name your poison' drinks such as vodka and scotch poured
through the night and into dawn, dahlings, while our hostess with the mostest,
Mayor Pie, made the rounds, forever seeing to it that we were having a grand
time, palangga. We surely did!

This one-of-a-kind evening ended with the pinata and giveaways of gift
certificates from LCP, Bank Bar and Spaholics.

Muchos gracias, Pie, for a superbly organized bash!

New ambassadors

Smart Infinity recently introduced its latest ambassadors-Rustan's Commercial
Corp. president Donnie Tantoco, wife Crickette Yu-Tantoco, and Raul Francisco
and Joanna Presyler-Francisco-at Provenance Art Gallery at The Fort.

With the anticipated release of the new Samsung Galaxy Note 7, Smart Infinity is
offering two of the phones with the Roaming Plan 8000 (24 months), and Galaxy
Note 7 or Galaxy S7 for the Roaming Plan 5000 (30 months).

'Members may experience their new devices with discounted outbound roaming
rates, 15GB data allocation and a hefty monthly consumable allocation,' said
Julie Carceller, head of Smart Infinity and Smart's multisegment marketing.

'We want to recognize not only those who have conquered their boundaries and
attained success in their own lives, but those who have done well in sparking
change in other people's lives as well,' she added. 'We want to inspire others
to follow suit by providing them excellent technology and services-tools they
need to start leading the change.'

In addition, subscribers can enjoy the limited-edition Samsung S7 Edge Silver,
Samsung Gear VR and Samsung Gear 360. All three devices may be enjoyed with Plan
8000.

Plan 5000 members may receive the Samsung S7 Edge Silver with a Samsung Gear
360.

Visit www.smart.com.ph/infinity or follow on Instagram @smartinfinity.

New Australian resto

Endless flow of canapes and champagne saw the launch of the second branch of
BondiandBourke at Forbes Town Center, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig.

Chef Wade Watson, who earlier offered the first branch at Legaspi Village in
Makati, prepared his signature no-nonsense Australian comfort food.

Served, dahlings, were Foie Gras Brochettes, prawn cocktail, mini pies, sausage
rolls, and fish and chips. Guests were stuffed to their delight as the
Australian chef served his best-selling roasted prime rib-eye with mashed
potatoes and fresh warm mushroom salad.

The satisfying and very filling spread ended with BondiandBourke's famous Sticky
Toffee Pudding, which instantly became a crowd favorite.

Everyone got to take home more food as the standard steak pies and Lamingtons
(an original Australian dessert) were packed for guests.

'This is one restaurant which is a must go-to. And I guarantee you, it won't be
your last visit,' said Thinlines' Frank Evaristo, natch.

Call 0998-8406268, 8331812 (Makati branch) or 0998-8406268, 8331812; or book via
the Booky app.

Italian decor

When it comes to furniture design and quality, Italians are at the top of the
game, so furniture lovers flocked to the much-anticipated opening of Designa
Italia at La Fuerza Compound.

The Italian home furnishing store is the brainchild of the enterprising mother
and daughter tandem, Dette Aquino-Tan and Audrey Tan-Zubiri.

'The pieces we carry are beautiful,' said Audrey. 'They are a perfect balance
between classic and contemporary while our leather sofas feel like butter you
could melt into. What sets us apart from other stores is our mission to make
Italian furniture more reasonably priced and accessible to a broader market.'

Dette said, 'We went to Italy and personally toured the factories to observe
their production and the manufacturing process and we were truly impressed. The
value they put on traditional craftsmanship is evident in every piece that they
produce. Everything, from the tanning of the leather to creating the structure
and design of the items, is a celebration of Italian talent and creativity.'

Doing the ribbon-snipping were Tessa Prieto-Valdes and Sen. Dick Gordon and Kate
Gordon. Cocktails were by chef Gilbert Pangilinan of Kai.

Sen. Miguel Zubiri was emcee, introducing Dette and Audrey to the guests and
narrating how the store was conceptualized: 'It's unbelievable how my
mother-in-law and my wife can turn a shopping trip abroad into a new business
venture!'

Designa Italia is at W14B La Fuerza Compound, 2241 Chino Roces Ave., Makati.
Call 027728343; e-mail [email protected]

'Oh Boy' concert

A must-see concert is 'Oh Boy' on Sept. 23, 8 p.m., at Music Museum. It features
good-looking actors Rocco Nocino, Jake Vargas, Aljur Abrenica and Derrick
Monasterio.

Special guest is Julie Ann San Jose.

It promises to be a hot and steamy night full of dancing, singing and flirting.
So, palangga,, rush and grab your tickets: P1,500, balcony; P2,000, patron;
P2,500, VIP.

Visit SMTickets, Ticket World, Ticketnet.

