

SMARTPHONE CAMERAS nowadays are better than ever. In fact, Samsung Electronics
says, they're so good, they've practically rendered standard point-and-shoot
cameras obsolete. But, can a phone replace a professional single-lens reflex
(SLR) camera?

Samsung decided to put its Galaxy S7 Edge to that test, with the hope users will
learn to see beyond megapixel count to judge image quality.

"Basically, people think the higher the megapixel count, the better the
quality," Samsung said in a recent press release. "It does not take into
consideration the other factors that make for great cameras such as aperture,
shutter speed, and fast auto-focus, just to name a few."

Samsung commissioned two professional fashion photographers, BJ Pascual and Mark
Nicdao, to photograph models Georgina Wilson-Burnand and Solenn Heussaff with
just the Galaxy S7 Edge. Mr. Pascual shot Ms. Wilson- Burnand in low light while
Mr. Nicdao photographed Ms. Heussaff underwater.

"I was both hesitant and thrilled when I was first offered the project," Mr.
Nicdao was quoted saying in the press release. "First, I haven't done an
underwater shoot, and second, I've never done a fashion shoot with just a
smartphone. Combining both was a real challenge."

Ms. Heussaff, for her part, is no stranger to underwater shoots or to Samsung,
but she also had her doubts. "With just a smartphone? I honestly thought people
would just take behind-the-scenes [shots] with it; I did not expect the [phone]
to be used as the main camera... because you'd always need the specs to be
really high for these things," she was quoted saying.

Mr. Pascual shared his own misgivings: "I was really skeptical at first because
I've never done a professional shoot before with just a smartphone. [Also,] the
setup had to be dark, and photos can get really grainy."

But when both photographers and models saw the shots they took with the Galaxy
S7 Edge, "all the initial hesitation they felt quickly dissipated," Samsung said
in its press release.

"I think it's about time that we take smartphone cameras seriously," Mr. Pascual
was quoted saying.

Last Friday, May 13, Samsung put the resulting photos in a photo exhibit called
"Dark Blue", at the Green Sun in Makati. The collection "Own the Night" featured
Mr. Pascual's photos of Ms. Wilson-Burnand, while "Into the Blue" was composed
of Mr. Nicdao's shots of Ms. Heussaff.

"It's a different process since it was faster and simpler. But... I think it
gives skeptics... a chance to see that Samsung knows what they're talking
about," Ms. Wilson-Burnand was quoted saying.

Mr. Nicdao, said to be impressed by the phone, was quoted saying: "There's this
unprecedented shift that's happening in photography... driven by more people
having access to the tools that allow them to find their voice. If smartphone
brands, such as Samsung, are able to help them find their passion and tap into
their talent, it's at least worth putting their claim to the test."

Chad Sotelo, Samsung Electronics Philippines Corp. corporate marketing head,
expressed a similar thought.

"Quality is important, but so is enthusiasm to explore new things. This was
certainly a daring move and a new experience for us, but it just highlights how
technology can really be a game changer. Capturing a great picture using a
smartphone is no less rewarding than if you had taken it using a DSLR (digital
SLR)," he was quoted saying.

