                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Indian Express



                             August 12, 2016 Friday



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 vs S7 edge: Which one should you go for?;

Samsung Galaxy Note 7 or Galaxy S7 edge? For consumers, the choice will boil

down to productivity.



BYLINE: Karthekayan Iyer



LENGTH: 538  words





Samsung Galaxy Note 7 or Galaxy S7 edge? For consumers, the choice will boil

down to productivity.



Samsung has officially launched Galaxy Note 7 in India at Rs 59,900. The Galaxy

Note 7 is the first in the Note series to feature a dual curved edge display,

which also makes it more like a Galaxy S7 edge.



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 will be available in India starting September 2, but the

biggest issue for any consumer will be deciding which one to buy. Having used

both Galaxy Note 7 and Galaxy S7 edge, we help you make that decision easier.



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 and Galaxy S7 edge are similar not just in terms of

design, but in specifications as well. Samsung Galaxy Note 7 and S7 edge, both

are powered by the company's own Exynos 8890 processor coupled with 4GB RAM.

While Samsung Galaxy S7 edge's base memory is 32GB, the Note 7 comes in only one

variant with double the base storage at 64GB. Samsung says consumers really

demand higher storage, and it was natural for the company to go with this extra

space. Plus in case of the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 the expandable storage stands

at 256GB.



If you are someone clicking lots of pictures and shooting 4K videos, every extra

gigabyte of data matters, and Samsung's decision to double the storage is a step

in the right direction.



While Samsung Galaxy S7 edge features a 5.5-inch QHD display, Note 7 has a

slightly bigger 5.7-inch display. While Note 7 may not be as pixel dense as the

Galaxy S7 edge, the device surely makes up for it with HDR mode. Samsung Galaxy

Note 7 is the first smartphone to HDR mode enabled display.



Samsung Galaxy Note 7's HDR mode enables the display offer better contrast

ratio, and wider colour gamut. While the HDR mode won't have much effect in

normal day to day stuff, it will be extremely useful while binge watching on

Netflix.



Another first for Samsung Galaxy Note 7 is the Iris Scanner, which allows device

unlock with facial recognition. Samsung says it plans to make Iris Scanner the

only recognition method for device unlock, app unlock and even authorising

banking transaction. Samsung Galaxy Note7's iris scanner is really quick. It

unlocks device in a flash and is really useful.



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 stays true to its name with the new S Pen. The S Pen now

features a 0.7mm tip which offers superior inking. The responsiveness of the S

Pen has been improved remarkably and it also comes with new features like -

Translate, Magnify and Glance. With Translate, Note 7 users can directly

translate any text to any language. Since the translation tool here is powered

by Google Translate, there is rich access to many languages. Samsung S Pen's

Translate feature also natively supports 13 Indian languages, which will be

extremely useful if you are taking a cross country road trip.



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 starts at Rs 59,900, while Galaxy S7 edge with 32GB

storage is priced at Rs 55,900. At Rs 4,000 extra, Galaxy Note 7 packs that same

incredible display with HDR mode, same fast processor, same 4GB RAM and double

the storage.



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 also offers superior security with Iris scanner and most

importantly the S Pen. If you are out in the market for a productive Android

smartphone then you definitely can't go wrong with Galaxy Note 7.



LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





