                             924 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday



Samsung Galaxy Note 7: Launch details, rumours and more



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 420 words





NEW DELHI: Samsung is all set to showcase its flagship phablet Galaxy Note 7 to

the world today. The South Korean tech giant will be live streaming the Galaxy

Note Unpacked 2016 launch event from New York. The company will also be holding

parallel events at London and Rio de Janeiro.



Users also have the option to view the launch event with Gear VR. The launch is

scheduled to start at 11am EDT (8.30PM IST). The South Korean tech giant has

confirmed that it will be launching the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phablet, successor

to Galaxy Note 5. However, there are also speculations that the tech giant might

also launch the next-gen Gear VR and the Gear S3 smartwatch . It is worth

pointing out that the Gear S2 smartwatch was launched at IFA last year.In the

invite posted by Samsung on its blog, the firm says that its upcoming Galaxy

Note 7 "will help people do more in work, at home and everywhere in between."

The company also talks about the device's stylus S Pen. "With added

functionality of the S Pen and large screen, the Galaxy Note 7 is a powerful

instrument for achievement and self-expression, and is made for those who want

to get the most from their phones - and their lives."As for the 'jump' in the

naming of the Note series, Samsung earlier said that it has ditched the Galaxy

Note 6 moniker and directly jumped to Note 7 from Note 5 because of couple of

reasons. "First, the Galaxy Note 7 will complement our Galaxy S7 and S7 edge,

and unify our product portfolio. Second, the Galaxy Note 7 will minimize

confusion about the latest mobile technology from Samsung, and provide full

alignment with Galaxy S smartphone," says the company.As per leaks circulating

around, the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 is expected to run Android 7.0 Nougat

out-of-the-box along with a new Grace UX interface on top. It is likely to sport

a 5.7-inch QHD display of 1440x2560 pixel resolution. The device is also

supposed to feature an iris scanner. There are varying reports about the Galaxy

Note 7's RAM, while some reports claim that the phablet will house 6GB RAM,

others hint at 4GB RAM.Other reports suggest that the smartphone to be powered

by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor and have 32GB in-built storage with

microSD card support. Other rumoured specifications include a 12MP rear camera

with a dual-pixel setup. The phone will most likely be water resistant as

well.The Samsung Galaxy Note 7 will reportedly start at a price of 849 in

Europe, roughly translating to around Rs 63,000.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





