

WHILE the Apple iPad currently dominates the tablet market, here are some
potential iPad `killers'.

1. SAMSUNG GALAXY TAB

Samsung is the first company to rise to the iPad challenge. At just seven
inches, its Galaxy Tab is slightly smaller than the iPad. This Android-based
device has features like rear-facing 3.2-megapixel camera and a front-facing
1.3-megapixel camera, external memory and applications from the Android
marketplace. It also supports phone functionality, as speaker phone, via wired
earpieces or Bluetooth earpieces.

2. Motorola Xoom

Xoom is the first tablet in the market to be powered by Honeycomb software that
is crafted specifically for such devices by Google. It has been heralded as a
viable challenger for the iPad. With a 10.1-inch screen, the Xoom is about the
size of an iPad. It also features a front-facing 2-megapixel camera for video
chats and a rear-facing 5-megapixel camera that also captures video. The device
is expected to be available sometime this year.

3. Blackberry PlayBook

The BlackBerry PlayBook, by Research In Motion (Rim), is only 9.7mm thick and is
the first tablet with a width below 10mm. The device is expected to run on QNX
Neutrino. It has received positive reviews from technology critics including at
the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Wait for its public appearance this
year.

4. Toshiba tablet

Toshiba will be introducing its version of tablet computer some time this year.
The 10.1-inch Android Honeycomb tablet uses a Nvidia Tegra 2 dual-core
processor, capable of doing 1,080p video. It features LED-backlit screen and
supports multi-touch and accelerometer screen reorientation. There are also dual
cameras fitted on this device - a 5-megapixel main camera and a 2-megapixel
secondary camera.

5. Lenovo IdeaPad Slate

The IdeaPad Slate features a 10.1-inch, high-resolution screen with 1,080p video
capability. Running on full Windows 7 operating system, it uses the Intel Oak
Trail 1.6GHz processor chip, has a 32GB SSD drive and a microSD slot. It will be
available in the US in May.

6. The HTC Flyer

Scheduled to be released in the second quarter of 2011, the Flyer will have a
single-core 1.5 GHz and will run Android 2.4 (Gingerbread) instead of 3.0
(Honeycomb). The device will have a seven-inch TFT display and special features
such as pen input as well as touch input. A Wi-Fi variant is expected to be
launched at a lower price soon after the 3G variant is released.

7. LG Optimus pad

LG's tablet version was showcased at the recent Mobile World Congress in
Barcelona. The device features a 8.9-inch display and is powered by Google's
Android 3.0 Honeycomb operating system and the NVIDIA Tegra 2 processor. It has
two 5-megapixel cameras on the back and is capable of taking 3D video clips.
However it only has the standard 2-D display.

8. Huawei Ideos S7

Not wanting to be left behind, China phone maker Huawei has come up with Ideos
S7 Slim. The device features a seven-inch, 800 x 480 pixel touchscreen display,
similar to Samsung Galaxy Tab and the HTC Flyer. But while Tab and Flyer use the
newer Android OS, Ideos S7 Slim uses the previous version of Android 2.2 Froyo.
Ideos S7 can be connected to 3G or Wi-Fi. It also has Bluetooth and GPS
functions.

9. CSL Spice Mi700 DroidPad

Local phonemaker CSL's Spice Mi700 DroidPad has been available since October.
Running on Android 2.2 Froyo with a Qualcomm 600MHz processor, it incorporates
applications such as Azan, Qiblat and MapKing GPS navigator. Also doubles as a
phone with 3G quadband connectivity.

10. Dell Streak 7

Dell's second tablet features a WVGA touchscreen with a 1.3-megapixel camera for
video chat. Running on Android 2.2 Froyo with a dual-core NVIDIA Tegra 2
processor, the tablet is also said to support 4G network. There is also an
external SD card slot for up to 32GB extra space.

( END )

