                             929 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                           September 20, 2016 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Forget the lapses, iPhone 7 puts Apple in the picture



SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 22



LENGTH: 816 words





How do I put this?



If you're a loser who listens to music or watches YouTube all day, think twice

before buying an iPhone 7.



No, that didn't come out right.



If you're a stellar individual who enjoys listening to music or watching videos

on your phone, and you just happen to have a bad habit of forgetting where you

have left things, then you might need to adopt a strategic approach to owning

the latest phone from Apple. That's better.



I can misplace things in the blink of an eye. Standing at my front door, I once

lost my keys somewhere between the act of getting them out of my pocket and the

act of unlocking the door.



So when I say that I've been using the new iPhone 7 for only three days now, and

I've already misplaced its little headphone dongle two or three times, you have

to keep in mind my absent-mindedness, and you have to ask yourself, am I a loser

like this guy?



Because if you are, you just know the iPhone 7 is going to be a pain in the ass.



You've probably read about Apple's controversial decision to remove the

headphone jack from the iPhone and the iPhone 7 Plus. I actually don't think

it's a terrible idea.



In the box you get a new pair of headphones, that plug into the iPhone's

Lightning port, and you get a little dongle that converts conventional

headphones into Lightning port headphones.



That's as much as anyone ever does to ease the transition between one technology

and the next.



Samsung, in moving its Note7 to the new USB-C connector, supplied customers with

a USB-C cable, and with a little dongle for converting old USB cables to USB-C.

I have also lost that dongle, and the Note7 is now a pain in my ass, too.



If only Apple had shipped the iPhone 7 with, say, five dongles, or even 10 of

the little suckers, none of this would matter, and we could focus our attention

on the fact that, with its latest phone, Apple has finally closed the gap on its

main rivals. Mostly.



The camera on the iPhone 7 is much improved, to the point where it's so close to

the camera on the Samsung Galaxy S7 as to make almost no difference. (More on

that presently.)



The addition of water resistance, which in our tests has worked as advertised,

adds a welcome peace of mind to owning such an expensive phone, not so much

because it means you can now take the iPhone swimming or sailing (anyone doing

that with previous iPhones would have just got a waterproof case anyway), but

more because it means you can now keep using it when you visit the bathroom and

not have to worry about dropping it into the toilet.



And for those of you who don't use headphones or who have lost the headphone

dongle, the addition of stereo sound to the iPhone 7 is a decent improvement,

too.



When you have the new model in landscape mode to watch videos or play games, it

now uses the earpiece for the left audio channel and the phone's main speaker

for the right audio channel, eliminating the sense that you get with older

iPhones that the sound is coming out of the wrong spot.



The sound is still not as big as you can get, say, from an HTC phone - but it's

noticeable. Or, at the very least, it does away with a noticeable flaw.



The home button on the iPhone 7 is no longer a mechanical button that you

actually depress, but it's now a fixed, electronic button that simulates being

pressed by vibrating in a special way that fools your brain into thinking the

button has moved down and up.



Or, at least, that's the way the technology works on other devices Apple has

used it on, such as the 12-inch MacBook.



On the iPhone, the technique is far less convincing. You don't feel that the

home button is depressing so much as the whole screen is depressing.



It feels a lot like BlackBerry's attempt to simulate button presses in its

ill-conceived Storm phone from 2008.



Maybe some compelling app will emerge that will make us all want vibrating home

buttons, but for now it seems like something you can only hope to get used to,

for no tangible benefit.



What is worth upgrading for, though, is the camera.



It's chalk-and-cheese better than the camera on the iPhone 6s, particularly in

low light, to the point where the difference between it and the best camera on

the market, the one Samsung uses in the Note7 and the Galaxy S7, now comes down

to a question of taste.



The Samsung camera is still a touch brighter and sharper in low light, and in

normal light it's still a good deal sharper than the new camera on the iPhone 7,

but that extra brightness and sharpness come at a slight loss of naturalism.

Images from the Galaxy look a touch more processed than images from the iPhone.



When it was briefing me on the iPhone 7, Apple asked me which phone I would

carry with me on a holiday. I said the Galaxy S7, only because its camera was so

much better than anything else on the market.



Now it's hard to say which one I would grab. It could be the Galaxy S7. It could

be the iPhone 7.



Or it could be none. I'm that forgetful.



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: The iPhone7 has a hugely improved camera.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





