                             949 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday



iPhone 7 will be waterproof but does not feature IP68 certification



LENGTH: 313  words





Apple's upcoming iPhone 7 will be far more waterproof than an iPhone 6s, but it

will not feature the IP68 certification



Previous tests conducted for the iPhone 6s showed that the smartphone featured a

rubber padding around the side of its metal body, thus making it waterproof for

a significantly long period. This feature was not pointed out for a very long

period, and we believe that it is what is also going to be present inside iPhone

7. However, according to the latest information, while iPhone 7 will be

reinforced with a better waterproofing system, it is not going to receive the

IP68 certification, which means that you cannot dive in with your future iPhone

and expect it to thrive underwater.



An example of IP68 certification is the one present on Samsung's Galaxy S7 and

Galaxy S7 edge. This certification allows both smartphones to stay underwater

for a total period of 30 minutes while being submerged at 5 feet. Unfortunately,

the iPhone 7 might not be protected against a large amount of water, but it will

still provide you with the necessary protection that you need to safely remove

it from a waterbody if the smartphone has accidentally been submerged.



There are several features that we expect to be present inside iPhone 7,

including the powerful A10 chipset. The iPhone 7 is also expected to feature a

larger battery capacity than its predecessor by 14 percent, making the total

come to a 1,960mAh cell. While the overall capacity is still less than the

2,000mAh mark, the improved chipset's processor design coupled with an improved

operating system should allow the user to get more battery life out of the

handset. It has been rumored that the iPhone 7 Pro variant is the only one out

of the three models to receive a dual-camera setup, but that information will

only be revealed once Apple announces its latest family during the month of

September.



Source



LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





