                             953 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily The Pak Banker



                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday



Fitch: Recovery in Samsung's Handset Business Likely to be Short Lived



LENGTH: 458 words



DATELINE: New York







 Seoul/Sydney: Recovery in the smartphone business is likely to be short-lived

despite Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.'s (SEC, A+/Stable) stronger-than-expected

1Q16 results, and its semiconductor business will face challenges which may

pressure profitability over the long term, says Fitch Ratings.











 Strong sales of SEC's new flagship model - Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge -

boosted operating performance in 1Q16. The handset margin improved to 14%, the

widest since 2Q14. However, we think that a meaningful improvement in the

smartphone business over the long term is unlikely due to ever-increasing

competition and narrowing product differentiation as lower-cost competitors'

handsets improve. We expect handset margins to decline, reflecting greater

competition and weaker demand growth.







 The slowing market growth for both DRAM and NAND will gradually affect SEC's

semiconductor business over the long term, although we expect the company will

continue to maintain a leading position in the memory sector with its advanced

technology. SEC, the second-largest player in the global semiconductor industry,

is the only company which improved operating profit among the top manufacturers

in 1Q16, despite the seasonal weakness in demand and a decline in the price of

PC DRAM. Enhanced product mix, yield improvement in V-NAND and favourable

foreign-exchange impact helped SEC secure a solid EBIT margin of 23.6%

(1Q15:28.4%).







 Overall, SEC's 1Q16 revenue and operating profit increased to KRW49.8trn and

KRW6.7trn, respectively, from KRW47.1trn and KRW6trn in 1Q15. The EBIT margin

also improved to 13.4% compared with 12.7% in the previous quarter.







 We continue to believe that SEC will be the major beneficiary of the increasing

adoption of organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays in smartphones, as the

company is a pioneer in this segment with technology leadership. The

first-quarter results revealed that its OLED business remained resilient amid a

structural decline in the liquid crystal display (LCD) industry, compensating

for operating losses in large-size LCD business. Possible use of OLED displays

by Apple Inc. could further boost demand for OLED panels. However, SEC's display

division turned in an operating loss in 1Q16, and revenue fell by 12% yoy.







 Samsung's 'A' category credit profile is clearly supported by its technology

leadership, respective dominant market positions, and a well-diversified

business portfolio, which help to mitigate earnings fluctuations to a certain

extent. However, risks to its ratings remain from the volatility inherent in its

core operations, particularly the cyclicality of its semiconductor and display

panel businesses - as well as the rapidly changing fortunes of global handset

manufacturers.



LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





