


HIGHLIGHT: List: Will the Galaxy S7 be the standout phone from the show?


The late winter/early spring Mobile World Congress in Barcelona is a showcase
for all aspects of the mobile landscape. This includes new networking
technologies, telco partnerships and of course, the announcement of mobile
devices themselves.

Apple is of course absent from the list, preferring to do things their own way
and at times of their own choosing. However, this Android-laden list will have
something to offer to most smartphone enthusiast.



Leaks and rumours have been surfacing for some time about the big Android launch
of this year, the Samsung Galaxy S7.

It is set to be officially announced on 21 February at a special Samsung-hosted
event.

A new video uploaded to the Samsung Indonesia channel, titled 'Get Ready for
#TheNextGalaxy' has revealed the focus of the new device on durability,
including its water-proofing.

It also opens with a shot of the phone being left briefly on a wireless charging
pad and quickly reaching 100 percent battery, suggesting that this will be one
of the key features of the new device.

The S7 is expected to come in different models like its predecessor the S6,
launched in April 2015. This could include a larger 'phablet'-sized version.

Some counterpart to Apple's 3D Touch tech is expected to be included in the
device. According to leaked blueprints, the device will have a similar design to
its predecessor.

LAUNCH: 21 February



Rumoured to be slated for a May release, sources have suggested that the HTC One
M10 device from the Taiwanese manufacturer will run with Google's new update to
the Android operating system, which has yet to be launched.

Rumours suggest that the device will have a camera capable of taking 4K video
and fingerprint recognition capabilities.

The Snapdragon 820 processor may be used in the device. It may include an
upgrade to the 4MP camera featured on the HTC M8.

LAUNCH: It is unclear when HTC will launch the device if it takes place at MWC.
It is believed that the device may be launched after the conference, on 11
April.



LG announced in the week preceding MWC a new series of smartphones called the X
series. The X cam and X screen are supposed to be cheaper alternatives to
premium phones.

The cam features dual cameras on the rear, carrying what LG calls "one of the
most advanced camera experience in a mass-tier smartphone". The 3D Bending Glass
means that the device is only 5.2 mm and weighs in at 118g.

The X screen features a second screen above the primary display. This dimly lit
screen will sport key information such as the time and date, as well as certain
notifications - presumably as chosen by the user. Users are able to access
frequently used apps, answer calls or control the msuci player.

LAUNCH: 22 February



Lenovo teased its new device on Twitter, saying "A gorgeous new device has been
engineered from scratch to deliver the #Knockout punch. Brace yourselves" with
an image featuring a metallic device captioned 'Coming Soon. MWC 2016'.

This bore a significant resemblance to the Lemon 3 device, recently launched in
China. This has been interpreted as meaning that a global launch of this device
is planned for the event.

Assuming the specifications are the same, the Lemon 3 runs on Android 5.1
Lollipop, with a 5-inch full-HD screen and carrying a octa-core Qualcomm
Snapdragon 616

LAUNCH: Unknown



Often referred to as the Chinese Apple, Xiaomi has already announced that the Mi
5 will appear for the first time at this year's MWC.
It will be launched simultaneously at an event taking place in Beijing.

Global VP Hugo Barra has confirmed in a tweet that the device will feature NFC
support. His tweet of the home screen had two signal bars, suggesting that the
device may have dual-SIM support.

Other tweets from the official Xiaomi account have suggested that the device
boasts an especially high-powered camera and that it will be particularly thin.

LAUNCH: 24 February



It is believed that Microsoft will launch one or possibly two new Lumia phones
in Barcelona. A recent leak has suggested that not only the Lumia 750 but also
the 850 might appear during the conference, with an overall release scheduled
for the first quarter of this year.

Rumours have suggested that the Lumia 750 will feature a Snapdragon 617
processor, 2GB of RAM, 16GB of storage and a screen sized between 5.4 and 5.7
inches with Full HD capabilities.

The IT giant is keen to flesh out the Windows 10 ecosystem as much as possible,
as its recent Convergence film demonstrated, so it is likely that these
smartphones will be launched alongside a range of tools for the enterprise.

LAUNCH: Unknown

