                             959 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                              chroniclelive.co.uk



                     October 11, 2016 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT



Galaxy Note 7 production: what should owners do now after reports of phones

catching fire;

After offering to replace faulty phones, it now appears that the replacements

are also prone to exploding



BYLINE: By Charles White



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 337 words





Samsung users were told today to switch off all their Galaxy Note7 because some

of them have set on fire.



The so-called 'safe' fancy smartphones replacements have been reported to set

alight.



All sales of the phone have now been stopped across the world.



Samsung was in hot water last month when 2.5 million phones were recalled.



The Android phone was eagerly anticipated by tech-savvy fans but problems soon

emerged.



The lithium batteries that the phone relies on was said to set alight.



Now the South Korean company uses Chinese batteries who also make iPhone

batteries.



However on October 6 a replacement phone caught fire on a Southwest Airlines

plane.



The "thick grey-green angry smoke" caused panic days before a man in Kentucky's

phone set alight as he slept.



A 13-year-old Minnesota girl also had her Note7 begin to melt in her hands.



Power down and exchange your phone.



Last month just 50% of European smartphones were returned. This time Samsung is

calling for all phones to be swapped.



If you're one of the 2.5 million people who got replacement devices or hold an

original Galaxy Note 7 you should follow the company's advice closely.



Samsung said: "Consumers with either an original Galaxy Note7 or replacement

Galaxy Note7 device should power down and stop using the device and take

advantage of the remedies available."



Samsung halts Galaxy Note 7 sales after batteries explode



These "remedies" do not include an opportunity to swap your Note7 for a

replacement model.



You can get a full refund if you return the smartphones to where you bought

them.



Last month you were able to swap your Note7 for a S7 or S7 Edge.



If you're not keen on your £600 phone melting in your hands there are

alternatives.



The market leader, Apple , recently released the Apple iPhone 7 which is priced

from £599.



iPhone 7 Plus is a cool £719.



But it's not just the two tech giants who have new phones.



Google Pixel advertises itself as the height of modern tech sophistication.



Priced at £599 it is available to pre-order on Google Store from October 4.



LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC





                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





