                             962 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            Belfast Telegraph Online



                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 5:21 PM GMT



Samsung's latest Galaxy phablet offers iris scanner technology



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 282 words





Samsung has revealed that its latest smartphone will come with an iris scanner,

for improved security, for the first time.



The Galaxy Note 7 is Samsung's so-called "phablet" smartphone and comes with a

stylus - called the S Pen - to use on the phone's 5.7-inch screen.



The S Pen has also been given a range of new features compared to previous

generations of the Note, including the ability to translate words on-screen from

and into a series of languages when hovered over text. It has also been made

fully waterproof for the first time, as is the Note 7 itself.



The iris scanner can be programmed to unlock the device using just your eyes

thanks to a small infra-red sensor built into the front of the phone.



Samsung's previous generation Note 5 was not released in the UK, however the

Korean technology giant will bring its newest phablet to Britain due to customer

demand - naming it the 7 to bring it in line with their flagship smartphones,

the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge that were released earlier this year.



The new device is also set to be the first major smartphone to support High

Dynamic Range (HDR) video streaming - a higher quality image that increases the

contrast between light and dark to offer more detailed images on-screen.



The device will also come with a dual edge display and be available in three

colours - black, silver and blue - when it goes on-sale in the coming weeks.



Samsung also revealed a new version of its Gear VR virtual reality headset to go

with the Note 7, which has been given a streamlined design as well as an

increased viewing range.



The technology giant said there were now one million virtual reality users

globally, with 500,000 using its Gear VR headset.



LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT





           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)

                              All Rights Reserved





