                             964 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            i-Independent Print Ltd



                               February 22, 2016

                                 First Edition



First Look Smartphone enters a new dimension with virtual-reality video camera



BYLINE: Samsung Galaxy S7 SMARTPHONE REVIEW



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21



LENGTH: 294 words





Samsung's new Galaxy S7 smartphone models had the show stolen from them at their

launch last night at the opening of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, when

the company revealed a golf-ball-like camera that could change how we make and

view home videos, bringing Virtual Reality (VR) to the masses.



The modest-looking Gear 360 is a small, spherical video camera with two fisheye

lenses facing in opposite directions.



The two lenses capture video simultaneously, which is transmitted wirelessly to

a phone, where software knits the two feeds together into one wraparound movie.



The Gear 360, Samsung hopes, will revolutionise the burgeoning VR industry. It

is banking on holiday videos becoming more appealing if you can see the sea

behind you and the beach in front, just by turning your face while looking at

the footage using another clever accessory. Some VR systems, like the

soon-to-bereleased Oculus Rift, require a high-end computer attached, but the

Samsung Gear VR headset eradicates this by relying on the Galaxy phone and

high-resolution screen quality to make it work. The phone simply slots into the

contraption to become the screen.



The company showed off the technology with footage of skiing - offering the

choice of scanning the terrain ahead or the sportsperson preparing to set off.



Closer to home, it will be straightforward to shoot a cycle ride with more

coverage than a GoPro camera can currently offer, or film a gig and really feel

like you're in the audience.



This year is being hailed as the moment VR will take off, and Samsung's camera

can only help with that, though it will need to be priced affordably to succeed.

At its best, VR is completely immersive, so the prospect of more personalised

content is appealing.



David Phelan in Barcelona



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: III





                    Copyright 2016 Independent Print Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





