                             966 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                            September 2, 2016 Friday



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 smartphone shipment to be further delayed



LENGTH: 386  words



DATELINE: Seoul





Seoul, Sept. 2 -- Tech giant Samsung Electronics Co Ltd said on Wednesday

shipments of the Galaxy Note 7 smartphone are being delayed as the firm conducts

additional quality control testing for the premium device.





 The firm also said Galaxy Note 7 shipments to South Korea's top three carriers

- SK Telecom Co Ltd, KT Corp and LG Uplus Corp - had been halted.

 "Shipments of the Galaxy Note 7 are being delayed due to additional tests being

conducted for product quality," Samsung said in a statement to Reuters.

 The firm did not elaborate on what potential problems it was testing for or

whether shipments to other countries were being affected. South Korean media

reports have said some users have claimed that the battery exploded.

 Quality control problems, if confirmed, could deal a major blow to the world's

top smartphone maker, which was counting on the Galaxy Note 7 to help maintain

sales momentum in the second half when competition is expected to intensify.

 The phone, which launched in South Korea and other markets on Aug. 19, retails

at 988,900 won ($887.23) in South Korea.

 Production problems for the curved displays for the Galaxy S6 edge phone

resulted in disappointing sales last year, and Samsung risks a repeat this year

if it cannot address the Galaxy Note 7 supply problems quickly. Rival Apple Inc

is expected to unveil its new phones next week.

 Hyundai Securities said in a report released on Thursday that the Galaxy Note

7's problems appeared to be related to modules or parts, and that such

"malfunctions" should be resolved quickly.

 "Such problems can be addressed by replacing parts and modules and changing the

design of circuits, so supply problems for the Galaxy Note 7 should ease within

a matter of few weeks," the brokerage said, retaining its third-quarter

operating profit forecast of 8.5 trillion won.

 It was not immediately clear when Galaxy Note 7 shipments to South Korean

carriers would resume.

 Samsung has said demand for the new phone is far exceeding demand, creating a

shortage and forcing it to push back the launch in some markets. The firm has

said it is utilising all possible means to boost production.

 Samsung's other premium smartphone models that launched in March, the Galaxy S7

and S7 edge, have been huge hits with customers and lifted earnings in the first

half.



LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





