                             967 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                             July 7, 2016 Thursday



Huawei widens patent fight with new Samsung suit;

Firm also sues T-Mobile, a move that is likely to be aimed at boosting its

market influence



BYLINE: He Huifeng



SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/BUSINESS/GENERAL; biz news 01.pgl; Telecoms;

Pg.3



LENGTH: 503 words





Huawei Technologies, the mainland's largest telecommunications equipment

manufacturer, has widened the scope of its litigation over patents, targeting a

unit of Samsung Electronics on the mainland as well as mobile network operator

T-Mobile in the United States.





The two new lawsuits followed Huawei's decision in May to sue Samsung, the

world's biggest smartphone supplier, for alleged patent violations at the

District Court for the Northern District of California in San Francisco and at

the Intermediate People's Court in Shenzhen, where the privately held Chinese

company is based.





Mainland media reported on Wednesday that Huawei has filed a case against the

South Korean firm's domestic operation, Samsung (China) Investment, at the

Intermediate People's Court of Quanzhou in Fujian province.





Huawei has claimed 80 million yuan (HK$93 million) in compensation for violation

of its patents on mobile terminals and display-related processing methods used

on a range of Samsung smartphone models, including the Galaxy S7, the Galaxy S7

edge and the Galaxy J5, according to online news site qzwb.com



Huawei is prepared to grant licenses to its essential patents on fair,

reasonable, and non-discriminatory termsHuawei statement



Those smartphones were reportedly assembled at Samsung's factories in Huizhou

and Tianjin.





The two previous lawsuits filed by Huawei against Samsung covered the violation

of 11 patents on 4G mobile-related technology and certain software used on

Samsung's smartphones.





Roland Sladek, a spokesman for Huawei, previously said the company remained open

to resolving its patent disputes with Samsung through negotiations.





"We may counter-sue," Ahn Seong-ho, Samsung's intellectual property chief, told

the Korea ­Herald in May.





The patent dispute against Nasdaq-traded T-Mobile was filed by Huawei at the US

District Court for the Eastern District of Texas in the city of Tyler.





Huawei said it started licensing discussions in 2014 with T-Mobile, covering

about 14 of its 4G patents.





"Huawei is prepared to grant licences to its essential patents on fair,

reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms," the company said in a statement.





"Huawei believes it has already offered exactly such terms to T-Mobile, but

T-Mobile has stated that it does not believe that Huawei's offer meets the

requirements of a FRAND offer."





Yan Zhanmeng, a senior analyst at research firm Counterpoint Research, said it

was too early to determine if Huawei could win all the cases it has filed.





"But the lawsuits would definitely help build up Huawei's influence in the

high-end smartphone market," Yan said.





"It does not matter if Huawei wins or not, the strategy is to get the market to

directly compare its products with Samsung's high-end devices."





Apple has started paying patent fees to Huawei worth hundreds of millions of

dollars annually, according to media reports citing the Guangdong Intellectual

Property Office.





Huawei licensed 769 patents to Apple last year and as part of their deal, Apple

licensed 98 patents to Huawei.



LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





