                             969 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               The Times (London)



                           September 3, 2016 Saturday

                                   Edition 2;

                                National Edition



Millions of Samsung phones recalled over exploding batteries



BYLINE: James Dean



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12



LENGTH: 390 words





Millions of Galaxy Note 7 smartphones have been recalled by Samsung after dozens

were reported to have exploded.



Samsung blamed an issue with the phone's battery for causing at least 35 of its

newest handsets to catch fire and melt while they were being recharged.



Photographs of warped and blackened Galaxy Note 7s began to be posted on social

media after the device was introduced last month. It was due to be launched in

Britain yesterday but Samsung has suspended sales across the world.



The recall comes at an unfortunate time for Samsung with Apple, its closest

rival, due to unveil its new iPhone on Wednesday evening next week.



Koh Dong-Jin, head of Samsung's mobile business, said: "We are deeply sorry for

causing concern ... and causing inconvenience among our users." At a press

conference in South Korea yesterday Mr Koh declined to say how much the recall

would cost but said that it would be "a big amount that is heartbreaking". He

said that the issue affected about 24 devices in a million.



The Note 7 is larger than a typical smartphone but smaller than a tablet and has

received positive reviews. Samsung has shipped more than 2.5 million of them

across the world. Samsung's Galaxy S7 smartphone is the most popular in the

world, ahead of the iPhone 6. The Galaxy S7 is not involved in the recall.



Like most smartphones, the Note 7 is powered by a lithium ion battery, which can

catch fire if it is damaged or has a manufacturing defect. Samsung did not

elaborate on the battery issue but said that Galaxy Note 7s sold in China were

not affected.



The company said: "In response to recently reported cases of the new Galaxy Note

7, we conducted a thorough investigation and found a battery cell issue. As of

September 1 there have been 35 cases that have been reported globally and we are

currently conducting a thorough inspection with our suppliers to identify

possible affected batteries in the market. However, because our customers'

safety is an absolute priority at Samsung, we have stopped sales of the Galaxy

Note 7."



Samsung said that customers who owned a Note 7 would be given a free replacement

in the coming weeks.



Lee Jang-Gyoon, an analyst at the Hyundai Research Institute, said: "Samsung

released the Note 7 early to secure a leading position in the market in advance

but now the impact of the move will be blunted."



LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: TIM





                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





