                             973 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

                                Kolkata Edition



Has Samsung Blown It ?



BYLINE: delshad irani



SECTION: BRAND EQUITY



LENGTH: 1179 words





Following weeks of reports of exploding S a m su n g Ga l a x y Note 7 phablets,

con cerned parents are asking their kids, \x93You have a Samsung phone na?

Please be careful, beta.They're exploding!\x93 As if every Samsung mobile device

has turned into a highly unstable nuclear warhead with a fast degenerating

plutonium core. Some people are seeing phantom smoke come out of Samsung washing

machines even.Airlines and pilots are asking passengers to turn off Note 7

devices, calling out the brand by name in a never-seen-before move.



Last week, TechCrunch's John Biggs wondered, \x93Could this be the end of

Samsung's smartphone reign?\x93 It can't get worse, right? And yet, over at

Cnet, Chris Matyszczyk made the unkindest comparison of



all: \x93Samsung or Trump: Which brand is in bigger trouble?\x93 He wrote,

\x93When the mighty fall, they don't always know how to react. After all,

they're mighty. Falling is for lesser sorts. Yet the last couple of weeks have

seen two famous brands fall into disrepute by their own hands. Careless hands,

small hands.\x93



Samsung's Note 7 debacle is being billed as one of the worst disasters in tech

history.Analysts have calculated the total cost of a permanent



end to its \x93combustible\x93 flagship product's sales and it doesn't look

pretty. A cost of $17 bil



lion never does.



An unintentional roast Before the first Note 7 turned into an explosive device,

though, it was hailed as the ultimate victory for the South Korean electronics

giant. At launch, in Samsung's home market,



over 200,000 units were pre-ordered in 2 days. Every Note 7 review was a slap in

the face of Apple fanboys



and gals everywhere. Even now, despite a steady stream of reports and pictures

of cooked phablets, and Samsung officially killing



the Note category, some users and loyalists refuse to give up their devices.



Reasons vary from its supe rior capabili ties to replace



ment hassles. Sample this from Josh Dickey, entertainment editor at Mashable

(@JLDlite): \x93I am keeping my Samsung Galazy (sic) Note 7.



The ORIGINAL one.\x93



Dickey's piece on why he won't abandon the \x93ticking time-bomb\x93 'My Ga la

xy Note7 i s s t i l l s a fer t h a n my c a r. I ' m ke e p ing it' comes with

this disclaimer though; \x93 M a s h a bl e d o e s n o t



condone keeping your Galaxy Note7, a n d



in fact has recommended strongly against it. This viewpoint is the author's

alone, and his judgment is obviously questionable.\x93



There's certainly no dearth of \x93shame on you for still using Note 7\x93

messages. Samsung's shame, now, users' must bear too. Power down or bugger off,

dear irresponsible user.



'Next is what'?



\x93Clearly this is an unprecedented (and unanticipated) incident,\x93 says Manu

Sharma, vice president, mobile business, Samsung India.\x93Despite that across

the world teams have worked together fast and efficiently to announce to the

world and take the bold decision to have this kind of recall worldwide and not

launch product in India.



The main thing that we did was tell consumers that we care about them and we

don't want



them to have a device that undermines their safety.



That's the first message we passed on to consum ers. The second thing we did was

apprise them of the situation and how Samsung was trying to find the root cause

of the problem. And then we announced that in the interest



of consumer safety the prod uct and sale of Note 7 would be stopped globally.

While in India we decided to not sell it anyway until we were absolutely sure we

were giving a safe product to consumers.\x93



Samsung's Sharma admits that lasting damage to the brand is a concern, and

gaining back consumer trust is top priority. \x93While Note category in India is

not that large. But for us it's very important that each and ev



ery consumer, even people who don't own Note devices but some other Samsung

device is absolutely sure that Samsung would work in their best



interest and build the best products for them. We'll do everything possible to

gain their trust, and we'll come back with a very solid plan for them on the S7

and S7 Edge product.\x93



Finding its edge



The one thing that could prove to be Samsung's saving grace M at yszcz yk poi nt

s to i n hi s piece on Samsung and Trump: \x93Samsung's debacle is out of

character. Trump's is totally Trump.\x93



A fact competition is quick to acknowledge. Shubhodip Pal, COO, Yu Mobile (a

subsidiary of Micromax), believes Samsung will do just fine. He says the company

acted as a brave and responsible multinational. Besides, he suspects, most of

the negative sentiment surrounding the brand at the moment is perhaps led and

aggravated by users who aren't Samsung fans to begin with.



Karthik Srinivasan, national lead, Socia l@Og i lv y, however, is less



hopeful about Samsung's prospects. He believes, Samsung, ideally, ought to

abandon its old brands like Galaxy and Note. Because in



the minds of users the association with Galaxy Note 7's spectacular fall from

'the greatest phone on the



planet' to badly burnt toast might be a lasting one. A memory that will make

consumers of premium devices think twice before splurging '50,000 '60,000 on a

Samsung phone.



But that looks unlikely since in a global company statement last week



Samsung said, \x93Moving forward, Samsung Electronics plans to normalize its

mobile business by expanding sales of f lagship models such as the Galaxy S7 and

Galaxy S7 edge.\x93



Srinivasan looks back at another large-scale recall from early 2007.Nokia, in a

fast-footed move, offered to replace 46 million faulty batteries. Though it did

nothing to change the brand's plummeting fortunes and eventual demise. (Nokia's

is not the most reassuring of tales, clearly.) Furthermore, we mustn't dismiss



social media's role in amplifying consumer sentiment and, in this case, fear,

within a short-span of time. 2007 was a simpler time. Samsung, says Srinivasan,

was too slow to act and gave users ample fodder to exercise their comedic chops

for weeks. Even the fireproof boxes Samsung sent to Note 7 owners to safely pack

the device have become the subject of ridicule and satirical unboxing videos,

usually reserved for unpacking new purchases by proud owners. Despite Samsung's

task forces' best efforts to address every concern on social media and keep

customers apprised of the situation, the meme machine was relentless.



Adding insult to injury is Google and its current ad blitz for Pixel, a phone

competing directly with Samsung's S7 range and Note, and iPhone 7. Next to Pixel

advertisements in major Indian dailies are ads for its cheaper Chinese brethren,

Huawei's Honor.



G oogle Pi xel, i Phone, OnePlus, Xiaomi, Huawei, and others, are well placed to

offer hesitant Samsung users suitable alternatives. While Samsung's marketing

machine will have to work doubly hard over the next few years to reassure old

and new customers of its top-end hardware that its phones won't explode in their

pockets or while watching Daenerys Targaryen's fire-breathing dragons roast

human beings, mid-flight.



The bottom line is, in a post \x93Explodegate\x93 world, Samsung's future looks

pixelated.



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





