                             979 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                   Daily Examiner (Grafton, New South Wales)



                              July 29, 2016 Friday



Perfect companion



SECTION: Pg. 7



LENGTH: 430  words







HIGHLIGHT: Samsung's Galaxy TabPro S is quite the game-changer





SAMSUNG is making some waves in the highly competitive tablet field.



Until recently Apple's iPad and iPad Pro have been seen as being easiest to use

with better apps and integration with other Apple devices.



But Samsung's Galaxy TabPro S is something of a game-changer.



This new device has arguably one of the best screens on the market and its

Microsoft Windows 10 operating system particularly appeals to business users.



Like Microsoft's own Surface Pro, the TabPro S is a well-designed, two-in-one

tablet format - a super portable laptop if you like.



Unlike the Surface though, the keyboard cover is included in the package,

offering more bang for your buck.



The 30cm amoled display delivers on its promise of richer, higher definition

viewing.



This is a tablet you could easily watch a movie on while lying in bed.



Samsung bills it as the ultimate mobile work and entertainment experience.



And it's not short of that mark.



It's only 6.3mm thick and weighs less than 700g, so it is a very easy travelling

companion.



The keyboard is not the best on the market - but it is certainly not the worst.



The keys are large, probably a little tightly spaced but more than functional

for bashing out reports, emails or even longer-form writing.



The keyboard cover has a Pogo pin that eliminates the need for pairing or

charging separately - something that is becoming pretty standard in your better

tablets these days.



One of the biggest selling points of the tablet is the quick battery charge

time.



It can be fully charged in as little as 2.5 hours and Samsung says it will

deliver up to 10.5 hours of battery life.



The Galaxy TabPro S uses an Intel Core M processor which has only 4.5W of power

consumption.



Samsung Flow lets your Galaxy S7 and Galaxy TabPro S work better together,

making it easier to switch between devices seamlessly. You log in using the

Galaxy S7 fingerprint reader and Near Field Connectivity and choose to receive

and reply directly to notifications from compatible applications through the

Galaxy TabPro S.



Pricing and availability



 Samsung Galaxy TabPro S Wi-Fi Windows 10 Home - RRP $14.99



Samsung Galaxy TabPro S Wi-Fi Windows 10 Pro - RRP $16.49



WANT A FREE SAMSUNG TABLET?



WE'RE offering a free Samsung Tab 3 Lite tablet when you sign up to a year's

subscription to unlimited access to our news site and e-newspaper, plus

unlimited access to The Daily Telegraph+, The Washington Post and TV streaming

service Presto. That's $450 of value for only $249. Head here:

www.dailyexaminer.com.au/tablet or phone 1300 361 604. But you'd better be quick

because the offer ends on Sunday.



LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EDE





                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





