

Samsung has warned owners of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphone to stop using the
device or exchange it urgently since it runs the risk of exploding.

The South Korean company recalled 2.5m phones last week following reports that
some units had caught fire during or after charging. One six-year-old from New
York was reportedly using a Galaxy Note 7 to watch videos on Saturday when it
burst into flames, causing burns to his body.

His grandmother Linda Lewis told the New York Post : "He doesn't want to see or
go near any phones. He's been crying to his mother."

Samsung has said that battery problems are responsible for the explosions but
that it cannot be sure at this stage which of the phones it has sold are
affected.

In a statement the company introduced a product exchange program that allows all
owners to trade their devices for a new one.

"We strongly advise all customers to use this exchange program because your
safety is our top priority. Additional sales and shipments of the affected
devices have been stopped, but if you already have a Galaxy Note 7, we strongly
advise that you replace it."

"Until a replacement device is provided, Samsung asks all customers with a
Galaxy Note 7 smartphone to power down your device and return it to its place of
purchase at your earliest opportunity," the statement added.

Users who don't follow Samsung's recommendations may find their device, which
only launched last month, remotely deactivated. Unconfirmed reports stemming
from a Reddit thread have suggested that Samsung will brick affected Note 7s
starting as soon as 30 September. Smartphones typically have a remote kill
switch to deter would-be thieves.

As a safety measure, airlines across the US started to warn passengers to avoid
switching on or charging their Note 7s during flights, in line with advice from
the Federal Aviation Authority.

Customers can trade their Galaxy Note 7 for a new version of the smartphone that
isn't faulty or they can choose a different model of smartphone, including the
Galaxy S7 and the Galaxy S7 Edge, and receive a refund for the price difference
between devices. To sweeten the inconvenience, Samsung is also issuing US
customers with a $25 gift card.

The company's share price has plummeted in response to the recall.

Samsung did not respond to requests for comment.

