                             984 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                           September 1, 2016 Thursday



Samsung may recall Galaxy Note 7 due to explosion



BYLINE: By Kim Tae-gyu



LENGTH: 411 words





Since its launch last month, the Galaxy Note 7 has been touted as a

best-in-class device with such features as an iris scanner and an improved

stylus. But it may have critical flaws in safety following continued reports of

it exploding.



Samsung Electronics officials said Thursday that it stopped shipments of the new

phone this week and an investigation is underway to pinpoint the cause of

multiple explosions both at home and abroad.



'We have acquired the handsets, which our customers say burst into flames while

charging to identify the reason. We will come up with a fix as soon as the

investigation is finished,' an official said. 'We suspended the supply of the

phones earlier this week so as to double-check their safety.'



Experts say that Samsung may have to recall all phones already delivered to

customers, which would burden the company, although the official refused to talk

about this option.



After a report on the large-screen phone's explosion first came out last week, a

few similar cases were uploaded at the country's social networking service

sites.



Outside of the nation, an explosion appeared online last week in China - a

Galaxy Note 7 blew up while connected to a converter followed by identical

accidents in other countries.



Samsung refuses to confirm whether the chargers and converters at issue are the

firm's official adapters or third-party offerings, which is expected to affect

Samsung's decision.



If Samsung is forced to recall the models, it would weigh on the company's

bottom line as the Galaxy Note 7 is one of the tech giant's strategic devices

for 2016.



In March, Samsung introduced its Galaxy S7, which became a big hit across the

world. Its brisk sales buttressed the outfit's revenue for the first half.



As a result, the world's largest smartphone manufacturer saw its second-quarter

operating profit jump by more than 18 percent to 8.1 trillion won compared to

the same period in 2015.



Samsung expected that the Galaxy Note 7 would become a double cash cow together

with the Galaxy S7 because the former got off to a solid start with high

preorders.



In particular, it was hyped as an innovative model thanks to an embedded iris

scanner, which can work as a handy tool for verifying identity necessary for

such activities as financial transactions.



However, the explosion reports are feared to cast a chill on the handset's early

popularity as Samsung may be required to delay its global release in order to

troubleshoot the safety problem.



LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





