                             994 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  Daily Edition



                            March 31, 2016 Thursday

                                 First Edition



HOW NEW IPHONE RANKS AMONG ITS COMPETITORS;

From phones that shoot 4K-video to those with super storage, we round up 2016's

top picks so far



BYLINE: DAVID PHELAN



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42



LENGTH: 959 words





How long have you had your phone? If your contract is due for an upgrade, then

you'll probably be eligible for something faster, smarter and more capable than

before.



What are your priorities? Longer battery life? Better camera? Bigger screen?

Smaller screen (because not everyone has massive hands)? Or a phone with a low

initial price? Prices quoted are upfront cost on contract and how much to buy it

without a contract at all.



1. Apple iPhone SE: from free on contract with EE, from £359 without contract

from Apple The newest iPhone, announced on Monday, looks like an improved iPhone

5s. Its four-inch screen means it feels much more suited to smaller hands - and

pockets. This is the lowestpriced iPhone ever, but it includes much of the tech

of the latest models, including a blazingfast processor and 12-megapixel camera

capable of shooting video at 4K resolution, impressive panoramic shots and more.



2. Samsung Galaxy S7 edge: from £9 on contract with Vodafone, £639.99 without

contract from Selfridges Easily the best Android smartphone on the market. It

has a dazzling design (the slopingedged screen looks great), fast processor,

super-fast 12-megapixel camera and strong battery life. The 5.5-inch screen is

as big as the iPhone 6s Plus, but this feels more manageable in the hand. And

it's waterproof, surviving for 30 minutes in 1.5 metres of water. Not cheap, but

the advantages are considerable - highly recommended.



3. Sony Xperia Z5 Premium: from free on contract with Vodafone, £599.99 without

contract from Carphone Warehouse If you want the highest-quality screen around,

this phone's for you. Many phones now shoot video in the super-high 4K

resolution, but only this one can play it back in full resolution, too. There's

a powerful 23-megapixel camera and the fingerprint sensor is discreetly mounted

in the edge, in the power button.



4. LG G5: from £9.99 on contract from EE, £529 without contract from Amazon Just

announced and available now on pre-order, the G5 is a beast that''s different to

anything else around: the base slides off so you can insert a new battery or

attach an optional camera grip for the 16-megapixel camera. It has an always-on

screen that shows the time even when the phone is sleeping (and uses barely any

battery). On EE, the first 2,000 pre-orders get B&O headphones and speaker, too.



5. Apple iPhone 6s Plus: from £39.99 on contract from Carphone Warehouse, from

£619 without contract from Apple This is the biggest-screened iPhone with a

gorgeous, high-resolution, 5.5-inch display and impeccable 12-megapixel camera.

The fingerprint sensor that unlocks the screen is very speedy - it also

activates Apple Pay so you can pay for thing as you would with a contactless

credit card. Other Apple benefits include a massive range of quality apps,

excellent voice recognition system Siri and 3D Touch, where you press harder on

the screen to activate extra functions.



6. Samsung Galaxy S7: from £9 on contract from Three, £606.55 without contract

from Amazon If you'd like the latest Galaxy but prefer a smaller screen, the S7

with its 5.1-inch display is a great alternative. It packs the same camera,

performance and battery life as the S7 edge in a more conventional, but still

spiffy, styling. Both phones will have access to Samsung Pay later in the year -

like Apple Pay but designed to work with pretty much any card reader, not just

contactless.



7. Microsoft Lumia 950: from free on contract from Tesco Mobile. £399.99 without

contract from John Lewis This is like having your full Windows computer on your

phone. It uses a version of the new Windows 10 software so will be familiar to

users (though very different from Android or Apple). You can even connect it to

a display, keyboard and mouse via an optional Display Dock so it works like a

full computer. There's a 20-megapixel camera and a decent 5.2-inch screen.



8. Nextbit Robin: £277.20 without contract from Nextbit This is a great phone if

you want a large amount of storage at an affordable price, but don't need

everything on your phone all the time. The Robin has 32GB built in, plus 100GB

of storage in the cloud. When the phone gets full, it automatically transfers

stuff to the cloud to free up space. The design is a refreshing change from

black slabs with curvy corners. There's a good 5.2-inch display and decent

13-megapixel camera. Only available direct from Nextbit.



9. HTC One A9: from free on contract from EE, £357.45 without contract from

Amazon If you like the chic design of an iPhone but prefer Google's Android

operating system, the A9 is a wise choice. It has a pristine five-inch display

and a tremendous 13-megapixel camera that's fast and satisfying to use. HTC's

customisation of Android has always been excellent, especially when it comes to

the well-designed app icons and wallpapers, for instance.



10. Honor 5X: free on contract from Three, £189.99 without contract from Three

This is a great-value phone. Slick aluminium build, excellent 5.5-inch display,

13-megapixel camera and even a second sim card slot so you can run two numbers

on it (one work, one personal, perhaps). It has a good battery life, nippy

processor and a fingerprint sensor on the back. But it's the price that makes it

stand out against the competition.



Verdict Smartphones are complicated, intricate machines which we use all day

long, so battery life is important. All the phones here will last a full day,

though the Honor, Samsung and Sony handsets stand out. The Samsung Galaxy S7

edge, Apple iPhone 6s Plus and new iPhone SE have the best design. If

photography is crucial to you, the Apple, Samsung and Sony snappers are

exceptional. But, all things considered, we have to give it to the iPhone SE,

which stands out as the best-value option.



LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IA





                      Copyright 2016 Independent Print Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





