

Samsung Electronics India will take a potential revenue hit of about '420 crore
this quarter because of its decision to kill its marquee Galaxy Note7 phone
after it failed to fix the manufacturing flaw that was causing the device to
catch fire.

The Korean company had estimated that it will sell around 70,000 units of Note 7
during the quarter, while it had plans to give a stretch target of a lakh units
to its India sales team to take on Apple's new iPhones, said two people aware of
the development.

The Indian team has calculated and updated the potential revenue loss to its
headquarters after taking stock of the demise of Note 7.

Samsung India may also revive its earlier Note series flagship, Galaxy Note 5,
later this quarter to salvage

some of the losses and not leave the field entirely open for Apple's iPhone7 or
even the Google Pixel which is due to be launched later this week.

Samsung had recently discontinued Note 5 model to focus on the Note 7, one of
the persons said. Additional focus will be also given on the Galaxy S7 and S7
Edge models.

When contacted, a Samsung India spokesperson declined to comment on the sales
target.

He said Samsung India has a robust range of mobile phones across categories and
the company is headed for record sales of handsets in India this year. Globally,
Samsung has cut its operating profit guidance by 33% ($2.3 billion) for the last
three months because of the Note7 fiasco.

Analysts say the decision to scrap the device could end up costing up to
$17billion.

Samsung India was all ready to start manufacturing Note 7 in India in its

Noida plant with the aim of launching the device just ahead of Diwali, almost 45
days later than the originally scheduled launch which had gotten pushed back due
to safety worries.The company is now planning to offer the Galaxy S7 Edge to the
approximate 20,000 Note 7 pre-booked customers in India, or an option to return
their money . It will also relaunch the Note 5 at an aggressive price point.

Since the next flagship will be launched only around March 2017, Samsung India
is going to revive the Note 5 to rebuild it premium portfolio, since at the
moment Apple has a complete free-run,\x93 one of the persons quoted earlier
said.

Meanwhile, Apple has ensured there is enough supplies of its latest iPhone7 and
7Plus in the Indian market unlike earlier years when it had to grapple with
supply issues.

Retailers said the maximum demand has been for the pricier iPhone

7 Plus model which sells upwards of '72,000 due to additional features such as
dual camera and availability in the jet black colour.

\x93Apple has ensured availability of sufficient stocks since it wants to make
the most of Note 7's absence. In fact, iPhone supplies are still not steady in
tier II and III cities, but Apple will now beef up stock there as well.Around
40% of the sales is that of iPhone 7 Plus compared with 15-20% earlier for the
pricier variant,\x93 said the CEO of a leading cellphone retail store. However,
retailers say the recall of Note 7 has not dented Samsung's other smartphone
model sales in India as yet. The company had worked around the issue by
launching a newer model every 10-12 days and also ensuring that there was no
discount on its models during the just finished online discount sales.

Samsung Electronics Co cut its third-quarter operating profit by $2.3 billion
after ending production of its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 smartphones, the first
official indication of how much the crisis will cost South Korea's largest
company.

Profit is projected to be 5.2 trillion won ($4.63 billion) instead of 7.8
trillion won in the three months ended September, the company said in a
regulatory statement Wednesday.That effectively erases all the mobile business
profit that analysts had been projecting. Revenue will be 47 trillion won
instead of 49 trillion won.Samsung and Vice Chairman Jay Y Lee are struggling to
contain fallout from t he t roubled Note 7 phones, which were overheating and
catching fire even after a recall that was supposed to fix the problem. The
Suwon-based company said Tuesday it would kill this generation of the high-end
phone and then cut third-quarter guidance today, less than a week after it was
first issued.

\x93This is a huge cutback,\x93 said\xC2 Greg Roh, an analyst at H MC Investment
Securities Co. \x93It means Samsung has reflected not only the sales loss from
the shutdown but it also means it would bear the costs of the inventories of
Note 7s in the channel as well as the components they bought a few months
back.\x93

Wednesday's announcement is the first time the company has put a price on the
debacle, even if it is preliminary. Chung Chang Won, an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc,

estimated in a research note before the company's announcement the worst-case
scenario of Samsung terminating the Note 7 would cost the company about $5
billion in operating profit through 2017.

Samsung's shares have tanked this week as new fire reports emer g e d . T he s t
o ck h a s slumped 10 percent in the past three trading days, wiping $21 billion
from its market value.

\x93It's the biggest crisis for

Samsung Electronics,\x93 said Huh Nam Kwon, chief investment officer at
Shinyoung Asset Management, which held more than 300,000 shares in the company
according to filings compiled by Bloomberg. \x93It's not because of its physical
losses, but because the issue has been a blow to the brand. The company should
have been more cautious in responding to this case in the beginning.\x93

The debacle is testing Samsung's management and raising questions about whether
it needs stronger leadership. Lee Kun-hee, the family patriarch, remains
chairman even though he suffered a heart at tack more than two years ago and h a
sn't b e en back at the com

pany since. His son,

Jay Y., is heir apparent but he hasn't been able to take his father's title
because of Korean custom.

