                              100 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                        Contra Costa Times (California)



                           September 12, 2014 Friday



Apple reports huge demand for iPhone 6



BYLINE: By Julia Love jmlove@mercurynews.com



SECTION: NEWS; Business



LENGTH: 429 words





CUPERTINO -- Websites crashed and sales soared Friday as consumers raced to be

among the first to buy the latest iPhones.



Apple saw a record number of pre-orders after the newest versions of its iconic

phone went up for advanced sale in the wee hours of Friday morning, a company

spokeswoman said. The demand is stretching resources at the nation's major

cellphone carriers, where the new iPhones appeared to be back ordered and

several website glitches were reported. Apple drummed up excitement for the

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which feature larger screens, at a glitzy event in

the Flint Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday.



"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible," Apple spokeswoman

Teresa Brewer said in a statement.



The new gadgets are scheduled to arrive in retail stores Friday, but many

consumers decided to stake their claims online, pushing back shipment times. By

midday Friday, Verizon's website forecast an Oct. 7 delivery date for the iPhone

6 and an Oct. 21 arrival for the iPhone 6 Plus. AT&T indicated on its website

that the iPhone 6 would ship sometime in October, and the larger iPhone 6 Plus

would not go out until November. AT&T spokesman Mark Siegel said demand for this

year's new models topped what the company had seen in the previous two years.



"Suffice to say that our customers are really, really interested in these great

new devices," he said.



With screens of 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are

considerably bigger than Apple devices released last year, which measured 4

inches diagonally. Although many manufacturers have delivered devices with

larger screens in recent years, Apple has held out until now, creating pent-up

demand for a supersize iPhone. Analyst Bob O'Donnell of TECHnalysis Research

predicted that Apple's share of the smartphone market will climb a few

percentage points now that it is offering bigger screens, which consumers find

handy as they watch videos and play games on their phones.



"It's the kind of change that dramatically impacts how you think about and use

your phone," he said.



The iPhone 6, which starts at $199 with a two-year contract, and iPhone 6 Plus,

priced at $299, feature a sharper display, extended battery life and an improved

camera. Apple announced at the event Tuesday that consumers will be able to make

calls using Wi-Fi on the devices, but some consumers may have to wait for that

feature. Siegel of AT&T said WiFi calls will not be available until early next

year.



Contact Julia Love at 408-920-5536; follow her at Twitter.com/byJuliaLove .



LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2014 Contra Costa Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





