                              101 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                           September 12, 2014 Friday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Buyers bite big at larger Apple iPhones



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 377 words





Apple's website was swamped Friday in what appeared to be a record-setting

buying binge fueled by smartphone buyers' desire for large-screen iPhones.



Bigger did indeed seem to be better to the throngs who jockeyed in a virtual

scrum to get access to the Apple website to order iPhone 6 and the larger-size

iPhone 6 Plus models.



Many people took to Twitter with terse tales of frustration and perseverance

needed to get through and pre-order the new Apple smartphones set for release on

September 19.



The delivery date for iPhone 6 Plus steadily crept outward as the morning wore

on and word by mid-day here was that pre-orders had sold out for what will be

the biggest Apple smartphone. Apple was promising delivery of the biggest iPhone

in three to four weeks.



Those ordering iPhone 6 models or early to order its larger sibling iPhone Plus

are still in line to receive them as originally scheduled next Friday.



Technology news website Re/code quoted an Apple spokesperson as saying "response

to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible with a record number of

preorders overnight."



Apple on Tuesday unveiled its first smartwatch and two large-screen versions of

the iPhone, in a move to recapture its role as a trend-setter.



Apple added in a new mobile wallet that will allow consumers to simply tap their

phones to pay retailers.



New iPhone 6 models boost screen sizes in what some see as the company catching

up to a "phablet" trend combining features of smartphones and tablets.



The frenzy at Apple's website on Friday indicated that in the eyes of myriad

iPhone lovers, bigger is indeed better.



Apple's main rival Samsung has long had a range of larger handsets and has tried

to market a smartwatch of its own.



The iPhone 6 will have a screen of 4.7 inches and the 6-Plus will be 5.5 inches,

allowing Apple to adapt to consumers' apparent preference for bigger displays.



The new iPhone 6 starts at the same price of existing iPhones at $199 for US

customers while the iPhone 6 Plus will be at $299 with a two-year contract.

Unlocked or unsubsidized models will start around $650.



Apple's move, expanding the latest iPhone with a four-inch screen, comes as

consumers are switching to handsets with bigger displays to watch videos and

browse the Internet.



gc/rl



APPLE INC.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





