                              108 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              chroniclelive.co.uk



                     September 19, 2014 Friday 1:31 PM GMT



Apple fans queue through the night in Eldon Square for the new iPhone 6 and 6

Plus;

Eldon Square shoppers stood in a queue which snaked up Newgate Street hoping to

get their hands on the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus



BYLINE: By Hannah Flint



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 435 words





Apple fans queue through the night in Eldon Square for the new iPhone 6 and 6

Plus



Diehard technology fans queued for up to 12 hours to get their hands on the

latest mobile phone on the market.



Fanatics desperate for Apple's new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus queued for hours

outside Eldon Square shopping centre in Newcastle in the rain.



In the early hours of the morning, over 300 fans stood in the queue that snaked

up Newgate Street before the Apple shop was finally opened at 8am.



Fans were still waiting outside at 10am on the day of the launch of the handsets

which promise 4G reception and longer battery life.



But many were left disappointed after the shop sold out of the iPhone 6 Plus -

the bigger version of the new phone.



Osan Al-Jaberly, 18, a student from Gosforth, said he waited in line at the

Metro Centre at 4am, but left after he was told only the iPhone 6 was being

sold.



He then made his way to Eldon Square only to find out his desired 6 Plus was

already sold out.



Apple fans gather for release of new iPhone



He said: "It wasn't worth me waking up so early - they won't get more iPhone 6

Pluses in until next week.



"I'm going to go home and complain to Apple - they need to sort their self out

and get more stock in the future."



The lucky first fans to get their hands on the new models waited 12 hours for

their phones.



Calvin Liu, a 20-year-old student who lives in Sunderland, said: "I came here at

9pm last night and there were about 15 people in front of me. I've had all the

models of the iPhone: the 4, the 4S, the 5 and the 5S. I'm a huge iPhone fan."



He walked away with one iPhone 6 and one Plus, bought for his girlfriend.



Others came well prepared for the long wait.



Queues in Newcastle for Apple's new iPhone six



James Bunting, 24, bought chairs, crisps, an umbrella and an energy drink and

sat with two friends playing games in the queue from midnight.



He said the team from Apple arrived at around 6am and let only a few people into

the mall, while leaving hundreds of others to continue waiting.



He managed to grab a phone just before 10am this morning.



"It was a long nine hours but nine hours well served," he said.



But not everyone was so lucky. A group of fans who arrived at 4am were still

waiting at the end of the queue in the shopping centre by 9am on the

long-anticipated day of the launch, while many more were still stuck outside.

Student Jamal Khan, 18, from Stockton said: "We came here at four in the morning

and we're at the back of the line waiting for the phone. It's a bit upsetting."



He added that he had only managed two hours of sleep overnight.



Disqus commenting in articles



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC





                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





