                              115 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 Goulburn Post



                               September 25, 2014



New iPhone answers Goulburn's call



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 712  words





THE iPhone 6 was released to the world at 8am last Friday.



By 8.01am, the Telstra Business Centre had sold its first handset.



Customers have continued to pour-in since.



A larger screen, lighter weight and overall hype surrounding the Apple release

is enticing customers, the Business Centre's Danielle Coleman says.



'Since 8 o'clock Friday morning they've been selling well,' she said on Tuesday.



'The bigger screen is definitely a popular feature, plus people have got a

choice between the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. Customers are really pleased.'



Enhanced features in the new iPhone include a larger screen, improved camera,

faster text message response, increased RAM, greater wireless connectivity, a

built-in air pressure reader and a series of health apps.



Apple engineers have followed Samsung's lead and increased the screen size by

nearly 30 per cent on its 6 Plus model. The standard iPhone 6 screen is nearly

an inch wider that its predecessor.



The changes are welcome among iPhone buffs.



Customers filed through the doors of the Optus Shop in Centro Mall from the

moment staff opened for business on Friday.



'It's been pretty crazy,' a customer service consultant said.



'We sold out within an hourand- a-half on the first day. We've been getting

orders in since and selling out every time.'



She predicted iPhone 6 sales will remain high until at least Christmas.



The new iPhone release has captured interest beyond Goulburn.



More than 10 million of the devices have been snapped up since their September

19 worldwide release. Four million of those were sold within 24 hours of the

launch.



Those figures even stunned Apple's highest-ranking employee.



'Sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus exceeded our expectations for the launch

weekend, and we couldn't be happier,' CEO Tim Cook said.



The term iPhone 6 continues to trend on Twitter ' a week after its release. It's

also a hot topic on Facebook.



'I love it,' Georgia Winter wrote on the Goulburn Post's Facebook page.



'I'm not that into technology and having the latest gadgets but I absolutely

love my new iPhone,' added Madeline Flannery. 'It's just so fast. I previously

had an iPhone 4 and this new one is just no comparison.'



Craig Griffin wrote: 'It's a game changer. The 6 in my opinion is the sweet spot

of phone sizes, I thought the 6 Plus was a little too big making it somewhat

cumbersome.'



While popular among many, the new model has its shortcomings.



The size of the iPhone 6 Plus is of particular concern, Fairfax technology

writer Will Oremus says.



'There's no easy way to use the device with just one hand,' he wrote in his

review.



'Just typing in your pass code to unlock the 6 Plus requires either a second

hand or a feat of manual acrobatics. Reaching the top buttons on the home screen

' you know, trivial things like 'messages,' 'photos,' and 'camera' ' is out of

the question.'



The battery ' a facet that's drawn criticism in older iPhone models ' is also a

concern, Engadget.com's Brad Molen discovered.



'In our video-playback tests, the 6 lasted 10 hours and 19 minutes; that's

actually worse than the 5's results from last year' he explained.



'The iPhone 6 Plus, on the other hand, still had 14 per cent battery left when

the 6 died.'



The iPhone 6 remains on sale at the Telstra Business Centre and both the Telstra

and Optus shops in Centro Mall.



Harvey Norman doesn't have any of the new devices in stock, but hopes to obtain

some in the coming weeks.



A CONCERNED Goulburn Postis reluctant to get her hands on the iPhone six for

fear it may aid the spread of Ebola.



The claim is not completely absurd.



'Just read that they're apparently contaminated with the Ebola virus, don't know

how true it is but be careful as they manufacture the plastic for them in Sierra

Leone which is where the latest big breakout is,' the user wrote on the Goulburn

Post's Facebook page this week.



The reader's response was based on media reports that claimed the new iPhone

posed an Ebola risk for Australian consumers.



Those stories originally circulated from satire news site Daily Buzz Feed and

were soon circulated around the globe. Daily Buzz Feed has since made it clear

the reports were manufactured and held no truth.



Fear not Goulburn iPhone enthusiasts, Apple's newest device won't give you

Ebola.



A visit to Sierra Leone, however, may'



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





