

The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus have only been available a few week but users
of the two new iPhones have reported a rather astonishing structural flaw: The
smartphones bend. Camping overnight outside Apple stores to spend money on a
redundant smartphone is just plain foolish in my opinion but even more
astonishing [...]
The post The new, improved and bendable iPhone 6 appeared first on tbreak.ae.

The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus have only been available a few week but users
of the two new iPhones have reported a rather astonishing structural flaw: The
smartphones bend.

Camping overnight outside Apple stores to spend money on a redundant smartphone
is just plain foolish in my opinion but even more astonishing is the fact that
Apple has somehow unintentionally created a flexible phone. iPhone users have
taken to the MacUsers Forum in droves to report the flaw, with many uploading
images of their bent iPhones. One user even claimed that his iPhone was
distorted after a mere 18 hours in his pocket. Clearly even he realised the
fruitlessness of owning an iPhone 6.

But is this all an elaborate hoax?

Unbox Therapy's Lewis Hilsenteger, a YouTuber who also happens to be a dedicated
iPhone 6 Plus owner, released a video of a brand new iPhone 6 Plus undergoing a
bend test; he bent it with his own hands, dispelling hopes that #bendgate is a
mere hoax. Needless to say it failed the test rather miserably. In a follow up
video where he conducted the same test on a Galaxy Note 3, he attempted to
revert the iPhone 6 Plus back to its original shape, however the screen cracked.

Notably, these aren't the first iPhones to warp out of shape. A few weeks after
its release, users of the iPhone 5 commented on the fact that it bent even
though the smartphones weren't kept in their back pockets and sat upon. When the
iPhone 5S was released, the same symptom didn't take too long to pop up, with
users reporting that their smartphones bending at the volume button over a
period of time.

The root of the problem stems from the iPhone 6's anodized aluminium frame.
Though anodizing it makes it more durable and prevents it from rusting,
aluminium by its very nature is a rather soft metal. With the iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus only being a few millimetres thick, it's not surprising that they
can be bent by applying a little bit of pressure. Unfortunately, this also means
that the surface of the phone starts cracking. What a great new feature.

It's actually quite staggering that the same structural vulnerability is present
in iPhones from two different generations. One would have thought that Apple
would have already fixed it. I'm looking forward to seeing how Apples PR team is
going to respond to this; I wouldn't be surprised if they say that Apple have
created the first flexible smartphones in existence. Apples rivals, such as
Samsung, have however quickly publicised the claims of the structural flaw
through social media.

Update: Apple has responded to the allegations by saying that such damage would
be "rare" during normal use, with only 9 users reporting directly to Apple about
the flaw. Apple is also going to replace your iPhone using their Visual
Mechanical Inspection test.

The post The new, improved and bendable iPhone 6 appeared first on tbreak.ae.

