                              120 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)



                           December 27, 2014 Saturday



Consumers like super-sized smartphones, but carrying them around...



BYLINE: By Julio Ojeda-Zapata jojeda@pioneerpress.com



SECTION: BUSINESS; High-Tech



LENGTH: 1340 words









Ellen Reeher of St. Paul hadn't intended to join the gigantic-smartphone

revolution.



But when her husband accidentally ordered her Apple's jumbo iPhone 6 Plus ,

instead of the smaller iPhone 6 she'd wanted, Reeher found herself having to

make adjustments -- like millions of others with the latest and biggest

smartphones.



It's been trying at times, Reeher said. Her iPhone 6 Plus often will not fit in

the back pocket of her jeans, so, "I have been known to stuff it into my

waistband."



Workouts are another issue. She used to clip her iPhone 5 to her waist while

running, but the iPhone 6 Plus is too big for that. She's now making do with an

old iPod Shuffle while running until she can figure how to incorporate the big

phone into her exercise routine.



But Reeher's bottom line with her iPhone 6 Plus?



"I love it," said the Cathedral Hill small-business owner, who has found herself

watching a lot of streaming videos -- including her treasured Japanese, Korean

and Taiwanese TV shows -- on the device.



Extra-large phones have been around for years. But the 5 1/2-inch iPhone 6 Plus,

released in August, has helped accelerate the trend towards ever-bigger

handsets.



Other such megaphones include the 6-inch Google Nexus 6 and Samsung's Galaxy

Note 4 and Note Edge , the latest in the Note lineage that helped pioneer the

big-phone trend. Obscure options include Chinese-brand smartphones like the 5

1/2-inch OnePlus One and the 6-inch Huawei Ascend Mate 2 , which some in this

country have embraced.



Sales of such large phones seem to be taking off. They accounted for about 10

percent of phone sales between August and October -- up from 2 percent during

the same period in 2013 -- according to market-research firm Kantar Worldpanel.



The iPhone 6 Plus captured about 41 percent of these 2014 "phablet" sales , said

Kantar, which focused its analysis on phones with screen sizes of 5 1/2 inches

or larger.



 TABLETS GATHERING DUST



Local business analyst David Pollitt said he used to switch between his phone

and iPad "when I wanted a better gaming experience or for reading longer news

articles."



But with his iPhone 6 Plus, "I find the difference so minimal now that I either

don't bring my iPad with me anywhere or don't use it."



Seth Long of Washington State, who had previously owned an iPhone 5 and a Google

Nexus 5, likewise said the iPhone 6 Plus is so great for complex gaming that his

iPad mini gets little use now.



He adds that his Apple smartphone is great for work tasks like Google Analytics

and MailChimp e-mail-list management along with the Google Docs word processor

and Google Sheets spreadsheet app.



Minneapolis digital-marketing specialist Judy Carter said her iPhone 6 Plus has

triggered big changes in her work habits, with more of these likely to come.



"I created a few websites with my work on them and I find myself showing more

people" this content with the Apple phone. "The mobile Web looks great on it!"



Carter added, "I am also going to start filming video more and learn how to edit

and create films for websites and reports. The purchasing of the phone triggered

this because the photos and videos I take are much better quality and are easier

to take on the bigger phone."



Seattle-based software developer Buzz Bruggeman said his Kindle e-book reader

gathers dust because his 6-inch Huawei Ascend Mate 2 is "like reading a

paperback book." He's abandoned plans to buy an iPad.



Reading has become a leading activity on larger phones, largely at the expense

of tablets, according to recent statistics from Pocket , a Minnesota-spawned

service that lets users save Web content for later.



The bigger the handset, the likelier a Pocket user will choose that device over

a tablet for reading or watching videos for those who own both kinds of gadgets,

the service found.



Those who own an iPhone 6 Plus along with an iPad will do 80 percent of their

reading or watching on the phone (a figure mirrored in the Android realm),

according to Pocket. This compares with 72 percent of iPhone 6 users and 55

percent of iPhone 5s users.



 STOWING, HOLDING IT



Once obtaining such a phone, though, users have to figure out where to stash it.

Women with big purses have it easy; Reeher slips her phone into an outer purse

pocket. Men, not so much.



"I have always carried a big bag around with me," Carter said. "If anything, the

big phone is easier to find."



Kristie Glenn, another iPhone 6 Plus user, says she keeps her phone tucked away

in her purse partly out of fear.



"It's huge and I'm scared that I'm going to drop it," said Glenn, owner of the

online Blue Labels Boutique .



Wellness instructor Noreen Braman of Jamesburg, N.J., said she uses "a leather

cross body wallet" to tote around her Galaxy Note 3 phablet "when I am going

'bagless' (such as hiking or biking) because it just doesn't go well in a

pocket."



Men also have to get a bit creative because phablets can make for uncomfortably

bulky bundles in their pants pockets.



"I keep my iPhone 6 Plus in the left bib pocket of my overalls," said Kevin King

, a nurse in Metuchen, N.J.



Sean Ludwig , a recent phablet convert, loves his iPhone 6 Plus but discovered

that, like others, he needed to make wardrobe adjustments.



"I've decided to start wearing jeans that aren't as fitted, because the phone

fits better in average-sized jeans pockets," said Ludwig, head of communications

for tech startup.



"Thankfully, we are in winter ... and I can keep my phone in my coat pockets

rather than my pants pockets most of the time," he said. "I'm not sure how well

it will work when I'm wearing shorts in the summer."



Ludwig added: "I also am holding the phone differently, in that I hold the phone

with two hands most of the time so I don't drop it. The device is highly

fragile, and I don't want to break it."



 THE PHYSICAL STRAIN



Using such a large phone can be a physical strain for some, too.



Even the relatively compact 5.1-inch Samsung Galaxy S5 used to give Pollitt, the

business analyst, hand cramps, so he said he "bought a grip strengthener to work

out my thumbs before I got my iPhone 6 Plus. I'm glad I did because it is a

beast and extending my thumb to the far side of the screen is a stretch."



Pollitt added, "Most of the time the big screen is awesome and I don't find it

to be a problem. When it can be a pain is when my newborn son is sleeping in one

of my arms and I simply can't use the phone one handed!"



For some, the bigger phone size is just too big.



"I traded in my broken iPhone 5s last week for a 6 Plus, which is kind of dumb

when you are a woman with shorter fingers," said Lisa Dubbels , president of

Minneapolis-based Catalyst Publicity & Promotion Group. "I'm probably going to

bring it back for a regular 6, because I can't do anything with one hand now."



On the bright side, "I can read text without my contacts now," said Dubbels,

"and joke with my husband that I have the Reader's Digest large-print-edition

iPhone."



Some have figured out the trick to physically manipulating an extra-big, often

awkward smartphone -- they don't (at least much of the time).



When Kevin Schoonover of Cottage Grove switched to a Windows Phone-based Nokia

Lumia 1520 handset, he also became a heavy user of Bluetooth headsets from the

likes of LG, Phiaton and Sony.



Likewise Paul Saarinen of Shoreview keeps his Note 3 tucked in his back pants

pocket while keeping it paired with an LG Tone, a necklace-like Bluetooth device

with earbuds for voice calls and other audio, and an LG smartwatch with the

Android Wear operating system for getting his phone notifications.



Some phone users, meantime, are pining for even-larger handsets that cross fully

into small-tablet territory -- but retain full cell-phone functionality, which

traditional tablets typically do not.



"I use a (Samsung Galaxy) Note 3 and would buy a 7-inch tablet as a phone if

they made one," said Howard Suissa , a principal at Alberta, Canada-based Suissa

Design.



"For the 10 minutes a week I actually use my phone as a held-to-the-ear device,"

said Suissa, "I would rather have a tablet with cell capability than a big-ass

phone."



LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Ellen Reeher uses her IPhone Plus to make a call, in St. Paul on

Tuesday, December 23, 2014 ( Pioneer Press: Scott Takushi)

Ellen Reeher owns an IPhone 6 Plus and has found ways to accomodate its larger

size, usual keeping it in her back pocket, photographed on Monday, December 22,

2014. ( Pioneer Press: Scott Takushi)

A collection of phones demonstrating how they have changed over the years.

Photographed on Wednesday, December 24, 2014, 2014.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2014 St. Paul Pioneer Press

                              All Rights Reserved





