                              132 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                    Scotsman



                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday



Gadget review: iPhone 6 / iPhone 6 Plus



LENGTH: 587  words





TIMELY updates for the classic Apple phone which will once again reshape the

smartphone market



Gadget review - iPhone 6 / iPhone 6 Plus



Price: from £539



WITH not one, but two new iPhones, Apple has laid to rest fears that the

untimely death of Steve Jobs robbed it of its innovative pedigree. Both the

iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus are among the best smartphones available and sure

to cheer the Californian firm's loyal customer base. Crucially, and perhaps more

importantly, they also demonstrate how the company is continuing to rewrite the

rulebook when it comes to user friendly consumer technology.



The most drastic overhaul to the traditional iPhone template is the most

obvious: size. Both the standard and Plus models offer significantly larger

screens, with the former boasting a 4.7 inch screen and the latter a 5.5 inch

viewing area. In comparison, the humble four inches offered by previous

iterations of the handset feels restrictive, particularly when you want to watch

television programmes or films on the move without carrying around a tablet.



Increased screen sizes greatly improve visual-led tasks



It is a timely and necessary update. A succession of Android handset

manufacturers have won plaudits for large screen sizes, giving rise to the

so-called phablet option. The Cupertino firm's reluctance to introduce a

competing device was borne from concerns over the increased real estate would

come at the expense of quality. With the 6 and 6 Plus, however, it is clear

those hurdles have been navigated with style, making them a compelling choice

for visual-led tasks such as image editing.



The additional screen size is a boon for the best improvement to the iPhone -

the quality of its photographs and video. Images sing with rich colour and high

contrast, but it is the latter that truly excels thanks to new optical image

stabilisation technology. Even while jogging or cycling, it is simple to

maintain a smooth, tracking shot using the 6 Plus, with the autofocus doing all

the hard work to keep pace with the action. It is one of the most impressive

additions and a leap forward for the iPhone's capabilities as a film camera.



Some cosmetic changes borrow from the iPad Air school of design



These improvements, impressively, come without the main chassis of the

smartphones feeling bulky. Both handsets feel light and comfortable, with the 6

Plus deceptively thin at just 7.1mm. More generally, Apple have taken aesthetic

inspiration from their own iPad Air and the new iPhones benefit from the

gentler, rounded design philosophy that has edges melt away into curves rather

than right angles. On both the 6 and 6 Plus models, there has been some cosmetic

changes, with the power button now located to the right hand side as opposed to

the top. On the Plus, it is an understandable transition given the limits of the

average handspan, but it feels like a less obvious change on the smaller

handset.



The battery life on both versions is significantly more generous than the iPhone

5S, each standing up to a full day of intensive use, spanning social media apps,

web browsing, YouTube and games. The onus now is on app developers to optimise

their software for the new handsets. At present, too many are crudely scaled up

and fail to take advantage of the enlarged screen space, but if the precedent of

the iPad is anything to go by, they will come good in time. These are

smartphones with transformative technology and peerless design and their

potential to reshape the smartphone market is immense.



LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STTS





                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





