                              136 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday



World Patent Marketing Gets Ready for the iPhone 6 Launch



LENGTH: 330  words



DATELINE: New York





New York County Lawyers' Association has issued the following news release:



World Patent Marketing assists inventors with their mobile application ideas

through intellectual property protection and mobile application development.



World Patent Marketing offers patent assistance services as well as superior and

interactive mobile app development for iPhones, iPads and Android devices and

whatever comes next!



The Apple iPhone 6 goes on sale September 19, 2014.   Friday's launch of the

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will kick off in US, Australia, Canada, France,

Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK. Twenty more

countries will be added Sept. 26.



The biggest difference between the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus is screen size.

The iPhone 6 Plus's larger display  can prove helpful for folks with vision

problems.  Both the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are getting all-new iSight

cameras with 8-megapixel sensors, improved autofocus, and larger pixels.



According to Bill Flanagan, VP of Public Relations, "We have seen an

overwhelming increase in mobile app development patent applications this year.

We expect this trend to continue with the release of the new Apple iPhone 6."



About World Patent Marketing:  World Patent Marketing is the world's leading

patent authority. The company's people, approach, knowledge and global

relationships with key players in the invention industry add value to everything

they do.  World Patent Marketing employs and contracts with over 350 people

across four continents. They have received accredited business status and an A

Rating from the Better Business Bureau.  WorldPatentMarketing.com has been

awarded a five star review rating from Google.  It is also a member of the US

Chamber of Commerce, the Association for Manufacturing Excellence and the

International Licensing Industry Merchandiser's Association.



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





