                              137 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)



                           September 26, 2014 Friday



Etisalat to offer new iPhones in the UAE from today



LENGTH: 282 words





Etisalat announced that it will offer the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, the

biggest advancements in iPhone history, in the UAE starting today.



Both 16GB models of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available starting at

Dh0 upfront. Etisalat will allow iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus customers to connect

to the UAE's widest LTE network.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are the biggest advancements in iPhone history,

featuring two new models with 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch Retina HD displays, and

packed with innovative technologies in an all-new dramatically thin and seamless

design that is still comfortable to hold and easy to use.



Both models are better in every way and include: the Apple-designed A8 chip with

second generation 64-bit desktop-class architecture for blazing fast performance

and power efficiency; advanced iSight and FaceTime HD cameras; and ultrafast

wireless technologies.



The new iPhones include iOS 8, the biggest release since the App Store,

featuring a simpler, faster and more intuitive user experience with new Messages

and Photos features, predictive typing for Apple's QuickType keyboard and Family

Sharing. iOS 8 also includes the new Health app, giving you a clear overview of

your health and fitness data and iCloud Drive, so you can store files and access

them from anywhere.



"We know that our customers in the UAE can't wait to get their hands on iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus, which set the standard for innovation and style," said Khaled

El Khouly, chief marketing officer at etisalat.



"At etisalat, we are equally excited to offer our customers smartphone plans

designed to give them the ultimate experience on iPhone and at a great value."



-- business@khaleejtimes.com



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 44





   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





