

After months of speculation and leaks, Apple has unveiled its latest flagship
smartphones: the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. The announcement came during a live event
at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts in Cupertino.

The 6 features a 4.7-inch display, while the 6 Plus is equipped with a 5.5-inch
screen. Both feature an anodized aluminum back, and what Apple is calling
"Retina HD" displays - a step forward from the Retina branding used in the
current iPhone 5s and 5c. However, despite the increase in size the phones are
actually thinner then the current models; during the company's presentation this
morning, Apple's Phil Schiller noted that the iPhone 6 is 6.8mm thin, with the 6
Plus coming in at 7.1mm. The company's current flagship 5s, already a thin phone
in its own right, measures 7.6mm in thickness.

The bigger size also translates into longer battery life. Apple is claiming that
the iPhone 6 boasts 10 hours of standby time (the same as the iPhone 5s), with
the iPhone 6 Plus coming in at 16 hours. For audio playback, the company is
claiming 50 hours of battery life for the 6, and a whopping 80 hours for the 6
Plus (the iPhone 5s is rated at 40 hours of batter life for audio playback.) The
6 Plus also gets a bump when it comes to the camera; it will feature optical
image stabilization to provide cleaner, clearer photos. Both of the new phones
shoot 1080p video at either 30 or 60 frames per second, along with Apple's own
slow-motion mode.

Both phones will also feature Apple's new mobile payment system called Apple
Pay, which will let owners pay for goods and services with a tap of their phone.

The new iPhones will come in three colors - gold, silver, and what Apple calls
"space grey", with the basic model coming in at $199 on-contract for 16GB of
storage. The $299 model will come with four times the storage - 64GB - while the
$399 model will include 128GB of storage for music and media. The 6 Plus starts
at $299 for 16GB, with $399 and $499 models coming in at the same storage specs
as the 6. Both phones will be available on Sept. 19, with pre-orders starting
this Friday, Sept. 12.

Rumors have indicated that Apple would be introducing two larger models of its
phone since earlier this year, with size being the biggest differentiator. Since
the introduction of the original iPhone back in 2007, Apple's devices have
stayed on the smaller end of the smartphone spectrum. The first model had a
3.5-inch screen, and it wasn't until 2012 with the the iPhone 5 that Apple
decided to incorporate a taller, 4-inch screen into the lineup. In the meantime,
however, phones from other smartphone manufacturers have incorporated larger
screens that let users access more content at a single glance. With the
introduction of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Apple has the opportunity to compete
against those larger devices.

Email: Bryan.Bishop@thr.com Twitter: @bcbishop

