                              140 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Get in line now for IPhone 6;

Expect sellout crowd on opening weekend



BYLINE: Jefferson Graham, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B



LENGTH: 372 words





Hoping to get your hands on the new iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus when it goes on

sale next week? Better plan to shop early.



This week Apple introduced two new iPhones, a  mobile payment system and a

smartwatch that goes on sale in 2015. The phones go on sale Sept. 19.



Analysts who cover Apple expect the new, larger phones to be sold out completely

by the end of the opening weekend, as Apple scrambles to get more inventory into

stores.



"This will be the biggest iPhone launch since the introduction of the first

iPhone," says Tim Bajarin, an analyst with Creative Strategies. "Revolutionary."



Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, predicts Apple will sell 92 million

new iPhones by the end of the year. There are currently 300 million iPhones in

use worldwide.



Getting the  phones into consumer hands will be "the biggest frenzy" ever for

Apple, says Richard Doherty, an analyst with the Envisioneering Group. "There

are tens of millions waiting to get these new phones, and Apple has to get all

of them off the assembly line, into consumers' hands. That's really hard to do."



The new iPhones have gotten larger as Apple tries to shore up the gap with

competitors Samsung, Sony and Microsoft, whose most popular phones have larger

screens than Apple.



The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch LCD screen, up from 4 inches for the current iPhone

5s, while the larger iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch screen.



Of the two phones, Bajarin and other analysts expect the smaller iPhone 6 to be

the larger seller over time, but the Plus to be harder to get on opening

weekend.



Bigger phones are more popular overseas, says Bajarin, so Apple will have more

Plus phones available there, making them harder to come by here.



Additionally, "the novelty of the bigger phone will push people" to the Plus,

says Frank Gillette, an analyst with Forrester Research.



Doherty calls the new Six Plus "the new status symbol," a phone that will be so

hard to get he sees a rental business erupting for it.



"Go to a meeting and look really cool for $50 a day," he says.



The iPhone 6 starts at $199 with 16 GB of storage, or $299 with 64 GB, while the

Plus starts at $299 with 16 GB and $399 with 64 GB. Pre-orders for the phones

begin Friday, and the phones go on sale Sept. 19.



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





