                              150 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                             The Malta Independent



                               September 22, 2014



Study: Apple's new iPhones score big in durability



LENGTH: 436  words





Apple's new and bigger iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are more durable than last

year's model and a leading Android phone, a study says.



Apple's iPhone 6, whose screen measures 4.7 inches (11.9 centimeters), did the

best across a variety of tests that measures how prone smartphones are to break

due to every day accidents, SquareTrade, a company that provides extended

protection plans, says.



The iPhone Plus 6, whose screen measures 5.5 inches (14 centimeters), wasn't far

behind but lost points because it could slip out of a person's hand since some

users may have a hard time gripping its large but slim form, SquareTrade says.



The iPhone 5s, which measures 4 inches (10 centimeters) and came out last year,

fared better than Samsung's Galaxy S5, which measures 5.1 inches (12.95

centimeters). The Samsung phone got poor marks on several tests including the

slide test. The more a phone slides, the greater its chance of falling off the

edge of a table.



Still, all four of the smartphones tested had a medium risk of breakage and had

no drastic differences among them.



"The phones are getting more and more durable," says Ty Shay, chief marketing

officer at SquareTrade. "Manufacturers are paying more attention."



SquareTrade examines the phones based on eight factors, including size, weight,

grip and the quality of the front and back panels. The company measured how far

the phones slide when pushed across a table on their backs and how well they

withstand drops from 4 feet (1.2 meters) and being dunked in water for 10

seconds.



SquareTrade says it uses robots to do the testing to ensure consistency, and

rates the phones on a 10-point durability scale, with 10 signifying the highest

risk. Apple's iPhone 6 scored the best at 4; the iPhone 6 Plus scored a 5; the

iPhone 5s a 6; and Samsung Galaxy S5 a 6.5.



Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus passed the slide test, but the iPhone 5s and

Samsung Galaxy's S5 got poor marks in that area. The iPhone 6 Plus was the only

one that didn't fare as well when dropped 4 feet (1.2 meters) by the robot. The

glass screen survived, but the case separated from the glass. All four phones

fared well in the water resistance test.



SquareTrade provided The Associated Press with the results ahead of Monday's

announcement.



Aside from larger screens, the new Apple iPhones 6 and 6 Plus announced this

month promises faster performance and offers a wireless chip for making credit

card payments at stores by holding the phone near the payment terminal. The

phones start at $199 with a two-year service contact. The phones went on sale

this past week in the U.S. and nine other countries.



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1594





                    Copyright 2014 Standard Publications Ltd

               Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





