                              161 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                             Herald Sun (Australia)



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

                               HeraldSun Edition



Apple fans bitten



BYLINE: ANDREW JEFFERSON AND ROD CHESTER



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9



LENGTH: 763  words





AUSTRALIANS will pay 20 per cent more than customers in the US when the iPhone 6

is released next week.



Apple yesterday unveiled two big-screen iPhones to tackle the threat from

so-called "phablets", as well as a tap-and-touch payment system and a wearable

Apple Watch.



The 12cm iPhone 6 and the 14cm iPhone 6 Plus both have Near Field Communication,

or NFC, a wireless communication system some Android phones embraced years ago

that enables tap-and-touch payments at check-outs.



Apple hopes deals it has made with American Express, Visa and MasterCard, major

US banks and a string of retailers will be enough for Apple Pay to take off. The

payment system begins in the US in October, but there are no details on its

Australian introduction.



The new iPhone range goes on sale here from September 19 but Australians will be

slugged. Prices for the iPhone 6 start at $869 compared with $US649 ($707) in

the US.



The iPhone 6 Plus will retail from $999 here and $US749 ($816) in the US.

Australian customers can pre-order the new phones from tomorrow. After years of

rumours, the Apple Watch was also unveiled. It has.a 38mm or 42mm watch face and

three models, all with interchangeable bands.



Apple said that when paired with at least an iPhone 5, it would let people shop

with Apple Pay using their watch.



While an Australian price has not been announced, it will retail in the US from

$US349.



Australian retailers are already preparing for a battle over the new iPhone

range.



Optus fired the first shots on Sunday when it revealed people who abandon their

existing contracts with rival companies would be given $200 credit to offset

cancellation charges if they move to a 24-month Optus plan.



Telstra customers who bought an iPhone5s last September on a two-year contract

wishing to upgrade are likely to be hit with a $500 termination fee. Consumer

group Choice spokesman Tom Godfrey said: "Apple needs to justify why it

continues to take larger bites out of Aussie wallets."

andrew.jefferson@news.com.au



5 THINGS APPLE DIDN'T TELL US APPLE has revealed plenty of new details about the

new iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and Apple Watch, but some questions remain

unanswered.



Here are five things we learnt at the launch - and five things we didn't. WHAT

WE DON'T KNOW * The Apple Watch has a battery that recharges at night by

touching a magnet to the back of it. Just how often it will need recharging is

anybody's guess. Our guess is every night.



* When does the Apple Watch come to Australia? It will be after Christmas but

how about early January?



Nothing says Australia Day like a new smartwatch - perhaps with a

esky-and-thongs app.



* What will Apple Pay mean to Australians?



Apple has announced a bunch of US retailers and banks but no details of when it

will come to Australia and how it will work.



* Is an eight-megapixel camera the ultimate in an iPhone camera? While the

iPhone 6 Plus in particular has some great new features, including a super

slow-mo rate and optical image stabilising, Apple is continuing to stick with an

eight-megapixel camera. As Apple would say, it's not the size of your

megapixels, it's how you use them.



* While we were given stats on battery usage, one thing you can never learn in a

product launch is what battery use is like in real-world examples. The iPhone 6

and 6 Plus were said to have a battery life equal to if not better than the

iPhone 5S. Is that going to be good enough? WHAT WE KNOW * Apple plans to

replace your wallet with your smartphone, in the shape of the iPhone 6 and 6

Plus. A lot of people have that plan but analysts are already saying that the

deals Apple has made with banks, credit cards and retailers like Disney could

make this dream come true.



* Both new iPhones will use the same charger as the iPhone 5 models. * Speaking

of the Apple Watch, the rumour that it would be called the iWatch was shot down.

Apparently there is no 'I' in watch, just like there is no 'I' in team. It does

come in two sizes and three models. No matter what Watch you get, they all have

interchangeable bands.



* On the topic of names, where did iPhone 6 Plus come from? Let's get ready for

the marketing campaign: Now iPhones come in Plus-sized models.



* Apple has embraced NFC (Near Field Communication) at last - not only in its

iPhones, but in its smartwatch.



If you're an Apple fan, you better brace yourself for some gentle ribbing from

your Android-loving mates welcoming you to 2010.



* U2 are very, very loud. Tim Cook is not scared to say "one more thing". Apple

can still keep very big secrets.And it doesn't need Steve Jobs to launch sexy

new products.



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Herald Sun





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





