                              162 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                           September 22, 2014 Monday



Early reviews heap praise on bigger-screen iPhones



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 428 words





Agence France-Presse



SAN FRANCISCO



Early reviews of Apple iPhone 6 models to be released tomorrow sang the praises

of the large-screen handsets, proclaiming that bigger truly is better.



"The public asked for bigger and Apple delivered not only bigger but better,

too," tech news website Slash Gear said in its review.



"A stunning Retina HD display, blisteringly fast A8 processor, and class-leading

connectivity make these the best iPhones ever."



Mixed in with details about improvements to cameras and screens was advice that

would-be buyers inclined to use their smartphone just as a phone, should opt for

an iPhone 6 instead of its bigger-screened brother the iPhone 6 Plus.



"There are a couple of reasons why the Apple iPhone 6 Plus might also be too big

for me to purchase," Lauren Goode wrote in a review at Recode.net.



"But I have to admit it: I'm tempted. I really like this phone. And to people

who actually prefer huge smartphones: You are going to like this phone, too."



Reviewers said that while the iPhone 6 Plus was a weighty handful, Apple

tastefully modified the design to make it comfortable to hold and use.



TechCrunch referred to the iPhone 6 Plus as the "first truly well-designed big

smartphone".



New iPhone 6 models boost screen sizes in what some see as the company catching

up to a "phablet" trend combining features of smartphones and tablets.



Apple's main rival Samsung has long had a range of larger handsets and is due to

soon release a new Galaxy Note 4 "phablet".



The iPhone 6 has a 11.9-centimetre screen and the 6-Plus is 13.9 centimetres,

allowing Apple to adapt to consumers' apparent preference for bigger displays.



"Apple hasn't fumbled," David Pogue of Yahoo! Tech news said in a review.



"Its two new iPhones are excellent. Beautiful. State of the art. Worthy heirs to

the iPhone throne."



Some reviewers noted that the iPhone 6 Plus is pricier than rival phablets, and

that the latest Apple smartphones cost tidy sums if prices are not offset by

telecom firms in exchange for locking into service contracts.



Apple on Monday said it had received record pre-orders for its new iPhone

models, and that some customers will have to wait for the larger-screen versions

of the smartphones.



The tech giant said more than four million pre-orders were received in the 24

hours after the new devices went on sale.



Apple last Tuesday unveiled its first smartwatch and two large-screen versions

of the iPhone, in a move to recapture its role as a trend-setter.



Apple added in a new mobile wallet that will allow consumers to simply tap their

phones to pay retailers.



LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





