

Now that the initial burst of orders for Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus is
starting to fade away, some stores are actually able to hold the new phones in
stock.

Sadly, a lot of the best trade-in deals have expired. But if you're looking to
pick up a new iPhone and want to get some cash (or at least store credit) for
your old one, here's a rundown of retailers that are still willing to give you
special deals if you buy an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus.

Wal-Mart:  America's largest retailer is kicking off its iPhone 6 trade-in
program in more than 3,000 of its stores across the country. If your phone (
iPhone or Android) is in particularly good condition, you can get double its
trade-in value to use toward a new iPhone on AT&T, Verizon or Sprint on a
two-year plan.

The deal, which runs from Sunday to Oct. 18, applies only if your phone has a
trade-in value of $200 or less, as determined by your local Wal-Mart. An iPhone
with a value of $100, for example, would get you $200 in store credit toward the
newest models.

AT&T:  AT&T will give you up to $300 in trade-in value for your old iPhone
toward an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus as long as you act before Oct. 31. The
carrier will offer you a $300 promo card for an iPhone 5s, $200 for an iPhone 5
or 5c, and $100 for an iPhone 4 or 4s. You can choose to put the new phone on a
traditional plan, unlocked, or AT&T Next plan - which is for consumers who want
to upgrade their devices frequently.

Verizon:  Verizon is still offering an iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus trade-in deal,
promising to give you a $300 gift card for your old iPhone 5s and $200 for an
iPhone 5c, iPhone 4 or iPhone 4s. The offer stands through Oct. 15 and is also
good for new iPhones that are unlocked, on a two-year contract or on the
company's fast-upgrade plan, Verizon Edge.

Sprint:  Playing some hardball, Sprint is offering a deal to people who want to
switch carriers. The carrier will actually buy out family plans from other
carriers and give consumers a Visa prepaid card worth up to $350 per line. The
deal applies only to "customers who bring their number from another carrier and
activate an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus on the Sprint Simply Unlimited Plan." The
offer is only available at Sprint stores or by calling Sprint's sales team, and
only through Oct. 31. Plus, prepaid cards can take up to 12 weeks to arrive, so
budget that in.

T-Mobile:  In a move that should not surprise anyone, T-Mobile is also
aggressively targeting its competitors with its trade-in deal. T-Mobile promises
"over $350" for an eligible iPhone 5s and also promises to match any trade-in
value you might get from AT&T, Verizon or Sprint.

"If you do find a better trade-in value from AT&T, Verizon, or Sprint, we will
beat it and pay out the difference," the company promises on its trade-in page.
"Plus, for a limited time we'll give you $50, so you can trade up to the new
device you want today." T-Mobile hasn't given an end date for this promotion but
said it's for a "limited time."

eBay:  If you're looking to sell your phone on eBay, the online retailer is
still offering a pretty good deal, promising that it will give you a $100 coupon
for your phone even if you can't sell it. It is also boasting that phones are
selling for up to $400 on the site - that plum price is for a 64GB iPhone 5s in
"excellent" condition - and claims that, overall, its top price is up to $200
better than the average price sellers are getting from other trade-in programs.
This deal ends Oct. 24, and you only have 14 days to redeem your $100 coupon if
your phone doesn't sell.

Other options:  There are several other resellers online such as Gazelle and
Amazon, or you can take your chances on the open market with Craigslist. Before
you do that, be sure to deactivate the "Find my iPhone" service and wipe the
data from your phone. It's also always a good idea to pop out your SIM card
(subscriber identity module card).

There are also a ton of other retailers that have trade-in programs - Target,
GameStop, RadioShack, Best Buy and Apple itself to name a few - so even if you
missed the best iPhone trade-in deals, you should still be able to get something
for your old phone.

hayley.tsukayama@washpost.com

