                              16 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                           September 15, 2014 Monday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



Big Waits For Big iPhone As Pre-Orders Get Hot Start; 3- Or 4-Week Waits

Indicated



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ



SECTION: INTERNET & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A05



LENGTH: 523 words





Apple began taking pre-orders for its new smartphones on Friday, and the larger,

more expensive iPhone 6 Plus sold out quickly. Many buyers will have to wait

weeks to get the 5.5-inch screen model.



Apple likely gets higher profit margins from the larger-screen handset. Apple

stock is up more than 3% since its product unveiling Tuesday that besides the

iPhone 6 included the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and the Apple Watch.



The new iPhones will be available on Sept. 19 in the U.S. and nine other

regions. But consumers trying to pre-order the new handsets were quickly met

with delays. The iPhone 6 Plus appears especially supply constrained, analysts

say.



Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White said Apple's website began taking orders

for the new phones at 4 a.m. Eastern time Friday, an hour later than past

pre-order start times. Expected delivery times for the iPhone 6 Plus soon

lengthened, even more so at websites for carriers AT&T,Verizon and Sprint, he

said in a note Friday.



On Friday afternoon, Apple was showing shipping times of seven to 10 days for

some models of the iPhone 6, and three to four weeks for all models of the

iPhone 6 Plus. AT&T's online store showed shipping times of 21 to 35 business

days for some models of the iPhone 6.



AT&T said iPhone 6 Plus handsets ordered Friday afternoon wouldn't ship until

between Nov.2 and 27.



Still, both Apple and AT&T listed certain colors and data storage configurations

of the iPhone 6 as available on launch day.



The scarcity of the iPhone 6 Plus could be as much to do with shortages from

manufacturing issues as with consumer demand, Wells Fargo Securities analyst

Maynard Umsaid in a note Friday.



If the preference toward the iPhone 6 Plus holds, it could provide a boost to

Apple's profits, Um said. The iPhone 6 Plus costs $100 more than the iPhone 6,

but the additional bill of materials for the device couldbe less than $100, he

said.



Um, however, expects a shift later to lower-cost models.



"Early adopters seem to have a tendency to buy 'up,' "he said. Global Equities

Research analyst Trip Chowdhry surveyed 150-plus attendees at three tech

conferences in San Francisco this week to gauge interest in the iPhone 6.



Demand for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus "will likely be extremely strong," at least

among the technorati, he said.



Based on the survey, Chowdhry expects the majority of the iPhone users to

upgrade to the iPhone 6 lineup. And 30% of Google Android phone users surveyed

said they might switch to the iPhone 6, he said.



Survey respondents said the addition of the Apple Pay service to iPhone 6 is a

key reason to move to the new handset, Chowdhry said. Apple Pay lets users make

retail purchases with a wave of their phone instead of swiping a plastic credit

card.



Also, interested iPhone 6 buyers said they are most likely to get handsets with

64 gigabytes of data storage rather than the base models that come with 16 GB.

Apple gets more profit from phones with higher amounts of flash memory.



"The price difference between a 16 GB iPhone 6 and a 64 GB iPhone 6 is $100. Our

research indicates that the bill of materials probably increases only by about

$10 to $15," Chowdhry said.



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2014 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





