                              171 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              Scottish Daily Mail



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Scotland



Great iPhone debacle...new handset bends in your pocket say customers



BYLINE: Ben Spencer



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 568 words





APPLE is facing claims that its new thinner iPhones can bend out of shape in the

pocket.



The problem is especially pronounced for the £620 iPhone 6 Plus, which has a

slimline body but a supersized screen.



Pictures and videos of warped and damaged iPhones swept the internet yesterday

as hundreds of users realised their new smartphones were ruined.



One video, uploaded to YouTube by Lewis Hilsenteger of US website Unbox Therapy,

shows the iPhone 6 Plus bending under the pressure of his fingers alone. Last

night the video had been viewed more than 13.8million times.



One new iPhone 6 Plus user told the MacRumors website that his phone had become

irreversibly bent after he sat on it during a long drive.



'The 6 Plus was about 18 hours in my pocket while sitting mostly,' he said. 'As

I lay it on the coffee table and sat down on the couch to relax from the drive,

I saw the reflection of the window in the iPhone slightly distorted.' Bent

phones appeared to work as normal, but some screens shattered if they were

forced back into shape.



The problem has echoes of the launch of the iPhone 4 in 2010, when Apple was

forced to give new owners a free case to solve an antenna problem.



The new models - the 6¼-inch iPhone 6 Plus and 5½-inch iPhone 6 - sold more than

10million in the three days after they were launched last Friday, breaking

records for opening weekend sales.



There is no suggestion that a phone would bend if it was not put under sustained

pressure, but many users will be concerned at the new models' apparent lack of

robustness.



The iPhone 6 Plus and the £539 iPhone 6, which are both about a quarter of an

inch thick, are each housed in a single piece of lightweight moulded aluminium

alloy - a feature that commentators say is behind the lack of durability.



Apple yesterday refused to comment on the reported problems. But the weak area

of the phone appears to be around the volume buttons where the frame is at its

thinnest.



Many of the images of damaged phones appear to show the bends occurring where

segments of the shell were cut out to make room for the buttons. When

significant and prolonged pressure is placed on the phone, the buttons seem to

create a fulcrum point around which the phone bends.



Industry analysts said that if consumers want lightweight phones with ever

bigger screens, they might have to stop putting them in their pockets.



Apple is not the first to have the problem of smartphones bending as firms try

to put larger screens on thinner and lighter bodies. Sony's Xperia Z1 drew

complaints that it bent in pockets, and there were similar problems with the

Samsung Galaxy S4 and the Black-Berry Q10.



b.spencer@dailymail.co.uk Facts and figures: The iPhone 6 Plus ?CASE: Made from

a single piece of aluminium alloy rather than plastic, which would be more

robust ?SCREEN: The supersized 5½-inch HD Retina screen is Apple's biggest yet,

following competitors' success with larger models ?LENGTH: The phone is 6¼

inches long - nearly 1½ inches longer than the iPhone 5 - creating more

potential for the body to bend under pressure ?THICKNESS: At about a quarter of

an inch thick, it is a shade slimmer than the iPhone 5 ?WEIGHT: Just over 6oz

?COST: £619 for a 16GB model, £699 for 64GB and £789 for 128GB ? SALES: There

are no UK sales figures yet but more than 1,000 queued outside Apple's Covent

Garden store in London on Friday morning to get one



'Stop putting them in pockets'



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Warped: Picture posted on the internet showing bent iPhone



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot





                    Copyright 2014 Associated Newpapers Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





