                              174 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday



Phone camera face-off



SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight



LENGTH: 255 words





Since the original iPhone was launched, no other smartphone camera has come

close to matching Apple's flagship mobile device in speed, details, colours and

ease of use.



Until now.



Samsung's Galaxy Note 4 came close last year to matching the iPhone 6 Plus in

camera smarts.



Now, with the cameras in its Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 edge, Samsung has done it.

With their f1.9 aperture, the cameras in both S6 devices do better than that of

the iPhone 6 Plus, especially in low light.



The difference in daytime results is not as marked. But the S6's 16MP camera

delivers greater details than the camera in the iPhone 6 Plus.



When Samsung simplified the user interface, options to record video in slow and

fast motion are no longer buried under pages of menus.



These following images were shot with default settings and HDR off.



By Sherwin Loh



Samsung Galaxy 6



iPhone 6 Plus



Image Set 1



This indoor shot of Seletar Mall shows the prowess of the f1.9 aperture of the

lens of the Samsung Galaxy S6's camera, compared with f2.2 on the iPhone 6 Plus.



A wider aperture allows more light in, producing brighter images in low-light

conditions.



In the shot from the Galaxy S6, all levels of the mall are well lit, whereas the

image from the iPhone 6 Plus has a blue tinge.



Samsung Galaxy 6



-- ST PHOTOS: SHERWIN LO



iPhone 6 Plus



Image Set 2



Under normal indoor lighting, both cameras produced beautiful shots with great

details and contrast.



The S6 offers a whiter colour balance, giving it a more natural look. The iPhone

image has a more yellowish hue.



LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2015 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





