

Apple iPhone 6: Pricing and release date confirmed for Apple's all new smart
phone

Apple finally revealed the iPhone 6 last night in a packed launch event in
California.

As expected, the tech giant unveiled two models of the new device - the iPhone 6
and the larger iPhone 6 Plus - which has an improved camera, bigger screen and
better battery life.

Rabid Apple fans have already started camping outside the company's flagship
stores in London and around the world, eager to be among the first to own the
new devices.

Here's all the information we have about the new iPhones, including when and how
you'll be able to get your hands on one!iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

Apple unveiled two models of iPhone last night. The 4.7" iPhone 6 is their
standard model, and is the direct descendant of the iPhone 5S.

The iPhone 6 Plus, while containing most of the same innards as the 6, is a
different beast in many ways. Designed to hit the part of the smartphone market
dominated by big-screen phones like Samsung's Galaxy Note, it has a huge 5.5"
screen - the biggest an iPhone has ever had by far.

There are also differences to battery life and performance, and a slightly
upgraded camera - but in all other respects the devices are the same.Release
date

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus will both be available in stores from 8am on September
19th.

Most mobile networks will be taking pre-orders from 8am on September
12th.Options

As with the iPhone 5s, the 6 and 6 Plus will both be available in Silver, Space
Grey, and gold. All three colours will be available at launch.

The storage options have been upgraded for the 6 and 6 Plus. The base storage
remains at 16GB, but above that it jumps to 64GB. A new 128GB option has been
introduced, and the 32GB option has been removed.

The iPhone 5S is still available in 16GB and 32GB, and the 5C is still available
with 8GB.Price

The networks haven't begun announcing their subsidised prices yet, but here's
how much an unlocked 6 or 6 Plus will set you back if you buy it direct from
Apple.

iPhone 6 pricing

iPhone 6 Plus pricing

To give an idea of how much the subsidy is likely to be, here's what it'll cost
in the States to buy one on a two year contract. $199 is about £123.40.

iPhone 6 US pricing

iPhone 6 Plus US pricing  Screen

The new screens aren't just bigger, Apple say they're better too.

The iPhone 6 has a 4.7" screen with the same 326 pixels-per-inch (ppi)
resolution as the 5S - but a vastly improved contrast ratio and wider viewing
angle.

The iPhone 6 Plus, though, is a different beast entirely. It has a huge 5.5"
screen with an increased 401ppi resolution, which will result in sharper images.

If you're thinking the screen might be too big for your thumb to reach the top,
worry not. A quick double touch on the phone's home button will temporarily
slide everything down the display to put it within the reach of your
digits.Camera

The improvements to the iPhone's camera are always among the highlights of Apple
events, and this time was no exception.

The new range hold a respectable 8MP sensor, with 'focus pixels' to allow
quicker auto-focus - a feature you'd expect to find on higher end cameras.

It'll do 43 megapixel panorama shots, too and the optical image stabiliser in
the 6 Plus will allow for much sharper photos in low light,

But the most impressive feature of all is the slow motion function. It goes
beyond the solid, day-to-day functions of the camera - to something that seems
almost magical. It was the feature you wanted to show off to your friends when
it was introduced in iOS 7, and it's even better now it'll take more
frames-per-second.

Apple iPhone 6: Slo-mo video revealed at 240 fps  Battery life

Apple say they've improved the iPhone 6 battery in "every metric" compared to
the iPhone 5S.

The two new models  will have equal or better battery life than the previous
handset in every category, Apple's Phil Schiller said.

The iPhone 6 will be able to support 50 hours of audio playback - up from 40
hours on the iPhone 5s; 11 hours of video, up from 10 hours with the previous
model; and 11 hours of WiFi browsing, also up from 10 hours.

The larger iPhone 6 Plus will support 80 hours of music listening, 14 hours of
video, and 12 hours of WiFi browsing.Digital payments

Apple Pay is only out in the States for now, but the tech giant are hoping it
leads to them revolutionising the payments industry in the same way they did the
music industry.

A lofty goal, but with shares in Paypal dipping sharply after it was announced,
it's clear people think Apple can pull it off.

Apple Pay lets you tie your credit or debit card to your iPhone and/or Apple
Watch, so you can make payments with a single tap.

Apple say the system is secure. Each transaction is made directly between you
and the merchant, so Apple never see how much you've spent and what on.

Also, if you leave your phone somewhere, you can just suspend Apple Pay using
Find My iPhone, without having to go through the hassle of cancelling your
credit card.

Now we just have to wait for Mastercard, Visa and American Express to adopt it
in this country...and for retailers over here to follow suit.

