                              181 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                         Business Mirror (Philippines)



                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday



Happy holidays: The iPhone makes its way to phablet territory



BYLINE: Gerard Ramos



LENGTH: 891  words





STEVE JOBS the late founder of Apple, once famously dismissed the competition's

race to shoehorn increasingly bigger screens into smartphones, likening the

endproducts to "Hummers", those luxury SUVs that look like miniaturized

tankssilly, unwieldy and even downright vulgar given the limited road space of

any neighborhood, except perhaps in, say, Dubai.



"No one is going to buy them," Jobs said in a July 2010 news conference.



Fastforward to September 2014 and with millions of "phablets"as these

smartphone/tablet hybrids have come to be callednow in the hands of consumers

worldwide, Apple decided to crash the bigscreen party, unveiling at its

Cupertino, California, headquarters not just the iPhone 6 with its 4.7inch

Retina HD Display but also the iPhone 6 Plusa surprising piece of kit that packs

a 5.5inch screen but with dimensions that push it straight into phablet

territory, rivaled in size only by Sony Xperia T2 Ultra and its 6inch screen

and, before it, the Sony Xperia Z Ultra with its 6.4inch display.



Not surprisingly, these latest releases from Apple have found their way into the

postpaid subscriber offerings portfolio of Globe Telecom, the leading wireless

communications provider around these parts which forged a hugely successful

partnership with Apple beginning with the release of the firstgeneration iPhone

in 2007.



In a statement released to the media, Globe Telecom Senior Vice President for

Consumer Mobile Marketing Issa Cabreira said, "Finally, the iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus have arrived in the Philippines and Globe is beaming with excitement to

bring the latest iPhones to Filipinos. With our longstanding partnership with

Apple, we are poised to provide a complete digital experience to consumers:

bestinclass postpaid plans, exclusive privileges and the biggest rewards, and a

complete suite of valueadded services and apps."



In its revised pricing offer particularly for the iPhone 6 Plus, which was made

effective on December 22, Globe now offers the bigscreened sibling of the iPhone

6 at Plan999 with a monthly cashout of P1,250 for 24 months. With the plan comes

the following: unlimited calls and texts to Globe/TM and GoSURF499 with 1.5GB of

data monthly. With a GoSURF499 subscription, customers get a Navigation Bundle

for unlimited access to Accuweather, Google Maps, GrabTaxi, MMDA app, and Waze;

1GB of Globe Cloud; onemonth access to Wattpad; a month's access to NBA League

Pass; and threemonth access to Spotify Premium.



The carrier's socalled Reset program, which allows existing postpaid customers

to renew or extend their existing account to get the latest babies from

Cupertino, is available until today, December 31.



Globe loaned us an iPhone 6 Plus to play with during the holidays, and what can

we say?



It is BIGmeasuring 6.22 inches in height and 3.06 inches in width, there's no

other way to describe it. While the iPhone 6 Plus has the same screen size as

that of the bestselling LG G3, the Plus is notably taller and a smidgen wider.



The seemingly unnecessary height can be easily attributed to the fact that Apple

can't simply do away with that round home button that sits just below the screen

of every iPhone and iPad in existence. That said, it is much slimmerjust at 7.67

mm, while LG's flagship comes in at 8.9 mm. No doubt, some would prefer the

modelthin proportions of the iPhone 6 Plus, while others would say the bit of

girth the G3 provides makes it easier to use. Needless to say, mileage among

users with different predilections will vary.



As in earlier iPhone generations, the build quality of the iPhone 6 Plus is

exemplary. The smooth aluminum that wraps the back of our loaner unitin space

gray; gold and silver variants are availableis delicious to the touch, the sides

gently rounded out to seemingly fuse with the shatterproof glass that protects

the LEDbacklit IPS LCD capacitive touchscreen. It's a sublime touch that

heightens the sense of premium iPhone users are predisposed to crow about.



And, yes, we have read reports and seen videos of the socalled #Bendgate, with

users despairing about their iPhone 6 Plus emerging bent from their pockets, but

in the couple of weeks we have been toting around the loaner unit in our pocket,

we have yet to discern even the slightest warping. Knock wood.



The display has a 1,080AA¢â(EURO)sÂ¬"1,920 resolution and401 ppi pixel

densityand it is one of the best displays out there in the smartphone/phablet

space, with color and clarity as such that still and moving images appear even

more lifelike. The display also boasts of a new polarizer that makes the screen

quite viewable even under the sun, and Apple also appears to have upped up the

contrast levels from previous iPhones, all these making the overall viewing

experience an absolute delight.



Of course, a bigger screen inevitably impacts battery life, and we don't need to

tell you that the battery woes of iPhone users have been gleefully mocked by

Samsung on several occasions.



Thankfully, Apple saw the wisdom in shoehorning a powerful LiPo 2915 mAh battery

into its first offering in the phablet space, and that has given us a day and a

half of typical usage that includes intermittent browsing and working email and

various social media accounts on LTE and WiFi, and either listening to music or

watching episodes of Downton Abbey, while caught up in mad holiday traffic.



LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 Business Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





