                              185 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                     September 15, 2014 Monday 4:20 PM GMT



iPhone 6 and 6 Plus pre-orders smash Apple company records



BYLINE: Standard Reporter



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 364 words





Pre-orders for the next generation of iPhones have smashed company records,

Apple has announced.



First-day orders of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus saw four million units sold

within 24 hours - more than twice as many as for the iPhone 5 when it first went

on sale.



The devices became available to pre-order on Friday after it was unveiled last

week at a huge event in California.



Both devices will be available in new sizes for the first time, with the iPhone

6 offering a 4.7-inch screen, while the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen Apple

has ever produced for a smartphone at 5.5 inches.



The number of orders appears to have caught the technology giant off-guard, as

the firm stated that some devices might not reach customers until next month.



"Demand for the new iPhones exceeds the initial pre-order supply and while a

significant amount will be delivered to customers beginning on Friday and

throughout September, many iPhone pre-orders are scheduled to be delivered in

October," it said.



Apple CEO Tim Cook, who unveiled the new smartphones on stage in Cupertino, said

the figures showed the enduring popularity of the iPhone.



Related stories



He said: "iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are better in every way, and we are

thrilled customers love them as much as we do. Pre-orders for iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus set a new record for Apple, and we can't wait to get our best

iPhones yet into the hands of customers starting this Friday."



Stuart Miles, CEO and founder of technology website Pocket-lint, believes that

customers are still drawn to Apple because of the way its products are designed.



"It's clear that people still very much love Apple products and that they really

do want a much bigger screen on their phones, and with four million units

already sold, and presumably thousands more to be sold over the weekend, the

excuses people had for leaving for Android are dwindling fast. It's also clear

that customers, when they can afford it, are happy to pay for design and build

quality over just getting something on the cheap."



Fans keen to get hold of one of the new iPhones have already begun to camp

outside the Regent Street Apple Store in anticipation of the launch on Friday.



LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





