

After months of rumours, Apple has   unveiled its   much-anticipated new iPhone
6.

Not only were fans treated to one new phone but two new phones, plus a watch.

While the iPhone 6 - which will be available to buy in black or gold - is bigger
than previous models, it is dramatically thinner, at  under 7mm thick.

Likewise, the iPhone 6 Plus, or "phablet'' - phone/tablet - as it has been
nicknamed   in the Mercury offices, is a little  more than 7mm thick - despite
it looking more like a small tablet than a phone.

Stephen Ebbett, global director of gadget insurer Protect Your Bubble, said: "If
ever there was a gadget to make the clothing industry reassess its average
pocket size, it's the iPhone 6 Plus.

"Although the iPhone 6 Plus is smaller than its biggest rival - at 5.5 inches to
the Samsung Galaxy Note 4's   5.7 inches".

Both the iPhone 6, which will cost from £539 and iPhone 6 Plus, which will cost
from £619 will be available to buy on September 19.

Then there's the Apple Watch. Working in synch with the iPhone 5, 5c, 5s, 6 and
6 Plus, the watch is said to get to know you the way a personal trainer would.
Apparently the watch will be able to send and receive messages, answer calls and
share personal information.

It will come in a range of colours and sizes and will be available to buy early
next year.

Talking about the watch, Mr Ebbett said:  "For die-hard Apple fans its smart
watch was the inevitable next step and a clear move into the wearables market
that has yet to really get off the ground.

"With interchangeable watch straps, it is surely only a matter of time before
high-end fashion houses and high-street retailers alike start producing their
own accessories for this highly-desirable wrist candy.

"Unsurprisingly, fitness is a key focus of the watch, by enabling all the health
aspects of a good sports app with the functionality of a good sports watch."

The last time Apple launched an iPhone was about two years ago, when dozens of
gadget fans queued up throughout the night outside Highcross, in Leicester, to
get the iPhone 5 -  and it is expected to happen again later this month.

