

Friday was a special day for Apple fans, as the new-generation iPhones - iPhone
6 and iPhone 6 Plus - were released in Hong Kong and eight other markets around
the world. While the unveiling of the new devices is likely to spur a new round
of shopping spree on smartphone accessories, business owners in Shenzhen remain
wary of the potential commercial opportunities, given their past failure in
assessing the market.

Traders (bottom) buy the newly-released Apple iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus from
people who had successfully purchased the devices earlier from the Apple store
on Friday in Mong Kok. Roy Liu / China Daily

Friday was a special day for Apple fans, as the new-generation iPhones - iPhone
6 and iPhone 6 Plus - were released in Hong Kong and eight other markets around
the world. While the unveiling of the new devices is likely to spur a new round
of shopping spree on smartphone accessories, business owners in Shenzhen remain
wary of the potential commercial opportunities, given their past failure in
assessing the market.

At Huaqiang North, a high-tech industrial zone in Shenzhen, a vendor of Pisen,
an enterprise that develops, produces and sells smartphone accessories, said the
company has yet to manufacture cases for the new iPhones, as market demand of
the product is uncertain at the present time.

"Right now we don't know (the response of) the market to the new iPhones," he
said. "As our factory makes tens of thousands of phone cases at a time, we shall
wait and see the market situation before (proceeding to) mass production."

Chen Peiyan, a saleswoman in another electronics store, told China Daily that
some companies have learned their lessons from the release of iPhone 4 and now
choose to produce new iPhone accessories at a later time.

"Some factories manufactured a large number of iPhone 4 cases in advance in
expectation of a huge market demand. However, the reality was that they
overestimated the situation and overproduced the product," Chen said. "So this
time, they are more cautious."

In the virtual world, however, accessories of new iPhones are hotly traded.
Apple lovers rush to Taobao, the biggest online shopping site in mainland, to
choose beautiful decorations for their forthcoming new favorites. In an online
store that sells digital accessories, 100 iPhone 6 cases are booked in a day.
The shop owner said the accessories will be delivered to the buyers next week.

"My boyfriend pre-ordered an iPhone 6 for me on Apple's official website. So I
need to buy a lovely phone case in advance to welcome my iPhone baby," a shopper
at the online store wrote.

Apple fans raised a buying frenzy on Sept 12 when the California-based company
began to accept pre-orders of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus globally. Reservations
of the two types of smartphones reached a record high of more than four million
in just 24 hours, doubling the figure of iPhone 5, launched in 2012. In Hong
Kong, the first batch of new iPhones was snapped up by fans on the first day of
its booking.

"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible, with a record
number of pre-orders overnight," Apple's spokeswoman Trudy Muller said.

In Shenzhen's Huangqiang North district, price for a 16-gigabyte grey iPhone 6
has been pushed up to 18,000 yuan ($2932.9), while that for iPhone 5s has
dropped several hundred yuan to approximately 3,800 yuan. Some vendors estimate
that price of the new smartphone will fall below 10,000 yuan in two or three
months' time.

Apple published its second round of selling regions on its official website last
Friday, with the mainland absent from the list again. Some people suspect that
mainland buyers may not be able to buy the new iPhones within the year.

sally@chinadailyhk.com

(HK Edition 09/20/2014 page6)

