                              205 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Apple unveils the Watch, larger iPhones at star-studded event



LENGTH: 841  words





Apple Inc unveiled a new watch, two larger iPhones and a mobile payments service

on Tuesday as Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook seeks to revive the company's

reputation as a wellspring of innovation.



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



CUPERTINO, Calif. - Apple Inc unveiled a new watch, two larger iPhones and a

mobile payments service on Tuesday as Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook seeks to

revive the company's reputation as a wellspring of innovation.



The first new product to be developed and introduced under Cook's reign is a

wearable device tethered to the iPhone that will combine health and fitness

tracking with communications.



Rival watch and wearable device makers are keeping a wary eye on Apple, which

up-ended the music industry and drove once-dominant phone makers like Blackberry

to the brink of extinction, and whose iPad helped shrink personal computer sales

for a time before they recently recovered.



It has an enviable track record when it comes to mobile hardware, though it

tends not to be the first to introduce a new-fangled product category. Rival

electronics giants such as Sony Corp, Samsung, LG Electronics Inc and Qualcomm

Inc have already launched smartwatches, albeit without much success.



The "Apple Watch" will come in three distinct collections, including a sport

edition and an upscale line coated in 18-karat gold.



"Compared to what's out there, it feels like it's very slender. I like the level

of elegance and the three different lines, which include sport and luxury," said

Angela Tafoya, at fashion blog Refinery29.



Bernstein Research analyst Toni Sacconaghi estimated on Tuesday that if Apple

were to sell 30 million watches at $250 each, it would add about $7.5 billion to

its revenue.



The pressure was on for the world's largest tech company to wow at its "special

event" in Cupertino. The prospect of the new watch attracted a broader swathe of

attendees than usual, with celebrities, fashion industry editors and even

healthcare executives rounding out the mostly tech-industry crowd.



On Tuesday, the company also took the wraps off a larger, 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and

5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus. They will support more than 200 telecoms carriers

worldwide, including all three in China - a key growth market for the company.



It also introduced a new mobile payments service dubbed "Apple Pay". Each phone

will come equipped with its new payments service, which launches in the United

States next month and allows users to pay for items in stores with their phones

instead of physically presenting their credit or debit cards.



The move gives Apple access to a trove of data on how consumers shop in brick

and mortar stores, where more than 90 percent of US retail sales are still

conducted.



Barclays Capital said in a Sept 5 note that the mobile payments feature would

give Apple "one of the largest sets of consumer transaction data in the US".



Each new iPhone will come with a "secure element" chip and a near-field

communications, or NFC, antenna.



In a rare move for the company, Apple had planned on livecasting its event

online, with a simultaneous translation in Chinese. But the livestream went down

for many users about a half-hour in, prompting many to take to Twitter to

express their frustrations.



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice-president at Apple, Inc. speaks about the iPhone 6

and the iPhone 6 Plus during an Apple event at the Flint Center in Cupertino,

California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice-President at Apple, Inc. speaks about the battery

life of the Iphone 5s, Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo

by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice-President at Apple, Inc. speaks about the iPhone 6

during an Apple event at the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9,

2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



IPhone 6 Plus starts at $299 with a two-year contract. [Photo by Eric

Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks in front of a row of iPhones during an Apple event at

the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple Pay combines seamlessly integrated hardware, software, and services in a

way only Apple can. [Photo by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple unveils the Apple Watch, calling it the company's "next chapter". [Photo

by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple unveils the Apple Watch, calling it the company's "next chapter". [Photo

by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks about the Apple Watch during an Apple event at the

Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple unveils the Apple Watch, calling it the company's "next chapter". [Photo

by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple Watch will start at $349, available early 2015. [Photo by Eric

Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





