

Apple unveiled the Iphone 6 and Iphone 6 Plus at its event held on September 9
in California, and priced these for $199 for the iPhone 6 16GB version and $299
for the iPhone 6 Plus 16GB version, both with two year contract. These were
pretty good prices, especially if you convert these in to INR! As the prices of
the phones for the US and UK market were revealed, it was obvious for people in
markets like India to make speculation around the possible price of the newbies
in their respective countries. In our case, new iPhones price in India became a
national issue!

Taking hint from the Apple's pricing strategy in the history some people even
speculated the prices for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus to go up to a Lakh (A seller on
Ebay even priced it for that much!). The price speculation got even intense when
Apple suddenly decided to change the launch date of the phones to October 17
(the Friday before Diwali), from what it had earlier flashed to be September 27.
However, Apple seems to be indecisive about the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus debut in
India, as it now has removed the launch date information from its website in
India, leading to even more speculations being made around their launch date as
well as prices! And as usual, the company is keeping a mum about it!

We know about the features and specifications of the phones, and also know that
the new iPhones this year do not really bring much design innovation or boast
unique features, which otherwise is the 'USP' of Apple! The lack-of-innovation
factor has left many Apple fans disappointed to a great extend, and left some
completely heartbroken! (We have our sympathies with them!) But doesn't a
mediocre design, which resembles some of the Android phones, indicate something!

We ask you that what you think is the USP of the new iPhones! Is it the bigger
display or better processing power and camera or something else! Well, we
believe that it is the 'price' of the phones this time. We strongly believe that
the company will launch these phones at a surprisingly low price point in India.
Not convinced? We tell you why!

Lock it!

Last year, Apple partnered with Reliance and Airtel to launch the locked
variants of the iPhone 5S and 5C on contract basis. Under this, the company was
offering the iPhone 5S and 5C at subsidized rates under a contract model for
those buying the new iPhones from the network operator. The company was letting
consumer buy these iPhones by paying upfront costs as low as zero! As a part of
the contract, users were supposed to pay fixed monthly charges for 2 years.
Though, there were terms and conditions applied. The contact model seemed
attractive with the Own-an-iPhone-5S-or-5C-for-free, but got a mixed bag of
reactions from consumers. Apple was essentially testing if Indian consumers were
open to the idea of contract-based phones. With these contact plans in line,
Apple figured out how its consumers in India would react to its contract-based
future iPhones.

If Apple introduces the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in India on subsidized prices
this year as well, bundling better operator service plans, it could change the
market dynamics completely. The 16GB versions of the iPhone 6 priced at $199 and
iPhone 6 Plus priced at $299,w hich translates to INR 12,100 approximately and
INR 18,200 approximately respectively, before import taxes and other duties.
With taxes and duties, this would come to INR 15,000 and INR 23,000 respectively
(speculated prices). Also, considering that iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are assembled by
FoxConn in China, if Apple imports these devices directly from China it will
reduce the import duty that the company would pay otherwise for bringing the
stocks via the US. This could result in comparatively lower prices. (A little
trick indeed, which could help Apple gain a hold in Indian market!)

If introduced at such low price points, the iPhone 6 could hit the market of the
Android phones that are placed in the affordable segment, while iPhone 6 Plus
can easily beat against those priced upward of INR 20K. For the iPhone 5S which
has now been reduced to $99 (that is somewhere around INR 5000 on a simple
currency conversion), and iPhone 5C which is available for free in the US (do we
need to do a coversion here?), if launched at good prices on contract even for
two years, you can very well imagine what will happen to the budget market
curently dominated by Xiaomi RedMi 1S and Motorola Moto E.

Planned well (of course, we are talking about on-contrct iphones), Apple iPhone
6 Plus could affect the likes of Sony Xperia Z3, premium Samsung phones,
including the Alpha and Note 4, HTC One M8 and others. Apple iPhone 6 could
affect the market for the likes of Sony Xperia Z3 Compact,  Motorola's Moto X,
HTC Desire 830 and Nexus 5. The placement of iPhone 5S would hit Motorola Moto G
(2nd gen) priced at INR 12,999, Micromax's newly launched Canvas Nitro priced at
INR 12,990, Xiaomi Mi 3 priced at INR 13,999, and many other such devices in
this segment.

Why would Apple do so? Why not!

It's a different Apple this time?

With Steve Jobs as Apple's head who announced that he could go "thermonuclear on
Android" and will go everything possible to kill Android, going budget would not
have been possible. But with Tim Cook now taking the battle forward, it seems
very much on the horizon. The re-launch of a cheaper iPhone 4 8GB last year; EMI
options on iPhone last year, students discount on iPhones, regular discounts
throughout the year (aggressively after January 2014) and (1) an Android-like OS
this year (2) an Android phone like form factor this year (3) well aware of the
fact that people in India are crazy about iPhones, but it is the budget
constraint that inhibits them to go for a INR 50K phone - Apple is clearly
pitching the budget handset market. The only hindrance in Apple's approach could
be the price factor, which if strategically planned has the potential to steal
away market share from most of the popular budget players.

The Boss who could take risk and challenge

The way Tim Cook has gone bigger on an iPad, philanthropic about Apple's
manufacturing, ditching the premium design of iPhone in favor of a mediocre
design, gone to China and looking at it as its major market (which Steve Jobs
would have never done, except the love of music which connects the two Apple
executives!) - Tim Cook has emerged as a Boss who takes risks, (we can't call
him an innovator though!) and it won't be hard to accept if he decides to play
around prices this time. Well, this means he would take another risk this time
which we speculate will pay him back.

READ - 5 ingredients for a new Apple pie: Will Tim Cook become the new Innovator
of Steve Jobs' company?

Ever seen Apple as aggressive as today?

Moreover, Apple is following an aggressive marketing to improve its market
share, and that was clearly visible in its recent event. There were mainly FOUR
moves that Apple made to prove that it is targeting mid-range segment as well as
Android with its new devices.

(1) iOS8, Android Style!

The first thing to notice was that the company has somewhat simplified features
and services in its latest iOS 8 update. It seems more user-friendly, and
closely resembles Android. Be it the flatter icons, support for third party
Keyboards, iCloud Drive, improved Siri with 'Hey, Siri' voice command support to
launch the voice assistant, interactive notifications, voice message support and
location sharing support in iMessage service and more, Android already offers
similar features on its interface.

CNet says that, "They (Android fans) say imitation (by Apple) is the sincerest
form of flattery - well, many of Apple's "new" features are already available on
Google's operating system and have been for quite some time."

(2) And the mysteriously missing 'i' this time

Secondly, Apple chose to leave the 'I' behind for its new wallet service and
named it as the Apple Pay, which is a landmark statement to show that it is
creating a new identity for its services.

This could mean that the company might would want to keeps premium products and
services (without an 'I') and with the premium established brand name that
carries the 'I', go budget 'actually'.

While the 'I' stood for seamless connectivity with the 'Internet' according to
Jobs, chucking it out could also mean taking a step forward towards changing the
identity of products itself.

(3) Apple Pay: Apple way to Pay (Chuck out the Wallet please!)

The Apple Pay is put against the Android Wallet, though both are not available
in India. However, Apple's partnership with Mastercard, Visa card, and American
Express, and easy and secure transaction system could be done to make it easily
operational in emerging markets as well.

(4) We probably forgot to mention 3G market this time

As seen on the company's website, Apple would most likely partner with Aircel
and Airtel for offering on-contract iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in India, unlike
last year when it had partnered with Reliance Communications as well as Airtel.
Now the point to notice is that while Airtel has its 4G network in few cities in
India, Reliance is in the process of building a pan-India 4G network, but Aircel
is a purely 3G player, with very good presence in 2 tier markets. Apple
especially mentioned that iPhone 6 would support 20 LTE bands, it would not
really pitch only the LTE segment in India. Its possible partnership with Aircel
could mean launch in 3G markets as well, which is known to go crazy only about
budget phones.

Is not it convincing enough! Do write to us what do you think about it!

