                              230 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

                                 Hobart Edition



Time for a change as devices go slim and sexy



BYLINE: ROD CHESTER



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14



LENGTH: 421  words





REVIEW FORGET about the TV show in which fat people get thin, Bringing Sexy Back

could be the advertising campaign for the Apple Watch.



The first thing you notice about the Watch is that there isn't much watch to

notice. It comes in two sizes, a 38mm and a 42mm, and three models.



Those three models mean that the same basic watch is dressed up in three ways,

making it attractive to more than one market, and more than just the tech-heads.



I tried on the Watch and it was noticeably lighter than the Garmin 220 runner's

watch that is usually on my wrist. The Watch Sport, with an alloy case, is even

lighter.



Just like the home button on your iPhone lets you control everything, the

digital crown on the side of the Watch is your first port of call.



Roll it and apps slide up or down, touch it to select what you want. The obvious

question about the Apple Watch is "do you need to wear it as a companion to your

iPhone".



The answer is yes, no and maybe.



Let's say you want to go out for a run. If you have your iPhone with you, the

Watch pairs to the smartphone and uses the GPS in the phone to give you pace and

distance information.



If you don't want to carry an iPhone on your run, the Watch will still measure

your pace and distance using a built-in accelerometer.



You can pair your Watch with a iPhone 5 or higher, and the Watch lets you use

Apple Pay.



So, while you will only be able to use the Apple Pay tap-and-touch with an

iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, if you have a iPhone 5, 5S or 5C and an Apple Watch

you can still tap-and-touch to pay.



While the Apple Watch stole the show, two new iPhones are nothing to scoff at.

The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus were just as expected.



Yes, they are thin. Yes, they are big.



The iPhone 6 Plus, like all phablets, presents a challenge for some small hands.

I had trouble reaching the top of its screen when holding it with one hand - but

the new double tap gesture helps there. Just tap twice (not press) on the home

button and the app drops down so that it only takes up the bottom half of the

screen, putting even the top row of icons within easy reach.



One weakness of the iPhone has always been its battery. The iPhone 6 Plus is

said to give 12 hours of Wi-Fi browsing (compared to 10 hours for the 5S) and 80

hours of audio (40 hours on the iPhone 5S).



Now, with Apple and Samsung both in the phablet market, you no longer have to

compare Apples with oranges.Apple fought a long battle against phablets and

lost. The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus show that some battles are worth

losing.



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Hobart Mercury





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





