                              235 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                          International New York Times



                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday



Apple sells 10 million new iPhones in 3 days



BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN and MIKE ISAAC



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 16



LENGTH: 556 words



ABSTRACT



Sales of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus beat sales of last year's new models in their

first three days.



FULL TEXT



Early sales of Apple's new iPhones have lived up to high expectations.



Apple said on Monday that it had sold more than 10 million of the iPhone 6 and 6

Plus models in the first three days they were available in stores. That is more

than the nine million new iPhones it sold last year in their first weekend on

sale.



The phones' larger screens - 4.7 diagonal inches for the 6 and 5.5 for the 6

Plus - are a considerable jump from the 4-inch screens of earlier iPhones.



The iPhone sales were on the upper end of financial analysts' expectations,

which ranged from 6.5 million to the ''low teens'' of millions of sales.



The strong sales mirror growing consumer demand for smartphones with bigger

screens. IDC, a research firm, estimated that at least 20 percent of all

smartphones shipped last year in China, the largest smartphone market in the

world, were five inches or larger. It also predicted that manufacturers this

year would ship more ''phablets,'' or smartphones with screens measuring at

least 5.5 diagonal inches, than laptops.



Apple's investors - much like Hollywood producers tracking the first few days of

ticket sales for a blockbuster movie - closely watch first-weekend sales for the

iPhone because they are a reflection of consumer demand. The iPhone is still

Apple's biggest cash cow, accounting for about 70 percent of its profit. So

early sales can help predict quarterly or even annual results for the company,

based in Cupertino, Calif.



But some analysts, like Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray, wondered whether

first-weekend sales were still a reliable measure for consumer demand. Apple's

iPhone is already immensely popular in many countries, so early sales may be

more of a sign of how many iPhones Apple and its manufacturing partners can

initially produce, he said before the announcement.



Walter Piecyk, managing director at BTIG Research, an industry firm, agreed.

''The first weekend iPhone sales number continues to be more about how much

Apple can supply than what the demand is in the market,'' he said.



Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, said as much on Monday. Apple ''could

have sold many more iPhones with greater supply, and we are working hard to fill

orders as quickly as possible,'' he said in a statement.



The latest iPhones also missed out on a big market: China. Apple has delayed the

release of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus there, apparently because the devices have

not yet received approval from Chinese regulators. Yet despite missing out on

hundreds of millions of potential Chinese customers, Apple impressed analysts

with its weekend performance.



''Even without China, Apple was able to move $6.5 billion of product in three

days, which would be impressive for any industry,'' Mr. Piecyk said.



The introduction of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus on Friday was the second time Apple

released two new iPhones at the same time. Last year, Apple introduced the

iPhone 5S and the iPhone 5C, a colorful plastic model sold at a lower price.



Apple is treating the iPhone 5C differently from past iPhones. Traditionally,

Apple has upgraded each iPhone once a year, with improvements like faster chips

and better cameras. But this month, Apple said it would continue to sell the

same 5C, but at a lower cost.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 International Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





