

Apple iPhone 6: Pricing and release date confirmed for Apple's all new smart
phone

With just two days to go until the iPhone 6 hits shelves across the world, Apple
has reported pre-orders in record numbers.

In the first weekend alone, 4m eager fans placed orders for the new big-screen
iPhone 6 and bigger-screen 6 plus. And with launch day drawing nearer, the
mobile networks are unveiling their price plans - with some even offering the
Phone with no up-front cost.

Don't buy an iPhone without checking our price plan guide

Both versions of iPhone 6 will come with iOS 8, Apple's latest mobile operating
system, which is due for release today.

Here's all the information we have about the new iPhones, including when and how
you'll be able to get your hands on one!iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

Apple unveiled two models of iPhone last night. The 4.7" iPhone 6 is their
standard model, and is the direct descendant of the iPhone 5S.

The iPhone 6 Plus, while containing most of the same innards as the 6, is a
different beast in many ways. Designed to hit the part of the smartphone market
dominated by big-screen phones like Samsung's Galaxy Note, it has a huge 5.5"
screen - the biggest an iPhone has ever had by far.

There are also differences to battery life and performance, and a slightly
upgraded camera - but in all other respects the devices are the same.Price

If you're looking to buy the iPhone 6 outright, here's how much it'll cost you
directly from Apple.

iPhone 6 pricing

iPhone 6 Plus pricing

The networks have begun to outline their subsidised iPhone 6 costs.

Our guide to the best iPhone 6 mobile network price plan options

Three offers three plans - all of which are on 24 month contracts and carry a
£99 upfront cost for a 16GB iPhone 6. Monthly costs vary based on data
allowance, and start at £38 a month.

EE's 'recommended' deal carries an upfront cost of £99.99 and a monthly cost of
£40.99, including 2GB of data on a 24 month contract. Their cheapest monthly
price plan is £14.99, with 500MB of data and £449.99 up front.

Vodafone's 2 year deals start with a free phone on a £53.50 monthly cost, and
includes 6 months of netflix, and 2 years of either Spotify Premium or Sky
Sports Mobile. They have various options based on data allowance and up front
cost, but their monthly costs don't go below £43.50. They also offer the iPhone
on a 12 month contract, with upfront costs starting at £249 on a £53.50 monthly
cost.

Tesco Mobile have come out with an interesting range of deals - all of which
include a free iPhone 6 or 6 plus and at least 3GB of data, and which start at
£41 per month. Their deals compare very favourably to the bigger networks.

Finally, O2 will give you a free phone for 2 years of £53 a month, with 20GB of
data and free insurance for 6 months. Their other tariffs vary wildly based on
upfront cost and inclusive data.Release date

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus will both be available in stores from 8am on September
19th.

Pre-orders began on Friday, and the iPhone 6 Plus sold out almost instantly.
It's currently showing a 3-4 week delivery estimate - but the 4.7" iPhone 6 is
still available with delivery in 7-10 working days.Options

As with the iPhone 5s, the 6 and 6 Plus will both be available in Silver, Space
Grey, and gold. All three colours will be available at launch.

The storage options have been upgraded for the 6 and 6 Plus. The base storage
remains at 16GB, but above that it jumps to 64GB. A new 128GB option has been
introduced, and the 32GB option has been removed.

The iPhone 5S is still available in 16GB and 32GB, and the 5C is still available
with 8GB.Screen

The new screens aren't just bigger, Apple says they're better too.

The iPhone 6 has a 4.7" screen with the same 326 pixels-per-inch (ppi)
resolution as the 5S - but a vastly improved contrast ratio and wider viewing
angle.

The iPhone 6 Plus, though, is a different beast entirely. It has a huge 5.5"
screen with an increased 401ppi resolution, which will result in sharper images.

If you're thinking the screen might be too big for your thumb to reach the top,
worry not. A quick double touch on the phone's home button will temporarily
slide everything down the display to put it within the reach of your
digits.Camera

The improvements to the iPhone's camera are always among the highlights of Apple
events, and this time was no exception.

The new range hold a respectable 8MP sensor, with 'focus pixels' to allow
quicker auto-focus - a feature you'd expect to find on higher end cameras.

It'll do 43 megapixel panorama shots, too and the optical image stabiliser in
the 6 Plus will allow for much sharper photos in low light,

But the most impressive feature of all is the slow motion function. It goes
beyond the solid, day-to-day functions of the camera - to something that seems
almost magical. It was the feature you wanted to show off to your friends when
it was introduced in iOS 7, and it's even better now it'll take more
frames-per-second.

Apple iPhone 6: Slo-mo video revealed at 240 fps  Battery life

Apple says they've improved the iPhone 6 battery in "every metric" compared to
the iPhone 5S.

The two new models  will have equal or better battery life than the previous
handset in every category, Apple's Phil Schiller said.

The iPhone 6 will be able to support 50 hours of audio playback - up from 40
hours on the iPhone 5s; 11 hours of video, up from 10 hours with the previous
model; and 11 hours of WiFi browsing, also up from 10 hours.

The larger iPhone 6 Plus will support 80 hours of music listening, 14 hours of
video, and 12 hours of WiFi browsing.

The full first-hands on reviews have started to come in, with one reviewer
claiming to have seen a full two days of charge from the iPhone 6 plus battery.
If that's the case, it's a huge improvement.Digital payments

Apple Pay is only out in the States for now, but the tech giant are hoping it
leads to them revolutionising the payments industry in the same way they did the
music industry.

A lofty goal, but with shares in Paypal dipping sharply after it was announced,
it's clear people think Apple can pull it off.

Apple Pay lets you tie your credit or debit card to your iPhone and/or Apple
Watch, so you can make payments with a single tap.

Apple says the system is secure. Each transaction is made directly between you
and the merchant, so Apple never see how much you've spent and what on.

Also, if you leave your phone somewhere, you can just suspend Apple Pay using
Find My iPhone, without having to go through the hassle of cancelling your
credit card.

Now we just have to wait for Mastercard, Visa and American Express to adopt it
in this country...and for retailers over here to follow suit.

Buy iphone 6

