

APPLE'S newest iPhones have been hit by glitches after users complained that a
new software update blocked their calls - and a widely-circulated video showed
the larger of the two new models was vulnerable to bending.

Apple said it would stop providing the software update, which it began
distributing yesterday to fix several issues in last week's iOS 8 operating
system for iPhones and iPads.

The decision to pull the update came after some people complained on Twitter and
in Apple user chatrooms that the update, dubbed iOS 8.0.1, rendered their phones
unable to make calls and caused problems with a feature that lets people unlock
their phones with their fingerprint.

Apple announced that it was investigating the reports and would issue advice to
users "as quickly as we can". Users are still able to the upgrade older phones
to last week's version of iOS 8, which Apple said has already been downloaded to
nearly half of all iOS devices.

Some tech blogs reported the update only seemed to cause problems for the latest
phone models - the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.

It is not uncommon for new software to contain bugs that have to be fixed with
subsequent releases.

Meanwhile, social media sites were buzzing with reports that the aluminium shell
of the iPhone 6 Plus was vulnerable to bending. Some Twitter users claimed their
phones showed a slight curving at one end after several hours in a trouser
pocket. With a 5.5-inch screen, the iPhone 6 Plus is slightly longer and thinner
than other iPhone models.

It's not clear how widespread the complaints are. One YouTube video showed
someone bending an iPhone 6 Plus by applying extended pressure with his hands -
not from normal sitting.

Both the iPhone 6 and the 6 Plus were given high ratings in a recent
"breakability" test conducted by SquareTrade, a San Francisco firm that sells
insurance to consumers for their electronic devices. The test did not include
bending.

But SquareTrade chief marketing officer Ty Shay said that after reports of
bending circulated online, two employees at his firm tried to bend a pair of 6
Plus phones. One, a man, was able to duplicate the results from the video, while
the other, a woman, could not. He said the bent phone appeared to still function
normally.

Mr Shay said his firm then checked and found a small number of bent older-model
iPhones had been reported in the past. "It does happen," he said, "but it seems
like for the most part it's cosmetic damage."

He suggested the bending was not a major issue. Referring to the iPhone 6 Plus,
he added: "I think it's still a very durable phone. But we'll keep an eye on the
claims."

Apple did not comment on the bending reports.

