



I used to be an adamant, almost militant, small-phone user.

As smartphones got bigger and bigger in recent years, I stubbornly stated and
restated my preference for petite handsets that I could easily manipulate with
one hand, and stuff in my pants pocket with minimum effort.

Fortunately, I had plenty of options, so I could turn up my nose at Samsung's
absurdly large Galaxy Note devices and other honkin' "phablets" (phone + tablet)
with nary a twinge of self-doubt.

I was prepared to detest the recently released iPhone 6 Plus , as well.

Well, "detest" is too strong a word. I am a decades-long user of Apple hardware,
after all, and predisposed to like (if not necessarily love or want to buy) any
new Macintosh or iOS device.

But I found the notion of a 5 1/2-inch iPhone alarming.

I like small iPhones. The first five iPhone generations, from the original
through the iPhone 4s, at 3 1/2 inches, suited me perfectly for one-handed use.

The 4-inch iPhone 5 and 5s were more problematic because they are slightly more
elongated and difficult to operate with just a thumb as the phone rests in the
palm, but this is doable. My current, official iPhone is a similarly sized 5c
model, and I like it a lot.

But a 5 1/2-inch iPhone? Well, I thought that was insane. Even the new 4.7-inch
iPhone 6 struck me as gargantuan.

After giving the iPhone 6 Plus and similarly sized smartphones a try in recent
months, though, I did a complete about-face.

I now love big smartphones, the bigger the better.

That includes, for instance, Google's 6-inch Nexus 6 , which makes even the
iPhone 6 Plus look smallish.

I've had only a short time with a loaner Nexus 6 as I write this, but I am
already prepared to prefer this Motorola device over admittedly seductive
siblings such as the Moto X (which is highly customizable) and the
Verizon-exclusive Droid Turbo (with its enhanced battery life).

The key reason I like the Nexus 6: It's big, really big!

After all, a funny thing happened when I had an iPhone 6 Plus for a while -- I
began using it like crazy in ways I rarely had with other phones.

I began to read a lot more. I love to read on a tablet or e-book reader, but I
don't like having to lug such a gadget -- along with my smartphone --
everywhere. The Plus solved that problem because it was a device I was toting
anyway, yet it did not feel cramped for reading the way smaller phones do.

One morning, I was listening to the public-radio show "Wait Wait ... Don't Tell
Me!" while waiting for my metro bus to work when Elizabeth Gilbert, author of
"Eat, Pray, Love," came on as a guest.

I became intrigued by her bestseller, downloaded an e-book copy of it via a St.
Paul Public Library app right away, and powered through a couple of chapters on
my ride to the office. I don't recall ever doing such a thing with earlier,
smaller iPhones.

I found myself watching video a lot more.

I love watching TV shows and movies on an iPad or computer, but I rarely did
this on a phone because I hated squinting at a small screen. The Plus, though
small-ish compared to even the tablet-petite iPad mini, made watching videos a
more relaxing experience.

The Plus is a plus for photography, too. Apple gave me a bigger and better
screen for gauging the quality of photos I had just snapped -- and which of
these to keep, edit and share while on the go.

When paired with an external wireless keyboard, such as Microsoft's Universal
Mobile Keyboard, the Plus also made for a great mobile workstation since its
screen is just big enough for comfortable word processing.

I experimented with apps for on-the-go Plus-based word processing, including
Byword and Apple's Pages along with my default, Google Docs. I was generally
pleased, though apps need tweaking in many cases for more efficient use on this
new kind of work screen.

The Plus proved valuable in other ways, such as videoconferencing. Microsoft
Skype, Google Hangouts and Apple FaceTime video chats don't feel claustrophobic,
the way they kind of do on smaller phones.

The Plus' battery life is excellent, too.

And the phone's new Reachability feature -- with which a light double tab of the
Home button pulls the upper half of the screen down to the lower half for
easier, well, reachability -- went a long way to helping me get used to the
Plus' large size.

In short, the Plus become my favorite iPhone ever, though its bulk was a bit of
an annoyance when crammed in a tight jeans front pocket. I am fortunate that a
great deal of my wardrobe (including jackets and vests) happens to incorporate
large pockets that are phablet-friendly.

That's where I recently tucked a Samsung Galaxy Note Edge , the most unusual
Note model to date, with a screen that curves futuristically on its right edge
to become a secondary panel for display app icons, news headlines and more. It's
a bit freaky ... and freakin' cool.

That's where I've stashed other phones, such as the more conventional Galaxy
Note 4 along with the LG G3 , both of which have gorgeous screens.

And that is where the Nexus 6 will reside for the next few weeks. We are going
to have a blast together.

