                              278 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 Times of Oman



                           September 28, 2014 Sunday



Apple's IPhone 6 proves tough to bend in lab test



BYLINE: Bloomberg News



LENGTH: 285 words





San Francisco: Apple's new iPhones, facing an Internet outcry about their

malleability, proved difficult to bend and fit for daily use in lab tests run by

Consumer Reports magazine.







Stress tests on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, along with comparable smartphones from

competitors, showed that it took 'significant force' to damage any of the

devices, Consumer Reports said in results of a study published on its website.

HTC's HTC One M8 and Samsung's Galaxy Note 3 were among the other devices.



"All the phones we tested showed themselves to be pretty tough," the report

said. "We expect that any of these phones should stand up to typical use."



Following uproar in social media including claims the new iPhone 6 Plus bends if

it's sat upon or if enough pressure is placed on it, Apple has said bending of

its devices is 'extremely rare'. Only nine customers had contacted Apple about a

bent iPhone 6 Plus, the Cupertino, California-based company said in a September

25 statement.



The iPhone 6 Plus began to deform after 90 pounds of force was applied and the

iPhone 6 stood up to pressure until 70 pounds was applied, the same as the HTC

One M8, according to 'Consumer Reports'. The Galaxy Note 3 was damaged at 150

pounds. All devices withstood 55 pounds, the force needed to break three

pencils, the magazine said.



"Bear in mind that it took significant force to do this kind of damage to all

these phones," Consumer Reports' said. "Both iPhones seem tougher than the

Internet fracas implies."



The iPhone 6 Plus, a 5.5-inch screen device, which is the biggest smartphone in

Apple's lineup, became available for sale last week, along with the other new

model, the iPhone 6.

 Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2014



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 89





     Copyright 2014 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





