                              279 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                           Aberdeen Press and Journal



                           September 15, 2014 Monday



The world on your wrist



BYLINE: Ryan Crighton



SECTION: NEWS; 999; Crime Prevention; Pg. 20



LENGTH: 721 words





The wait is finally over. The vital statistics of the "bigger than bigger"

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are now in the public domain, with Apple claiming

they are the "best phones ever made"



The technology giant even went one better by announcing the creation of the "the

best watch in the world" to run seamlessly alongside the new and improved smart

phones.



But what will these devices actually do to make our lives better?



Will it clean up the house if we send it an iMessage? Will it take the dog for a

walk if we ask Siri nicely? Well, no, not quite. But in terms of taking

fingertip technology to the next level, Apple says it has pushed itself ahead of

its rivals.



So what does it have to offer:



Apple Watch



While the technology world waited with bated breath to find out if their

predictions about the new iPhone were true, Apple threw a curveball by

announcing its first new product line since the very first iPad.



It's also the first since the death of its co-founder Steve Jobs and the first

truly new creation under new boss, Tim Cook; reviewers will be waiting with

bated breath to see how it performs.



The watch will sync with your iPhone and run familiar apps like Siri, Messages,

e-mail, Maps, Facebook and Twitter. It will also act as a fitness tracker, using

motion sensors and heart rate monitors to log fitness levels and workouts.



It also has a setting so that you can send information directly to a friend's

Watch. With countless customisable faces and strap designs, its makers say it's

the "most personal" watch you will find.



Oh, it also tells the time, too.



It's thin and it's big



The new iPhones will be significantly bigger than the original (and popular)

4-inch screen - a 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and a 5.5-inch 6 Plus.



But many critics have slammed the new design, saying that Apple is simply

following the market by copying already-bigger smartphones, like the Samsung

Galaxy S5.



The iPhone 6 will come in at 6.9mm wide, with the iPhone 6 Plus measuring 7.1mm.

With all-metal backs and glass that curves round the edges of the phones, it

marks the biggest design change in the phone's history.



Better battery



If there's one flaw of the iPhone, it's the battery life - which only gets worse

as the device grows old and tired.



The iPhone 6 will be 50 times faster that the original iPhone, but it's been

designed to not compromise on performance.



The new iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus are powered by the A8 chip, which has two

billion transistors - double the number on the A7 chip, which powers the iPhone

5S. The A8 is up to 25% faster than the A7 in processing and able to render

graphics up to 50% faster.



The new devices will provide 11 hours of video or Wi-Fi browsing, 50 hours of

audio playback and 10 hours of 4G LTE or 3G browsing. In addition, compared with

the 40 hours talk you can get on the iPhone 5S, you can get 50 hours on the

iPhone 6 and 80 hours on the iPhone 6 Plus.



Apple Pay



We've banished the need for cameras and MP3 players - so why not throw out our

wallets too?



Apple has said that Apple Pay "will forever change the way we buy things". It's

a revolutionary new payment process which allows purchases to be made using

fingerprint ID.



The system will work by holding the phone up to a generic card reader and

pressing a finger on the TouchID button. The phone will store the payment using

NFC (near-field communication) and a new separate chip to keep payment

information secure. The NFC chip is fitted across the top of the phone, and all

details are encrypted and the system stores payment information securely.



But before we get too excited about ditching our loose change, the system will

only launch in the US to begin with, with no word on when the system is likely

to hit the rest of the world.



Health Kit



This new app will collect your personal biometric data in one place, where you

will be able to view your heart rate, calories burned, blood sugar and

cholesterol levels. The idea is to create a personal overview of your health

which can be shared with doctors and hospitals. You will be able to create an

emergency card, which will be accessible from the Lock screen so it can be

opened in an emergency.



There are far too many other quirky features of the new iPhone and Apple Watch

to mention here, never mind the most important of all - a new and improved

front-facing camera for selfies.



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: WEARABLE TECH: Apple CEO Tim Cook announces the Apple Watch during an

Apple special event at the Flint Center for the Performing Arts last week

Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide product marketing,

discusses the new iPhone 6, centre, and iPhone 6 plus, right

Apple CEO Tim Cook models the new iPhone 6 and the Apple Watch



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: PJ





                      Copyright 2014 Aberdeen Journals Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





