

Apple TV

Some developers are calling this a game-changer - quite literally, since Apple
is taking a clear run at the game console market with a device that delivers
television, movie and music entertainment but with the added bonus of putting
games on the big screen. This little set top box delivers the power of a game
console like the Xbox 360, but in a smaller package and at a lower price. With
Apple launching an app store for TV apps and encouraging developers to populate
it as they have for iPhones and iPads, expect to see fast-growing choice in
games and other apps for the new Apple TV. The new Apple TV adds Siri voice
control plus a remote control that doubles as a game controller. Siri will
search across multiple content apps to give you various options for viewing. No
word yet on Canadian pricing, but the Apple TV 32GB model will be $149 US, with
the 64GB at $199 US.

iPhone 6S, iPhone 6S Plus

While the new iPhones have kept the same screen size as their predecessors, the
iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6S, they have a number of tweaks and improvements. The
iPhone 6S has the same 12-centimetre screen size as the iPhone 6 and the 6S Plus
at 14 cm is the same as the 6 Plus. However, while they have the same Retina HD
display with 1920 by 1080-pixels for the Plus models and 1334 by 750-pixels for
the 6 and S6, the newest phones have new 3D Touch technology. That's a
pressure-sensitive technology that lets you take a quick look at a photo or
other content with a light touch or a deeper dive with more pressure. Live
Photos on the camera adds sound and action to the photos by automatically
capturing time both at the beginning and end of your photo shot. The new iPhones
deliver 4K video, a first for an iPhone, with a five-megapixel HD camera and a
new screen flash for selfies.

The rear-facing camera is 12 megapixels, up from 8MP on the 6 and 6 Plus.
Pre-orders start Saturday with the new phones due out Sept. 25. The new iPhones
will be available in gold, silver, space grey and a new colour, rose gold.
Pricing for the unlocked phones, which start with a 16GB model, with no contract
is as follows: iPhone 6S (unlocked, no contract) starting at $899 for 16GB,
$1,029 for 64GB and $1,159 for 128GB, and iPhone 6S Plus starting at $1,029 for
16GB, $1,159 for 32GB and $1,289 for 64GB.

iPad Pro

This isn't just another iPad upgrade - it's part of Apple's attempt to push into
the business market with a device that can deliver power and features better
than many notebook computers, but with a form factor that allows for true tablet
use. The iPad Pro has an optional $99 US Apple Pencil, a new stylus that is
geared to artists, designers and anyone else who wants to use the surface of the
iPad for writing or drawing. Apple promises a precision and lag-free performance
unmatched by other styli. There's also the $169 US Smart Keyboard, a combination
cover and keyboard that protects the screen and props the iPad up on a
kickstand, a little like the keyboard covers for Microsoft's Surface line of
tabletnotebook hybrids. The screen resolution is 2732 by 2048 pixels, higher
than any other Apple iOS device to date. The iPad Pro is slim at 6.9 mm, and
lightweight at just over 700 grams. It delivers 1.8 times the processing power
of the iPad Air 2 and double the graphics performance. It has an eightmegapixel
iSight camera and 1080p video recording. A new smart connector carries power and
data and connects magnetically to the keyboard. Canadian pricing hasn't yet been
announced for the iPad Pro, which is due out in November, but it starts at $799
US for the 32GB Wi-Fi model. The 128GB Wi-Fiplus-cellular model is $1,079. It
will come in silver, gold or grey.

Hermes Apple Watch

If you really want to impress an Apple fan on your gift list this year, you can
drop $1,100 US on the newest Apple Watch offering - make that $1,250 if you'd
like the extra-long band that wraps twice around your wrist. Along with the
Hermes Watch, Apple showed demos of the new Watch operating system, OS2, which
is due out Sept. 16.

In demos, the Watch was used for everything from Facebook Messenger to medical
monitoring and along with the highend Hermes edition, there are a number of new
strap colour and fashion options.

gshaw@vancouversun.com vancouversun.com/digitallife !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

