                              291 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 Pakistan Today



                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday



iPhone 6 Plus bending in pockets: report



LENGTH: 341  words





In what's already being dubbed 'bend gate', owners of Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus

 are reporting that their new smartphones are being bent out of shape  just

from being carried in their pockets, U.K daily The Independent reported on

Wednesday.

The report mentions the the tech giant manufacturer Apple has yet to respond to

  the issue, but numerous pictures of unintentionally curved iPhones have been

                                     circulating on Twitter and other websites.



The report mentions one intrepid YouTube user who has sacrificed his newly

bought handset to prove that the iPhone 6 Plus does indeed bend.



The main reason behind the issue is said to be the fact that since the 6 Plus is

so much larger and thinner than previous phones, that the aluminum case doesn't

have enough strength proportional to its length.



Guardian added that the trend was first picked up by specialist site MacRumours,

who reported one reader's tale of bending his iPhone 6 Plus after putting it in

his front pocket to attend a wedding.



"The 6 Plus was about 18 hours in my pocket while sitting mosty," the report

quoted the irate Apple customer.



"As I lay it on the coffee table and sat down on the couch to relax from the

drive (yes, sitting again), I saw the reflection of the window in the iPhones

slightly distorted."



The report also scoffed at Apple for offering customers a do-it-yourself' option

to make their phones curved. It added, however, that practically any smartphone

will bend enough pressure is applied ( as was the case with Sony's Xperia Z1

warping earlier this year), but unfortunately for Apple, the prestige (and

price) of their devices means any fault is taken far more seriously than those

of their rivals'.



Apple had encountered a similar situation back in 2010 with iPhone 4 where the

flawed antenna in the smart phones led to dropped calls when owners held them in

a certain way. Apple offered compensation to the affected customers by issuing

free cases.



Apple had reported of selling a record 10 million units of the iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus in the first week of the launch.



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2014 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





