                              292 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               Pakistan Observer



                           January 31, 2015 Saturday



Zong launches iPhones 6 & 6 Plus with 6GB free 4G LTE



SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 30



LENGTH: 317  words





Zong, the only 3G and 4G LTE operator in Pakistan officially launched the latest

IPhones 6 &amp; 6 Plus to allow its valued customers to experience and enjoy the

amazing speeds of Zong 4G LTE on these popular smartphones. IPhones are premium

LTE capable smartphones and hence form a perfect combination with speedy Zong 4G

LTE internet. Zong 4G LTE is unique owing to not only its speed and efficiency

but also its coverage, for it can be enjoyed in 7 major cities of Pakistan. This

means that those purchasing this offer will be able to enjoy 4G LTE internet

that is unparalleled in the market in terms of both speed and coverage.



The IPhone bundle offered by Zong is the most attractive option amongst all.

Tustomers can enjoy 6 GB worth of Zong 4G LTE data per month for a total period

of 6 months, which means that they get 36 GB free in total. This offer is fairly

more attractive than the competing offers that are being made by other

telecommunication companies. This is because the IPhone experience can be

enjoyed to the fullest with a Zong 4G LTE connection only. Since Zong is the

pioneer of 4G LTE internet in Pakistan, the combination of IPhone and Zong

implies a package that is unique in the market.



While expressing his views about the launch of IPhones, Executive Director

Commercial Mr Babar Bajwa said that people will experience a clear difference

while using IPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus with the Zong 4G LTE network. "Like many

other tremendous initiatives by Zong, this launch is another gift for our valued

customers who are the recipients of exclusive 4G LTE technology.



This combination of speedy and extensive 4G LTE and IPhones is one that Zong is

unique in offering, and means that customers will have a truly one of a kind

experience." he explained. Currently, IPhone 6 and 6 Plus are available in gold,

silver and grey colors with 16GB, 64GB and 128GB internal memory options.



LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2015 Hurmat Group

                              All Rights Reserved





