                               2 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                            November 3, 2014 Monday



Choosing between iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus



LENGTH: 532  words





For two years in a row, Apple has announced two new iPhones at the launch event.

Last year it was the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C giving a very clear upgrade path

for the power user but this year's line up was much more interesting and

exciting- and at the same time confusing for the [...]

The post Choosing between iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus appeared first on

tbreak.ae.



For two years in a row, Apple has announced two new iPhones at the launch event.

Last year it was the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C giving a very clear upgrade path

for the power user but this year's line up was much more interesting and

exciting- and at the same time confusing for the power user. The iPhone 6 and

the iPhone 6 Plus are both incredible phones and deciding between them is not an

easy task.



Let's start with the size- the iPhone has always been easy to use with just one

hand. With the new models, you're now looking at two phones with much larger

screen sizes. The iPhone 6 has the screen sized bumped up from 4-inches to

4.7-inches which makes it just borderline usable for someone like me with one

hand. The iPhone 6 Plus on the other hand has a 5.5-inch screen, strictly making

it a two-handed device.



For many who prefer the portability of the iPhone 5, one would assume that the

4.7-inch model is the preferred one but I know quite a few people that have the

iPhone and an iPad and are looking to combine both devices into one so for them

the iPhone 6 Plus is more appealing with the bigger screen size.



Besides the larger screen the other advantage the iPhone 6 Plus brings is the

larger battery. On the iPhone 6, the battery size is 1810mAh which is slightly

larger than the iPhone 5S that had a capacity of 1560mAh. What that means is

that if couldn't go through an entire day of using your old iPhone without

charging it at some point, there's a good chance that the iPhone 6 won't change

that.



The iPhone 6 Plus on the other hand has a 2915 mAh battery which is rather

beefy. On paper, that's over 60% more capacity than the iPhone 6 so

theoretically speaking, if your iPhone 6 could get 10 hours, the iPhone 6 Plus

should get your 16 hours. While I haven't tested the iPhone 6 Plus, most reports

on it state that the battery does last a long time- surely a day and for some,

almost two days.



Besides size and battery, the last difference between the two devices, as far as

hardware is concerned, is the addition of Optical Image Stabilization on the

iPhone 6 Plus. OIS has been available on many phones and it helps against the

shaking hands when using the camera which results in less blurry shots.

Depending on the lighting condition, you could see some improvement with your

photos on the iPhone 6 Plus but it's not a deal-breaking feature because the

camera on the iPhone 6 is pretty impressive.



So there you have it when it comes to hardware differences between the two new

iPhones and hopefully you now have a clearer idea on which one to get. Both the

iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus are available through du and can be ordered

online with a special promotion of getting six months of free usage of one of

their awesome plans.



The post Choosing between iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus appeared first on

tbreak.ae.



LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2014 TBREAK MEDIA

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





