                              302 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                            September 4, 2015 Friday



The iPhone 6s rumour mill



BYLINE: Karan Bajaj



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 809 words





Invites for the next iPhone launch on September 9 are already out and like every

year there is a lot of excitement around the new phone. Karan Bajaj brings you a

list of rumored upgrades and features that Apple's upcoming superphone might

have.



NO INCREASE IN BASE STORAGE



While initial rumors suggested that Apple might increase the base storage to

32GB instead of 16GB offers some advice on better for the new iPhone, new leaks

have come up claiming that 16GB base versions will continue. Since management

and how to set cloud services (Apple Music streaming, iCloud) can be used to

keep internal storage free, Apple unhackable) passwords has no need to increase

the base storage.



Probability \xAD 100%



IMPROVED HARDWARE



While the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus both have dual core processor with 1GB RAM,

competition has moved to octa core processors with 4GB RAM. Apple will be

playing catch up here and is expected to upgrade the new iPhone's with quad core

processor and 2GB RAM.There are chances that Apple might use the triple core A8+

processor that comes on the iPad Air 2.



Probability \xAD 100%



BETTER CAMERAS



Camera is one department where Apple has always had the lead and with the new

iPhone they will want to continue having an edge over competitors.Rumors suggest

that the new iPhone will have a 12MP sensor with optical image stabilisation and

4k video recording. Front-facing camera is expected to be upgraded to a 5MP unit

for selfies.



Probability \xAD 100%



FORCE TOUCH



Force touch essentially enables the device to identify the difference between a

light and strong touch. It is already present on the Apple watch and Macbook's

trackpad so the inclusion of the technology on upcoming iPhone is expected.

There are multiple uses of Force Touch for added convenience in launching an

operating apps and games.



Probability \xAD 75%



ADDED DURABILITY



Bendgate became a rather big issue for Apple with the all metal design of the

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. This is one issue that Apple has expected to have taken

steps to avoid on the newer iPhones. Rumours say that Apple has improved the

durability using 7000 se ries aluminum on the chassis. The sturdy con struction

removes any chance of the bending issue to arise again.



Probability \xAD 100%



BETTER BATTERY LIFE



iPhone 6 has a 1,810mAh battery while the iPhone 6 Plus has a 2,915mAh battery .



With improvement in construction mate rial there are chances that Apple might

opt for slightly better batteries for the new iPhone. We don't expect a massive

increase in the capacity but a hundred mAh or so increase could be there.



Probability \xAD 75%



NEW COLOURS



Space grey , silver and gold are the three colours currently available on the

iPhone. Recent rumors and leaked images suggest Apple is planning to bring the

rose gold colour option from Apple watch on the iPhone. If launched, the pink

hue might garner the same atten tion as gold colour when it was intro duced on

the iPhone.



Probability \xAD 50%



SMALLER IPHONE



Not everyone liked the larger design of the iPhone 6. Some users preferred the

iPhone for its compact size and for such users Apple could launch a small er

version of the iPhone. Name wise speculations say it could be the iPhone 6s mini

or it iPhone 6c. Expected is a a 4-inch retina display in an iPhone 5 type metal

body with hardware and features similar to iPhone 6.



Probability \xAD 75%



PRICE & AVAILABILITY



Following their usual pricing strategy, we expect Apple to r password price the

iPhone 6s from US$649 (16GB) onwards while the iPhone t better (read: 6s Plus

will be US$749 onwards.



Expect them to arrive in India toward s the end of October



Wireless Charging



Built-in wireless charging could be a big feature that Apple can include in the

upf coming iPhone. This would be a welcome addition by accessory manufacturers

as i well as users. e 50% probability



Expandable storage



Non-expandable storage is one of the major complain from Apple iPhone

owners.Apple just might provide a solution with the new iPhone by offering a

storage expansion slot.0% Probability



Larger Screen



The iPhone 6 came with larger display compared to the iPhone 5s where as the

iPhone 6 Plus marked Apple's entry into the phablet segment. A revision of

screen size again is highly unlikely 0% probability



Curved Display



Samsung has three phones with curved displays.Apple launching a phone with

curved display would even the odds but an iPhone with curved display this year

is doubtful.25% probability



Animated Wallpaper



One of the most loved features on the Apple watch is the option of animated

wallpapers. Android has had the feature for a while now and its high time Apple

intriduced it for the iPhone.75% probability



Revised Design



Apple has a trend of keeping the same design for two generations of iPhone. So

we don't expect Apple to revamp the design in the the upcoming iPhones.0%

probability .



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





