                              305 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            The Eagle (Bryan, Texas)



                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Locals line up to buy the new iPhone 6



BYLINE: Emily Wilkins, The Eagle, Bryan, Texas



SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS



LENGTH: 348 words





Sept. 20--They began lining up Thursday before the AT&T store in Bryan had even

closed for the night to stand in line for the debut of the iPhone 6 and iPhone

6-plus.



By the time the store opened in the morning, about 150 people had wrapped around

the building at the corner of Briarcrest and East 29th Street.



Assistant store manager Kurtis Kostelnik, who worked the launches for three

other iPhones, said he was expecting the excitement as the iPhone 6 has some

significant changes from its predecessor -- most notably a larger screen and

faster processor.



"The larger screen makes a big difference," he said "Before we had a lot of

customers say, 'I love the iPhone, but that phone over there has a bigger

screen.'"



Matt Vega is an iPhone devotee who was particularly eager to get his hands on

the iPhone 6 after his iPhone 5 began to malfunction several months ago. He

drove around to all the AT&T stores in the area at 5 a.m. Friday trying to find

the shortest line.



The store on Texas Avenue had about 35 people and Kostelnik's store in Bryan had

about 30. The shortest line, 19 people, was at the AT&T store on Rock Prairie

Road. The store didn't open until 8 a.m., and it took until 9:30 for Vega to

enter and get his iPhone 6.



"I've always loved the iPhone," he said. "It's everything you could want and

need at your fingertips."



Kostelnik said the iPhone 6-plus sold out in the first few hours and all phones

were sold out by the end of the day, although the store is still helping

customers place orders for the phones. Vega said the AT&T he waited at announced

the plus model was sold out before he reached the front of the line.



Josh Manuel, a senior at A&M, said he called the Verizon in College Station

around 10 a.m. to find out the store only had two iPhone 6s left in stock. Not

wanting to risk missing a phone, Manuel drove an hour to Tomball to buy an

iPhone 6.



"So far I really like it," he said. "It has a better battery, better screen and

it's faster."



___ (c)2014 The Eagle (Bryan, Texas) Visit The Eagle (Bryan, Texas) at

www.theeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



ACC-NO: 20140920-EG-Locals-line-up-to-buy-the-new-iPhone-6-0920-20140920



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EG





                            Copyright 2014 The Eagle





