

People queued for hours to get their hands on one of the new iPhones, released
in New Zealand at midnight.

Vodafone stores in Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin opened their
doors at 12.01am to keen Apple fans intent on being among the first to get the
new smartphones.

While the iPhone 6 phones have had some early questions raised about their
durability - there have been reports overseas of the iPhone 6 Plus bending in
people"s pockets - that hasn"t stopped technology enthusiasts queuing to get
them.

Vodafone spokeswoman Michelle Baguley said the queue at Auckland"s Queen St
store started forming about 3pm yesterday.

Mt Eden man Damon Dai, 20, was the first person in line for a new phone
yesterday.

Queing for nine hours was worth it, he said.

"I"m a real Apple fan. I love Apple, I purchase all the Apple products," the
recent immigrant from China said.

"I adored Steve Jobs, he"s my hero. He changed our world."

He had a full battery on his iPhone 5s and enough mobile data to see him through
to the midnight launch, he said, and wanted the new, larger phone for its more
powerful output and thinner design.

Going in a different direction, for the first time Spark - formerly Telecom -
was launching the latest iPhone incarnations at a later time, instead of
midnight.

This year customers have been able to pre-book their places in Spark queues
online by registering an oversized novelty "emoji" - pictures popularly used in
text messages - which are printed off and hold their space in the queue.

Spark spokesman Sam Durbin said the iPhones would be launched at their main
stores in Auckland, Hamilton, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin at 7am.

"It"s not a traditional midnight launch. It just kind of suited what we wanted
to do. It just fitted with our concept a bit better."

The larger version of the new device, the iPhone 6 Plus, was proving
particularly popular - although the numbers of the phone available could not
meet immediate demand, he said.

Mobile phone company 2degrees will launch later still, at 8am, in Auckland at
their Sylvia Park store and Yoobee in Newmarket, as well as in Wellington and
Christchurch.

Coffee would be provided to the early birds and street performers had been
organised, a spokesman said.

Some upgraded features

Size: the iPhone 5s measures 123.8mm x 58.6mm x 7.6 mm and weighs 112g.

The iPhone 6 measures 138.1mm x 67mm x 6.9 mm and weighs 129g, while the Plus"
increased screen size stretches to 158.1mm x to 77.8 x 7.1mm and hits 172g.

Screen: the iPhone 5s had a 4 inch Retina screen, the iPhone 6 has a 4.7 inch
screen, and the 6 Plus features a 5.5 inch screen

Memory: The iPhone 5s comes with 16, 32 or 64Gb of solid state memory. The
iPhone 6 models come in 16, 64 and 128Gb.

Power: The iPhone 6 is powered by Apple"s latest A8 processor and has faster
processing power and faster graphics.

Battery: The iPhone 5s is capable of 250 hours of standby or 10 hours of
chatting before it needs a charge. The iPhone 6 can handle 50 hours of audio and
11 hours of video. The iPhone 6 Plus offers 80 hours of audio and 14 hours of
video.

