

APPLE has revealed plenty of new details about the new iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus
and Apple Watch, but some questions remain unanswered.

WHAT WE KNOW â-  Apple plans to replace your wallet with your smartphone, in the
shape of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, and the Apple Watch. A lot of people have that
plan but analysts are already saying that the deals Apple has made with banks,
credit cards and retailers like Disney could make this dream come true.

â-  Both new iPhones will use the same charger as the iPhone 5 models. â-
Apparently there is no 'I' in watch, just like there is no 'I' in team. It does
come in two sizes and three models. No matter what Watch you get, they all have
interchangeable bands.

â-  On the topic of names, where did iPhone 6 Plus come from? Let's get ready
for the marketing campaign: Now iPhones come in Plus-sized models.

â-  Apple has embraced NFC (Near Field Communication) at last - not only in its
iPhones, but in its smartwatch. If you're an Apple fan, you better brace
yourself for some gentle ribbing from your Android-loving mates welcoming you to
2010.

â-  U2 are very, very loud. Tim Cook is not scared to say "one more thing".
Apple can still keep very big secrets. And it doesn't need Steve Jobs to launch
sexy new products.

WHAT WE DON'T KNOW â-  The Apple Watch has a battery that recharges at night by
touching a magnet to the back of it. Just how often it will need recharging is
anybody's guess. Our guess is every night.

â-  When will Apple Watch be in Australia? It'll be post-Christmas but how about
early January? Nothing says Australia Day like a new smartwatch - maybe with an
esky and thongs app.

â-  What will Apple Pay mean to Australians? Apple has announced a bunch of US
retailers and banks but no details of when it will come to Australia and how it
will work.

â-  Is an eight megapixel camera the ultimate in an iPhone camera? While the
iPhone 6 Plus in particular has some great new features, including a super
slow-mo rate and optical image stabilising, Apple is continuing to stick with an
eight megapixel camera. As Apple would say, it's not the size of your
megapixels, it's how you use them.â-  While we were given stats on battery
usage, one thing you can never learn in a product launch is what battery use is
like in real-world examples. The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were said to have a battery
life equal if not better than the iPhone 5S. Is that going to be good enough?

