                              321 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                           September 29, 2014 Monday



@New screen S/C head;Apple's iPhone 6 proves tough to bend



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 290 words





@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;



@BY New Paper/Agency;Bloomberg



@BY New Dateline;San Francisco



@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;



Apple's new iPhones, facing an Internet outcry about their malleability, proved

difficult to bend and fit for daily use in lab tests run by Consumer Reports

magazine.



Stress tests on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, along with comparable smartphones from

competitors, showed that it took "significant force" to damage any of the

devices, Consumer Reports said in results of a study published on its website.

HTC's HTC One M8 and Samsung's Galaxy Note 3 were among the other devices.



"All the phones we tested showed themselves to be pretty tough," the report

said. "We expect that any of these phones should stand up to typical use."



Following uproar in social media including claims the new iPhone 6 Plus bends if

it is sat upon or if enough pressure is placed on it, Apple has said bending of

its devices is "extremely rare".



Only nine customers had contacted Apple about a bent iPhone 6 Plus, the company

said in a statement.



The iPhone 6 Plus began to deform after 41 kilos of force was applied and the

iPhone 6 stood up to pressure until 31.7 kilos was applied, the same as the HTC

One M8, according to Consumer Reports. The Galaxy Note 3 was damaged at 68

kilos. All devices withstood 25 kilos, the force needed to break three pencils,

the magazine said.



"Bear in mind that it took significant force to do this kind of damage to all

these phones," Consumer Reports said.



"Both iPhones seem tougher than the Internet fracas implies."



The iPhone 6 Plus, a 14-centimetre screen device, which is the biggest

smartphone in Apple's line-up, became available for sale last week, along with

the other new model, the iPhone 6.



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





