                              322 of 998 DOCUMENTS





            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)



                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News



                           September 19, 2014 Friday



People line up outside Fayetteville store for new iPhone 6



BYLINE: Amanda Dolasinski, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.



SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS



LENGTH: 524 words





Sept. 19--A line of people snaked around Fayetteville's AT&T store counting down

until Friday morning when they got the first crack at purchasing the new iPhone

6 or iPhone 6 Plus.



"The only thing I didn't see was a gas grill," said Scott Legge, store manager,

who arrived at the store around 5 a.m. "People were lined up from the front door

to the back of the store."



Apple started selling the newest generation of the iPhone Friday morning. The

phones were launched in 10 countries Friday.



"There's a lot of excitement," Legge said. "Today, there's a significant number

of our customers interested in iPhones."



Legge said he anticipated lines, so he called in extra staff and had

refreshments waiting for the first customers in the door Friday.



Although the line had dwindled by lunchtime, several customers mingled in the

store testing the iPhones and talking to staff about tricks and tips for using

them.



Legge declined to say how many iPhones the store received or how many had been

sold Friday.



By noon, Tammy Tuttle said the iPhone 6 Plus model that she wanted was already

sold out. Instead, she opted for the iPhone 6.



The phone's larger screen was appealing to Tuttle, who takes photos of cakes she

creates for her business, T-Tuttlecakes, and posts them online. She researched

the phone for several days before stopping in AT&T.



"I'm a cake decorator and I take a lot of pictures," she said. "I have to edit

them and add the logo to give it a more professional look. I wanted the bigger

screen and more memory."



Brooke Sotero, of Fort Bragg, knew she wanted the new iPhone, but wasn't sure if

she wanted the Plus model, which has the larger, 5 1/2 inch display.



Sotero is usually holding a toddler on her hip and has to type and send text

messages using only her free hand, she said.



"I was looking online to order it, but I wanted to hold onto to see," she said.

"The Plus is too big, with all the kids stuff, it's hard."



Kerry Jenkins met his wife, Sherry, at the AT&T store on their lunch breaks

Friday to upgrade their phones. Jenkins said he has been a loyal Apple customer

since he purchased his first Mac computer in 1987.



He most recently had been using the iPhone 4, but wanted to take advantage of

AT&T's trade-in special, which gave him $200 credit toward the new iPhone if he

returned the iPhone 4.



Jenkins, who teaches graphic design at Methodist University, said Apple products

have always been standard in his industry. Aside from its business purpose,

Jenkins said he likes the ease of streaming music from his phone



"One of the reasons I like it is cause I've got iTunes, so my car can use my

phone to play my music," he said.



Earlier this week, Apple announced a record number of first day pre-orders of

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus with 4 million in the first 24 hours.



That's double the record set for iPhone 5, when Apple reported 2 million

pre-orders in its first 24 hours.



Staff writer Amanda Dolasinski can be reached at dolasinskia@fayobserver.com or

486-3528.



___ (c)2014 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The

Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by

MCT Information Services



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



ACC-NO: 20140919-FY-People-line-up-outside-Fayetteville-store-for-new-iPhone-6

-0919-20140919



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: FY





                    Copyright 2014 The Fayetteville Observer





