                              329 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              The Express Tribune



                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday



Apple launches larger, thinner iPhones



LENGTH: 370  words





Apple on Tuesday morning launched the much awaited new models of iPhones  the

iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus.



The new 4.7-inch iPhone 6 is only 6.9mm thick, with the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus

slightly thicker at 7.1mm. Both are thinner than the lastiPhone, the 5S which

measured 7.6mm thick.



Apart from the significant reduction in heft and the obvious choice in terms of

screen size and the curved corners, theCupertino company has invested in changes

under the hood.



oth new phones are powered by Apple-designed A8 chip, which offers up to 25%

faster processing power and up to 50% faster graphics.Apple claims that

theiPhone 6 is also up to 50% more energy efficient.



The motion coprocessor, which was introduced in the iPhone 5S model, also gets

an upgrade. The new phones have the M8 coprocessor, which continuously measures

motion data from the phones accelerometer, gyroscope, and compass. In addition,

the iPhone 6 has a barometer that senses air pressure in order to measure

relative elevation.



The company claims that the new phone will sportWi-Fi speeds up to three times

faster than last year's iPhone due to the 802.11acwireless networking standard.



Camera



One of the draws for iPhones has been its camera. The new modesl sport a

new8-megapixel, 2.2-aperture camera which only slightly improves on the iPhone

5S. What it lacks in terms of raw hardware, the company claims it will be making

up for in software improvements which will help the user take better

pictures.Panoramas, for example, can now be up to 43 megapixels.



While theiPhone 6 features digital' image stabilisation, the 6 Plus has optical

image stabilisation, a plus for all iPhone-graphers. In the burst mode, the

iPhone cantake up to 10 photos per second.



The new camera can also manage video at 1080p at either 30 or 60 frames per

second, while slow-motion video can be shot at either 120 or 240 frames per

second.



Needless to say, both new iPhones come with the new iOS 8 operating system.



Apple Watch



The list of goodies does not stop at the two new flagship devices. Apple has

finally launched its competitor to Samsung's Gear smartwatch.



The one inch watch will feature sapphire glass and will have a taptic engine for

notifications and a Siri' version.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





