                              340 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 12, 2014 Friday



New iPhones set off flurry of pre-orders



BYLINE: Julia Love



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 348 words





The new iPhones are selling like hotcakes.



Shortly after Applecs latest phones went up for pre-order on Friday, the major

carriers appeared to have drained their supplies. At a star-studded event at the

Flint Center for the Performing Arts in Cupertino on Tuesday, Apple CEO Tim Cook

made official the companycs latest offerings: the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6

Plus, with screens of 4.7 and 5.5 inches, respectively.



If early reports are any judge, many consumers seem to agree with Apple that

bigger is better. AT&T indicated on its website Friday morning that the iPhone 6

would ship sometime in October, whereas the larger iPhone 6 Plus would not go

out until November. Verizoncs website forecast an Oct. 7 delivery date for the

iPhone 6 and an Oct. 21 arrival for the iPhone 6 Plus.



Sprintcs website appeared to be buckling under high traffic, with a message

advising users: cWe are excited, and now we know you are excited too! There seem

to be quite a few of your trying to get into our online store to see our new

phones and plans. We will be back online soon with a new device, a new plan and

a new way to buy.c



T-Mobilecs website also appeared to be on the fritz Friday morning. Tech blog

Re/code reported Friday that an attempt to order the iPhone 6 Plus generated the

following message: cDue to high demand, your Apple product may not be available

for immediate shipping. Once we are able to complete your order, you will

receive a notification when your product has shipped.c



A spokesman for AT&T told Re/code that the demand for Applecs latest phones

surpasses what the company has seen in the past two years.



Analysts predicted that consumers would clamor for the new phones. Apple has

been slow to embrace the movement for larger screens, but it is a feature many

consumers have shown they want.



cMost of the people things are doing with their phones today really cry out for

a larger screen,c Bob OcDonnell of TECHnalysis Research told the Mercury News at

Applecs event on Tuesday.



Consumers are scrambling to pre-order the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. (Justin

Sullivan/Getty Images)



c



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





