                              342 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                     September 22, 2015 Tuesday 3:54 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6S and 6S Plus review roundup: stronger, faster, heavier;

They can shoot Live Photos, have pressure-sensitive screens, an always-listening

Siri, and faster fingerprint sensors, but look identical to last year's models



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 1279 words





Apple's new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus smartphones land in customers hands on Friday,

but a select bunch of reviewers have been given early access.



The Guardian is not one of those picked by Apple to receive a sample of the

iPhone 6S and 6S Plus ahead of its release, and will publish a review after

buying one at the same time as consumers.



In the meantime, here is a quick roundup of the general opinion on Apple's

latest.



Review: Apple's iPhone 6s And 6s Plus Go 'Tick' - Tech Crunch



                     Matthew Panzarino sees quite an uptick in performance of

this year's iPhone over the iPhone 6, in its "tick-tock" upgrade cycle :



In our tests, there was a 56.5% increase in Geekbench benchmark scores from the

iPhone 6 Plus to the iPhone 6s Plus. That follows a 97% increase from the iPhone

5 to the iPhone 5s. In comparison, there was only a 24.9% increase from the

iPhone 5s to the iPhone 6. In terms of performance, the 'tock' years are really

kicking the 'tick' years in the butt.



iPhone 6S review: Apple's 3D Touch screen and camera improvements make the best

better - Digital Spy



Despite the iPhone 6S being thicker and heavier than its predecessor, Matt Hill

found it wasn't noticeable.



No need to grumble, this is still slim by any standard, with the phone's

increased portliness barely noticeable and the added 14g giving the phone a more

reassuring heft. Easily the most well constructed handset on the market -

despite increased competition from the likes of the Samsung Galaxy S6 and HTC

One M9 - the iPhone 6S's cool-to-the-touch metal body and softly curved edges

make the phone look and feel great.



iPhone 6S review: Apple presses forward - The Verge



Nilay Patel loves the new pressure-sensitive "3D Touch" screen but admits that

it's not exactly a novel concept, even if it's a new implementation:



On the home screen, app icons can show quick actions when you push them. Pushing

on a calendar entry shows you more information about it, and pushing on a map

pin lets you jump straight to directions. Pushing on a message in Mail opens a

preview that you can slide to either side to delete or archive, and pushing

harder opens the message. It's the same in Safari: pushing lightly on a link

opens a preview, and pushing slightly harder actually opens the page. It's not

some insane lightning bolt of inspiration; Google is doing something very

similar with Material Design and Microsoft has been sliding things all over the

screen since someone was drunk enough to approve the name 'Windows Phone 7

Series'. But 3D Touch [is] by far the most aggressive and interesting step in

this direction anyone has ever taken.



iPhone 6s Review: A Slightly Better iPhone 6 - The Wall Street Journal



The camera's better, the processor is faster and it has a new screen, but the

battery life of the iPhone is still poor, according to Joanna Stern:



Let's get this out of the way first. The No. 1 thing people want in a smartphone

is better battery life. And the iPhone 6s doesn't deliver that. The 4.7-inch 6s

will get you through the day, but you'll struggle to make it til bedtime with

moderate to heavy use. And it seemed to drain even faster than my 6 when I used

the new processor-intensive camera features like Live Photos. The bigger

5.5-inch 6s Plus lasted longer and is the best choice if you're a heavy user and

want some juice left over at the end of the day.



I Used The Crap Out Of The New iPhone 6S And This Is What Happened - BuzzFeed

Life



Writing for BuzzFeed Life (not BuzzFeed News, that's below) Nicole Nguyen found

Apple's marketing a little distasteful :



The marketing slogan for the 6S is "The only thing that's changed is

everything," which is funny because that's, well, not true. Take a look at the

hardware. It's impossible to tell the difference between the 6S and 6 iPhones,

save for a tinyyy [sic] ant-sized "S" on the rear and slightly more heft (the 6S

phones are one ounce heavier). They're fraternal twins that basically look like

identical twins. What is different are the few, significant internal

improvements, one of which is what I think will entice people (namely, me) to

upgrade. 3D Touch is the 6S's killer feature. But it depends on what apps decide

to support it.



Yet Another iPhone 6s Review - BuzzFeed News



John Paczkowski found images shot by the 12-megapixel camera were generally

better, as you would expect.



The photos I've taken with the new 12 megapixel rear camera on the iPhone 6s

look a little bit better than the ones I've taken with the 8 megapixel one on

the iPhone 6 - and even my not-at-all-a-photographer's eye can see that. Apple

says this is because of "improved local tone mapping" and an "advanced pixel

technology" called Focus Pixels. It probably is. I don't care. What matters is

that pictures of my daughters look warmer, sharper, more detailed, whatever. And

they look equally good when I blow them up.



iPhone 6S Plus review: Is bigger better? - Pocket-Lint



Stuart Miles says the optical stabilisation and phase detection autofocus make

the new 12-megapixel upgrade to the iPhone's camera a winner, but Live Photos

are a mixed bag for now.



A lot of Live Photos we've shot have footage of us hastily dropping the camera

after taking the shot. Another frustration is that audio is automatically

recorded, which at times is lovely - a child's giggle for example - but not so

great when you've got the same child screaming in the background. All that extra

video adds to their size too, meaning a Live Photo is worth around two still

photos in terms of space. While you can offload some of that to Apple's iCloud

Drive service (at a yearly subscription) a 16GB iPhone 6S Plus isn't going to

stretch as far as it used to (compounding the argument for a 32GB minimum

model).



iPhone 6S Review: Come for the New Features, Stay for the Screaming Speed -

Bloomberg



Speed is at the heart of the new iPhones for Sam Grobart, including the new and

improved fingerprint scanner:



The Touch ID sensor is instantaneous: By the time you've pressed the home button

to wake up the phone, you've already authenticated yourself and are on the home

screen.



iPhone 6s review: built for success - The Telegraph



According to Rhiannon Williams, the always-listening "Hey Siri" feature needs a

bit of work learning to ignore everyone but you :



Thanks to the integrated A9, Siri is now always on, waiting to be activated by

the command "Hey Siri". This is attuned to your voice when you first set Siri up

during the iPhone activation process, which means Siri is supposed to be able to

pick out your voice alone from within a crowded room. I did find that a woman of

a similar age and voice range to myself was able to activate Siri from a

distance by speaking a command, so maybe this is a feature which needs a bit of

refining.



iPhone 6s Plus review: more battery, better camera and a bigger screen mean new

phone could win you round to huge phones - The Independent



And of that Rose Gold colour, apparently it's difficult to photograph and looks

better in real life, says David Phelan.



The rose gold, by the way, looks better in the flesh than in photos, thanks to a

colour that is understated and warm rather than out-and-out pink.



iPhone 6S review - Tech Radar



Gareth Beavis sees the upgrade as a no-brainer if money is no object, but it's a

much more difficult call for most people.



It's still one of, if not the, most expensive flagship phones on the market, and

as such needs to impress in every way, which the iPhone 6S doesn't quite do. The

iPhone 6 remains on sale at a lower price, and the difference between it and

Apple's latest phone is negligible.



· iOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





