                              343 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday



Look like older iPhones but with nifty new traits;

Apple's penchant for updating the iPhone with an 'S' suffix and incremental

upgrades continues with its latest iPhones. Trevor Tan tests the iPhone 6s and

6s Plus to see if they are worth the upgrade.



BYLINE: Trevor Tan



SECTION: DIGITAL



LENGTH: 1087 words





DESIGN



The two new iPhones look almost exactly like their predecessors. But they are

built with structurally stronger 7000 Series aluminium.



A new rose gold model joins the existing grey, silver and gold models (gold is

now not available for existing iPhone 6 and 6 Plus). It is a finish that is more

pink than gold.



Both iPhones are 0.2mm thicker than their predecessors. They are heavier, with

the iPhone 6s putting on 14g, and the iPhone 6s Plus gaining 20g. But they can

still be used with iPhone 6 and 6 Plus cases.



But when you hold them in your hands, you will not really feel or sense the

increase in thickness or weight. Both new iPhones are still great to hold and

handle, with the smaller model more suited to one-hand use.



TECH SPECS   APPLE IPHONE 6S PLUS



PRICE: $1,218 (16GB), $1,388 (64GB) $1,558 (128GB)



PROCESSOR: A9 chip with



64-bit architecture with embedded M9 motion co-processor



SCREEN: 5.5-inch Retina HD display with 3D Touch; 1,920 x 1,080 pixels



CAMERAS: 12-megapixel rear camera, 5-megapixel front camera



WEIGHT: 192g



RATING



FEATURES: 4/5



DESIGN: 5/5



PERFORMANCE: 5/5



BATTERY LIFE: 4/5



VALUE FOR MONEY: 4/5



OVERALL: 4/5



SPEED



With an upgraded 64-bit A9 chip, the iPhones run faster than their predecessors.



In the Geekbench 3 benchmark tests, the iPhone 6s scored 2,535 (single-core) and

4,410 (multi-core), while the iPhone 6s Plus scored 2,526 (single-core) and

4,410 (multi-core). These results are around 50 per cent faster than the

previous models.



Where it took 9sec to load Infinity Blade III on the previous iPhones, both new

iPhones loaded the game in around 7.7sec. Graphics-intensive games such as

Implosion played smoothly without lag.



The iPhones use the second-generation Touch ID that is supposed to be better and

faster. It works even with moist fingers and logs into the Home Screen a split

second faster than in previous versions.



TECH SPECS   APPLE IPHONE 6S



PRICE: $1,048 (16GB), $1,218 (64GB), $1,388 (128GB)



PROCESSOR: A9 chip with



64-bit architecture with embedded M9 motion co-processor



SCREEN: 4.7-inch Retina HD display with 3D Touch; 1,334 x 750 pixels



CAMERAS: 12-megapixel rear camera, 5-megapixel front camera



WEIGHT: 143g



RATING



FEATURES: 4/5



DESIGN: 5/5



PERFORMANCE: 5/5



BATTERY LIFE: 3/5



VALUE FOR MONEY: 4/5



OVERALL: 4/5



SIRI



The voice command "Hey, Siri" is now recognised without requiring the iPhones to

be plugged to a power source. When you set up the phone initially, you will be

asked to say a few sentences, such as "Hey Siri, how's the weather today'". This

is so the phone will recognise only your voice. Siri seems to have become more

accurate as a result.



DISPLAY WITH 3D TOUCH



Apple did not increase the new iPhones' display size and screen resolution. A

higher-resolution display is probably more suited for viewing the 4K videos that

the new iPhones are capable of shooting.



What has changed with the display is the addition of the 3D Touch feature, where

the screen senses how hard you are pressing on it.



This feature allows for primarily two functions, which Apple calls Peek and Pop,

and Quick Actions.



Peek and Pop lets you preview content without opening a message or e-mail. For

example, press lightly on an e-mail to see the content and let go if the content

does not interest you. It also lets you preview photos by lightly pressing the

thumbnail image while still in camera mode. You can swipe left to review the

photos. Just lift your finger to return to taking photos.



Quick Actions works like the regular right mouse click. With supported apps in

the Home Screen, it will call up a shortcut with different options. For example,

press hard on the Camera app icon and you will feel a haptic feedback, followed

by the appearance of a window showing options like Take Selfie or Record Video.



It all feels intuitive and I got the hang of how much force to apply with just a

few tries. The feature worked like a charm even after I installed screen

protectors.



CAMERA AND LIVE PHOTOS



Both iPhones feature an improved 12-megapixel rear camera (up from 8-megapixel

previously) that shoots 4K (3,840 x 2,160 pixels) videos.



Selfie lovers will like that the front-facing camera has been upgraded to 5

megapixels (from 1.2 megapixels previously). This camera uses the phone's

display as a flash, a feature which Apple calls Retina flash.



The main difference between the cameras of the new iPhones remains the presence

of an optical image stabiliser (OIS) in the iPhone 6s Plus. OIS compensates for

camera shake and yields sharper images, especially under dim conditions when

exposure times would be longer.



It also makes videos appear less jerky. Comparing 4K videos I shot while

walking, the ones taken with the iPhone 6s Plus were less shaky.



There is a new camera function called Live Photos in both iPhones. It is enabled

by default in the camera but you can disable it if you prefer so. When you take

a photo, you get one still image, as well as animated footage - or "moments" -

spanning 1.5 seconds before and after the picture is taken. During preview on

the phone, just press a little harder on the screen to see those moments.



You might find your initial tries at this function to be quite hilarious though,

as final moments tend to be when you put down the phone. The trick is to wait

for the word "Live" on the camera app to disappear before you put down the

phone.



Pictures and videos shot with the iPhones are excellent, with crisp details and

minimal noise. And unlike some smartphones, images are not marred by overzealous

sharpening.



To compare their cameras, I used the phones to take a series of the same scenes.

Images taken with the iPhone 6s Plus showed marginally more accurate colours and

exposure levels.



Selfie lovers will love the sharper details of the new front camera. The Retina

flash worked well. Unlike the unnatural spot-lit effect with most phone camera

flashes, skin tones were natural with these phones.



BATTERY LIFE



To stress-test the battery, I looped a 720p video at full brightness and full

volume, and with Wi-Fi on.



The iPhone 6s lasted 6hr 50min, while the iPhone 6s Plus lasted 7hr 10min. The

iPhone 6s lasted around the same time as the iPhone 6, while the iPhone 6s Plus

lasted 25min less than its predecessor.



Under normal use, both phones should be able to last a working day.



·Verdict: If you are still using the iPhone 5s, you definitely have to upgrade

to the Apple iPhone 6s or iPhone 6s Plus. Even if you are using the previous

models, the 3D Touch feature and better cameras are well worth the upgrade.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: The Apple iPhone 6s, in four colours, has put on 14g but is still great

to hold and handle.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2015 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





