                              349 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 Yorkshire Post



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday



Bent' iPhones and software glitches hit Apple



LENGTH: 320  words





Apple's newest iPhones have been hit by glitches after users complained that a

new software update blocked their calls - and a widely-circulated video showed

the larger of the two new models was vulnerable to bending.



Apple said it would stop providing the software update, which it began

distributing on Wednesday to fix several issues in last week's iOS 8 operating

system for iPhones and iPads.



The decision to pull the update came after some people complained on Twitter and

in Apple user chatrooms that the update, dubbed iOS 8.0.1, rendered their phones

unable to make calls and caused problems with a feature that lets people unlock

their phones with their fingerprint.



Apple announced that it was investigating the reports and would issue advice to

users "as quickly as we can". Users are still able to the upgrade older phones

to last week's version of iOS 8, which Apple said has already been downloaded to

nearly half of all iOS devices.



Some tech blogs reported the update only seemed to cause problems for the latest

phone models - the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.



It is not uncommon for new software to contain bugs that have to be fixed with

subsequent releases.



Meanwhile, social media sites were buzzing with reports that the aluminium shell

of the iPhone 6 Plus was vulnerable to bending. Some Twitter users claimed their

phones showed a slight curving at one end after several hours in a trouser

pocket. With a 5.5-inch screen, the iPhone 6 Plus is slightly longer and thinner

than other iPhone models.



It's not clear how widespread the complaints are. One YouTube video showed

someone bending an iPhone 6 Plus by applying extended pressure with his hands -

not from normal sitting.



Both the iPhone 6 and the 6 Plus were given high ratings in a recent

"breakability" test conducted by SquareTrade, a San Francisco firm that sells

insurance to consumers for their electronic devices. The test did not include

bending.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP





                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





