                              350 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)



                           September 29, 2014 Monday

                                  1ST Edition



BYLINE: Mark Chediak; Bloomberg News



SECTION: Pg. 2B



LENGTH: 279 words





SAN FRANCISCO | Facing an Internet outcry about their malleability, Apple's new

iPhones proved fit for daily use, and difficult to bend, in lab tests run by

Consumer Reports magazine.



Stress tests on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, along with comparable smartphones from

competitors, showed that it took "significant force" to damage any of the

devices, Consumer Reports said in results of a study published on its website.

HTC Corp.'s HTC One M8 and Samsung Electronics's Galaxy Note 3 were among the

other devices.



"All the phones we tested showed themselves to be pretty tough," the report

said. "We expect that any of these phones should stand up to typical use."



Following uproar in social media including claims the new iPhone 6 Plus bends if

it's sat upon or if enough pressure is placed on it, Apple has said bending of

its devices is "extremely rare." Only nine customers had contacted Apple about a

bent iPhone 6 Plus, the Cupertino, California-based company said in a Sept. 25

statement.



The iPhone 6 Plus began to deform after 90 pounds of force was applied and the

iPhone 6 stood up to pressure until 70 pounds was applied, the same as the HTC

One M8, according to Consumer Reports. The Galaxy Note 3 was damaged at 150

pounds. All devices withstood 55 pounds, the force needed to break three

pencils, the magazine said.



"Bear in mind that it took significant force to do this kind of damage to all

these phones," Consumer Reports said. "Both iPhones seem tougher than the

Internet fracas implies."



The iPhone 6 Plus, a 5.5-inch screen device, which is the biggest smartphone in

Apple's lineup, became available for sale last week, along with the other new

model, the iPhone 6.



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 Star-News, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





