                              354 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

                                 Delhi Edition



Battle of the Behemoths Galaxy Note 4 vs iPhone 6 Plus



BYLINE: hitesh.bhagat@timesgroup.com



SECTION: ET PANACHE



LENGTH: 522 words





Look and feel



Look and feel Like the brand new Galaxy Alpha, the Note 4 has a brushed metal

frame with bevelled edges and a removable, soft touch back cover.It's a tad

shorter than the iPhone 6 Plus despite having a larger screen -which means the

bezels are thinner. The iPhone 6 Plus is all metal with some plastic inserts for

wireless signals. It is significantly slimmer than the Note 4 though we doubt

many people will use it without a case, thanks to the `bending' controversy.



Display



Both devices have fantastic displays that are roughly the same size (5.7-inch

for the Note 4 and 5.5-inch for the iPhone 6 Plus). The resolution and pixel

density, however, is quite different. The Note 4 screen is 2560 x 1440 pixels

while the iPhone 6 Plus is 1920 x 1080 pixels. In addition, the Note 4 employs a

super amoled display which offers more vibrant colours as compared to the IPS

LCD.



Specifications



On paper, the Note 4 is the clear winner here with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 805

quad core processor (2.7 Ghz) and 3GB RAM. Apple doesn't specify the exact

specifications but several reports suggest that the 64-bit A8 processor is a 1.4

Ghz dual core with 1GB RAM.The Note 4 also has the advantage of expandable

storage -the 32GB



memory can be expanded by another 128GB using a microSD.



Still images



Both phones are equipped with great cameras which offer optical image

stabilisation. Often found in high-end digital cameras, this feature works to

counter the effects of camera shake which results in blurry images. It also

helps a lot when you're capturing photos in low light. Needless to say, these

two are currently at the top of the heap when it comes to smartphone cameras.



Video recording



The reason video comes under a different head is because both devices have some

special tricks up their sleeve. The iPhone 6 Plus can record time lapse movies

and slow motion of the box. Meanwhile, the Note 4 is capable of really good 4k

resolution video at 30fps which will come in handy if you plan to upgrade to a

UHD 4K TV or projector anytime soon.



Additional features



Both devices have fingerprint sensors, though the implementation on the iPhone 6

Plus is better \xAD you only need to place a finger on the home button rather

than slide it across like on the Note 4. The Note 4's killer features have to be

the pressure sensitive stylus (which opens up tremendous possibilities if you

like to draw/write/sketch) .and the effortless multi-tasking (multiple active

apps)



What Note 4 can do and iPhone 6 Plus can't



1. Shoot 4k UHD video at 30fps



2. Ultra wide 120-degree selfies, thanksto a new camera mode



3. Draw precisely with the new S pen stylus (2048 levels of sensitivity)



4. Powerful multitasking with multiple windows of apps



5. Swap out batteries, expand the memory by another 128GB



What iPhone 6 Plus can do and Note 4 can't



1. Shoot super slow motion video @ 240 frames per second



2. Reachability mode makes the large screen accessible with one hand



3. Touch ID identifies fingerprints by just placing finger on home button



4. Shoot time lapse videos without any additional apps



5. A new barometer measures elevation changes apart from steps/distance



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





