                              355 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                The Irish Times



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



U2 support Apple as watch steals show;

Wearable device and two iPhones debuted as band releases 13th album



BYLINE: Davin O'Dwyer



SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 810 words





In what was one of the most keenly anticipated tech events in recent years,

Apple chief executive Tim Cook yesterday unveiled a host of new devices and

technologies at the Flint Centre for the Performing Arts in Cupertino,

California, not far from Apple's headquarters. Even with a heavily rumoured

"surprise" performance from U2, debuting a track from their new album, it was

the new gadgets that provided most of the glamour and wowed the large crowd of

guests and technology journalists.



With two new iPhones and an entirely new wearable device, dubbed the Apple

Watch, as well as announcing a new in mobile payments, it was the company's most

significant such event since founder Steve Jobs unveiled the iPad in 2010, and

challenged the widespread perception that the company was unable to innovate

without Jobs, who died in October 2011.



The big announcement was the unveiling of the Apple Watch, which has been the

subject of rumours for more than two years but which had not seen publicly

before yesterday's event. It is the company's first new product category since

the iPad.



"Apple introduced the world to several category-defining products: the Mac,

iPod, iPhone and iPad," said Mr Cook. "It's the most personal product we've ever

made."



Coming in three editions - Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport and Apple Watch

Edition - and available in two sizes, 38mm and 42 mm, the device features a a

scratch-resistant sapphire screen and health and fitness monitoring sensors for

lifestyle tracking.



Fashion accessory With the different designs and numerous different straps, the

computer giant is marketing the watch as a fashion accessory as much as a

gadget, a fact reflected in the number of figures from fashion and entertainment

who attended the event, including singers Gwen Stefani and will.i.am and model

Lily Cole.



The new iPhones follow the industry trend of larger screen sizes, with the

iPhone 6 moving to a 4.7-inch screen, compared with the previous generation's

4-inch screen, and an even larger 5.5-inch model, the iPhone 6 Plus. The iPhone

6 Plus is a so-called "phablet", a device that sits between smartphones and

tablets in terms of screen real estate.



Despite the size appearing unwieldy, Samsung has had considerable success with

the Galaxy Note series of phablets. Both devices are even thinner than the

previous generation iPhone.



The devices will go on sale on Friday, September 19th, in the United States and

select other countries, and before the end of the year in  Ireland, with prices

beginning at $199 (EUR 154) for the iPhone 6 and $299 for the iPhone 6 Plus.

Supply of the iPhone Plus 6 is expected to be constrained at first.



The third major announcement was the launch of Apple Pay, a new service that the

company says "will transform mobile payments with an easy, secure and private

way to pay" by allowing users to pay by simply waving their iPhone or Apple

Watch at a payment terminal.



Apple Pay works with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus through a NFC antenna design, a

chip called the Secure Element, and verification through the finger- recognition

Touch ID button. Apple is partnering with all the major credit card companies

and many major banks, as well as dozens or retailers and food chains such as

Bloomingdale's, Disney Store, Macy's, McDonald's and Subway. Apple Pay will be

US-only at launch.



The event followed the controversy over the theft of celebrities' private images

from the company's iCloud service, which backs up users' photographs and data to

servers, but executives were at pains to confirm that the new Apple Pay service

was even more secure than using credit cards.



The choice of venue was a pointed one - it was at the Flint Centre that Apple

founder Steve Jobs unveiled the first Macintosh computer in January 1984,

changing the shape of computing history in the process.



'Key day for Apple' The echoes of that event could be felt throughout

yesterday's keynote, with Mr Cook beginning the event by recalling that launch:

"It is great to be back in the Flint Centre . . . On this stage, Steve

introduced the Macintosh. Today, we have some amazing products to share with

you, and we think at the end of the day, you will think that this will be a key

day for Apple".



The unprecedented scale of the media presence, with the auditorium packed with

more than 2,000 journalists from around the world, reflected Apple's

determination to regain the perception that it is the most innovative and

influential technology firm in the world.



In recent years, South Korean giant Samsung has successfully eaten into sales of

Apple devices, while Google's various so-called "moonshot" projects, such as

self-driving cars and smartglasses, are in contrast to Apple's lack of entirely

new devices in recent years. Yesterday's launch event will go some way towards

establishing Apple as the technology's leading innovators.



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times

                              All Rights Reserved





