                              367 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                         The Christian Science Monitor



                           September 22, 2014 Monday



Apple's (AAPL) iPhone 6 and 6 Plus sales top 10 million in first weekend;

Apple sold a record 10 million iPhones in its first weekend. That's 1 million

more than the iPhone 5 and 5C, and the new iPhones haven't begun selling in

China.



BYLINE: Bryan Cronan Staff Writer



SECTION: Innovation



LENGTH: 438 words





Apple didn't just beat expected sales of the new iPhones, it blew them out of

the water.



Apple announced Monday that it sold more than 10 million iPhone 6 and 6 Plus

phones in its first weekend on the market. That beats the record 9 million

iPhone 5 and 5C sold during the first weekend.



"Sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus exceeded our expectations for the launch

weekend, and we couldn't be happier," Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement.

"While our team managed the manufacturing ramp better than ever before, we could

have sold many more iPhones with greater supply and we are working hard to fill

orders as quickly as possible."



The new generation of iPhones is an attempt to enter the 'phablet' market. The

screen on the iPhone 6 is 4.7 diagonal inches and 5.5 inches for the iPhone 6

Plus. The previous iPhone 5S and 5C are 4 inches. Many believe that phablets,

phones with a screen that's 5.5 inches or larger, are the future of the phone

industry. In China, the largest cellphone market in the world, 20 percent of all

phones that were sold in 2013 were phablets, according to a study done by the

research firm IDC. The study predicted that the sales for the larger phones will

outpace the sales of laptops.



The sales numbers were on the upper end of what most experts expected. Analysts

anticipated the phone to sell between 6.5 million and the low eight-digits.



The number of iPhones sold over the weekend doesn't include those sold in the

Chinese market. Apple has been forced to delay sales in China until Chinese

regulators approve the new devices.



But that isn't keeping some in China from getting their hands on the new phones.

A black market for the phones in China has sprung up. Resellers are standing

outside Apple stores and promising two-day delivery on a 16-gigabyte iPhone 6

for $1,300 to $2,400, according to Bloomberg.



"It's going to be a while before the new iPhone comes to China officially, so if

you want it now, you have to pay up," reseller Liu Min told Bloomberg. "Give me

a call if you want one."



The sales numbers came as a much needed boost to Apple, which has been in

engulfed in controversy over the leaking of nude celebrity photos. The leaks

caused many to question the security of Apple's devices, though Apple maintains

that its systems are secure.



"Security and privacy are fundamental to the design of all our hardware,

software, and services, including iCloud and new services like Apple Pay," Mr.

Cook wrote in a letter to customers.



The opening weekend sales is a good sign for the new generation of iPhones, and

the numbers will only get better when the phones begin selling in China.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society

                              All Rights Reserved





