                              369 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                    September 20, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



iPhone mania Apple fans queue up for hours outside Apple Stores to get hold of

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus



LENGTH: 272  words





It is that time of the year when Apple loyalists line up outside the company's

official store night ahead the launch of the new iPhones, to get their hands on

the new generation iPhones at the earliest. The Cupertino-based tech giant Apple

has today started selling the Iphone 6 and Iphone 6 Plus in retail stores in

many countries. These countries include Australia, US, UK, Canada, France,

Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, and Singapore.



As expected, fans queued up for hours outside Apple stores across these

countries in order to become the first to get hold of the new iPhone. David

Rahimi traveled from California to Sydney to be the first in the world to own

the iPhone 6, while Sylvain became the first to get hold of iPhone 6 at the

Apple Store Opera in Paris.



However, what came as a surprise to many lining up outside Apple store in Palo

Alto, California, was the sudden appearance of Tim Cook who decided to visit the

store and took selfies with the fans. Cook was there to Kick off the iPhone 6

sale in the Apple Store. Not just that, he ensured that he get some selfies

clicked with the enthusiastic customers as well as spoke to the employees at the

store.



Apple launched the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus laong with the Watch at its event

held on Spetmber 9. The company introduced its biggest ever iPhone at the

launch, and luanched it with iOS 8 on-board. The company recently announced that

it has recived record breaking 4-million pre-orders for the iPhone 6 within

first 24 hours. Apple has not confirmed the date of launch of the new iPhones in

India, however it is rumored to come post-Diwali in the country.



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





