                              376 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Bigger iPhones are leading to tablet neglect



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 343 words





If you are one of the 39 million consumers that have so far snapped up one of

Apple's new larger iPhones, chances are that your iPad has started to gather

dust.



Pocket, the app that allows users to save articles and videos for later

consumption, has been analyzing its own app data to see if the launch of Apple

smartphones with larger screens is changing their owners' behavior.



After checking over 2 million uses of its app, it found that people who own both

a new iPhone and an iPad are going to their tablets less and less.



For example, Pocket app users that own an iPhone 5 or 5S and an iPad go to their

phone 55 percent of the time to retrieve an article or video saved in Pocket and

to the tablet 45 percent of the time. However, iPhone 6 Plus owners, who are in

possession of a phone with a 5.5-inch display, are now consuming this saved

content 80 percent of the time on their handsets and only 20 percent of the time

on their iPad.



Pocket also found that the bigger the phone's screen, the bigger the chance that

videos are going to be viewed -- iPhone 6 Plus owners open nearly 40 percent

more video in Pocket than iPhone 5 or 5S owners and 16 percent more than iPhone

6 owners.



Bigger phones also mean being able to leave the tablet at home -- over a given

weekend, iPhone 6 Plus users viewed 67 percent more content on their phone than

those with a smaller iPhone.



However, Pocket also noted that not all content is devoured in greater

quantities when the user has access to a laager handset -- iPhone 6 Plus owners

read 22 percent less in the mornings compared with iPhone 5, 5S or iPhone 6

owners. Pocket suggests that this is because a larger device is much harder to

hold with one hand while traveling on public transport.



As a result, Apple device owners are starting to fall in line with their Android

counterparts where average display sizes have historically been larger than

those on the iPhone. Pocket's data shows that when a user has both an Android

phone and an Android tablet, 80 percent of saved content is viewed or read via

their handset.



LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





