                              380 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 BusinessWorld



                           October 30, 2014 Thursday



Smart, Globe launching iPhone 6 in mid-November



BYLINE: Chrisee Jalyssa V. Dela Paz



SECTION: Pg. S1/5



LENGTH: 335 words





RIVAL telecommunications providers Smart Communications, Inc. and Globe Telecom,

Inc. will start offering the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus on Nov. 14 for their

respective postpaid plans, the companies said in separate statements late

Wednesday.



Smart said in its statement that customers can pre-order iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus starting Nov. 7 and will offer the new handsets starting Nov. 14,

simultaneously with Globe.



The two telecommunication companies launched pre-order pages for these devices

on their respective sites.



The corporate wireless arm of Smart said last month that it expects the release

of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus to help support the growth in the Philippine

smartphone penetration, expanding the data market in turn.



Jovy I. Hernandez, Smart Enterprise sales and marketing head, said in an

interview on the sidelines of the Asian CEO Summit last month that the company

expects to increase its data revenue "as long as there's still growth in the

smartphone market."



"The more smartphone penetration there is, there should (also) be growth for

data revenue," he said, noting that 30% to 35% of Filipinos now use smartphones.



As a partner of Apple, Inc., Smart plans to offer postpaid data plans together

with the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Mr. Hernandez said.



In the first half, Smart, along with Sun Cellular, another wireless affiliate of

Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT), posted combined revenue growth of

14% year on year from their postpaid businesses to P10.4 billion.



Globe Telecom, meanwhile, posted strong second-quarter and first-half profit

growth on the back of the company's modernization activities and increase in

subscribers. Net profit grew to P3.9 billion in the second quarter from P754

million a year earlier.



On Wednesday, PLDT shares ended trading at P3,158, down P34 or 1.07%; while

Globe closed at P1,670 apiece, up P12 or 0.72%.



Hastings Holdings, Inc., a unit of PLDT Beneficial Trust Fund subsidiary

MediaQuest Holdings, Inc., has a majority stake in BusinessWorld.



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2014 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation

                              All Rights Reserved





