                              385 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)



                            October 4, 2014 Saturday



The iPhone hype is deserved



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 821 words





Blayne Slabbert offers some advice on how to choose between the two latest

iPhones.



--------------------



THE NEW PHONES iPhone 6 (4.7 inch)



16GB ($999), 64GB ($1149), 128GB ($1299)



iPhone 6 Plus (5.5 inch)



16GB ($1149), 64GB ($1299), 128GB ($1449)



Both phones come in silver, gold or space grey



The above prices are what you'll pay outright for the phones; all the NZ

networks offer contract deals



--------------------



IT'S the little things that can sometimes make the biggest difference,

especially when it comes to technology.



The new iPhones are no different. There are hundreds of incremental changes to

the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, each making them a little bit easier to use than

earlier models.



It could be the fact that the screen is no longer affected by polarised sunglass

lenses or that apps now have cursor keys to making writing easier.



Or it may be how the rounded edges of the screen make swiping feel just right,

or the cool slow- motion effect available when shooting a video.



But the changes also make it tricky to decide not only whether you should

upgrade your current iPhone, but to which model.



Firstly, these phones are excellent. Critics have raved about them and they are

probably the best high-end phone available right now.



But that doesn't mean you should buy one. Here's some advice depending on what

type of user you are and what features you like.



Which model should I get?



It depends. I think the iPhone 6 is the best the company has made. Its 4.7-inch

screen is so much easier to read than previous 4-inch models and it's easy to

use with one hand.



If you are a first-time smartphone buyer, you will not be disappointed. If you

already own an iPhone, you'll love the iPhone 6. You'll forget about your

current small, chunky phone in a matter of minutes.



The iPhone Plus is for the power user. If you are a multimedia mavin and consume

a lot of movies and television and take plenty of photos and videos then this

could be for you. The 5.5-inch screen looks fantastic and its size means you can

easily read a digital magazine on it.



The other reason is if you do a lot of writing on your phone. The new landscape

view lets you work on multiple emails at once. No more saving one as draft

before opening another. It makes an ideal work tool and could mean you leave

your iPad at home.



Is it worth upgrading from my current iPhone?



If you have an iPhone 4 or 4S then, yes, it's time to upgrade. You will notice a

significant difference in speed and lightness and an improved camera. Also,

iOS8, the latest mobile operating system, will not work on an iPhone 4 and the

4S will struggle.



If you have an iPhone 5 or 5S then only fans should upgrade. Those models are

still great phones and will do nearly everything these phones can do.



What capacity should I get?



The safe option is to go for the 64GB model. It means you won't have to

micromanage your phone's storage and 64GB will give you plenty of room for

photos, music and some videos.



There is no need for a 128GB model unless you are a movie fan and plan to

download and watch lots of videos.



Also, with iCloud Drive, Apple's cloud storage option, you can get 200GB of

storage for $4.99 a month.



I'm an Android fan, should I switch to iPhones?



If you were ever considering making the switch, now is the time. If you held

back before there are no more excuses - you have a bigger screen and the

operating system has many of the features previously only available on Android,

such as being able to install different keyboards.



Would these suit an older user?



There are many phones to choose from but if you are committed to one of the new

iPhones then they do have a few features that may appeal, including the ability

to have a zoom view on the phone.



This increases the size of images and text in all apps. In addition, you can

also increase the size of the text to make it even more readable.



This is accentuated even more with the 6 Plus and means things like the keyboard

are quite big and easy to use.



What's the battery life like?



Better than previous models. Both phones should get you through a day and a bit

with the Plus having the bigger and longer-lasting battery of the two.



Is the camera any good?



Yes. It takes excellent photos with improved focusing the biggest difference.

Also, expect to see a flood of slow-motion videos soon as that function is a

great feature of the phone.



Are there any problems I should know about?



Several videos of people showing how easy it was to bend the iPhone Plus were

put on YouTube. Apple later said it had received only nine complaints about the

problems so I wouldn't worry about it.



The writer was loaned two iPhones to review by Apple.



Blayne Slabbert is the technology editor for Fairfax NZ. You can follow him on

Twitter@bslabbert or email blayne.slabbert@fairfaxmedia.co.nz



--------------------



CAPTION:



Take your pick: The iPhone 6, right, and its big brother, the Plus, went on sale

in New Zealand last week.



Picture: GETTY IMAGES



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2014 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





