                              392 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)



                            October 7, 2014 Tuesday

                                 State Edition



Texas-sized tech



BYLINE: Omar L. Gallaga American-Statesman Staff



SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D1



LENGTH: 1231 words





How big is too big?



Does size really matter?



Do we really need everything to be bigger in Texas?



These are questions that have reverberated through history, and for about 2 1/2

weeks now, since Apple introduced to shoppers the iPhone 6 Plus.



If the traditional, iconic



iPhone is the Honda Accord of smartphones - ubiquitous, compact and utilitarian

- this super-sized gadget is just shy of a Hummer. It's large, wide and tall,

and though it's much thinner than you might expect (the 6 Plus is flattened down

to coaster proportions), there's no getting over that huge expanse of visual

real estate on its surface. You could eat dinner off it.



The previous top-of-the-line iPhone, the 5S, had a screen that was 4 inches,

measured diagonally. The 6 Plus is 5.5 inches. An inch and a half doesn't seem

that much larger, but in everyday use, held in the hand, jammed into purses and

pockets, the dimensional difference is huge. It's a big phone. It's a

significant size. It changes things.



There's an iPhone 6 that splits the difference, at 4.7 inches. It's a compromise

for those who clamored for a bigger screen in the face of massive competition

from companies such as Samsung but who then saw the iPhone 6 Plus and said,

"Whoa, not THAT big!"



As Mike Ehrmantraut famously warned on "Breaking Bad," half measures can lead

you down the wrong path. As some iPhone owners ponder whether to upgrade, and

some Android users who swore they'd never go back to small phones weigh their

options, I tried to find out: What happens when you go whole hog?



A slippery 6 Plus



Luckily my version of a full-measure risk didn't require me to drain my bank

account. Using an iPhone 6 Plus borrowed briefly from AT&T, I put my 5S phone

aside to temporarily live large.



The first thing I noticed, taking it out of the substantial white Apple box, was

the device seems to employ some kind of sorcery that makes you think it's much

smaller on first view than you expected. That may be because of its thinness. In

the hands, it feels light and sleek, with rounded edges.



Those edges (really, a lack of edges) made me extremely nervous. The gold model

I tried out has no grip to it. Taking photos with the phone, I always felt I was

about to have it slip from my hands and shatter on the ground like a picture

window. My daughters clambered all over me to check out this new thing I'd

brought into the house and, as if on cue, one of them grabbed it and dropped the

6 Plus right on the kitchen tile.



My eyes popped open. So did my mouth, an O of terror. I think I had some sort of

cardiac event.



I tenderly picked up the phone, expecting carnage, but the 6 Plus didn't have

any dents, scratches or cracks on it.



"Listen to me," I told my daughters, cradling the phone like a sibling they

would never see again. "We will never tell AT&T or Apple about this."



Conspicuous



camera work



Despite the kitchen incident, we trusted the kids not to break anything at a

county fair. I carried the iPhone 6 Plus around in my shorts pocket, which

wasn't the problem I expected. The shorts had pretty huge pockets; without a

case, the 6 Plus slipped in easily and was barely noticeable.



The 6 and 6 Plus phones have better camera specs than the 5 generation, mostly

image stabilization, and an improved slow-mo video feature at 240

frames-per-second. Taking video of my kids on rides or of a spectacular pig

race, I found slowing the world down was lovely. Video was sharp and saturated

with color on the big 6 Plus screen.



While taking photos at the animal petting area, I noticed a problem. Pulling the

phone out and holding it up horizontally made me feel like one of those people

who takes photos at events with an iPad or similarly sized tablet. The giant

gold phone is very conspicuous, and, as other parents tried to position

themselves to take photos of their own kids picking up baby chicks, I felt like

I was in everyone's way, holding up a gigantic monolith that screamed, "Yes, I'm

that guy that had to have that new iPhone. In gold, no less."



Pocket matters



Perhaps that was me being self-conscious.



I asked a few owners of the device if they'd experienced similar awkward

moments.



Chris Newby, an engineer at 3M, said that after a week of owning the phone, he

was starting to get used to the jarring size transition from an iPhone 4S

(screen size: a puny 3.5 inches).



"I haven't been too self-conscious about breaking it out. It takes pretty decent

pics and the screen is very clear," Newby said. "I had played with the larger

Android phones of my friends and did have some concern about the size but

figured I would try it out and could always downgrade to the smaller 6."



Newby said a friend of his bought a 6 Plus but ended up exchanging it because it

didn't fit well in his pocket.



"I haven't really had that problem," Newby said. "I don't wear high or tight

pants, so the phone lays against my leg pretty flat whether I am standing or

sitting."



He does worry he'll have to remove the phone from his pocket if he's working on

his car or leaning over to avoid bending the phone, an apparently uncommon but

attention-getting tech problem dubbed "Bendgate."



Some users reported that the phone's larger size makes it susceptible to bending

when put in, say, a back pocket for an extended period of time. Consumer Reports

put the 6 Plus to the test, however, and found the phones are tougher than the

Internet reports suggested.



Newby has been getting used to typing on a larger phone and says he's living

dangerously, eschewing a protective case for the 6 Plus.



"I don't want to make it any bigger than it already is," he said.



Brian Hill, a public school administrative supervisor, said he loves the 6 Plus

and is using a very thin case to protect the back of the phone from scratches.

He reports no pocket troubles and says he's using a built-in feature called

"Reachability," which slides the top half of the screen down on the iPhone 6

Plus to make it easier to access when holding the phone with one hand.



The verdict



Like a giant adopted dog who ingratiates himself into your life in short order,

the 6 Plus certainly can be lived with. I don't have huge hands to match my

giant pockets, so I wasn't looking forward to Apple's foray into up-sizing, but

I found myself impressed by its speed, its light weight, battery life and

software improvements like keyboard options (also now available on older iPhones

).



There are places the 6 Plus is not meant to go: small purses, for instance. The

pockets of skinny jeans or pants belonging to small people. With a case, it's

not a device I could just drop into my cupholder to charge up while driving.



But there's a breed of tech shopper, let's call them "Texans," who won't care

about the compromises or complications the larger size brings. They'll want that

big, gorgeous screen and that big, gold (or silver, or space gray) slab of a

back. They'll want to make a statement, and the 6 Plus is as much of a statement

phone as you can get without going in the other direction toward a 1998 flip

phone.



The 6 Plus is big as the Texas sky and a lot easier to break, probably.



It's not for me, but I must admit, it sure is something.



Contact Omar L. Gallaga at 512-445-3672.



Twitter: @omarg



On the web

  Read Omar L. Gallaga's tech blog, Digital Savant, at

austin360.com/digitalsavant. And listen to Omar and Austin Eavesdropper blogger

 Tolly Moseley on the "Statesman Shots" podcast at statesman.com/shots.





LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 The Austin American-Statesman

                              All Rights Reserved





