                              395 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               The Times (London)



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                   Edition 2;

                                National Edition



New iPhones bend out of shape in back pockets



BYLINE: James Dean



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21



LENGTH: 268 words





Owners of the new iPhone 6 Plus have complained that the oversized smartphone

bends out of shape if it is carried around in trouser pockets.



Some took to online forums, blogs and social media yesterday to post photographs

of warped handsets, which are the largest and thinnest smartphones that Apple

has ever made.



The iPhone 6 Plus is the bigger brother of the iPhone 6. Both models went on

sale on Friday.



The apparent bending problem is not unique to the iPhone 6 Plus, however. Owners

of certain Samsung Galaxy, BlackBerry and Sony Xperia handsets have also

previously reported problems.



Apple did not respond to requests for comment yesterday.



The hashtag "Bendgate" was trending on Twitter as disgruntled owners posted

pictures of warped phones.



The issue prompted Lewis Hilsenteger, of Unbox Therapy, a YouTube consumer

products channel, to post a video of him bending an iPhone 6 Plus by hand. The

video had more than six million views last night. "Not necessarily the piece of

information that you guys want to receive as brandnew owners of this device," Mr

Hilsenteger said. "This is a huge piece of aluminium and we all know that

aluminium is incredibly malleable - but now we have actual evidence on camera,

not just a picture of a bent phone." He later tested a comparably sized Samsung

Galaxy Note 3 and was unable to do any real damage.



Apple was also forced to roll back the first update to its latest mobile

operating system, IOS 8, which was released on Friday. iPhone owners had

reported dropped reception and a loss of other functions after downloading the

update when it was released yesterday.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: A video posted on YouTube shows a user bending an iPhone 6 Plus



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: TIM





                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





