

Sept. 9 -- Every moment can be recorded, snapped and saved for a rainy day with
the new, enhanced iSight camera in iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus. OtterBox
continues to protect the memories that matter most. From the No. 1-most trusted
case brand in smartphone protection, OtterBox announces a full lineup of cases
available now for the new iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus.1

Defender Series, Commuter Series, Symmetry Series and Strada Series are
available now for iPhone 6s with Alpha Glass coming soon.2 iPhone 6s Plus cases
available now include Defender Series, Commuter Series and Symmetry Series, with
Alpha Glass coming soon.

"OtterBox tests each case design for more than 238 hours so you know your
memories are safe from the drops and bumps in daily life," said OtterBox
President and CEO Pete Lindgren. "iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are designed to
seamlessly integrate into your day, and our cases are the same - built for you
and your lifestyle. So you can take your brand new iPhone 6s or iPhone 6s Plus
and hand it to a toddler or go out 4-wheeling, without pause and without worry."

Each case design for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus undergoes a minimum of 24
tests across more than 238 hours to earn the seal of OtterBox Certified Drop+
Protection. These tests ensure lasting protection from drops, bumps, scratches
and dings. Trusted protection - tailored to every lifestyle - is available today
for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, and are compatible with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6
Plus devices.

Defender Series' triple-layer protection is the original case design that Apple
lovers have trusted with their precious devices for nearly a decade. The
built-in screen protector blocks out scratches and dust, while the shell and
outer slipcover absorb and dissipate shock. Custom color combinations for
Defender Series are available now for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus on
otterbox.com.

The sleek Symmetry Series slides easily into pockets and slips perfectly in and
out of purses to help quickly capture Live Photos or 4K video. This slim iPhone
6s and iPhone 6s Plus case is simple to install, and a raised, beveled edge
provides extra protection for the touchscreen during facedown drops. The
Symmetry Series case design is tested in-house to stand up to the wear and tear
with a purse test - fending off scratches from keys, shades and wallets for
long-lasting graphics and vibrant colors.

Two form-fitting layers combine to create the thin, protective Commuter Series
for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus. The outer shell and inner slipcover combine to
pull shock away from the device, and port covers keep debris out of the charge
and headphone connectors. Customize Commuter Series by creating a color
combination on otterbox.com.

For a classic, tailored look, Strada Series slips iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus
into genuine leather and trusted protection. The folio front clasps open or
closed to guard against touchscreen scratches and includes a card slot to hold a
credit or identification card. A slim audio vent in the folio makes it simple to
take calls with the cover closed. Strada Series for iPhone 6s Plus is the first
time this professional, polished protection is available for a super-sized
smartphone.

OtterBox cases for iPad Pro and iPad mini 4 are being evaluated and information
on product availability will be released later this year.

OtterBox iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus cases are available now on otterbox.com
and at select retailers. For more information, visit otterbox.com.

Source: OtterBox

