                              40 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             October 3, 2014 Friday

                                 First Edition



Pluses and minuses of the iPhone 6



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: Pg. 9



LENGTH: 844 words





I'll be glad when this review is over so I can go back to wearing clothes more

befitting a man of my situation.



By which I mean, I won't have to wear the tight, tight jeans I have on as I sit

here writing to you in some considerable discomfort - jeans I dredged up from

deep storage, which have turned out to be a necessary (if evil) part of the

scientific apparatus required for our review of the iPhone 6 Plus.



You've probably seen people complaining the big-screen iPhone 6 Plus has a habit

of bending out of shape when left too long in the front pocket of trousers.



Though, arguably, they're being bent into shape, not out of it. LG, Google and

others have all made a virtue out of smartphones bent like a banana - they curve

to fit your face, your derrière etc - so it might well be that having your

iPhone 6 Plus bend on you is an outcome only to be desired. It's not as if they

stop working when they bend.



In any case, I've been carrying one around in the front pocket of my tight jeans

for a couple of days now, in the hope of reproducing the bend for purposes of

this review. I've been wearing my size-too-small jeans when sitting at my desk

(as I am now), while walking around town, while watching sport at the pub and,

most tellingly, while riding my motorbike for hours on end. If anything is going

to bend out of/into shape in your front jeans pocket it's when you're on a

motorcycle but, alas, no dice. The iPhone 6 Plus just won't bend for me.



Which is a pity, because it might actually have been the most novel feature of

the phone. The 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus isn't exactly one of those

all-too-prevalent devices that fails to take any advantage whatsoever of its

larger size - as I'll get into in a moment, it does have some nice, tablet-like

tweaks to its app layout that work well on its big screen - but it's not in the

same league as, say, Samsung's Note 4 or BlackBerry's new Passport when it comes

to providing you with more than just a bigger screen. There's no big novelty

feature such as a stylus or gigantic physical keyboard: just a bigger screen, an

improved camera and a better battery life compared with the iPhone 6.



That last feature is not to be underestimated, though, and on its own could be

reason enough to get a 6 Plus rather than just a 6, provided your pockets are

deep enough. (In both senses. The iPhone 6 Plus is 37 per cent bulkier than the

iPhone 6 and about $130 more.)Charging ahead



The battery life on the 6 Plus is up there with any phone we've reviewed. Using

it fairly heavily, I typically got about 1.5 to two days' usage per charge.

Using the phone only sparingly, I got almost four days' usage before I could no

longer resist the temptation to put it on the charger. (It possibly would have

lasted another day, but it was getting ridiculous.) That's a huge improvement on

any recent iPhone, including on the regular iPhone 6, which still doesn't quite

make it through a day of moderately heavy usage.



The on-screen keyboard on the 6 Plus is much improved, too, compared both with

the ordinary iPhone 6 and previous iPhones, in particular. Rather than just

making the keys bigger, Apple has added much-needed extra keys to the edges of

its default keyboard, including some handy navigation and cut-and-paste keys,

which do improve the utility of the phone.



(Apple has also added a nice feature that lets you replace the default keyboard

with third-party keyboards such as SwiftKey, overcoming one of the major

productivity advantages Android phones have had over iPhones. Android phones

have been able to use SwiftKey and Swype for years. That new feature works on

the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, as well as older phones upgraded to the new iPhone

operating system, iOS 8.) However, it's worth pointing out the extra keys on the

default iPhone 6 Plus keyboard only appear on apps that have been rewritten to

cope with the bigger screen. At the moment, most third-party apps simply scale

their screens up to fit the 1920x1080 pixel display, meaning there's no

advantage to having the bigger screen other than pure bigness.



The same goes for the enhanced landscape layout on the iPhone 6 Plus, which is

one of its nicest size-specific features. Certain apps, such as Apple's own

email client, go into a tablet-like, two-panel mode when you hold the iPhone 6

Plus sideways, and they're terribly nice to use. Email, for instance, gives you

an extra message preview panel in landscape mode, making great use of the extra

screen real estate. But most third-party apps we tested have yet to take

advantage of the new landscape mode, and we can only hope that the iPhone 6 Plus

sells in quantities sufficient to encourage app developers to make the upgrade.



I think it will. The battery life alone makes the 6 Plus worth considering

instead of an iPhone 6. If it turns out it moulds itself to your body shape over

time, well all the more reason, no?



I'm taking my pants off now.



iPhone 6 Likes Long battery life, nice use of landscape mode Dislikes Phone is

larger than the screen size requires Price $999/$1129/$1249 for 16/64/128 GB

models



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Photo:



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





