                              415 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 11, 2014 Thursday



Apple's new devices have different look, feel



BYLINE: Eric Jou



LENGTH: 392  words





The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, Apple Inc's latest entries in the iPhone series,

come in two different sizes. As when Apple upped the screen size of the iPhone

5, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus take screen size to the next level.



Similar to all previous iPhones, the 6 and 6 Plus are made of aluminum. Instead

of the blockier older look, though, the new iPhones look slick. Both models are

thin - much thinner than the iPhone 5s.



And both are surprisingly light - light enough to be almost worrisome. The lack

of "heft" in the devices seems to detract from the premium feel that Apple has

cultivated.



That said, once the phone is turned on, the premium feeling comes right back.

Both phones have the new "Retina HD" screens; however, the 6 Plus benefits from

having a larger one. Both screens produce clear, crisp images. Visiting ESPN

with its bright reds looked amazing.



The bigger screens have brought a change in button orientation. Gone are the

days of the top power-wake button. Taking a cue from Android hardware, the new

bigger iPhones have the power-wake button on the right-hand side of the device.



As for operations, there is an obvious speed advantage over the 5S. Web browsing

and apps both loaded markedly faster, a performance upgrade that was to be

expected.



In terms of camera performance, the new Slo-mo function on the camera looks more

fluid than previous versions. Unfortunately, China Daily was not able to test

the Facetime burst function or the time-lapse function on the new iPhones.



Apple Watch



Apple computer's first entry into the smart wearable device market is a

surprisingly comfortable one.



Coming out with two screen sizes and three technically different models (six

altogether), the Apple Watch is quite a sight.



It is not so thick that it stands out; it feels and looks a bit smaller than a

standard Casio G-Shock watch. Of course, looks are in the eye of the beholder.

And although other mobile device manufacturers have made circular watches,

Apple's device is rectangular.



In terms of operation, Apple did not allow the media to play with the devices

directly. Test devices were only allowed to be worn by the press, with the

software demo played on a loop.



The device felt and looked good, but without a full, hands-on test drive with

the software, there are still many questions about the Apple Watch.



(China Daily 09/11/2014 page17)



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





