                              417 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                        Progressive Media - Company News



                           September 22, 2014 Monday



UK robots declare iPhone 6 stronger than Galaxy S5



SECTION: MOBILE PLATFORMS AND INTEGRATION; Mobile Platforms and Integration



LENGTH: 312 words







HIGHLIGHT: Tests also found that you shouldn't be dropping you iPhone 6 Plus

from 4ft.





A breakability test conducted in the UK has found that Apple's iPhone 6 is more

robust than the Samsung Galaxy S5.



The test, carried out by robots that assess mobile phones on their size, weight,

panel strength, and drop endurance, gives marks out of 10 on a 'breakability

index', with a score of 10 signifying the highest risk.



SquareTrade, the team behind the robots, said that Apple's new iPhone 6 scored a

4 out of 10, compared to the iPhone 6 Plus scoring a 5, and the Samsung Galaxy

S5 lagging behind with a 6.5.



SquareTrade also announced the UK results of a international study quantifying

the amount spent by consumers on repairs to smartphones and tablets. In the UK,

almost £5 billion has been spent on repairs in the last two years, claims

SquareTrade.



Kevin Gillan, European managing director for SquareTrade said: "These figures

make the term 'hand held' look like a bit of an exaggeration. They suggest that

for many of us, holding on to our mobile phone is as straightforward as holding

on to a slippery eel."



The robotic tests also examined how far the phones slide when pushed across a

table on their backs, how well they withstand drops from 4 feet and how well

they perform during and after being dunked in water for 10 seconds.



The iPhone 5s, which measures 4 inches and came out last year, also fared better

than Samsung's Galaxy S5, which measures 5.1 inches. The Samsung phone got poor

marks on several tests including the slide test. The more a phone slides, the

greater its chance of falling off the edge of a table.



Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus passed the slide test, but the iPhone 5s and

Samsung Galaxy's S5 got poor marks in that area. The iPhone 6 Plus was the only

one that didn't do well when dropped 4 feet by the robot. The glass screen

survived, but the case separated from the phone. All four phones fared well in

the water resistance test.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





