                              422 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                  My Republica



                           September 12, 2014 Friday



Reinvention of the iPhone



LENGTH: 749 words



DATELINE: Nepal





Nepal, Sept. 12 -- Since Apple released its iPhone 5s in 2013, Apple fans have

been waiting for a long time for a new addition to their iPhone family. Apple

responded with the iPhone 6, scheduled to be released on September 19, 2014.



The iPhone 6 makes significant changes to the iPhone line, with sleek new design

elements and marks Apple's journey into bigger screens. The new iPhone 6 is

impressive in the fact that it represents one of the biggest overhauls that

Apple has performed on the iPhone line since their release of the iPhone 4.



The biggest change you notice on the iPhone 6 is how Apple has implemented a new

hardware design to the phone. The phone gets rid of the sharp edges of the

iPhone 5s to make way for more soft rounded edges and an ergonomic design that

sits well on the palm. The phone feels more like its tablet brother the iPad Air

with a metallic finish that almost feels ceramic. The rounded edges of the phone

make it feel ticker that it really is and it also makes it prone to more

accidental drops than the sharp edges of its predecessor.



Another design change that Apple seems to have implemented is curved glass

around the edges of the phone, which, although not so significant, brings a

fresh feel to an old design.



Apple has also decided to go with the power on the right spine of the phone,

probably because of the bigger screen. It is a welcome change in comparison to

the button on top.



The screen on the iPhone 6 is bigger and will come as a welcome change to Apple

users envious of phone like the S5 or the HTC One.



The phone comes in two variations primarily separated on the basis of their

screen. The iPhone 6 boats a 4.7-inch display which still seems like a child in

front of the massive 5.1-inch screen of the Samsung S5. The iPhone 6 Plus,

however, comes with a bigger 5.5-inch screen with a much higher resolution. The

iPhone 6 Plus seems like a competitor for Phablets like the Galaxy Note series

but it still is dwarfed by the 5.7-inch display of the Galaxy Note 4.



Apple has also implemented a newer variation of its retina display technology on

the iPhone 6, that they call 'Retina HD'. The new screen has the same

pixel-density of 326ppi of the iPhone 5 with a 1334x750 resolution. The bigger

plus version of the phone comes with a 401ppi density with a 1,080p full HD

resolution.



The screen on the iPhone 6 is bigger and will come as a welcome change to Apple

users envious of phone like the S5 or the HTC One.



Although the iPhone does fall back in the light of newer phones with full HD

resolutions (even the plus version falls behind Samsung Galaxy Note 4's

2560x1440 resolutions), the phone does not look bad. The display is crisp and

for a screen that is smaller than 5-inches, approx. 720p resolution does not

look that bad.



In terms of performance upgrades, Apple has equipped the iPhone 6 with their

newest line of A8 processors that Apple claims to have 50 percent faster

graphics and a 25 percent faster CPU. In terms of sensors, the iPhone 6 also has

new sensor tricks that will give you information about elevation, air pressure

or distance estimates. These new sensors should help Apple with more of their

fitness apps. The Wi-Fi on the phone is also expected to be faster with support

for faster connections. The battery of the phone has also been upgraded, and the

phone is rated to run 11 hours on Wi-Fi video. A big addition to the phone is a

US-only service called the Apple Pay that packs the NFC technology that lets you

pay with your phone.



Looking at the software aspect of the phone, the iPhone 6 comes installed with

the latest version of their mobile operating system, the iOS 8. The iOS 8 looks

pretty much like the iOS 7 and brings almost no noticeable change to the

user-interface but it adds a few new features, like a new keyboard, better

notification center and Android-like widgets.



The iPhone 6 seems like an important step that Apple needed to take in their

modernization of the iPhone line but Apple still lags far behind when it comes

to newer standards that have been employed by their competitors.



But the iPhone has never been the fastest, the largest or the smallest phone,

and yet it seems to be doing well. So the new addition to Apple's iPhone line

could be an upgrade that many Apple users might have been looking for.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with

respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor

at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2014 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





