                              429 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                  Asian Image



                           September 19, 2014 Friday



Jameel and Sam are first to get hold of new iPhone 6



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 392 words





One of the first people to get his hands on the new iPhone this morning felt "on

top of the world" and said he wanted to celebrate by taking a selfie.



Jameel Ahmed, 26, and his friend Sam Sheikh, 27, originally from India and now

living in London, were the first two technology fans through the doors of the

Apple store in Covent Garden to pick up the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

handsets.



Leaving with his purchase, Mr Ahmed said he was "really excited", adding: "I'd

like to open it and take my selfie."



Hundreds of people queued outside the store and took part in a 10-second

countdown before the doors opened at 8am and cheering fans were escorted in by

staff.



The US company announced the new devices to much fanfare at a highly anticipated

event in California last week.



Some fans were so keen to get their hands on the new iPhones they began camping

outside the Apple store in Regent Street, London, on Monday.



Around 30 or so people set up camp outside the store yesterday, with tents,

tables and chairs and even bottles of wine bearing testimony to their

dedication.



Mr Ahmed said: "It's a challenge with my friends that I'll have the iPhone

first."



Mr Sheikh said he was glad his pursuit of a new iPhone was more successful than

his last attempt, when he queued for almost seven nights and felt like a

"loser". He said he was feeling "very excited, very content, very successful".

On Monday Apple announced a record number of first day pre-orders of the two

handsets, with more than four million in the first 24 hours.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are available in 10 countries from today,

including the UK, the US, Australia and Singapore, and a further 20 next Friday.



Both handsets will be available in new sizes for the first time, with the iPhone

6 offering a 4.7in screen, while the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen Apple has

ever produced for a smartphone at 5.5in.



Network operator EE said it will ensure that customers who pre-ordered new

handsets through Phones 4u, which went into administration on Sunday, would

still be able to get them in its stores.



A spokesman said: "All across the country we have set aside iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus handsets, enough for Phones 4u customers who pre-ordered iPhones on EE

through Phones 4u.



"If they go into EE stores and show their pre-order receipts they will be able

to claim one of the devices."



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





