                              434 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)



                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

                                 First Edition



Apple adds wow factor to iPhone 6 Plus;

THE EXPERT VIEW - PHONE HOME



BYLINE: KATIE CINCOTTA



SECTION: GREEN GUIDE; Livewire; Pg. 13



LENGTH: 277 words





Apple has caught up to the phablet trend set by Android phones and is showcasing

how bigger is better for screen size, processing, photography and battery power.

After two weeks with Apple's voluptuous handset, I can say this phone is built

to hypnotise - its curves are in all the right places; super thin but wide at

5.5 well-rounded inches, with tough Gorilla glass and a 401-pixel-per-inch

Retina HD display.



There are some premium Android phones to match the wow factor of the iPhone, but

none that has the photographic advancements of a five-element lens with a

sapphire crystal cover, auto focus that doesn't require you to touch the screen,

and slo-mo video at 240 frames a second. If iPhone could introduce Android's

share functionality to load photos and posts to your networks, it would attain

perfection.



Apple may have finally conquered battery life, the Plus staying juiced beyond 24

hours. Even hammering it on social media and video, it still only needed

charging every second day. The speed of the 64-bit A8 chip and 4G LTE on this

device is astonishing. Moving across the screen feels so fast and smooth it's

slippery.



Yes, there are negatives. Folks who want to keep their phone in the back jeans

pocket will hate the Plus size, which hangs out the top. And it's not waterproof

like the Samsung Galaxy S5 and Sony Xperia Z2. The NFC promise of tap-and-pay

isn't coming to Australia until 2015 and will be locked to Apply Pay. But if you

can live with those drawbacks and can afford the designer pricing, iPhone 6 Plus

is a stunner.



iPhone 6 Plus 128GB model, RRP $1249.



Katie Cincotta travelled to Sydney as a guest of Apple for the iPhone 6 launch.



LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Curvy: The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2014 The Age Company Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





