                              435 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               The New York Times



                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday

                              Late Edition - Final



First-Weekend Sales of 2 Apple iPhones Top 10 Million



BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN and MIKE ISAAC



SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1



LENGTH: 870 words





Apple's investors obsess over early iPhone sales like Hollywood producers

tracking opening ticket sales for a blockbuster movie.



A big weekend is usually a healthy predictor of consumer demand for the holiday

season -- not just for Apple, but for the entire consumer electronics industry.



Those Apple watchers can rest easy because the company's new iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus are no bust. Apple said on Monday that it had sold 10 million units of

its new and bigger iPhones over the weekend, up from the nine million iPhones it

sold last year in the first weekend of sales for the previous generation of

iPhones.



The iPhone is still Apple's biggest cash cow, accounting for about 70 percent of

its profit. So early sales can help predict quarterly or even annual results for

the company, based in Cupertino, Calif.



Now the momentum from the new iPhones' strong opening weekend is expected to

help carry Apple to record sales this holiday quarter. Maynard Um, a senior

research analyst for Wells Fargo, predicts Apple will sell about 58 million

iPhones in the holiday quarter, up from 51 million in that period a year ago.

Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, estimates Apple

will sell 55 million to 60 million iPhones in the holiday season.



The weekend iPhone sales, which were a record for Apple, were on the upper end

of financial analysts' predictions, which ranged from 6.5 million to the ''low

teens'' of millions of units.



The early results also reflect consumer demand for bigger phone screens. Both

new iPhones have much larger screens than the 4 inches of earlier versions: the

iPhone 6's screen is 4.7 inches diagonal and the 6 Plus is 5.5 inches diagonal.



The only real surprise to some analysts is that Apple held out so long before

releasing smartphones that kept pace with large-screen competitors from

companies like Samsung Electronics, HTC and Nokia, which have been offering

so-called phablets -- a blurring of the line between a phone and a tablet

computing device -- for several years.



''It's really unusual that a company avoids a hot product category as long as

Apple has been avoiding phablets,'' said Tero Kuittinen, a managing director for

Frank N. Magid Associates, a technology research company. ''Every other vendor

jumped on the phablet train.''



As is typical with Apple product introductions, some customers stayed up late to

order the new iPhones online while others slept in garbage bags outside Apple

Stores. But notably, none of them were in China. Apple has delayed the release

of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus there, apparently because the devices have not

received approval from Chinese regulators.



IDC, a research company, estimated that at least 20 percent of all smartphones

shipped last year in China, the largest smartphone market, were five inches or

larger.



''Even without China, Apple was able to move $6.5 billion of product in three

days, which would be impressive for any industry,'' said Walter Piecyk, managing

director at BTIG Research.



Apple's share price rose slightly Monday, ending the day up 0.1 percent to

$101.06.



Still, some analysts, like Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray, wondered whether

first-weekend sales were still a reliable measure of consumer demand. The iPhone

is already immensely popular in many countries, he noted before Apple's weekend

results, so early sales may be more of a sign of how many iPhones can initially

be produced by Apple and its manufacturing partners.



''The first-weekend iPhone sales number continues to be more about how much

Apple can supply than what the demand is in the market,'' Mr. Piecyk said.



Timothy D. Cook, chief executive of Apple, said as much on Monday.



''We could have sold many more iPhones with greater supply, and we are working

hard to fill orders as quickly as possible,'' he said in a statement.



The introduction of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus was the second time Apple released

two new iPhones at the same time. Last year, it introduced the iPhone 5S with

the iPhone 5C, a colorful plastic model sold at a lower price.



Apple is not treating the iPhone 5C like past iPhones. Traditionally, Apple has

upgraded each iPhone once a year, with improvements like faster chips and better

cameras. However, this month, instead of announcing an upgrade for the iPhone

5C, Apple said it would continue to sell the exact same iPhone, but for less:

free with a contract.



Analysts say that it appears Apple's strategy all along for the iPhone 5C was to

sell an older, plastic iPhone over a longer period to allow the costs of

production and components to drop. That lets Apple decrease the price of the

plastic iPhone and increase market share in less affluent markets.



Although Apple is late to the party with bigger phones, Samsung of South Korea

could suffer the most. Samsung, the largest handset maker, has relied heavily on

larger screens as a selling point for its popular Galaxy smartphones.



Mr. Kuittinen of Magid Associates said that Samsung's smartphone sales were

already slowing before Apple introduced larger iPhones. So this holiday season

could look grim for Samsung and other handset makers.



''It's going to be a very scary Christmas for HTC, Samsung and LG,'' he said.

''This is really going to be crunch time.''



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/23/technology/apple-sells-10-million-new-

iphones-in-first-weekend.html



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thousands waited Friday outside the Apple Store on Fifth Avenue

in Midtown Manhattan to buy the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Sales stayed

strong all weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)

Jamael Ahmed celebrated on Friday after being the first to buy an iPhone 6 at

the Apple Store at Covent Garden in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN A. PRUCHNIE/GETTY

IMAGES)

 Timothy Cook, Apple's chief, greeted customers Friday at a Palo  Alto, Calif.,

store where hundreds waited for the new iPhones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN

SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B2)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company





