                              439 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                      October 20, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



5 Reasons to Upgrade to iPhone 6S & 6S Plus



LENGTH: 437  words





Here is why you should upgrade your existing iPhone 5, 5S or 6 to latest iPhone

6S or 6S Plus!



Tuesday, October 20, 2015: Apple just released the next generation of iPhones in

India. iPhone 6S and 6S Plus flaunt Apple's latest hardware and software

technology. The phones were made available within a month after the global

announcement. With the kind of price point iPhone 6S and 6S Plus are at,

existing iPhone users are in dilemma of upgrading to next generation iPhone

6S/6S Plus. Today we have listed 5 reasons why you should upgrade to iPhone 6S,

6S Plus.



1. 3D Touch



Apple for the firs time has introduced force touch technology in smartphone. The

technology was debuted for Apple Watch in last year. 3D Touch is set to change

the overall look and feel of iOS. The device automatically detects pressure on

the display and OS responds to it. You can quickly peek using gentle press. The

longer press will open up an array of essentials. Apple has opened up doors for

developers. Developers can leverage 3D Touch API to integrate the technology in

their apps.



2. Camera



New iPhones are packed with next generation camera technology. Apple has packed

the improved camera sensor in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. The specially of this

sensor is, it's packed with supporting advanced software technology to help you

click best pictures even in low light conditions. Apple has added optical image

stabilization and Retina Flash for selfie lovers. Retina Flash uses display

brightness to highlight the face while clicking self photographs.



3. 4K Video



Apple iPhone finally supports 4K video shooting. The new camera sensor and

faster A9 processor together have made 4K ultra high definition video recording

possible. The new video stabilization support in iPhone 6S Plus makes shooting

much easier. You can expect much more stable videos with iPhone 6S. The camera

now enables to capture slow motion vides in 1080p resolution at 120fps. You can

slow it further down and record in 720p at 240 fps.



4. Live Photos



iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will enable the shooting of 3-seconds GIF. You can share

this animated picture on social media. Apple is planning to make the API

available to developers so that they can develop and enable app-to-app sharing

of Live Photos. This new additional can help you create livelier wallpapers.



5. Battery



Apple has teardown the battery capacity of iPhone 6S Plus. The 6S Plus comes

with 2750mAh battery whereas, iPhone 6 Plus packed 2915mAh battery. However,

Apple claims same talk-time and standby time on iPhone 6S Plus. The latest

software and hardware tweaks have enhanced the battery performance on new

iPhones.



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





