                              444 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                      August 21, 2015 Friday 01:49 PM EST



iPhone 6s: Say goodbye to bendgate



BYLINE: Yoni Heisler



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 310  words





Click for image



In what's become something of a head-scratching tradition, Apple's iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus launch last year was accompanied by a completely overblown scandal

known as 'bendgate.'



If you recall, news stories alleging that the iPhone 6 was prone to bending

seemingly sprouted up out of nowhere last year. And while the story certainly

generated its fair share of press online, the number of actual reported cases of

people bending their iPhones was so small as to be wholly insignificant. But as

tends to be the case, whenever a news story puts Apple in a negative light, the

tech press can't help but run with it and proclaim that Apple has lost its mojo.



In a statement addressing the scandal that truly wasn't, Apple last September

said the following:



Our iPhones are designed, engineered and manufactured to be both beautiful and

sturdy. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus feature a precision engineered unibody

enclosure constructed from machining a custom grade of 6000 series anodized

aluminum, which is tempered for extra strength.



Apple also added that during the first six days of availability, the company

only received 9 complaints regarding bent iPhone models.



Well, with the iPhone 6s launch looming, it appears that Apple has taken steps

to reduce that number to zero.



For starters, we've already seen rumors that Apple with the iPhone 6s has opted

to use 7000 Series aluminum, resulting in a more sturdy construction than what

we saw with the iPhone 6. Simply put, even trying to bend the iPhone 6s on

purpose may be an exercise in futility.



Highlighting this, a recent video purporting to showcase an iPhone 6s metal

casing being put to the test demonstrates just how sturdy Apple's next-gen

iPhone will be. I suppose now the question becomes -- what type of overblown

scandal will we see once the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus launch this September.



LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





