                              446 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                Scottish Express



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Scotland



Unveiled... new Apple iPhones and watch



BYLINE: Ben Endley



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11



LENGTH: 251 words





APPLE launched two new iPhones and its long-awaited wristwatch yesterday.



The cutting-edge computer firm unveiled the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus as well

as the Apple Watch during a high-tech show near the company's headquarters in

Cupertino, California.



Chief executive Tim Cook said: "This is an important day in Apple's history.

Today, we are pleased to announce the biggest advancement in iPhone."



The new phones appear to have undergone significant changes from the 4in iPhone

5s. Both are thinner but with larger screens. The iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5in

screen while the iPhone 6's is 4.7in.



The phones are due to go on sale on September 19 with a heavy price tag. The

iPhone 6 will start from the equivalent of £124 when bought with a two-year

contract in the US while the iPhone 6 Plus will start at £186. UK prices are

expected to be even higher.



Among the new features is Apple Pay - allowing shoppers to pay for goods by

tapping their phone. It will have a US launch this year but Apple did not reveal

the UK launch date.



The phones also have an improved camera and longer battery life.



Meanwhile, Cook described the watch as "the most personal product Apple have

ever made". It is controlled from a dial on the side and has a dictation

function. US prices will start at £217 and it will be available from early 2015.



Last night, a queue for the phones had started forming outside the Apple shop in

Regent Street, London.



Hungarian Zoltan Wiettchen, 24, was hoping to sell his place at the front for

£1,000.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple boss Tim Cook introduces high-tech watch in California yesterday



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot





                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





