                              44 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                This Day (Lagos)



                               November 06, 2014



Over 2,000 Glo Subscribers Pre-Register for iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus



LENGTH: 354 words





National telecom carrier, Globacom, has announced that over 2,000 subscribers

had so far pre-registered for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, Apple's two latest

devices that will soon be available for purchase at all GloWorld outlets

nationwide upon its formal launch in Nigeria this month.



The development followed the signing of an agreement between the telecom

operator and Apple's authorised distributor for Africa, Core Group.



According to a statement made available to journalists in Lagos yesterday,

Globacom is offering its customers the added advantage of bundling the devices

with the company's super fast Internet service, Glo Bolt.



The release from Globacom stated that buyers of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus from

any GloWorld outlet nationwide will enjoy the same after-sale support available

to buyers of the devices anywhere else in the world.



"When you purchase iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus from GloWorld outlets, you have

rest of mind, as you are sure of the genuineness and newness of the devices you

have bought," Globacom said in the statement. "In addition, you get the best

bargain possible for the devices and you don't have to worry about how to enable

their functionalities, as they come bundled with super fast Glo Bolt internet

service," the statement said. Globacom also said unlike the devices purchased

outside Nigeria or from the grey market in the country, the iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus obtained from GloWorld outlets have one year official Apple warranty, in

addition to other benefits accruable to original Apple products purchased from

authorised channels across the world.



"Nigerians will not have to travel to Dubai or the United States of America to

get genuine iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, thanks to Globacom. All you need to do

is to walk into any of our signature retail shops, GloWorld, our accredited

dealer outlets and Glo Zones in the country to get your genuine iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus," the statement said.



Globacom urged Nigerians to avail themselves of the opportunity and enjoy the

premium quality, reliability and speed of Globacom's robust 3G plus network, as

well as exciting data bundles.



LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.

                              All Rights Reserved





