                              453 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                            September 2, 2016 Friday



Pokémon Go draining your iPhone battery?;

These four battery pack/charger cases will keep you in the game longer and

protect the device.;

PRODUCT REVIEWS



BYLINE: By CNET.com



SECTION: ; Pg. SA3



LENGTH: 544 words





The Mophie Juice Pack Plus more than doubles your iPhone's battery life. An

indicator light helps you keep tabs on power levels.



The inexpensive Trianium Atomic S Battery Case has a simple, unfussy design and

charges your iPhone in a relatively short time. MCT PHOTOS



The Incipio Offgrid Express will fully charge the iPhone once and powers up your

phone's battery just as well as more expensive chargers.



The OtterBox Resurgence Power Case powers up your iPhone to nearly a full

charge, all while protecting it from rough drops and bumps.



If your iPhone's battery is draining like crazy because of Pokémon Go, check out

these charger cases so you can keep catching 'em all.



Mophie Juice Pack Plus for iPhone 6/6S



Product Review: www.cnet.com/products/mophie-juicepack-plus-for-iphone-6

-6s/#ftag=-CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The Mophie Juice Pack Plus more than doubles your iPhone's battery

life. An indicator light helps you keep tabs on power levels, and its burly

plastic construction protects against drops.



The bad: The case is pricey and its matte finish attracts fingerprints.



The cost: $119.95



The bottom line: Mophie's backup battery case remains one of the best in the

biz, but it's pricier than others, so consider it an investment.



Trianium Atomic S Battery Case for iPhone 6/6S



Product Review: www.cnet.com/products/trianium-atomic-s-battery-case-for-

iphone-6-6s/#ftag=CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The inexpensive Trianium Atomic S Battery Case has a simple, unfussy

design and charges your iPhone in a relatively short time.



The bad: The large opening in the back of the case is no deal breaker, but it

does look jarring.



The cost: $38.13 to $38.99



The bottom line: Affordable and well designed, the Trianium Atomic S Battery

Case is the top iPhone battery case for its price range.



OtterBox Resurgence Power Case for iPhone 6/6S



Product Review: www.cnet.com/products/otterbox-resurgence-power-case-for-

iphone-6-6s/#ftag=CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The OtterBox Resurgence Power Case powers up your iPhone to nearly a

full charge, all while protecting it from rough drops and bumps.



The bad: The accessory takes some wrangling to attach and detach, and it isn't

as elegant-looking as other battery cases. After a fall, the case can pop apart.



The cost: $36.73



The bottom line: The Otter-Box Resurgence Power Case is a good choice for power

and protection, but if you don't need that much durability, consider something

with a sleeker design.



Incipio Offgrid Express for iPhone 6/6S



Product Review: www.cnet.com/products/incipio-offgridexpress-for-iphone-6

-6s/#ftag=-CAD187281f



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The Incipio Off-grid Express will fully charge the iPhone once and

powers up your phone's battery just as well as more expensive chargers.



The bad: The case has a few inelegant open seams that look unattractive and

awkward.



The cost: $43.09



The bottom line: The Incipio Offgrid Express has some design flaws, but get this

over the pricier Mophie Juice Pack.



The following CNET staff contributed to this story: Senior Associate Editor Lynn

La and Senior Editor Laura K. Cucullu. For more reviews of personal technology

products, please visit www.cnet.com.



LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





