                              454 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                Irish Daily Mail



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



Apple under fire as its new iPhone bends in the pocket



BYLINE: Christian McCashin



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 443 words





OWNERS of Apple's latest iPhone 6 Plus have been left reeling as the device that

costs an eye-watering (EURO)800 can bend out of shape simply by being in your

pocket.



The new wider model was launched alongside the normal-sized iPhone 6 last week.

However, in recent days a small but growing number of 6 Plus owners have

reported the issue that alters the phone's appearance.



Pictures and videos of warped and damaged iPhones swept the internet yesterday

as hundreds of users realised their new smartphones - 10million of which had

sold worldwide by Monday - were ruined.



The problem, being dubbed 'bendgate', is due to the phone's thin aluminium

exterior.



The phone will be launched here tomorrow but John Kennedy, of Irish technology

website www.Siliconrepublic.com, has questioned whether the online complaints

will trigger a recall of the phones sold so far.



It is believed the thinner model's use of aluminium in its design causes it to

deform. Word started to spread on Twitter in the US on Tuesday night and a video

appeared on YouTube showing someone bending an iPhone 6 Plus using just their

fingers. Crucially in the video, which has already been viewed nearly 14million

times, the phone does not break and the screen does not shatter.



The MacRumours website said on Tuesday that 'a small but growing number of

iPhone 6 Plus owners have reportedly bent their phones after carrying the

devices in their pockets just days after launch'.



Mr Kennedy said of the flagged-up glitch: 'It's huge when people are expected to

pay nearly (EURO)1,000 for a new model and it can bend in your pocket. It

doesn't look to me like Apple has seen this one coming.



'They stress-test these things, but probably never thought of it sitting in

somebody's pocket for five hours or sitting on bus. Aluminium is strong but it

bends.' He said Apple will most likely issue a recall of some or all of the

handsets.



Comment - Page 14 Shunning the iPhone - Page 15 DETAILS OF IPHONE 6 PLUS ?Case:

Made from a single piece of aluminium alloy rather than plastic, which would be

more robust ?Screen: The supersized 14cm HD Retina screen is Apple's biggest

yet, following competitors' success with larger models ?Length: The phone is

16cm long - nearly 4cm inches longer than the iPhone 5 - creating more potential

for the body to bend under pressure ?Thickness: At about a quarter of an inch

thick, it is a shade slimmer than the iPhone 5. ?Weight: Just over 6oz ?Cost: An

estimated (EURO)790 for a 16GB model, (EURO)895 for 64GB and (EURO)1,000 for

128GB ?Sales: There are no Irish sales figures yet as it is not on sale here but

thousands of people are expected to flock to shops tomorrow



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Warped: The iPhone 6



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DML





          Copyright 2014 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





