                              457 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Apple unveils the Watch, larger iPhones at star-studded event



LENGTH: 1169  words





Apple Inc unveiled a watch, two larger iPhones and a mobile payments service on

Tuesday as Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook seeks to revive the technology

company's reputation as a wellspring of innovation.



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



CUPERTINO, Calif. - Apple Inc unveiled a watch, two larger iPhones and a mobile

payments service on Tuesday as Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook seeks to revive

the technology company's reputation as a wellspring of innovation.



The first new product to be developed and introduced under Cook's reign is a

wearable device tethered to the iPhone that will combine health and fitness

tracking with communications. It will price at $349 and go on sale in early

2015.



Ben Wood, a top mobile phone industry analyst with CCS Insight based in the UK,

said Apple's smartwatch devices will propel a so-far lackluster product category

into consumer consciousness.



"For Apple's competitors it will turn a tough category into a nightmare," Wood

said.



Indeed, rival watch and wearable device makers are keeping a wary eye on Apple,

which up-ended the music industry and drove once-dominant phone makers like

Blackberry to the brink of extinction, and whose iPad helped shrink personal

computer sales for a time before they recently recovered.



Apple has an enviable track record when it comes to mobile hardware, though it

tends not to be the first to introduce a new-fangled product category. Rival

electronics giants such as Sony Corp, Samsung, LG Electronics Inc and Qualcomm

Inc have already launched smartwatches, albeit without much success.



The price tag on the new "Apple Watch" is loftier than some expected, coming in

at $50 more than the cheapest version of the iPhone 6 with a contract.



Bernstein Research analyst Toni Sacconaghi had estimated on Tuesday before the

event that if Apple were to sell 30 million watches at $250 each, it would add

about $7.5 billion to its revenue.



Apple's new watches will be available in three distinct collections, including a

sport edition and an upscale line coated in 18-karat gold. Whether the devices

can win over fashion-conscious consumers may prove key to mainstream appeal.

Initial impressions from critics who glimpsed the watch were positive.



"Compared to what's out there, it feels like it's very slender. I like the level

of elegance and the three different lines, which include sport and luxury," said

Angela Tafoya, at fashion blog Refinery29.



The pressure was on for the world's largest tech company to wow at its "special

event" in Cupertino. The prospect of the new watch attracted a broader swathe of

attendees than usual, with celebrities, fashion industry editors and even

healthcare executives rounding out the mostly tech-industry crowd.



Shares of the company closed nearly unchanged. Apple's stock tends to rise in

the run-up to a major product launch, and come under selling pressure afterward.



Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks during an Apple event announcing the iPhone 6 and the

Apple Watch at the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9, 2014.

[Photo/Agencies]



BUY WITH BIGGER PHONES



In a rare move for the company, Apple had planned on livecasting its entire

event online, with a simultaneous translation in Chinese. But the livestream

went down about a half-hour in, prompting many users to take to Twitter to

express their frustrations.



Also on Tuesday, the company took the wraps off a larger, 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and

5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus. They will support more than 200 telecoms carriers

worldwide, including all three in China - a key growth market for the company.



It also introduced a new mobile payments service dubbed "Apple Pay." Each phone

will come equipped with its new payments service, which launches in the United

States next month and allows users to pay for items in stores with their phones

instead of physically presenting their credit or debit cards.



Launch partners include Walt Disney Co, McDonald's and Whole Foods. The move

gives Apple access to a trove of data on how consumers shop in brick and mortar

stores, where more than 90 percent of U.S. retail sales are still conducted.



Barclays Capital said in a Sept 5 note that the mobile payments feature would

give Apple "one of the largest sets of consumer transaction data in the US".



Each new iPhone will come with a "secure element" chip and a near-field

communications, or NFC, antenna.



Ben Milne, CEO of internet payment network Dwolla, said Apple had created a

smooth user experience with Apple Pay, but wanted to hear a lot more about how

Apple will tackle the aging payments infrastructure.



"The old architecture that payments is driven on is not up to snuff for the

future they want to build," Milne said.



He added that Apple Pay will get some level of mass adoption based on the number

of iPhones out there, but Apple will have to tackle the high costs of payment

processing to make its new feature more widespread.



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice-president at Apple, Inc. speaks about the iPhone 6

and the iPhone 6 Plus during an Apple event at the Flint Center in Cupertino,

California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice-President at Apple, Inc. speaks about the battery

life of the Iphone 5s, Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo

by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice-President at Apple, Inc. speaks about the iPhone 6

during an Apple event at the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9,

2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



IPhone 6 Plus starts at $299 with a two-year contract. [Photo by Eric

Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks in front of a row of iPhones during an Apple event at

the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple Pay combines seamlessly integrated hardware, software, and services in a

way only Apple can. [Photo by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple unveils the Apple Watch, calling it the company's "next chapter". [Photo

by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks about the Apple Watch during an Apple event at the

Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple unveils the Apple Watch, calling it the company's "next chapter". [Photo

by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Apple CEO Tim Cook announces the price for an Apple Watch during an Apple event

at the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9, 2014. Apple Watch

will start at $349, available early 2015. [Photo by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



IPhone 6 in the Hands-on Pavilion at the Apple Special Event. [Photo by Eric

Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



A closer look at the Apple Watch in the Hands-on Pavilion. [Photo by Eric

Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Top 10 game-changing Apple innovations

Five predictions for Apple's September 9 event



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





