                              463 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 Times of Oman



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Get your iPhone 6 by month-end



BYLINE: REJIMON K



LENGTH: 394 words





Muscat: Apple fans in Oman will be able to lay their hands on the new iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus by the end of this month, according to traders.







"Apple fans will be able to experience the much-anticipated iPhones in a few

days. We have already received covers for both new iPhones. We have bulk

bookings for 150 pieces and are flooded with enquiries. Sales will be held

according to TRA guidelines," a trader at Smart Zone Trading in Qurum said.



"The anticipated price of iPhone 6 (16GB) is between OMR300 and OMR320," added

the trader.







Meanwhile, confirming the availability, Nawras, one of the telecom service

providers in Oman, tweeted that they are really excited about the iPhones and

customers will be able to get it from Nawras by the end of this month.



Apple unveiled two versions of the iPhones with bigger screens, improved

specifications and new features, overhauling its top-selling product, in an

event that gave the clearest sign of the company's product direction under Chief

Executive Officer Tim Cook on Tuesday.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, the thinnest iPhones ever made which support

long-term evolution (LTE) and voice over LTE across 200 carriers, will be

available in the US from September 19.



Pre-booking orders in that country will begin on September 12.



Meanwhile, traders in the UAE also confirmed that with the new iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus available in the UAE within this month, prices of the current

models are sinking, and sinking fast.



"We will be able to sell the iPhones by this month," said a UAE trader. As there

is only one premium seller in Oman, the rest of the sellers purchase the Apple

products from the UAE. We have booked hundreds of pieces with our UAE seller,

whom we are dealing with for the past eight years," said a trader in Muscat.



In Oman too, the prices of older iPhone models have dropped in anticipation of

the newer models coming into the market.



"The iPhone 5s (16GB) which was costing OMR242 on Tuesday has today (Wednesday)

come down to OMR234," said a trader in Muscat while adding that this usually

happens when a new iPhone is unveiled.



"It isn't so much that Apple drops it prices, but retailers, who are eager to

push out stocks of the previous version to make room for the newer devices," he

said.



Reporter can be reached at reji@timesofoman.com

 Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2014



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 89





     Copyright 2014 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





