                              470 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               Irish Independent



                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday

                                   Edition 3;

                                National Edition



Apple sells 10 million iPhones in just three days



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27



LENGTH: 383 words





in 10 countries, far surpassed the 2 million first-day pre-orders for the iPhone

5 model two years ago.



Soham Chatrterjee higher than Wall Street estimates, based on reported sales and

projected demand for the new iPhones, Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster wrote

in a note. He said he expected earnings per share to be 12pc higher than

estimates.



Apple sold five million iPhone 5 handsets, four million iPhone 4S models and 1.7

million iPhone 4 units during the first weekend. The company said last week that

many US customers would have to wait until next month for their new iPhones due

to strong demand.



APPLE said it sold more than 10 million iPhones in the first weekend after its

new models went on sale last Friday, underscoring strong demand for phones with

larger displays.



"While our team managed the manufacturing ramp better than ever before, we could

have sold many more iPhones with greater supply and we are working hard to fill

orders as quickly as possible," Mr Cook said in a statement.



Chief executive Tim Cook said the company could have sold even more iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus models if supplies had been available.



Apple routinely faces iPhone supply constraints, particularly in years that

involve a re-design.



"Despite the supply chain constraints around the iPhone 6 Plus and tightness

around certain models of the iPhone 6, we believe (yesterday's) strong print

demonstrates that Apple executed extremely well in the face of severe supply

constraints," Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White wrote in a note.



The new iPhones will be available in 20 more countries, including Ireland, on

September 26, Apple said.



Last year, Apple sold nine million iPhone 5S and 5C models in 11 countries,

including China, in the first weekend they were available.



Analysts had estimated first-weekend sales of up to 10 million iPhones, after

Apple booked record pre-orders of 4 million on September 12, the day pre-orders

opened.



The shipment levels are positive, given that iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are not

initially available in China, unlike iPhone 5S and 5C models.



Sales of the latest models in China, the world's largest smartphone market, have

been delayed by regulatory issues.



The company's first-quarter revenue is likely to be 9pc First-day pre-orders of

the new phones, which went on sale



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Robert Sheehan gets set up with the new iPhone 6 at The Apple Store in

Regent Street, London, last week. Apple said yesterday it has broken its own

records with iPhone sales over the past three days. GETTY IMAGES



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IIN





             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





