
DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Dec. 20 -- Ncell has launched iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in the
Nepali market bundled with its SIM and data offer.

The phones were launched amid a function in Kathmandu on Friday. Both the models
will be available in three storage capacity options -- 16 GB, 64 GB and 128 GB.

"We are pleased to offer to our customers the premium handsets from Apple
bundled with our services. This association of top brands, we believe, will
provide special value for them," Sanju Koirala, corporate communications
director of Ncell, said.

Under the bundling offer, customers buying any of these handsets would get 1 GB
data for free every month for six months. Ncell has priced iPhone 6 at Rs 83,999
for 16 GB, at Rs 94,499 for 64 GB and at Rs 107,999 for 128 GB at. Likewise,
iPhone 6 Plus with internal memory of 16 GB costs Rs 94,499, 64 GB is priced at
Rs 107,999 and 128 GB is available at Rs 120,999.

The prices, however, are subject to exchange rates movement, according to Ncell.

The phone is also available on EMI from Nepal Investment Bank, Himalaya Bank and
Nabil Bank.

"This is the first time that Apple handsets have been launched officially in
Nepal. Now customer will be benefited with Apple's genuine after-sales service
and global warranty," Pranay Raj Acharya, B2B director of Ncell, said. Acharya
further added that the prices are costs of handsets alone, and Ncell SIM and
data that come with the handsets ensure additional value.

Customers can buy iPhone handsets bundled with Ncell from seven Ncell Centers.
Similarly, existing Ncell users can also transfer the on-net balance offered
with the sets into their existing numbers.

Prakul Kumar of Tinkune, who bought iPhone 6 Plus from Ncell Center in Krishna
Tower, is the first authorized iPhone handset buyer in Nepal, according to
Ncell.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

