                              475 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                 FINAL EDITION



Is the iPhone 6 Plus easy to bend? Video says yes;

People who wear tight pants may be in for a surprise



BYLINE: Laura Mandaro, and Jessica Guynn, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B



LENGTH: 658 words





If you notice your new iPhone is a little bent out of shape when you pull it out

of your pocket, you may not be seeing things.



Apple's new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, which boast aluminum shells for lightness,

apparently live up to that other characteristic of aluminum: malleability.



Reports of bent iPhone 6 and 6 Plus handsets are popping up on social media, and

one product reviewer posted a video showing how far the larger frame can bend if

one really, really tries.



On Twitter, it's being called #BendGate and #Bendghazi.



So far there has been no official response from Apple.



Russell Holly, 29, decided to examine his new silver iPhone 6 after seeing

online reports of bent iPhones.



He noticed it wobbled on a flat surface. Then he compared it with the other

iPhone 6 he bought. The bend was unmistakable. His confidence in the iPhone

shaken, the mobile editor for Geek.com returned the phone.



"Smartphones are not invulnerable objects," he said. "I've dropped more than my

fair share of them, and I have seen other smartphones become damaged when people

sit on them or worse."



But, said the father of three: "As an iPhone owner, this is a deal breaker for

me. I can't own a device that I have to treat with such extreme care."



Lewis Hilsenteger, the creator of a YouTube review show called Unbox Therapy,

said he noticed a slight bend to his iPhone 6 Plus frame after carrying the

phone around in his pocket for a few days.



In a clip, he proceeds to worsen the effect by applying pressure with his thumbs

and fingers on the 5.5-inch frame. And, yes, it bends after some exertion. The

weakness was more pronounced near the buttons.



"Bottom line here is it's an aluminum phone; it is going to bend if you apply

enough pressure, like I just did. Will this happen in your front pocket? That

probably depends on how tight your pants are," Hilsenteger says in the video,

which had 8.3 million views one day after it first published.



Modest grumbling about the new device from Apple, famed for its innovative,

elegant designs, has been building since the phone went on sale in stores on

Friday. Opening weekend sales of the two new phones topped 10 million, a record.



Websites devoted to Apple products hosted comments and pictures by new owners

complaining of slight but noticeable changes to the frame.



TechCrunch noted that a similar complaint surfaced in the early days of the 5

and 5s launches, and several tech journalists pointed out that hunting for the

"first flaw" in an Apple product launch had become a tired part of the Apple

product cycle. First the rumor, then the launch, then hyperfocus on small

problems -- dubbed the "gates," as in "antenna-gate" and now "BendGate."



But analysts dismissed talk of BendGate.



"I think it's a gross overreaction. The reality is that, yes, the phones do bend

under pressure. But so would any other phone," Piper Jaffray analyst Gene

Munster said. "It's just the physics of what they are trying to accomplish."



Creative Strategies analyst Tim Bajarin says he thinks the problems are

isolated.



He says he has been carrying his iPhone 6 Plus in the pocket of his tight jeans

for a week without any bending.



"Apple has proven anytime there is a problem, they move quickly to correct it.

That will be the case here," he said.



Apple shares  ended Wednesday's session down nearly 1%, lagging a 1% rise in the

Nasdaq composite index. The company also pulled its iOS 8.0.1 update after

reports of problems, including cellphone connections and TouchID capability.



Apple's stock is still up over 3% since Sept. 8, the day before it unveiled its

new iPhones and mobile operating system and introduced its Apple Watch.



And then there was the humorous side. Besides the disgruntlement of some Apple

enthusiasts who had fought lines and crashing Web browsers to be among the first

to buy the phones, which start at close to $300 (with contract) for the iPhone 6

Plus, the apparent glitch also provided fodder for Twitter's finest stand-ups.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Lewis Hilsenteger, Unbox Therapy



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





