
DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Dec. 13 -- Generation Next Communications (GENXT) has been approved
by Apple Inc to sell its iPhone series in Nepal as the authorised distributor,
the company said. It added that the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus would be
unveiled in the domestic market next week.Although Apple has been selling its
products like the iMac, iPod and MacBooks through various authorised resellers
in Nepal, it has not appointed any authorised distributor for the iPhone.

"Nepali customers will be able to buy the latest series of the iPhone 6 along
with previous models through our sales and distribution network in the country
probably from next Friday," said Pawan Kumar Bhimsariya, managing director of
Generation Next, confirming that his company had been appointed as the
authorised distributor for the iPhone in Nepal.

"Due to lack of authorised sales and service centres, customers have been facing
various problems related to after sales service, but now they can be assured of
the products they buy as we will provide a one-year warranty and VAT bill," said
Bhimsariya.

Although the company didn't disclose the price of the iPhone series, Bhimsariya
said that the rates would be lower than what customers had been paying in the
grey market. Local vendors have been selling the iPhone at a starting price of
Rs 85,000.

Officially launched in September in various international markets, the iPhone 6
and the iPhone 6 Plus are Apple's latest and thinnest smartphones that come in
4.7 and 5.5 inch display. The iPhone 6 and the 6 Plus are thinner at 6.8 mm and
7.1 mm respectively. Both the phones are powered by a new A8 processor and sport
an 8 MP iSight camera along with a 1.2 MP front facing camera.

Both the phones support 2G, 3G and 4G network. These phones will be available in
16, 32, 64 and 128 GB capacities and three colour options, grey, silver and
gold, said Bhimsariya. The phones come with features like shatter-proof glass,
fingerprint sensor, active noise cancellation with dedicated mic, face
detection, iCloud service, iMessage, document viewer and editor and Maps, among
others.

Bhimsariya said that they were planning to launch EMI and bundling service with
telecommunication service provider Ncell. According to Bhimsariya, there will be
24 retail stores including three showrooms of Evo Store and Future World along
with 18 Ncell centres. "We have asked Apple to open another seven to eight
retail stores, but it has not confirmed anything yet," added Bhimsariya.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

