

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, Apple Inc's latest entries in the iPhone series,
come in two different sizes. As when Apple upped the screen size of the iPhone
5, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus take screen size to the next level.

A new Apple iPhone 6 Plus is seen during an Apple event at the Flint Center in
Cupertino, California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, Apple Inc's latest entries in the iPhone series,
come in two different sizes. As when Apple upped the screen size of the iPhone
5, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus take screen size to the next level.

Similar to all previous iPhones, the 6 and 6 Plus are made of aluminum. Instead
of the blockier older look, though, the new iPhones look slick. Both models are
thin - much thinner than the iPhone 5s.

And both are surprisingly light - light enough to be almost worrisome. The lack
of "heft" in the devices seems to detract from the premium feel that Apple has
cultivated.

iPhone 6 rollout bypasses mainland
Apple unveils the Watch, larger iPhones at star-studded event That said, once
the phone is turned on, the premium feeling comes right back. Both phones have
the new "Retina HD" screens; however, the 6 Plus benefits from having a larger
one. Both screens produce clear, crisp images. Visiting ESPN with its bright
reds looked amazing.

The bigger screens have brought a change in button orientation. Gone are the
days of the top power-wake button. Taking a cue from Android hardware, the new
bigger iPhones have the power-wake button on the right-hand side of the device.

As for operations, there is an obvious speed advantage over the 5S. Web browsing
and apps both loaded markedly faster, a performance upgrade that was to be
expected.

In terms of camera performance, the new Slo-mo function on the camera looks more
fluid than previous versions. Unfortunately, China Daily was not able to test
the Facetime burst function or the time-lapse function on the new iPhones.

Apple Watch

Apple computer's first entry into the smart wearable device market is a
surprisingly comfortable one.

Coming out with two screen sizes and three technically different models (six
altogether), the Apple Watch is quite a sight.

It is not so thick that it stands out; it feels and looks a bit smaller than a
standard Casio G-Shock watch. Of course, looks are in the eye of the beholder.
And although other mobile device manufacturers have made circular watches,
Apple's device is rectangular.

In terms of operation, Apple did not allow the media to play with the devices
directly. Test devices were only allowed to be worn by the press, with the
software demo played on a loop.

The device felt and looked good, but without a full, hands-on test drive with
the software, there are still many questions about the Apple Watch.

