                              511 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                             August 14, 2015 Friday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



Samsung Gets A Jump On Apple By Unveiling Big-Screen Devices New iPhones

Expected Soon



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ



SECTION: A; Pg. A04



LENGTH: 265 words





Are expected to feature a Force Touch display that can distinguish between taps

and presses, as well as a speedier processor and better cameras.



Samsung hopes to trump Apple's features with built-in wireless + charging,

faster charging, more random access memory, and advanced cameras capable of

taking ultra HD 4K video. The multimedia-focused Galaxy S6 Edge Plus features a

dual-edge curved display. The thin edge displays can show apps and preferred +

contacts. The productivity-f



Hoping to regain ground it lost to Apple in big-screen smartphones, Samsung

Electronics on Thursday debuted two new phablets.



Samsung had the phone-tablet market largely to itself for three years until last

September, when Apple responded with the iPhone 6 Plus. Samsung's newest

phablets feature 5.7-inch Quad HD Super AMOLED displays, compared with the

5.5-inch LED-backlit IPS LCD screen on Apple's iPhone 6 Plus.



"Bigger screens have gone from nice-to-have to must-have," Justin Denison,

Samsung vice president of product strategy and marketing, said at a webcast

event in New York City.



The new Samsung phablets include the Galaxy S6 Edge Plus, which is designed for

multimedia consumers, and the Galaxy Note 5, which is optimized for

productivity. Both Google Android-based phones will go on sale in the U.S. and

Canada on Aug. 21.



Samsung likely will have a three-week jump on Apple's ninth-generation handsets,

the iPhone 6 S series. Apple is rumored to be planning a media event for Sept. 9

and likely would release the iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus on Sept. 18.



Samsung opted to forego a global launch to get its new phones out in key markets

ahead of the next iPhones, IHS Technology analyst Daniel Gleeson said in a

report.



". . . Samsung is hoping to steal a march on Apple's new iPhone announcement,"

Gleeson said. "The Galaxy Note 4 was hit by direct competition from the

larger-screen iPhone 6 Plus during the year, which likely had a significant

impact on the Note 4's success. Until autumn 2014, Apple had no large-screen

smartphones which could compete with Samsung."



The iPhone 6 S phones



LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





