                              520 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              India Insurance News



                      October 6, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



Bankers Healthcare Group Announces Apple Pay for BHG Power MasterCard



LENGTH: 290  words





Oct. 6 -- Bankers Healthcare Group, the leading provider of financial solutions

for healthcare professionals, is pleased to announce that its BHG Power

MasterCard personal credit cardholders can now use Apple Pay, the easy, secure

and private way to pay.



Security and privacy is at the core of Apple Pay. When you add a credit or debit

card to Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device, nor on

Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted

and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each transaction is

authorized with a one-time unique dynamic security code, instead of using the

security code from the back of your card.



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benets offered by their BHG Power MasterCard personal credit card.

In stores, Apple Pay works with iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and Apple Watch, as well

as iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, upon availability.



Online shopping in apps accepting Apple Pay is as simple as the touch of a

finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out lengthy account

forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information. When paying for

goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with iPhone 6, iPhone 6

Plus, iPad Air 2 and iPad mini 3, as well as iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus and iPad

Pro, upon availability.



"We're excited to offer Apple Pay to our BHG Power MasterCard personal

cardholders," said BHG President Bob Castro. "Now, our cardholders will enjoy

the benefits of safe, simple Apple Pay transactions."



For more information on Apple Pay, including how to set up and use the service,

visit http://www.apple.com/apple-pay/.



Source: Bankers Healthcare Group



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





