                              525 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                            October 24, 2014 Friday



Festive fever: iPhone 6 sales fantastic across Gujarat;

an average, around 50-60 iPhone handsets are being sold on a daily basis across

Gujarat



BYLINE: Niyati Parikh-Deshpande



LENGTH: 309  words





an average, around 50-60 iPhone handsets are being sold on a daily basis across

Gujarat



Ahmedabad: Six days after it was officially launched in the state, Apple's

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus are getting an overwhelming response from the fans

across the state.



"There has been an overwhelming response from Gujarat for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

plus. Of the three variants available for each of these phones, the 128 GB

variant is the most popular one. In fact, we are out of stock for the 128 GB

iPhone 6, as we did not expect so much demand for the most expensive of the

models of the new Apple device. We have been getting many calls and inquiries

for the same," said Shekhar Singh, corporate communications manager of an

e-retail venture, Infibeam.



Sources said that on an average, around 50-60 iPhone handsets are being sold on

a daily basis across Gujarat by various e-retailers, of which around 30-40 are

sold in Ahmedabad alone.



Considering estimates provided by various retailers, the number of handsets sold

across Ahmedabad are around 300. This makes an average of more than Rs2 crore

spent by city-dwellers on iPhone.



Nilpesh Chavda, a resident of Bopal told dna, "I am keenly waiting for the new

iphone 6 plus that I have booked after paying Rs80,500. I am a fan of Apple

gadgets and I don't mind spending even up to Rs1.5-2 lakh to get these devices.

Apart from twhe new iPhone, I also look forward to Apple's smart watch."

Reviewers have rated the phone as the best in Apple's range so far and indeed

worthy of the obeisance people across the world have been paying to it. The

device boasts of a LED-backlit IPS LCD, capacitive touch screen with 16M colors,

an 8MP camera with face detection autofocus, dual-LED (dual tone) flash with HD

video and image recording, 1GB RAM along with a 1.4 GHz Processor.



LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





