                              527 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily The Pak Banker



                              May 27, 2016 Friday



Apple Pay now available to RBC Debit and credit cardholders



LENGTH: 292 words



DATELINE: New York







 TORONTO: As a market leader and strong supporter of advancing mobile payments,

RBC announced today that clients will now be able to use their personal Avion

and other RBC credit and debit cards with Apple Pay. Beginning today, RBC

clients who use iPhone and Apple Watch can make contactless point-of-sale

purchases at participating merchants accepting contactless payments.





 "For RBC, innovation and advancing mobile payments are fundamental to how we

are meeting the evolving expectations of our clients and ensuring that we are

everywhere our clients want us to be," said Linda Mantia, executive

vice-president, Digital, Payments and Cards at RBC. "We're happy to provide RBC

clients with convenience and choice of using Apple Pay. As mobile payments

technology continues to mature in Canada, these kinds of innovative payment

solutions give clients the ability to make mobile transactions seamless."

 RBC, as a market leader in payment innovation, has a strong history of

investing heavily in person-to-person payments and mobile technology. RBC

recently announced free Interac e-Transfers for personal chequing account

customers. More than half of all RBC e-Transfers are sent using a mobile device.



 RBC also announced today the introduction of Touch ID and Single Sign On for

the iOS Mobile App and iOS Mobile Wallet.

 Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and bene[#xfb01]ts offered by credit cards. In stores, Apple Pay works

with iPhone SE, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and Apple

Watch. When paying for goods and services in-store and in-app, Apple Pay is

compatible with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2,

iPad mini 3, iPad mini 4, iPad Pro and Apple Watch.



LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





