                              530 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily The Pak Banker



                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday



U.S. Bank Adds Apple Pay® to Its U.S. Bank FlexPerks® American Express® Credit

Cards



LENGTH: 310 words



DATELINE: Lahore







 MINNEAPOLIS:The convenience, simplicity and security of Apple Pay are now

available to customers who use U.S. Bank FlexPerks American Express Cards.

 "Enabling Apple Pay for our U.S. Bank FlexPerks American Express Cardmembers

continues our efforts to give customers choices in how they manage payments, as

well as providing them an easy, secure and private way to pay," said Cliff Cook,

senior vice president for the U.S. Bank retail credit-card division. "As one of

the leaders in mobile payments, we continue investing in innovation to better

serve our customers today and anticipate their needs for tomorrow."

 Apple Pay is now available with the:









  U.S. Bank FlexPerks Reserve American Express Card.



  U.S. Bank FlexPerks Travel Rewards American Express Card.



  U.S. Bank FlexPerks Select+ American Express Card.



 With this announcement, all U.S. Bank credit and debit cards (consumer and

small business) work with Apple Pay. With Apple Pay, card numbers are not stored

on the device; instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted

and securely stored in the Secure Element. If the device is lost or stolen, it's

easy to quickly suspend the device and stop the ability to make purchases.

 Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benefits offered by their U.S. Bank American Express Card. In

stores, Apple Pay works with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus

and Apple Watch. When online shopping in apps, accepting Apple Pay is as simple

as the touch of a finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out

lengthy account forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information.

When paying for goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with

iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3,

iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.



LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





