                              542 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                    September 10, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Tim Cook's Letter To His Employees After The Event Success



BYLINE: Kamya Kandhari, EFY News Network



LENGTH: 364  words





Tim Cook says iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are the biggest advancements in iPhone

history.



Wednesday, September 10, 2014: September 9, was indeed a big day for Apple

employees, when the company revealed its highly awaited Apple iPhone 6, 6 Plus

and Apple Watch with many add-on features. On the D-Day Apple CEO Tim Cook took

an opportunity to congratulate his employees for the triumph of their hard

efforts put for the big day.



Below is the complete letter by Tim Cook which first appeared in 9to5Mac.



Team, It's an incredible day for Apple.



We've just wrapped up an exciting event at the Flint Center here in Cupertino,

where we announced two extraordinary new iPhones - iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus -

which are the biggest advancements in iPhone history. Our customers won't

believe the amazing performance from our new A8 chip and the stunning 4.7-inch

and 5.5-inch Retina HD displays. These are the thinnest iPhones ever, delivering

those bigger displays in a dramatic new design.



We also introduced Apple Pay, a whole new category of service that makes paying

at the cashier or online easier, more secure and more private. It's another

example of how hard we work to solve complex problems and make them simple for

our users.



And of course, we unveiled our most personal device ever with Apple Watch. This

is a product which will change what people expect from wearable technology.

Apple Watch lets you connect and communicate in a more intimate way, featuring a

revolutionary user interface for an exquisitely crafted product that people will

love to wear. It also includes comprehensive health and fitness apps that can

help people lead healthier lives. You're going to hear a lot more about Apple

Watch and what it can do in the months to come.



A day like today reminds us what sets Apple apart from any other company on

earth. We bring together the best hardware, software and services to create a

seamless and intuitive user experience. Our products enrich people's lives,

which is something rare and special.



Congratulations to all of you who worked so hard to deliver these amazing

innovations for our customers. I hope you are as excited as I am about this new

chapter in Apple's story.



Tim



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





