                              548 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                              April 5, 2015 Sunday



Dying has its plus side - a HK$21 iPhone 6 Plus



BYLINE: Laura Zhou  laura.zhou@scmp.com



SECTION: NEWS; National China News; Pg.7



LENGTH: 491 words





Apple's top-selling smartphone, the iPhone 6 Plus, is the must-have item in the

afterlife, too - and costs only 17 yuan (HK$21).



Realistic-looking paper versions of the phone were snapped up by young

mainlanders as offerings to the dead ahead of today's annual Ching Ming

festival.



One Shanghai trader, called Chen, said sales of paper versions of the iPhone 6

Plus had leapt tenfold as people prepared the offerings for the festival.



He said his online store, on the Taobao e-commerce website, offered many

different paper offerings that closely resembled real-life products, but the

paper iPhone 6 Plus was his bestseller.



Chen has sold 52 in the past few months, including 40 in the last couple of

weeks.



His white-paper iPhone 6 Plus, complete with paper USB charger cable and

adapter, costs 17 yuan. Other popular paper offerings include  a Mac laptop  for

40 yuan, and a Samsung Galaxy Note 4.



Chen also sells paper BMW cars, driving licences and - another "hot" item -

personalised paper car number plates.



"Personalised number plates are popular, too, as you must go to a Shanghai

auction to get one, so buyers are keen to give their ancestors a precious gift,"

he said.



A real personalised number plate can cost 90,000 yuan at an auction; Chen's is

just one yuan.



The burning of paper offerings, including fake money, is a traditional Chinese

ritual to honour the dead during the Ching Ming festival, when relatives visit

the graves of their ancestors.



Chen said the appeal of his offerings was that they looked just like the real

thing, and were made of high-quality paper. Traditional low-quality paper

offerings cost only a few yuan.



"People have grown tired of poorly made paper offerings and think that spending

a few yuan when paying respects to their ancestors is no big deal," he said.



Yet his products are not the most expensive on the market - not by a long way.



Han Dingyu, a consultant at Skea, a Taiwanese store making small, custom-made

paper offerings, said that this year there had been strong online demand from

mainlanders buying products, including paper apartments, cars - even golf clubs

- for the dead, which cost from NT$2,000 to NT$360,000 (HK$500 to HK$90,000).

Demand was so strong that his company hoped to open a store on the mainland, he

said.



Elsewhere, Henry Hong sells luxury paper offerings in shops in Guangdong and

Hong Kong, including a recycled-paper villa that costs just over 3,000 yuan.

Sales doubled in the leadup to weeks before  this year's  festival.



Hong said his customers were not necessarily the wealthiest people - rather

those intent on getting exactly what they wanted.



"A desire to fulfil the wishes of a loved one is the most important thing to

them," he said.



Yet all this realism has proved too much for some customers.



"Sometimes you feel quite upset as those costly items burn up in front of your

eyes, because they look so much like the real thing," one mainland microblogger

said.



LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



NOTES: 90,000 ; The price, in HK dollars, that some paper products go for from

Taiwanese outlet Skea



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2015 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





