                              549 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                            January 26, 2015 Monday



Apple poised for record quarter, analysts predict



BYLINE: Julia Love



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 381 words





Riding a wave of red-hot iPhone sales and expanding market share, Apple is

widely expected to shatter records when it reports its earnings for the first

quarter of 2015 Tuesday.



The consensus from analysts is that Apple will log earnings per share of $2.59

on $67.5 billion in revenue, beating the companycs own forecast of $63.5 to

$66.5 billion in total sales. A group of analysts polled by Fortune expects

Apple to climb even higher, reaching revenue of $68.3 billion, a 21 percent jump

from the same time last year.



Brightened by a holiday glow, Applecs first quarter, which ends Dec. 27, is

always its biggest   and this time it had supersize iPhones to share. The wild

success of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus is analystsc chief cause for optimism. With

the gadgets, Apple at last answered the call for iPhones with larger screens,

and consumers rushed to stores in response. The phonesc record sales gave Apple

a boost last quarter , though they went on sale toward the end of the period.

Whatcs more, many consumers who wanted to buy the new phones when they first

when they first debuted were unable to as Apple struggled to meet pent-up

demand. The first quarter of 2015 is the first to reflect full availability of

the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, and Wall Street is expecting a rich payday.



Strong sales in Asia will likely be another bright spot for the company. A new

report from Counterpoint Research found that sales of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus

had pushed Applecs share of the smartphone market up to 51 percent in Japan, 33

percent in South Korea and 12 percent in China. Some analysts expect Apple to

announce it sold more phones in China than in the U.S. for the first time last

year, as the Financial Times reported .



Of course, the booming iPhone sales do have a dark lining. Sales of the iPad

have been slumping for some time, and analysts will be watching to see whether

the enlarged iPhone 6 and 6 Plus have further cannibalized tablet sales. When

Apple CEO Tim Cook comes on the line, theycll also be listening closely for

statistics about Apple Pay, the companycs new mobile payments service, as well

as hints about the Apple Watch, which is set to debut early this year.



Above: Apple CEO Tim Cook is expected to announce record earnings on Tuesday

(Justin Sullivan/Getty Images).c



c



c



LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: CUPERTINO, CA - SEPTEMBER 09: Apple CEO Tim Cook shows off the new

iPhone 6 and the Apple Watch during an Apple special event at the Flint Center

for the Performing Arts on September 9, 2014 in Cupertino, California. Apple is

expected to unveil the new iPhone 6 and wearble tech. (Photo by Justin

Sullivan/Getty Images)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





