                              550 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            The New York Times Blogs

                                     (Bits)



                           September 15, 2014 Monday



Online Orders for New iPhones Exceed 4 Million



BYLINE: Brian X. Chen



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 382 words







HIGHLIGHT: The company said Monday that orders for its new iPhones &#8212; the

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus &#8212; topped four million in the first 24 hours

they became available for order online. That is double the number of early

online orders for the iPhone 5 two years ago.





Early signs show that bigger iPhones are already leading to bigger sales for

Apple.



The company on Monday said that early orders for the new iPhones - the iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus - topped four million in the first 24 hours that they became

available for order online over the weekend. That is double the number of early

orders that came in for the iPhone 5 when it first went on sale online two years

ago.



Both new iPhones unveiled last week are significantly larger than previous

models. The iPhone 6 screen measures 4.7 inches diagonally and the iPhone 6 Plus

screen measures 5.5 inches. The earlier iPhone 5S  had a four-inch screen. The

new phones arrive in stores on Friday.



By increasing the screen size of the iPhone, Apple was responding to a broad

market trend: Consumers, especially those in China, are gravitating toward

bigger and bigger screens on smartphones, just as they did with televisions.



Some financial analysts are optimistic that the early orders will amount to

record-breaking iPhone sales over all. Maynard Um, an analyst for Wells Fargo,

said that Apple was on track to meet expectations for sales of millions in the

"low teens" range in the first weekend. That would be much higher than the nine

million in first-weekend sales last year for the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C.



It can be easy to lose perspective on what those numbers mean. For comparison,

Motorola Mobility shipped 6.5 million smartphones in the first three months of

the year. Apple's iPhones are expected to sell at least double that number in

just their first weekend in stores.



Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, said that

although the recently introduced Apple Watch and mobile payments service may

create new revenue streams for Apple, the company's financial situation remains

fundamentally unchanged: Its financial earnings still lean heavily on sales of

the iPhone, which accounts for about 70 percent of Apple's profit.



Still, it remains unclear, Mr. Sacconaghi said in an email, whether the new

iPhones will ultimately help the company's profits.



"Can Apple sustain iPhone margins in the face of higher costs on both new phones

(larger screen, battery, more memory, better processor, etc.) and a price

increase on only the larger offering?" he said.



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog





                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company

                              All Rights Reserved





