

iPhone fans came in droves to Blue Cube at Sunway Pyramid to get their hands on
the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, writes Edwin Kee.

FANTASY is wishful thinking for those wanting to escape from the drudgery called
life. But not for six Celcom users who managed to get the latest iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus smartphones at just RM6.

Max Liew Zi Yi, Sofrizanlee Hardwick, Najmi Mohd Fauzi, Mohd Azlan Adnan, Faizal
Abdullah and Ng Wei Seng picked up the phones during the event launch held at
Celcom's Blue Cube at Sunway Iconic in Sunway Pyramid at the stroke of midnight
last Thursday.

In hindsight, I am sure that one particular scenario will be playing through
their minds over and over again: "If only I had known that my latest iPhone
acquisition would cost a mere RM6, I would have settled for the 128GB model."

I know I would. After all, qui audet adipiscitur (who dares, wins).

When asked, all of them wanted to keep the smartphone for themselves.

Najmi is a first time iPhone user, having made the jump from the Android camp
with his Sony handset because he was influenced by his friend, Mohd Azlan, to do
so. They camped out for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus together.

The first of the six, Liew, camped outside of Blue Cube since 6pm on Nov 4,
while the last, Ng made his way there only at 2pm on Nov 5. For those looking
forward to future iPhone launches, this might give ideas that the first seven in
the queue would be on the receiving end of such benevolence.

RAIN NOT A DAMPER

There were 580 slots available for the midnight launch of Apple's latest
smartphone. The heavy downpour earlier in the evening alongside the notorious
traffic gridlock did not put a damper on the spirits of those in the queue.

Zalman Aefendy Zainal Abidin, chief marketing officer of Celcom Axiata Berhad,
was present at the countdown to the midnight launch. "Customers are becoming
more discerning and are not only looking for the most advanced smartphone but
also an unbeatable network that gives them the fastest connection speed to enjoy
their new devices to the fullest, wherever and whenever they want," he said.

Apart from the six, Celcom also rewarded 30 customers with a RM600 voucher each.
They were randomly picked while lining up during the countdown to the launch.

Echoing the famous marketing line from a charge card company whose membership
has its privileges, Celcom First customers too managed to enjoy the perks of
"first advantages" during the countdown, in which one of them got a dedicated
Celcom promoter to stand in for him/ her in the queue for 15 minutes. It was a
relief when he/she had been standing for hours. As for everyone else, additional
hospitality measures like bench seats, light entertainment (movies and MTV
channels, magazines) and complimentary tea and coffee were made available while
queuing.

They were also treated to fun and interactive activities, including games and
live band and percussion performances as they waited for the countdown to kick
off in a lively and energetic atmosphere.

In the midst of the crowd was rock climber Khairul Hafiz Abu Hassan, who won a
silver medal at the SEA Games 2011 in Palembang, Indonesia, in the Speed
Climbing category. He was in line to pick up an iPhone 6 as well but having
arrived at 8pm, it proved to be an impossible task for him to climb over the
rest of the people in the queue to be the first in line.

Once again, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus launch by Celcom showed that the
universally uniting factor of this smartphone cannot be denied. It does not
matter if you are a student, a fresh graduate who is looking for a job, a
regular office executive or a person who runs your own business - being first
(or the first six in this case) in line to pick up the latest iPhone model
supersedes everything else in life - at least for a day or two.

( END )

