                              556 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                         Sunday Tribune (South Africa)



                               September 28, 2014

                                   E1 Edition



Watch it! Those tight pants could bend your |new iPhone 6



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 15



LENGTH: 344 words





It's been a tough week for Apple. After launching the iPhone 6, Plus and the

Apple Watch two weeks ago, selling 10 million handsets last week and being

announced as the UK's coolest brand, things were going great. And then things

suddenly went south.



First iOS8 bombed out, with many users complaining about the new operating

system, its many glitches and reports of dropped cellular service, prompting

Apple to pull iOS8. And then images of the iPhone 6 bending after being in

pockets, trended all over the world, so much so that #BendGate blew up all over

the internet, prompting numerous social media gags. There's even a fake campaign

about a new Apple product and other companies, like Kit Kat and competitors, LG,

which have a flex phone, have gleefully poked fun at Apple.



So, what causes the iPhone 6 Plus to bend? The iPhone 6 Plus is made out of

aluminium. Aluminium is a relatively soft metal and is fairly ductile and

flexible so, if enough pressure is applied, it will bend and move.



According to iMore, no part of either of the new iPhones has more than 0.64cm of

aluminium in any spot.



This means that, in areas of the phones that are weakest, it's possible it could

be susceptible to bending. This is noticeable in images, with many of the bends

occurring near the volume buttons and the SIM card slot.



But this is not a first for Apple and its iPhones. The iPhone 4, 5 and 5S were

met with similar complaints.



After days of silence, there might finally be a response from Apple sources

about BendGate. According to The Next Web, an Apple support employee told the

website during a web chat that there's a chance that iPhone 6 Plus phones may be

replaced. "That is 100 percent up to the Genius you speak with at the store.

There is a test called a Visual Mechanical Inspection that the device will have

to pass. If it is within the guidelines, they will be able to cover it. If not,

the replacement would be a paid one."



What a way for Apple's bubble to be burst, so soon after changing the tech

world, barely two weeks ago. - Daily Mail and Buhle Mbonambi



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NT





                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





