                              561 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                The New York Post



                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday



RING UP A RECORD iPhone 6 sales boost Apple profits into orbit



BYLINE: James Covert



SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 29



LENGTH: 555 words





The numbers are in and it's official: The iPhone 6 is a monster.



Apple disclosed Tuesday that it sold a mind-blowing 74.5 million iPhones during

its holiday quarter, as shoppers snatched up the sleek new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus

models that boasted faster processors and thinner bodies with bigger screens.



The popularity of the new models goosed the Cupertino, Calif., tech giant's

earnings to $18 billion - by some measures the biggest quarterly profit ever to

be reported by a publicly traded company - as revenue climbed 29 percent to

$74.6 billion.



Apple ended the quarter with a whopping $178 billion in cash on its balance

sheet - a figure that exceeds the market value of any number of corporate

giants,the including Walt Disney, AT&T and Bank of America.



'This volume is hard to comprehend," CEO Tim Cook told analysts on a conference

call.



On average, Wall Street expected that 66.5 million iPhones would be sold.



Doing the math, Cook noted that, for every day of the quarter ended Dec. 27,

Apple sold about 34,000 iPhones per hour.



Cook added that Apple sold its billionth device running on its iOS operating

system during the quarter - a space-gray iPhone 6 Plus, he said.



Indeed, the larger-screened iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models appear to be luring

customers away from archrival Samsung. The trend is striking, as last year many

pundits were convinced that Samsung's big-screened Galaxy smartphones were

poised to relegate the iPhone to second-class status.



"The current iPhone had the highest Android switcher rate in past three years,"

Cook gushed, referring to Google's Android mobile operating system, used by

Samsung and other rivals. "We are bullish on product, very, very bullish."



But demand for the new, larger iPhone models - up 46 percent in the most recent

quarter after several periods of lackluster growth - also appears to be eating

into demand for Apple's own iPad tablets.



Sales of iPads tanked 17 percent to 21.5 million units from the year-earlier

period, with iPad prices also dropping. Some analysts supposed that the

larger-screened iPhone 6 Plus has been sapping away sales of iPad Minis.



Cook insisted that he wasn't concerned about flagging iPad sales, noting that

there was room for growth overseas.



Looking ahead, Cook said the launch of the company's new Apple Watch is on

schedule and that it will hit stores in April. Analysts' predictions about

demand for the watch have varied wildly, with many fretting that it will be too

small, too expensive and too redundant for most consumers who already have

iPhones.



"My expectations are very high," Cook said. "I use it every day and I love it

and I couldn't live without it."



Elsewhere, Cook said the new Apple Pay platform is off to a good start,

accounting for two out of three contactless payments at retail stores, although

the market remains small. Mobile payments at Whole Foods are up 400 percent

since Apple Pay was introduced, he said.



Apple shares, boosted by the boffo sales report, gained 5.8 percent in

after-hours trading to $115.40.



PRIZE CATCH



Apple's Tim Cook has proved himself big time, landing these kinds of numbers

after the longawaited launch of the new iPhone.



Earnings per share



Actual $3.06



Estimate $2.06



IPHONE 6 SALES



Actual 74.5M



Estimate 66.5M



jcovert@nypost.com



LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PRIZE CATCH: Apple's Tim Cook has proved himself big time, landing

these kinds of numbers after the longawaited launch of the new iPhone. (Post

photo composite)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





