                              575 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

                                   WELL-BEING



Three bike mounts for the iPhone 6



SECTION: SPORT



LENGTH: 296 words





As fitness tracking fever continues, smartphone bike mounts are becoming more in

demand, in the interest of accessing features such as GPS maps, ride statistics

and cardiovascular stats from wearable trackers. If you like the idea of the

iPhone 6 for its large screen but aren't sure if you'll find a compatible bike

mount, look no further.



What's new



Urban cycling gear guru BioLogic this week released its anticipated Bike Mount

Plus for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, which offers 360-degree rotation so that you can

choose between using your phone in portrait or landscape mode. Like the others

in the company's smartphone case selection, it's shockproof and waterproof,

offering protection from impact, rain, sweat, mud and dirt without blocking

access to phone features.

MSRP $39.95 and [#x20ac]39.95; available from retailers worldwide.



Grows (or shrinks) with your iPhone



Australia-based Proper offers a case for the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus, as well as

models of yesteryear, that all attach to the same mount for your bike, and it

also offers a mount for your car, facilitating GPS navigation. You can choose

your priorities, for they offer both a Light and Strong case and are available

in black and grey for 20 AUS ($16.80) to 35 AUS ($29.55).

The M Lock bike mount costs 59.95 AUS ($50.60) and you don't need to update it

for the next iPhone model to come, for all of Proper's iPhone cases can be

mounted on it.



Everything included



To score a case and compatible bike mount in one purchase, try the Quad Lock

mounting system, whose mount for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus was announced in August

and claims to be ultra-light and ultra-strong. It comes with a rain poncho and

the case itself detaches for use as a protective cover when you're not cycling.

All the hardware is included. 69.95 AUS ($59).



LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





