                              579 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                           September 26, 2014 Friday



IPhone 6 sets records, but problems quickly emerge



BYLINE: Bloomberg



LENGTH: 926  words





Glitches in iOS 8.0.1 operating system bring frustrations to consumers, reports

Bloomberg.



Glitches in iOS 8.0.1 operating system bring frustrations to consumers, reports

Bloomberg.



Apple Inc Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook called the introduction of the iPhone

6 and 6 Plus over the weekend the "best launch ever." He may have spoken too

soon.



Just three days after announcing that Apple had sold a record 10 million new

iPhones over the opening weekend, Cook was faced with multiple snafus related to

the bigger-screen handsets. The company pulled a new mobile-software update,

dubbed iOS 8.0.1, after the program caused some people to lose cellular service.

It promised a fix soon.



Scores of consumers also took to social media to criticize the 6 Plus and how it

can bend under sufficient pressure.



The stumbles blemished what had been a carefully choreographed product unveiling

that was meant to put Cook's stamp on Apple. Executives at the California-based

company had for months teased the introduction of the new iPhones before finally

debuting them on Sept 9.



The devices had spurred a frenzy of demand, with pre-orders topping 4 million,

plus the record weekend sales and a thriving gray market for the smartphones in

China and elsewhere.



Now, Cook's rollout of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus is marred, recalling incidents

that the CEO has faced with other product debuts. Last year, Cook apologized for

the iPhone's warranty and repair policies in China after receiving criticism

from the media over customer service in the market. In 2012, Cook also said he

was sorry for Apple's malfunctioning mapping software, which was faulted for

misguided directions and inaccurate landmark locations.



"I just wish that Tim Cook had a better handle on things," said Jason Nochimson,

34, an iPhone 6 owner who spent more than two hours on Apple's customer support

line after downloading the software upgrade on Wednesday and finding it stopped

his cellular service. "I was worried that my daughter's school was going to call

me and I wasn't going to be able to get them."



Apple said in an e-mailed statement that it has devised a workaround for iPhone

6 users who lost voice service or other features. Users can reinstall the

previous version of iOS to restore past functionality and Apple plans to release

a new version of the operating system, iOS 8.0.2, in the next few days.



"We apologize for the great inconvenience experienced by users," Apple said in

the statement.



The new iPhones are crucial to Apple. The devices generate more than half of the

company's annual $171 billion in revenue and precede a swath of other products,

including new iPads, an Apple Watch and a mobile-payments system called Apple

Pay.



Yet while Cook deals with consumer criticism over his handling of the iPhone

rollout, the issues may have little impact on Apple's sales. Demand for the new

handsets has the company poised to sell more than 61 million iPhones in the

December quarter, surpassing last year's record 51 million sold, according to

Barclays.



Sales are also set to pick up - not decelerate - as the new iPhones become

available in more countries. On Sept 19, the first day the handsets went on sale

in stores, Apple rolled them out in 10 countries. The company is set to

introduce the gadgets in another 22 countries on Friday. In total, the iPhones

will be in 115 countries by the end of the year, Apple has said.



"It will do nothing, I don't suspect it will dampen any demand," said Tim

Bajarin, an analyst at Creative Strategies Inc, about concerns over bending

phones and iOS problems.



Apple shares are up 27 percent this year.



Still, some consumers are thinking twice about buying the devices in the wake of

Wednesday's snafus. After having problems with Apple's new software upgrade to

his old iPhone, James Zahrt, a customer since 1989, decided to put off a new

smartphone purchase.



"I was going to order one immediately but now I'm going to wait," said Zahrt,

58, of Mt Prospect, Illinois, who has had troubles with his iPhone 4s' alarm

clock working properly since downloading Apple's iOS 8 software last week. "I

think the bugs need to be worked out on this thing."



The popular tide turned against the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus earlier this week

when reports began emerging that the 5.5-inch screen larger model was bending

when people sat on it. Rivals including BlackBerry Inc Chief Executive Officer

John Chen took a jab at the iPhone on Wednesday, saying he "would challenge you

guys to bend our Passport" device.



That was followed by reports from users on Wednesday that the iOS 8 software

upgrade, which had been issued to address previous software bugs and add the

health and fitness-monitoring application HealthKit, was causing some customers

to experience dropped cell service.



Frustrations about iOS 8 had been mounting even before Wednesday, with user

complaints that their devices' battery life seemed to have dwindled after

downloading the software, along with data showing applications were more likely

to crash with the operating system. According to Crittercism Inc, an analytics

firm, iOS 8 causes apps to crash about 3.3 percent of the time, or 67 percent

more than last year's version.



While glitches are not unusual for software updates, Apple attracts more

attention, said Frank Gillett, an analyst at Forrester Research.



"Apple is a bit of lightning rod or a focus because as a company, they inspire a

lot of positive and negative passion and also because they are now this company

with a global brand and global reach," he said.



(China Daily 09/26/2014 page13)



LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





