                              587 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              Chicago Daily Herald



                           September 28, 2014 Sunday



The one big problem with the enormous new iPhone



BYLINE: By Will Oremus Slate



SECTION: BUSINESS WIRE_; Pg. 0



LENGTH: 824 words





The one big problem with the enormous new iPhone



NEW YORK -- As I stood in line Friday at my local AT&T store, preparing to plunk

down $399 on Apple's next big thing, a fear crept into my thoughts: What if the

iPhone 6 Plus is too big to fit into my pants pocket? Am I going to have to

start carrying a purse?



This, of course, is not a novel problem. Half the smartphone-buying population

has been grappling with it stoically for years, because the pockets on women's

clothing tend to be Lilliputian. Only with the growing popularity of "phablets"

like the 6 Plus and the Samsung Galaxy Note, however, has the pocket-or-purse

dilemma begun to affect men. Predictably, we're freaking out.



As it turned out, however, I had no problem sliding the iPhone 6 Plus into the

pockets of my chinos. One of my colleagues, whose sartorial taste skews toward

elfin hipster jeans, had somewhat more difficulty when he tried my new phone on

for size. I'm guessing he'll opt for a smaller version.



Yet just as I began to rejoice that I hadn't wasted my money on a phone I

couldn't carry, a different drawback became apparent: There's no easy way to use

the device with just one hand.



Over the years, I've grown blithely accustomed to the notion that operating a

smartphone is a single-handed endeavor. Not only can I comfortably cradle the

iPhone 5 in my palm, but the tips of my fingers have no trouble reaching the

farthest corners of the screen. I've even mastered the art of swatting home runs

one-handed on my favorite little time-wasting mobile game, 9 Innings Pro

Baseball.



No more. Just typing in your passcode to unlock the 6 Plus requires either a

second hand or a feat of manual acrobatics. Reaching the top buttons on the home

screen-you know, trivial things like "messages" "photos," and "camera"-is out of

the question, unless you're NBA player Kawhi Leonard.



When Apple announced the 6 Plus, I noted that it had included a feature that

allows you to pull the top buttons halfway down the screen by double-tapping the

home button. I did not anticipate that I would quickly come to rely on this

feature for almost everything I need to do on the phone.



Opening my Gmail app and composing a message used to require just three actions:



* Tap to open the app



* Tap the "compose" button



* Start typing



Now it requires the following finger dance:



* Double-tap the home button to bring the Gmail app within reach



* Tap to open the app



* Double-tap the home button to bring the compose button within reach



* Tap the "compose" button



* Start typing



That might sound like a small difference. If you use your phone a lot, it isn't.

It nearly doubles the amount of time it takes to complete certain tasks. And

while the double-tap feature makes it relatively easy to reach the top of the

screen, it remains a struggle to reach the sides without dropping the device

altogether. Two of the people I to whom I briefly loaned the phone fumbled it

within the first 30 seconds.



The obvious solution is simply to use two hands at all times. I get that. The 6

Plus works beautifully in landscape mode, and its spacious screen shines when it

comes to reading articles, watching videos, or playing games. Its battery life,

reputed to be significantly longer than that of the iPhone 6, was a major

selling point for me. Like the Galaxy Note, this is a phone that some people

will love even as others mock and eschew it. I have a feeling that my father,

who happily sported a bulky Handspring Treo at a time when everyone else was

buying Motorola Razrs, will be a fan.



Unlike the Galaxy Note, however (or the Treo, for that matter), the 6 Plus

doesn't come with a stylus, and it wasn't explicitly marketed as a compromise

between a phone and a tablet. No Galaxy Note buyer should be surprised to find

that her device is ungainly. Apple addicts, on the other hand, may have been

lulled by the company's marketing to believe that it would never sell them a

phone that didn't feel Mama Bear's-chair perfect in their palms.



A device that requires two hands is a device that demands your full attention.

It's not a device you can whip out of your pocket and glance at quickly in

between other tasks. It's not a device you can use to quickly scan your email

while carrying a grocery bag or hanging onto a subway pole. And perhaps that was

Apple's intention all along: An awkwardly sized phone might be just the

incentive some people need to buy a $350 smartwatch.



I'm not ruling out the possibility that I'll eventually grow dexterous enough

with the 6 Plus that its virtues begin to overshadow its limitations. But at

this point, I'm also not ruling out the possibility that I'll be back in line at

that same AT&T store within two weeks to exchange it for something more

manageable.



* Video of Oremus, Slate's senior technology reporter, demonstrating the iPhone

6 is at http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2014/09/19/iphone_6_plus_size_v

s_iphone_6_why_i_might_return_apple_s_giant_new_iphone.html



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Bloomberg News Apple Inc.'s latest software update for the iPhone and

iPad tablet is causing popular applications made by Facebook Inc., Dropbox Inc.

and others to crash more frequently. Apple's iOS 8 operating system causes apps

to crash about 3.3 percent of the time, or 67 percent more, according to a

study. Bloomberg News Law enforcement officials rely on all kinds of tools to

solve crimes and bring criminals to justice. New Apple and Google's new

encrypted operation systems could mean criminals and those who plan acts

destructive to our national security may walk free. Bloomberg News You might be

able to fit the new iPhone 6 Plus in your pocket, but you'll have trouble

operating it with one hand. That's a huge drawback for some.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.





