

WITH queues filling city streets in New York and London, thousands of delirious
Apple fans may have already made up their mind. But the rest of us have one
simple question about the iPhone 6: is it worth upgrading to? On the evidence of
both the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus, the answer is a tentative 'yes'. This
is easily Apple's best handset to date for several reasons.

But there is a caveat: these are also the most expensive phones you will have
ever bought. Indeed the smaller model with 64GB of storage is expected to cost
(EURO)800 on its own or around (EURO)60 per month for two years plus around
(EURO)200 upfront when buying as part of an operator upgrade - a total of
(EURO)1,640.

Nevertheless, a brief look at the positives may persuade people thinking of
splashing out that it's worth every penny. Both the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and
5.5-inch iPhone 6 are slim, light and very powerful. They both feature upgrades
on battery life and, in the case of the 'Plus' model, a significant upgrade in
camera quality.

As you would expect from Apple, they're also very handsomely designed.

The biggest difference, though, is screen size: the 'Plus' model is almost twice
the size of an iPhone 5S. Is that too big for comfortable daily use? I've never
thought so, although I have been a fan of 'phablets' (half-phone, half tablets)
for some time. But for those with small hands, Apple has included a feature
called "reachability". This allows you to double-tap the home button to shift
the top part down.

There's a lot more power under the hood, thanks to Apple's A8 chip. It's a shame
that it doesn't have toughened glass to prevent cracks, but that will probably
be added in the next update.

Apple sold a total of 10 million iPhone 6 units in its opening weekend of sales,
bringing in more than (EURO)7bn in just 72 hours.

Irish mobile phone operators say they will be unable to satisfy demand for the
iPhone 6 when it is launched here on Friday. Operators say they are already
preparing for back-orders of up to six weeks.

