                              598 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                The New York Post



                             June 18, 2016 Saturday



Apple is red after Chinese crackdown



BYLINE: James Covert



SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 23



LENGTH: 299 words





Apple just got a smack from the long arm of Beijing regulators.



Shares of the California tech giant tumbled 2.3 percent to $95.33 on Friday

after the Beijing Intellectual Property Bureau barred the sale of the iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus in China's capital city.



The regulator ruled that Apple's previous-generation smartphones, released in

September 2014, violated an external-design patent held by Chinese phone maker

Shenzhen Baili for its 100C model.



In a statement, Apple said that it has obtained a reprieve after appealing the

order, and that the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus - which were succeeded last fall by the

current 6s and 6s Plus models - are still for sale in Beijing.



"The order has been stayed pending review by the Beijing IP (intellectual

property) court," Apple said.



Some tech analysts downplayed the significance of the news, noting that Apple

already plans to stop selling the iPhone 6 models in China by early fall when

the appeal ends, as the new iPhone 7 will be released around the same time.



"It would likely be no more than a 2- to 3-percent iPhone unit headwind, or a 1-

to 2-percent revenue headwind, just for the September quarter," Piper Jaffray

analyst Gene Munster said in a Friday note.



Nevertheless, others said the ruling signals a risky regulatory climate in

Apple's most important growth market. Last year, China surpassed Europe as

Apple's second-biggest market behind the Americas.



Earlier this year, Apple had to shut down its iBooks store and sales of iTunes

movies following a Chinese clampdown.



"It's a bit of a gut punch" for Apple, said Daniel Ives of research firm

Synchronoss Technologies. "It speaks to the headwinds in China that US tech

companies are seeing, which continue to get worse rather than better."



jcovert@nypost.com



LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Icy tone: The relationship between Apple's Tim Cook and China's Li

Keqiang turned unusually chilly on Friday when Beijing barred the tech titan

from selling its iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in the country - saying a local company

owned a patent on the smartphone's design. [Post photo composite]



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





