                              601 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                The Denver Post



                            December 29, 2014 Monday

                               MON SCENE Edition



Who needs a separate camera with these 3 phones?



BYLINE: Anick Jesdanun



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8C



LENGTH: 562 words





Phones have gotten so good at taking photos that I rarely bring along a stand

alone camera anymore.



Of course, a phone is never going to replace a full bodied, single lens reflex

camera, otherwise known as an SLR. There's just no way to squeeze a powerful,

SLR type lens into the small body of a phone. But many smartphones now match and

even outperform point and shoot cameras. You'll get good pictures with any high

end phone, including LG's G3 and Google's Nexus 6. But a few phones go beyond

just good.



Apple's iPhone 6 (starts at $649 without a contract) and iPhone 6 Plus ($749):

Last year, I declared the iPhone 5s to be the best camera phone overall. This

year's 6 and 6 Plus models are even better, particularly with faster and more

accurate focusing. The iPhone can even make moving toddlers look still and

sharp.



For indoor and night shots, the iPhone often manages to avoid the image blur

that many other cameras produce when shutters stay open longer to let in more

light. The 6 Plus model also has anti shake technology to help reduce blur. I

noticed increased sharpness in some shots of statues inside a museum and the

city skyline at night, compared with shots taken with the regular iPhone 6. For

most shots, though, the iPhone 6 performs just as well. Go for the Plus only if

you want the larger viewing screen not for the camera.



The iPhone shines in a wide range of settings, making it an overall great choice

for capturing impromptu moments.



Samsung's Galaxy Note 4 ($700 to $826, depending on carrier) and Note Edge ($840

to $946): Images taken on the Note phones are rich in color. Friends say "wow"

when they see the shots. The Note's AMOLED screen technology contributes to

that, but the colors are still rich when viewing on a standard LCD laptop.



The problem is the colors sometimes look too rich, as though they've been

adjusted using software. Faces, for instance, often look overly orange,

especially for indoor shots (the yellow glow from artificial lighting

contributes to that). The iPhone doesn't win on colors, but images look more

natural. With the Note, you wind up with many images that look better but others

that look worse. The color can typically be fixed with editing software, but

that takes time.



The Note camera's 16 megapixels is among the highest in smartphones. Although

having more megapixels doesn't necessarily mean better pictures, I can make out

smaller text on Note images. The Note also excels with zoom. With most phones,

quality degrades as you zoom in because the lens itself doesn't move. Zooming is

essentially cropping. The Note compensates for that with anti shake technology,

similar to the 6 Plus, and with the merger of pixels from multiple exposures

taken in succession.



Microsoft's Lumia Icon ($499): Like other Lumia phones using the standard Nokia

Pro Cam app, the Icon camera is slow to snap and save the shot. Forget about

moving babies. Forget about multiple images in bursts, as iPhones and Note

phones allow.



Even as Lumia phones are known for their low light performance, rivals have

caught up. And the Icon's ability to take images of up to 19 megapixels no

longer is impressive.



Yet the manual controls in Lumia phones are unmatched. You can control shutter

speed, light sensitivity, white balance and other settings you typically only

get with an SLR. It's the camera for taking professional looking photos.



LOAD-DATE: January 01, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple CEO Tim Cook shows off the new iPhone 6 during an Apple event in

September in Cupertino, Calif. Getty Images file



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 The Denver Post

                              All Rights Reserved





