                              603 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               TODAY (Singapore)



                            September 9, 2016 Friday

                                  APM Edition



Local telcos see healthy interest for iPhone 7



BYLINE: Alison Jenner



SECTION: HNP; Business; Singapore; Technology; Pg. 4



LENGTH: 506 words





SINGAPORE - Singtel, StarHub and M1 said yesterday they have seen healthy

interest from customers pre-registering for the new Apple iPhone 7 and 7 Plus,

even as the removal of the headphone jack and the introduction of new wireless

headphones called AirPods stirred controversy among many fans.



Singtel was the first to open pre-registration at noon yesterday, followed by M1

and StarHub several hours later. All three telcos will be selling the new iPhone

7 and 7 Plus from Sept 16. Customers can also pre-order no-contract phones from

www.apple.com/sg from 3.01pm today. The iPhone 7 is priced at S$1,048.00 while

the iPhone 7 Plus is S$1,248.00. The phones will come in new colours, including

a shiny jet-black and matte black, in addition to the existing options of

silver, gold and rose gold.



Apple early yesterday morning unveiled the two new iPhones at a two-hour

conference in San Francisco.



The iPhone 7 comes in the same two forms - a 4.7-inch screen and a 5.5-inch Plus

option - that the iPhone has had since 2014, but several changes have been made.

These include water and dust resistance, and a major upgrade to its camera with

a dual-lens system on the iPhone 7 Plus that allows for improved long-range

photos. It also has an enhanced home button that lets users perform different

tasks depending on how hard they press it.



But the change that has upset some fans is the removal of the headphone jack - a

port that has been a fixture in consumer electronics for decades. Instead, the

iPhone 7 will be bundled with headphones that connect to the phone via the

Lightning charging connector.



Apple will sell optional US$159 (S$215) AirPods - wireless headphones that

include a microphone for hands-free calls. This update however, has been cause

for controversy, with a review in The Guardian likening the AirPods to a tampon

without a string.



"I won't be getting the new phone. The new wireless AirPods look very ugly ...

And, externally, there's no significant change from the iPhone 6," said Mr

Roland Tan, 43, who has an iPhone 6 Plus, with StarHub as his carrier.



On the other hand, there are customers such as Mr Danny Ho, 40, who are

attracted to the new iPhone. "I'm going to get the phone because of the new

features like the wireless earbuds and the new jet-black colour," he said. "I

won't be placing a pre-order, though. I'll wait a while first as normally the

first batch will have some problems. The second batch will be better as Apple

will troubleshoot and correct any issues." Mr Ho currently owns an iPhone 6s,

with Singtel as his carrier.



There will also be many who will stick with the iPhone, if for no other reason

than to avoid having to move their songs, movies and pictures off Apple devices

and embracing a fragmented Android apps marketplace.



Ms Nancy Chan, 36, simply wants a sturdy mobile phone. "I will be getting the

new iPhone, mainly because it's water resistant. I dropped my iPhone 6 in the

toilet and had to spend a lot of money to fix it," said Ms Chan, who has M1 as

her carrier. WITH AGENCIES



LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 MediaCorp Press Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





