

SINGAPORE - By now, most Apple fans should know the drill: Last year, there were
the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus; this year there are the "s" or upgraded versions.

Like a number of Apple customers, I tend to replace my iPhone in two-year
cycles. This is the first time, though, that I am seriously considering
upgrading my phone just a year after purchasing the 6.

Apple launched the new iPhones this year with an extremely bold statement: "The
only thing that has changed ... is everything". It is an exaggeration, but it
does underline the fact that the 6s is one of the biggest upgrades Apple has
ever made.

When I reviewed the new MacBook and the Apple Watch earlier this year, I said
that Apple was clearly trying to teach its users new habits, particularly with
Force Touch - utilising pressure sensors to allow for new interactions. The
re-education continues with the iPhone 6s.

The new 3D Touch on the 6s is an improvement on Force Touch, where you can
control your device by differing the amount of pressure you place on the screen.
It serves two primary functions. The first function, called Peek and Pop, is
similar to Quick Look on your Mac OS. It allows you to preview content without
actually opening the file or application. I found it particularly useful when
reading articles online. Instead of having to open a new page when there is a
related hyperlink, I can press down on my screen for a quick glimpse. This way
I'm not disrupting my reading experience. Peek and Pop also works well for
videos and third-party apps such as Instagram, allowing you to preview videos
without actually needing to open the file.

The other function, called Quick Actions, works more like a short cut. It allows
you, for instance, to post a photo or tweet without having to open your
Instagram and Twitter application.

Other apps that take advantage of 3D Touch include Evernote, WeChat, Shazam, and
Dropbox.

Apple-propriety apps such as Messages, Maps and Calendar, of course come with
quick actions, though we will still have to wait for the likes of Facebook to
get on board. 3D Touch is more responsive than Force Touch, although you still
need to take a while to get used to it.

FASTER, BETTER PERFORMANCE

The new iPhones now come equipped with the Apple-designed A9 chip, which
supposedly provides up to 70 per cent faster processor speeds and 90 per cent
better graphics performance than their predecessors. Benchmark tests show that
the new iPhones are as fast as some laptops, including the latest MacBooks.

I found that unlocking the phone with the Touch ID (fingerprint) sensor was near
instantaneous. Also, when I did a side-by-side comparison with the iPhone 6,
games such as Final Fantasy 7 opened half-a-second to a second faster. Battery
life is also impressive despite the fact that the 6s Plus has a smaller battery.
I got about nine hours of regular use on the 6s Plus, about 20 minutes less than
the 6 Plus.

BRINGING PHOTOS TO LIFE

The cameras on the 6s and 6s Plus have been enhanced. Both iPhones feature an
improved 12-megapixel rear camera and a 5-megapixel front-facing camera (up from
8-megapixels and 1.2-megapixels respectively).

The new iPhones also finally allow you to shoot videos in 4K. Be warned,
however, that file sizes for 4K videos are about two to three times larger than
HD quality. Additionally, only the 6s Plus comes with an optical image
stabiliser that helps to compensate for camera shake.

Perhaps the biggest introduction for the iPhone 6s camera is the Live Photos
feature. Instead of taking a normal still image, the phone can now record about
1.5s of animation along with your photo. It is definitely a cool new feature,
particularly with GIFs being so popular these days.

With its power, performance and new features, the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus are the
best iPhones yet and definitely worth the upgrade. It is almost a no-brainer if
you are using anything older than a 6.

The phones are fantastically built and brilliantly designed. They come in
silver, space grey, gold and the new rose gold colour (which is quite pink). You
can buy the new iPhones online or at authorised retailers from S$1,048 (without
contract).

