                              609 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily The Pak Banker



                             June 1, 2016 Wednesday



Apple Pay coming to UOB's customers offering an easy, secure and private way to

pay



LENGTH: 435 words



DATELINE: New York







 Singapore: UOB today brings its customers Apple Pay, which is transforming

mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way to pay that's fast and

convenient.



 UOB offers cardmembers unparalleled freedom to pay for everyday goods and

services, in line with the Bank's aim to champion the adoption of contactless

payment in Singapore and to encourage a cashless society.







 The introduction of Apple Pay gives close to two million UOB cardmembers the

ability to make payments conveniently at 15,000 contactless locations in

Singapore. UOB cardmembers simply add their UOB credit or debit card to Wallet

on their iPhone, iPad or Apple Watch and continue to receive all of the usual

rewards and benefits associated with using their UOB cards. Payments made

through Apple Pay have no limit other than the customer's own credit or debit

card limit.



 To reward customers for spending with Apple Pay, UOB is offering the first

10,000 cardmembers S$10 off their first Apple Pay transaction. UOB cardmembers

simply have to add their UOB cards to Apple Pay and start tapping to pay. A $10

refund will be credited back to their accounts.



 Security and privacy are at the core of Apple Pay. When you use a credit or

debit card with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device

or on Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned,

encrypted and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each

transaction is authorised with a one-time unique dynamic security code.



 "Payments for everyday purchases from getting lunch to grocery shopping to

topping up on petrol just got much faster and easier thanks to Apple Pay.

Singaporean consumers are often time-starved and appreciate the convenience that

technology brings. The introduction of Apple Pay to UOB cardmembers means they

can now enjoy secure contactless payments with their iPhone, iPad or Apple

Watch," said Mr Dennis Khoo, Head of Personal Financial Services Singapore, UOB.



 Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benefits offered by credit and debit cards. In stores, Apple Pay

works with iPhone SE, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and

Apple Watch.



 Online shopping via apps accepting Apple Pay is as simple as the touch of a

finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out lengthy account

forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information. When paying for

goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with iPhone SE, iPhone

6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini

4 and iPad Pro.



LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





