                              613 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 The Irish News



                          September 27, 2014 Saturday



Apologetic Apple issues fix for iPhone software glitch



SECTION: Pg. 13



LENGTH: 300 words





A contrite Apple has released a new update that the company says will repair the

problems caused by software it released earlier, repeating an apology to owners

of its newest iPhones affected by the bug.



The tech giant had scrambled to fix the software glitch that left some of its

new iPhones unable to make calls, but some analysts say Apple's response to the

high-profile gaffe may be more important than the fault itself.



Some said Apple was doing the right thing by quickly acknowledging and

apologising for the problem - which it was slower to do with earlier iPhone

glitches.



"There's a certain perception that Apple has to get things right and when they

don't, the whole company gets questioned," said Carolina Milanesi, chief of

research at Kantar Worldpanel.



"But they came out and said, 'We apologise; we're working 24/7 to fix it'. I

think that's what matters."



Apple's stock fell nearly 4 per cent yesterday, leading a broader decline in

technology shares, a day after the company was forced to withdraw an update to

its new iOS 8 mobile software because of glitches that primarily affected

customers who had purchased its new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models.



The 6 Plus phone has also been the subject of social media reports that its

extra-large shell is vulnerable to bending.



Apple yesterday defended its manufacturing standards and said bending "is

extremely rare" with normal use of an iPhone. The company said just nine

customers had contacted Apple to report a bent iPhone 6 Plus since they went on

sale.



Hours later Apple released a new update, dubbed iOS 8.0.2, which it said would

fix the problems caused by the iOS 8.0.1 update that it released on Wednesday.



"We apologise for inconveniencing the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus users who were

impacted by the bug in iOS 8.0.1," the company said.



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2014 The Irish News Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





