                              61 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 12, 2014 Friday



Apple reports huge demand for iPhone 6



BYLINE: By Julia Love jmlove@mercurynews.com



SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; News; Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech



LENGTH: 428 words





CUPERTINO -- Websites crashed and sales soared Friday as consumers raced to be

among the first to buy the latest iPhones.



Apple saw a record number of pre-orders after the newest versions of its iconic

phone went up for advance sale in the wee hours of Friday morning, a company

spokeswoman said. The demand is stretching resources at the nation's major

cellphone carriers, where the new iPhones appeared to be back ordered and

several website glitches were reported. Apple drummed up excitement for the

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which feature larger screens, at a glitzy event in

the Flint Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday.



"Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus has been incredible," Apple spokeswoman

Teresa Brewer said in a statement.



The new gadgets are scheduled to arrive in retail stores Friday, but many

consumers decided to stake their claims online, pushing back shipment times. By

midday Friday, Verizon's website forecast an Oct. 7 delivery date for the iPhone

6 and an Oct. 21 arrival for the iPhone 6 Plus. AT&T indicated on its website

that the iPhone 6 would ship sometime in October, and the larger iPhone 6 Plus

would not go out until November. AT&T spokesman Mark Siegel said demand for this

year's new models topped what the company had seen in the previous two years.



"Suffice to say that our customers are really, really interested in these great

new devices," he said.



With screens of 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are

considerably bigger than Apple devices released last year, which measured 4

inches diagonally. Although many manufacturers have delivered devices with

larger screens in recent years, Apple has held out until now, creating pent-up

demand for a supersize iPhone. Analyst Bob O'Donnell of TECHnalysis Research

predicted that Apple's share of the smartphone market will climb a few

percentage points now that it is offering bigger screens, which consumers find

handy as they watch videos and play games on their phones.



"It's the kind of change that dramatically impacts how you think about and use

your phone," he said.



The iPhone 6, which starts at $199 with a two-year contract, and iPhone 6 Plus,

priced at $299, feature a sharper display, extended battery life and an improved

camera. Apple announced at the event Tuesday that consumers will be able to make

calls using Wi-Fi on the devices, but some consumers may have to wait for that

feature. Siegel of AT&T said WiFi calls will not be available until early next

year.



Contact Julia Love at 408-920-5536; follow her at Twitter.com/byJuliaLove .



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND - SEPTEMBER 10: Shoppers wait in tents outside the

Apple Store on Regent Street as they queue to be the first to purchase the

forthcoming 'iPhone 6' mobile phone on September 10, 2014 in London, England.

The hotly anticipated mobile phone is due to be released on September 19, 2014.

(Photo by Oli Scarff/Getty Images)

Tomoaki Watanabe, right, 22, and Shion Tamura, center, 20, chat as they camp out

in the front end of a line outside an Apple Store to buy Apple's new mobile

phones at Tokyo's Ginza shopping district in Tokyo, Thursday, Sept. 11, 2014.

The iPhone 6 will feature a 4.7-inch screen, up from the 4-inch screen on the

models released in each of the previous two years. The iPhone 6 Plus will have a

5.5-inch screen and other improvements, including longer battery life. The

mobile phones will be on Japanese market on September 19. (AP Photo/Koji

Sasahara)

biz section---The iPhone 6 Plus is displayed during an announcement of new

products by Apple on Tuesday, Sept. 9, 2014, in Cupertino, Calif. (AP

Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





