                              621 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                           September 26, 2014 Friday



Apple goes from record-breaking worldwide sales to multiple iPhone 6 stumbles



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 527 words





Bloomberg



San Francisco



Apple chief executive officer Tim Cook called the introduction of the iPhone 6

and 6 Plus over the weekend the "best launch ever". He may have spoken too soon.



Just three days after announcing that Apple had sold a record 10 million new

iPhones over the opening weekend, Cook was faced with multiple snafus related to

the bigger-screen handsets. The company pulled a new mobile-software update,

dubbed iOS 8.0.1, after the program caused some people to lose cellular service

on Wednesday. Scores of consumers also took to social media to criticise the 6

Plus and how it can bend if sat on or if enough pressure is placed upon it.



The stumbles blemished what had been a carefully choreographed product unveiling

that was meant to put Cook's stamp on Apple. Executives at the company had for

months teased the introduction of the new iPhones before finally debuting them

on September 9. The devices had spurred a frenzy of demand, with pre-orders

topping 4 million, the record weekend sales and a thriving grey market for the

smartphones in China and elsewhere.



Now Cook's rollout of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus is marred, recalling incidents

that the CEO has faced with other product debuts. Last year, Cook apologised for

the iPhone's warranty and repair policies in China after receiving criticism

from state-run media over customer service in the market. In 2012, Cook also

said he was sorry for Apple's malfunctioning mapping software, which was faulted

for misguided directions and inaccurate landmark locations.



The new iPhones are crucial to Apple. The devices generate more than half of the

company's annual $171 billion (Bt5.5 trillion) in revenue and precede a swathe

of other products, including new iPads, an Apple Watch and a mobile-payments

system called Apple Pay.



Yet while Cook deals with consumer criticism over his handling of the iPhone

rollout, the issues may have little impact on Apple's sales. Demand for the new

handsets has the company poised to sell more than 61 million iPhones in the

December quarter, surpassing last year's record 51 million sold, according to

Barclays.



Sales are also set to pick up, not decelerate, as the new iPhones become

available in more countries. On September 19, the first day the handsets went on

sale in stores, Apple rolled them out in 10 countries. The company is set to

introduce the gadgets in another 22 countries today. In total, the iPhones will

be in 115 countries by the end of the year, Apple has said.



Still, some consumers are thinking twice about buying the devices in the wake of

Wednesday's problems.



The popular tide turned against the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus earlier this week

when reports began emerging that the larger model was bending when people sat on

it. Rivals including BlackBerry's chief executive officer John Chen took a jab

at the iPhone, saying he "would challenge you guys to bend our Passport device".



That was followed by reports from users that the iOS 8 software upgrade, which

had been issued to address previous software bugs and add the health and

fitness-monitoring application HealthKit, was causing some customers to

experience dropped cellphone service.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





