                              622 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           September 12, 2014 Friday

                                 Mumbai Edition



Samsung Plans Two Premium Devices To Counter Apple's iPhone 6, 6 Plus



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 600 words





South Korean phonemaker Samsung, which has been losing market share to rivals in

India, is gearing up to launch two premium devices - the Galaxy Alpha and Galaxy

Note 4 - to take on the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.



The company has started talking to distributors and retailers to launch these

devices in time for Diwali, ahead of the launch of the Apple devices in October.



Unlike previous Samsung phones that were clad in a plastic body, these will be

the first Samsung phones with an external metal casing, something that iPhones

have had for long.



Priced a little over . `40,000 a piece, the Galaxy Alpha is expected to be

cheaper than the new iPhone 6 but will have better features, an offline

distributor briefed on Samsung's plans said.



The Galaxy Alpha, showcased by Samsung last month, has a partial metallic body,

4.7-inch screen and a top-of-theline processor. It's the company's bet against

iPhone 6 in the premium segment.



Samsung also announced the allnew Galaxy Note 4 with a 5.7-inch screen at IFA,

the consumer electronics show in Berlin earlier this month.



While Samsung has had big screen phones for a long time, the iPhone 6 Plus would

be Apple's first such big device.



Apple's iPhones have traditionally been smaller in size.



In 2010, when Apple was selling the iPhone 4, its iconic founder Steve Jobs had

mocked rivals making big phones by saying that people won't buy phones if they

couldn't even wrap their hands around them.



Tim Cook, who took over Apple after Jobs' untimely death three years ago, has

positioned the new iPhone 6 devices as phones that are "bigger than bigger".



Samsung didn't pass over the opportunity to take a dig at Apple. The South

Korean company tweeted on Wednesday: "Big improvements and innovation come with

change - even they thought so." Samsung also released a graphic which actually

quoted Steve Jobs: "No one is going to buy a big phone." It went on to add,

"Guess who surprised themselves and changed their minds." With nearly 28% market

share, Samsung is the largest selling smartphone brand in the country. It is

followed by homegrown Micromax.



However, in the premium segment, Samsung faces a very stiff competition from

Apple's iPhone.



by Samsung last month, has a par tial metallic body, 4.7-inch screen and a

top-of-the line processor. It's the company's bet against iPhone 6 in the

premium segment.



Samsung also an nounced the all new Galaxy Note 4 with a 5.7-inch screen at IFA,

the consumer elec tronics show in Berlin earlier this month.



While Samsung has had big screen phones for a long time, the iPhone 6 Plus would

be Apple's first such big device.



Apple's iPhones have traditionally been smaller in size.



In 2010, when Apple was selling the iPhone 4, its iconic founder Steve Jobs had

mocked rivals making big phones by saying that people won't buy phones if they

couldn't even wrap their hands around them.



Tim Cook, who took over Apple after Jobs' untimely death three years ago, has

positioned the new iPhone 6 devices as phones that are "bigger than bigger".



Samsung didn't pass over the opportunity to take a dig at Apple. The South

Korean company tweeted on Wednesday: "Big improvements and innovation come with

change -even they thought so."



Samsung also released a graphic which actually quoted Steve Jobs: "No one is

going to buy a big phone." It went on to add, "Guess who surprised themselves

and changed their minds."



With nearly 28% market share, Samsung is the largest selling smartphone brand in

the country. It is followed by homegrown Micromax.



However, in the premium segment, Samsung faces a very stiff competition from

Apple's iPhone.



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





