                              627 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)



                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday

                                 Early Edition



Apple goes back to roots for iPhone, Apple Watch unveilings



BYLINE: Gadjo Cardenas Sevilla, Calgary Herald



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B7



LENGTH: 429 words



DATELINE: CUPERTINO, CALIF.





Apple made its big iPhone play for the year here last week while also ushering

in a potential solution to mobile payments and unveiling its anticipated Apple

Watch wearable.



Choosing the Flint Center for the Performing Arts, a historic location for Apple

where Steve Jobs launched the original Macintosh in 1984, the event was clearly

Apple CEO Tim Cook's show.



"The iPhone is the most loved smartphone in the world with the highest customer

satisfaction in the industry and we are making it much better in every way and

we think customers are going to love it," Cook said before unveiling the iPhone

6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. Releasing the biggest iPhones they've ever shipped,

Apple now offers its widest array of smartphone choices from the entry-level

iPhone 5c, the mid-range iPhone 5s and the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



The iPhone 6 is significantly thinner than its predecessor and features a larger

4.7-inch Retina HD display. A more powerful Apple 64-bit A8 processor adds 50

per cent more performance while promising better battery life.



An improved iSight camera offers faster focusing, built-in image stabilization

technology and improvements to HD video recording that allow for up to 60 frames

per second for 1080p video and 240 frames per second for slow-motion, as well as

continuous autofocus, cinematic video stabilization and timelapse video.



The larger iPhone 6 Plus offers a larger, 5.5-inch Retina HD display, an optical

image stabilization feature as well as the ability to run some apps in landscape

mode. Analysts see the larger iPhone sizes as an acknowledgment by Apple that

users want variety in screen size.



One of the big features that both new iPhones offer is NFC (Near Field

Communication), which has been available on smartphones for a number of years,

but was not fully realized as a payments solutions. Companies like Sony and

Samsung have instead leveraged NFC as a feature to connect to wireless speakers

or send messages.



The NFC feature on new the iPhone 6 can enable touchless digital payments using

the new Apple Pay system, which will roll out shortly in the US. Safely storing

user's credit card information for payment, Apple Pay uses a combination of NFC,

Apple's PassBook technology and the Touch ID feature to authenticate the

transaction.



Apple's biggest announcement was its highly anticipated wearable, the Apple

Watch.



Coming to market in 2015, the Apple Watch is a super accurate timepiece, a

health tracker, a remote control for iTunes and for the iPhone as well as a

conduit for communications, as well as wearable platform.



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 Calgary Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





