                              634 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              China Business News



                      August 16, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



BEA Brings Apple Pay to Customers



LENGTH: 369  words





Aug. 16 -- The Bank of East Asia, Limited ("BEA") today brings its customers

Apple Pay, which transforms mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way

to pay that's fast and convenient. Customers can enjoy fabulous offers at the

same time.



BEA Credit Card customers will receive 5,000 bonus points by adding their BEA

Visa Credit Card or MasterCard [*] to Apple Pay between now and 22 nd August,

2016; Mobile Banking users will also receive an extra HK$20 Circle K i-Coupon.

In addition, the first 30,000 eligible credit card accounts which complete three

or more transactions through Apple Pay between now and 31 st October, 2016, will

receive a 25% cash rebate, and each eligible credit card account can receive a

cash rebate of up to HK$180.



Mr. Vincent Hui, General Manager & Head of the Personal Banking Division of BEA

said, "We have closely aligned our service offering with our customers' daily

needs. Nowadays, customers are looking for a faster and more secure payment

method; that's why we are providing Apple Pay, one of the fastest and easiest

ways to pay. We will continue to bring our customers increasingly innovative

services."



Apple Pay is easy to set up, and customers will continue to receive all the

rewards and benefits offered by BEA credit cards. In participating stores, Apple

Pay works with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone SE,

and Apple Watch.



Online shopping in apps accepting Apple Pay is simple, without needing to

repeatedly fill out lengthy account forms or type in shipping and billing

information. When paying for goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is

compatible with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone SE,

iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.



Apply for a BEA Credit Card now to experience Apple Pay and enjoy a wide range

of selected offers! For more information on Apple Pay, please visit

www.apple.com/hk/apple-pay; for more on BEA Credit Card offers, please visit

www.hkbea.com/hotpromotions.



Footnote:



[*] Does not apply to the UnionPay Dual Currency PLATINUM Credit Card, JCB

PLATINUM Card, or Corporate Card. Please visit www.hkbea.com/applepay for

further terms and conditions.



Source: Bank of East Asia



LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





