                              63 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

                                  EAST EDITION



Apple Mum On Orders, Upbeat On Early Sales China Is Included This Time Apple

usually releases initial iPhone preorders; 6S Plus demand strong



SECTION: A; Pg. A01



LENGTH: 536 words





BY PATRICK SEITZ



INVESTOR'S BUSINESS DAILY



Apple on Monday balked at giving first-day pre-order numbers for the iPhone 6 S,

despite doing so for most other models.



Instead, Apple said that its iPhone 6 S smartphones were "on pace" to beat the

first-weekend sales record (10 million units) set by iPhone 6 handsets last

year.



The iPhone 6 S was available for pre-order starting Saturday in 12 countries vs.

10 for the iPhone 6. The additional two countries this year are China and New

Zealand.



Last year, Apple announced 4 million pre-orders of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus

handsets, compared with 2 million for the iPhone 5 in 2012. It didn't make

2013's iPhone 5 S available for pre-order.



The iPhone 6 S and iPhone 6 S Plus handsets will be sold in stores starting

Friday, Sept. 25.



"Customer response to iPhone 6 S and iPhone 6 S Plus has been extremely positive

and preorders this weekend were very strong around the world," Apple said. "We

are on pace to beat last year's 10 million unit first-weekend record when the

new iPhones go on sale September 25."



Apple said it is struggling to keep up with "exceptionally strong" demand for

the larger-screen iPhone 6 S.



"We are working to catch up as quickly as we can, and we will have iPhone 6 S

Plus as well as  iPhone 6 S units available at Apple retail stores when they

open next Friday," the company said.



Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi saw the news as "mixed."



"Typically Apple provides an update on the number of orders it receives during

its first 24 hours," he said in a Monday note. "Apple did not provide this

figure today, raising the question of whether it might be lower than last year's

total of 4 million."



Given that China accounts for more than 20% of iPhone unit sales, initial iPhone

6 S pre-orders should have been larger than last year's, Sacconaghi said.



Apple did signal that first-weekend sales, including two weeks of pre-orders,

will top last year's iPhone 6 launch. But this largely reflects its ability to

supply handsets, he said. Pre-orders are a better gauge of consumer demand.



Sacconaghi rates Apple stock as outperform with a 135 price target. Shares rose

1% to 115.30.



Apple is likely to announce first-weekend iPhone 6 S sales on Monday Sept. 28,

Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said in a note Monday. He expects sales of 12

million to 13 million units, vs. 10 million a year earlier.



"The iPhone 6 S cycle seems to be off to a 10%-20% better start than the iPhone

6," Munster said, but "excluding China, the numbers likely suggest 0%-10%."



He added: "We are modeling 3% year-over-year growth for the 6 S cycle." Because

Wall Street had seen only flat unit sales, "we view today's update as a solid

start to the 6 S cycle."



Munster reiterated his overweight rating on Apple stock and price target of 172.



The initial Phone 6 S Plus handset shortage could suggest a mix shift towards

the more expensive models, boosting average selling prices, Wells Fargo

Securities analyst Maynard Um said. The Plus models also are believed to carry

higher profit margins.



Um rates Apple stock as outperform with a fair value of 125 to 135.



The iPhone 6 S handsets feature a pressure-sensitive display, a faster processor

and improved front- and rear-facing cameras.



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





