                              641 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                           September 15, 2014 Monday



Washington: Apple's new products are impressive, but game changers for real

estate? Not yet



LENGTH: 819  words



DATELINE: Washington





American Land Title Association has issued the following news release:



Apple held its long-awaited product launch this Tuesday in Cupertino,

California. The event was one of Apple's most hyped product releases in recent

history, complete with giant, white cube buildings it created just for the

event.



TonyV3112 / Shutterstock.com.

TonyV3112 / Shutterstock.com.



There had been speculation over what products Apple would choose to launch this

week; the iPhone 6 was a given, but what about a watch? Apple didn't disappoint,

giving CEO Tim Cook the chance to say the magic words that Steve Jobs had said

years before. After debuting the iPhone 6, 6 Plus, iOS 8 and Apple Pay, Cook

said simply, "We have one more thing ..." before unveiling the Apple Watch. So

what should you expect from all of these new products? Here's a run-down of all

the new and improved features:



iPhone6The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus:

Apple is finally giving the people what they want: a larger screen size. The new

iPhone 6 will have a 4.7-inch screen, compared with the 4-inch screen of the

iPhone 5 and 5S. Apple also launched an answer to the Samsung Note. The iPhone 6

Plus will feature a 5.5-inch screen, a size often referred to as a "phablet"

(somewhere in between a phone and tablet). This large screen size could

potentially replace your tablet and allow you to do more business from your

phone.



Both of these phones will feature new hardware changes, including a new M8

co-processor that is designed with fitness and activities in mind. This

processor allows your phone to better measure motion data, without placing as

much strain on your battery life. The new iPhones can also detect changes in

elevation, with a new barometer feature that monitors changes in air pressure.

These features all relate directly to the iPhone Health app, which tracks your

motion. If you're showing condos and climbing a lot of stairs, the new barometer

feature will track that in your Health Dashboard, along with other metrics from

your daily movement.



Your listings are going to love the new and improved 8-megapixel camera, which

auto-focuses twice as fast as before. The panorama size has increased, and the

True Tone flash will better adjust to surrounding lighting. These features mean

your Instagram sneak previews of listings will look better than ever. If you

frequently record video on your iPhone, you know there's room for improvement.

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus bring just that, coming with increased stabilization

features like the iSight sensor, which continually auto-focuses during video

recording. Plus, you can now record in full 1080p HD.



There are also additional features for improved slow motion. If you only use

your iPhone for selfies, don't worry, Apple improved that, too. The front-facing

camera now has a burst mode, allowing you to rapidly take dozens of pictures

with one push of a button.



Apple Pay:



Though mobile payments have been around for a while, the user experience left

adoption rates low. If anyone can simplify and improve user experience, it's

Apple. The company is doing just that with Apple Pay, a feature that will allow

one-touch checkout in person and in apps on your phone. In person, you'll be

able to place your phone in front of a reader while placing your finger over

your phone's fingerprint sensor to confirm it's you making the payment. In apps,

you can do the same by choosing Apple Pay as your payment type. Your credit card

information is stored within a chip called the Secure Element, which is

dedicated to keeping your payment information secure.



Apple Pay will be available in October 2014 following a software update. Stores

that will begin utilizing Apple Pay include Starbucks, McDonald's, Macy's,

Disney, and many more.



apple watchApple Watch:



If you were able to watch Tim Cook unveil the Apple Watch, you know that this is

a product that Apple is particularly proud of. He called the product the

company's "most personal device ever," a product that seeks to revolutionize the

wearable technology device. Cook ensured patrons that the watch is not simply

just a shrunken iPhone, but in fact a completely innovative form of

communication.



The watch interface is based upon a digital crown, which is a small button on

the side of the watch much like the time adjustment piece on your everyday

watch. This button allows you to scroll through apps and navigate through its

many features. The most practical element of the watch is called "Glances," a

single swipe that lets you see your most important apps, like the weather or

your calendar. The watch is also compatible with the soon-to-be-released Apple

Pay, giving it an advantage over other smartwatches. The Apple Watch is

chargeable with a magnetic charger and will start at $349 in a variety of

colorful wristbands. It will debut early next year.



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: http://www.alta.org



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





