                              64 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           December 6, 2014 Saturday



Camera comparison: Apple iPhone 6 Plus and Samsung Galaxy Note 4



BYLINE: Karan Bajaj & Hitesh Raj Bhagat



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 881 words





By now, everyone knows that the Apple iPhone 6 Plus and Samsung Galaxy Note 4

have great cameras. By how do they stand up when pitted against each other? We

found out in a head-to-head comparison.



How we tested it



There's not a lot you can do by way of settings (especially in the iPhone 6 Plus

and especially when using the default photography apps). However, we did stick

to the default apps and the default 'full auto' settings and auto ISO settings -

since that is how most people will use them. For the low light photographs where

camera shake was a high possibility, we used a tripod and the self-timer to

capture the photograph.



There are a total of 10 different scenarios, representing different types of

lighting, different subjects and a different times of day. We made sure that the

lenses were clean, captured each scenario with both phones, one after the other

and multiple photographs were taken. For the final comparisons, the best photo

of the lot were chosen. As far as possible, the same composition was used.



However, you may still notice some differences in the amount of detail captured

because the sensors used have different resolutions: the Note 4 camera sensor is

16 Megapixels while the iPhone 6 Plus camera sensor is 8 Megapixels.



Scenario 1 - The Garden



These photographs were taken outdoors at 8am. Looking at the complete photo, the

iPhone 6 Plus has obviously captured the more pleasing image. On a closer look,

the green grass looks slightly oversaturated but the rest of the objects were

truer to life. Noise levels were kept in check on both phones. The iPhone 6 Plus

takes this round because it just looked better to everyone who saw it.



Winner: iPhone 6 Plus



Scenario 2 - The Squirrel



These photographs were taken on the same day as the Garden, at roughly the same

time (8:15am). Here, the iPhone 6 Plus pulled off the more pleasing image but

the Note 4 captured more detail -seen in the fine lines of the squirrel and on

the yellow watering can. There was no clear winner.



Winner: Tie



Scenario 3 - The Globe



Captured indoors at night using a tripod and the room was lit by warm white CFL

bulbs. The globe has a single, 25 watt tungsten bulb inside it. The Note 4

offered a brighter image overall (areas around the globe were better lit)

however iPhone 6 Plus offered a higher level of detail and captured better

colour which was able to bring out the subtle variations of the globe surface.



Winner: iPhone 6 Plus



Scenario 4 - Bottles



This photograph was captured indoors and the only light was from six, overhead,

60 watt tungsten bulbs. The bottles were placed on a glass table and a tripod

was used. Both photographs look remarkably similar but if you zoom in, it's

clear that the Note 4 offered higher detail and lower levels of noise. The

higher noise in the iPhone 6 Plus was also muddling the edges of the bottles

together.



Winner: Note 4



Scenario 5 - Pac Man



This photograph was captured indoors and the subject is a Pac Man lamp with a 15

watt tungsten bulb inside. The black areas of the lamp are opaque while light

comes out from the coloured designs. The room was lit with six, overhead 60 watt

tungsten bulbs and the phones were placed on the wooden counter using a

Gorillapod. The Note 4 captured some details better (like the magenta paper) but

overall, the iPhone takes this round because of more accurate colour -

especially the yellow Pac Man.



Winner: iPhone 6 Plus



\xA0



Scenario 6 - Woolen Braids



This image was captured indoors at 1pm with natural light streaming in from a

window to the right of the subject. The iPhone 6 Plus gave a yellow tint to the

entire image. This one was no contest - the Note 4 easily managed to best the

iPhone with a sharper and overall more pleasing image.



Winner - Note 4



Scenario 7 - Thor Lowlight



This image of a plastic Thor figurine was taken indoors at night with a single

overhead light source. The Note 4 captured the better shot with the subject more

evenly lit up. The iPhone had more accurate colour but the Note 4 captured a lot

more detail with lesser noise. This one goes to the Note 4 because the colours

were easily corrected and it performed better in low light.



Winner - Note 4



Scenario 8 - Ganesha



This image taken in the morning hours with the Ganesha stone carving placed

under a building shade. Ganesha's face was selected as the focus point and the

phones were handheld. While both phones took well-detailed shots, the iPhone 6

Plus shows more vivid colours while the Note 4 impressed with natural,

true-to-life colours. This one's a tie.



Winner- Tie



Scenario 9 - Watch details



The watch was placed outside on a metal grill in the afternoon. Both phones

captured a similar shade of green. There was no contest here because the Note 4

clearly captured the sharper image - better details were visible all the way up

to a 100% crop.



Winner - Note 4



Scenario 10 - Plant outdoors



This is a close up of a plant taken during the early evening hours. The depth of

field on the iPhone 6 Plus looks better at first glance. However, at a 50% crop,

you can clearly see the better detail captured by the Note 4.



Winner - Note 4



Conclusion



That makes a total of 3 wins for the iPhone 6 Plus, 2 ties and 5 wins for the

Note 4. This comparison was based entirely on photographs taken in auto mode.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





