                              654 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday



Apple revenue soars to record $42.1 billion



BYLINE: By Julia Love jmlove@mercurynews.com



SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; News; Business



LENGTH: 667 words





CUPERTINO -- Red-hot iPhone sales propelled Apple to a record-breaking quarter,

with the company handily beating analysts' projections for revenue and profit.



Capping off a quarter in which it spruced up its signature iPhone and broke into

new product categories, Apple reported earnings of $1.42 a share on $42.1

billion revenue, topping revenue of $37.5 billion in the same quarter last year.

Apple profit also surged, to $8.5 billion from $7.5 billion in the same period a

year ago. Revenue set a record for Apple in the fourth quarter, growing at the

strongest rate in seven quarters.



Apple's performance topped Wall Street's expectations. Analysts expected Apple

to log earnings of $1.31 a share on revenue of $39.9 billion, according to a

survey conducted by Thomson Reuters.



Apple CEO Tim Cook cheered the company's financial performance, which he chalked

up to robust sales of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.



"Demand for the iPhone has been staggering," he said during an earnings call.

"We're working hard to fill orders as fast as possible."



Apple is anticipating an even greater windfall in the coming months. The company

forecast revenue of $63.5 billion to $66.5 billion for first quarter of 2015,

which will include the bustling holiday season.



Analysts roundly predicted a record quarter for Apple after the company rolled

out the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus last month to rabid excitement from consumers. The

phones feature significantly larger screens, which Apple customers have long

craved. Even though the phones went on sale near the end of Apple's fourth

quarter, which closed Sept. 27, that was still enough to put Apple over the top.



Apple said it sold 39.27 million iPhones in the quarter, up from 33.79 million

in the same period a year ago. Analysts expected the company to sell 37.89

million smartphones in the quarter, according to a poll conducted by Fortune

magazine.



Apple said 60 percent of its revenue in the quarter came from international

sales. The new iPhones went on sale in China only last week, which some analysts

felt dampened Apple's sales in the fourth quarter. Cook revealed during the call

that only about 20 percent of Chinese customers use a subsidy to buy the iPhone,

attesting to strong demand for the gadget in the country.



But the earnings indicate Apple still has some work to do to goose sales of its

tablet. The company sold 12.3 million iPads, down 13 percent from the previous

year. Sales of the tablet have been sagging over the past year, and Forrester

forecast "tepid demand" for the quarter. Analysts expected Apple to sell 13.17

million iPads in the period, according to Fortune.



Cook stressed that he remains optimistic about the iPad's prospects, referring

to the latest sales as merely a "speed bump."



"That said, we want to grow," he said. "We don't like negative numbers on these

things."



Cook said questions still surround the upgrade cycle for tablets, a relatively

new product category, but noted that people appear to be hanging onto their

iPads longer than their iPhones. He added that "cannibalization" is most likely

at work, with customers buying some Apple products at the expense of others.



"I'm sure some people looked at an iPad and a Mac and decided on a Mac," he

said. "I'm fine with that, by the way."



The Mac, by contrast, was a bright spot in Apple's portfolio. The company sold

5.52 million Macs in the fourth quarter, up 21 percent from the same period last

year. Analysts said those figures were particularly impressive given the

sluggish PC market.



"The PC guys are having very slow growth," said Tim Bajarin of Creative

Strategies. "Yet Apple continues to grow significantly."



Cook noted during the call that Apple continues to struggle to meet demand for

its new iPhones. Analyst John Jackson of IDC said that bodes well for the

following quarter.



"There's a lot of runway for these new models and that could really propel Apple

over the next couple of quarters," he said.



Contact Julia Love at 408-920-5536; follow her at Twitter.com/byJuliaLove .



LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: A man wearing a child on his chest (who declined to be identified)

checks out the new iPhone 6 at the Apple Store on Chestnut St. in San Francisco,

Calif., on Friday, Sept. 19, 2014. The newest iPhone, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus went on sale today to long lines of eager customers. (Dan Honda/Bay Area

News Group)

OREM, UT - SEPTEMBER 18: An Apple iPhone 6 phones are taken out of a shipping

box at a Verizon store on September 18, 2014 in Orem, Utah. Apple's new iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus go on sale September 20. (Photo by George Frey/Getty Images

*** BESTPIX ***



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





