                              660 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              Indian Banking News



                     January 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



US Bank Adds Apple Pay to Its US Bank FlexPerks American Express Credit Cards



LENGTH: 337  words





Jan. 20 -- The convenience, simplicity and security of Apple Pay are now

available to customers who use U.S. Bank FlexPerks American Express Cards.



"Enabling Apple Pay for our U.S. Bank FlexPerks American Express Cardmembers

continues our efforts to give customers choices in how they manage payments, as

well as providing them an easy, secure and private way to pay," said Cliff Cook,

senior vice president for the U.S. Bank retail credit-card division. "As one of

the leaders in mobile payments, we continue investing in innovation to better

serve our customers today and anticipate their needs for tomorrow."



Apple Pay is now available with the:



* U.S. Bank FlexPerks Reserve American Express Card.



* U.S. Bank FlexPerks Travel Rewards American Express Card.



* U.S. Bank FlexPerks Select+ American Express Card.



With this announcement, all U.S. Bank credit and debit cards (consumer and small

business) work with Apple Pay. With Apple Pay, card numbers are not stored on

the device; instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted and

securely stored in the Secure Element. If the device is lost or stolen, it's

easy to quickly suspend the device and stop the ability to make purchases.



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benefits offered by their U.S. Bank American Express Card. In

stores, Apple Pay works with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus

and Apple Watch. When online shopping in apps, accepting Apple Pay is as simple

as the touch of a finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out

lengthy account forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information.

When paying for goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with

iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3,

iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.



For more information about using the U.S. Bank FlexPerks American Express Cards

and Apple Pay visit http://www.usbankgomobile.com/wallet and

www.apple.com/apple-pay.



Source: US Bank



LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





