

Bloomberg

New York

Apple's new larger-screen iPhones topped 4 million in pre-orders in the first 24
hours, surpassing earlier releases as demand for the smartphones outstrips
supply.

Deliveries of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will start at the end of this week,
when the smartphones officially go on sale, and a backlog will mean that many
won't receive their handsets until next month, the Cupertino, California-based
company said in a statement yesterday.

Apple said there will be devices in stock in stores on September 19 and
encouraged customers to arrive early or order online for in-store pick-up.

Chief executive officer Tim Cook is counting on the bigger phones to counter
Samsung Electronics's larger displays and to usher in demand for other products
Apple introduced last week, from the Apple Watch to the credit card-substituting
Apple Pay service. The company had indicated that the new smartphones would take
as many as four weeks to ship.

The iPhone 6 has a 11.9-centimetre display and the iPhone 6 Plus has a
13.9-centimetre one, while the previous iPhones have a 10.1-centimetre screen.

"It speaks to the pent-up demand for a larger iPhone," Tim Bajarin, an analyst
at Creative Strategies, said in a telephone interview. "Apple will actually have
record quarters for the minimum of the next two years just because of this kind
of demand."

The pre-orders are double the 2 million Apple announced in 2012 when it released
the iPhone 5, and compares with the 9 million the company sold during the
opening weekend last year for the iPhone 5s and 5c.

"We are thrilled customers love them as much as we do," Cook said in the
statement.

The iPhone remains the most important piece of Apple's business. The handset
accounted for about half of Apple's $171 billion (Bt5.5 trillion) in revenue
last fiscal year. With sales of the iPad slowing down, the company needs to keep
the iPhone a blockbuster in order to maintain growth.

The iPhone 6 costs $199 to $399 with a two-year contract, while the 6 Plus is
priced at $299 to $499. The devices will come in silver, gold and space grey.

61 Million

Demand for the handsets has Apple poised to sell more than 61 million iPhones in
the December quarter, surpassing last year_s record 51 million sold, Barclays
Plc said in a note today.

_We believe significant demand will even spill into the March and June quarters
given supply and the timing of shipments in China,_ Ben Reitzes, an analyst at
Barclays, wrote in the note.

This isn_t the first time Apple and phone carriers have seen iPhone models
delayed well before they were available in stores. In 2012, the iPhone 5 was
delayed for shipment by a week after a rush of orders, and in 2011 the iPhone 4S
sold out at AT&T Inc., Verizon Wireless, and Sprint Nextel Corp. only five days
after pre-orders began.

The new devices will go on sale first in the US, Australia, Canada, France,
Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK On September 26, 20
additional countries will begin selling the handsets.

China, one of Apple_s biggest markets, won_t get the new devices at first,
though the company said it plans to have the handsets in 115 countries by the
end of the year.

