                              669 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                        July 6, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Apple iPhone 6s May Have A 12MP Rear Camera And A 5MP Front Shooter



LENGTH: 271  words





A fresh document has been leaked, which reveals the latest specifications of

iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus



Monday, July 06, 2015: By now, we all know that Apple is working on a new

metal-clad iPhone, called iPhone 6S. The smartphone will, reportedly, target the

budget segment smartphone owners. A lot is being speculated about the device

already. A latest report about iPhone 6S reveals that Apple will fit a 12 MP

rear-facing camera and a 5MP front-facing shooter in the smartphone.



It should be noted that Apple had launched the last generation iPhones, the

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6Plus in the month of September last year. Going by the

company's timing, the latest launch date seems to be approaching fast, and the

Cupertino-based company is reportedly gearing up for the launch.



A fresh document has been leaked, which reveals the latest specifications of

iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus. The information in the documents leaked by a

Foxconn employee states that the upcoming iPhone could features a 12MP rear

camera with the ability of 4K video recording and 240 fps slow-motion video

recording. With the upcoming 5Mp front shooter, Apple seems to be taking the

selfie smartphone market seriously.



Within Foxconn, who is the manufacturing the devices, the iPhone 6S is known as

N66 while the iPhone 6S Plus is called the N71. Both the devices are expected to

feature a 2GB RAM and run on Apple's new A9 chip. Apple will reportedly use the

ForceTouch display, that provides additional menu of options. Along with the

stronger aluminium body, the company might introduce the upcoming smartphones in

Pink or Rose Gold colour variants.



LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





