                              671 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            October 7, 2014 Tuesday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Apple ups iPhone 6 Plus production: report



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 265 words





"Bendgate" appears to have had little if any impact on sales of Apple's first

phablet, the iPhone 6 Plus.



In fact, according to Digitimes, the company is in the process of adjusting

supply chain ratios so that more examples of the oversized smartphone arrive in

the shops to meet better-than-expected customer demand.



The publication's supply chain sources suggest that Apple initially played it

safe with production of the phablet, expecting to sell lower numbers and as a

result it could take some time for new inventory to hit the shelves.



The iPhone 6 Plus boasts a 5.5-inch HD display and was recently at the eye of a

Twitter storm over an apparent tendency to bend when carried in a rear pocket.

Bendgate generated a host of critical pieces, a number of YouTube videos and

digs disguised as jokes from Apple's main competitors.



However, Apple revealed that only nine people had so far complained to the

company that their phablet had bent and a Consumer Reports investigation into

the matter found that the iPhone 6 Plus was less likely to bend under pressure

than the iPhone 6 or the iPhone 5.



However, now that Bendgate has died down, a new Twitter-powered controversy is

being whipped up -- "Beardgate." It turns out that the tiny seam where the

phone's display meets the body can double up as an impromptu razor or set of

tweezers.



A number of users have discovered that holding the device up to their face to

take a call results in getting whiskers yanked from their faces. Meanwhile

female users are finding that the rear camera extrusion is tangling with their

hair when making calls.



LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





