                              676 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               India Retail News



                      February 19, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST



Global Payments Announces Support for Apple Pay in China



LENGTH: 287  words





Feb. 19 -- Global Payments Inc. (NYSE: GPN), a leading worldwide provider of

payment technology services, is pleased to offer merchants in China the ability

to accept China UnionPay payments made with Apple Pay, which is transforming

mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way to pay.



Global Payments is fully enabled for Apple Pay acceptance, allowing merchants to

offer their customers the convenience of paying quickly and easily with Apple

Pay in-store.



"Global Payments is pleased to offer merchants the ability to accept Apple Pay

in the important China market," said Frank T. Young, SVP, Global Product and

Innovation. "Our continued commitment to leading payments technology across the

globe allows us to be at the forefront in delivering this innovative payments

solution to merchants in the markets that we serve."



Security and privacy are at the core of Apple Pay. The solution is designed to

leverage Touch ID authentication, as well as a unique Device Account Number that

is assigned, encrypted and securely stored in the Secure Element of the Apple

device, ensuring actual card numbers are not stored on the device or on Apple

servers. Further, each transaction is authorized with a one-time unique dynamic

security code.



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of their card

rewards and benefits. In stores, Apple Pay works with Apple Watch and iPhone 6,

iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus. When paying for goods and services

within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s,

iPhone 6s Plus, iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.



For more information on Apple Pay, visit: http://www.apple.com/cn/apple-pay.



Source: Global Payments



LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





