                              679 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               The Saudi Gazette



                            October 8, 2015 Thursday



Zain KSA among the list of Top 100 Saudi brands



LENGTH: 554  words





ZAIN KSA brand was chosen for the second time in the list of top 100 brands in

the Kingdom, based on a recent survey by a press institution.



During an event held for this occasion in Riyadh, Saud AlBawardi, Deputy CEO,

chief operations officer, received an award of recognition on behalf of the

company from Prince Faisal Bin Bander, governor of Riyadh, and Prince Bandar Bin

Khaled Alfaisal, chairman of Asir Press and Publications Association.



The company revealed that the awards reaped by its brand is a positive indicator

of its success in raising brand awareness and strengthening its presence as a

leading mobile communication provider in the region, through meeting the needs

and aspirations of its subscribers and users of telecommunications services in

general.



The selection of the Top 100 Saudi Brands in the Kingdom was made after

extensive research studies by Ipsos., the global market research company. The

research, which included 17 sectors, focused on the most prominent brands in the

country in order to highlight them as one of the main pillars supporting the

Saudi economy.



Zain KSA to Offer iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus on Saturday



Zain KSA today announced it will offer iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the most

advanced iPhones ever, beginning on Saturday, October 10. iPhone 6s 16GB will be

available starting at SR 0 upfront on the Zain Xtra 12 months plan. iPhone 6s

Plus 16GB will be available starting at SR 0 upfront on the Zain Xtra 12 months

plan. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will also be available. For additional pricing

details, please visit www.sa.zain.com . iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus bring a

powerful new dimension to iPhone's revolutionary Multi-Touch interface with 3D

Touch, which senses force to enable intuitive new ways to access features and

interact with content. The new iPhones introduce a transformative new approach

to photography called Live Photos, bringing still images to life by capturing a

moment in motion.



Live Photos, 3D Touch, 12-megapixel iSight camera, 5-megapixel Face Time HD

camera with Retina Flash and more are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip, the

most advanced chip ever in a smartphone, delivering faster performance and great

battery life. iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are designed with Retina HD displays

made from the strongest glass on any smartphone and 7000 series aluminum, the

same alloy used in the aerospace industry, in gorgeous metallic finishes that

now include rose gold.



With Zain's "advanced LTE" network in the Kingdom, you can experience the best

of what iPhone 6s has to offer,  for browsing the web, streaming content and

downloading movies at blazing fast speed. Zain boasts a large LTE footprint

across the Kingdom with the "Reload Project" and its covering now 90 cities with

the LTE technology.



"It gives us immense pleasure to launch the next generation of Apple iPhone.

iPhone 6s with its power-packed features coupled with Zain's LTE Advanced

Network, presents a unique opportunity to iPhone 6s aspirants to maximize their

device experience. There is much more excitement to share in the future and we

look forward to our continuing partnership with Apple," said Sherif Khairy

Tahoun, Chief Sales Officer at Zain KSA. - SG



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/45/144440494416.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/45/144440494416.jpg



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1526





                       Copyright 2015 The Saudi Gazette.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





