                              685 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 Yorkshire Post



                           September 19, 2014 Friday



What to expect from the new iPhone 6



BYLINE: David Behrens



LENGTH: 401  words





APPLE'S iPhone is like your granddad's hair - every year it gets lighter and

thinner.



This year, it's also got bigger. Responding to competition from large-screen

Android phones by Samsung, Apple has upped the display size of the basic iPhone

6 from four to 4.7 inches. The new iPhone 6 Plus goes even further, with a

near-tablet sized 5.5-inch screen - almost half an inch bigger than Samsung's

Galaxy S5.



Under the hood, Apple has updated its software, opening the way for third-party

developers to push out alternative keyboards - a feature Android users have long

enjoyed.



The new phones still lack home-screen widgets - Apple remains strictly

icons-only - but there are improvements to the photos and messaging apps - you

can now give names to conversations and share your location with others. And

Apple's personal assistant Siri can now identify a song playing in the

background.



You don't need an iPhone 6 to enjoy all the new features - the new software is

also available free for the iPhone 4s upwards, and for most iPads.



Today, fans finally got their hands on the new handsets. Some began camping

outside the Apple store in Regent Street, London on Monday.



Around 30 or so people set up camp outside the Apple store in London's Covent

Garden yesterday, with tents, tables and chairs and even bottles of wine bearing

testimony to their dedication.



Among them was Lasse Maroen, who caught a three-hour flight from his home in

Bergen, Norway with friends from work to get the iPhone 6.



He said: "I have been here since this morning. We came here last year to get the

iPhone 5s. We had such a good time so we decided to go back this year."



Asked if he was a "technology geek", he said: "I have been known to buy the new

iPhones on the day they come out since the first one in 2007, so pretty much."



Mr Maroen said he planned to buy the handset outright. The iPhone 6 is expected

to start at £539, and the 6 Plus at £619.



Network operator EE has also said it will ensure that customers who had

pre-ordered new handsets through Phones 4u, which went into administration on

Sunday, would still be able to get them in its stores.



A spokesman said: "All across the country we have set aside iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus handsets, enough for Phones 4u customers who pre-ordered iPhones on EE

through Phones 4u.



"If they go into EE stores and show their pre-order receipts they will be able

to claim one of the devices."



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP





                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





