                              693 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               Leicester Mercury



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



An i-queue in the hundreds!



BYLINE: by Yasmin Duffin



SECTION: AGENCY:NEWS; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 397  words





Hundreds of iPhone 6 fans queued outside Leicester's Highcross shopping centre

overnight to ensure they were the first to get their hands on the new model.



A line of tech-heads snaked through the shopping centre yesterday morning, which

had opened early at 6am.



Sham Patel, who was at the front of the queue, was greeted by a round of

applause from staff when the Apple  Store  opened  at 8am.



The 19-year-old, of Thurmaston, who had been waiting for nearly 24 hours, said:

"It feels really good to finally have my hands on it.



"I was pleased to finally see the phone but I must admit, I was sad to see the

money go."



The price of an iPhone 6 costs  from £539 and iPhone 6 Plus, from £619.



Sham said he felt like a celebrity as he walked through the doors to buy his

iPhone 6 Plus.



He said: "I plan on gloating to all of my friends and family for a little bit -

I'm looking forward to showing it off, but them I'm off to bed.



"It will be the Apple Watch next - but I might pre-order that one."



Ronak Karia   queued  for nearly 12 hours  with his girlfriend, Shanice Heggs.



Ronak, 20, of Thurmaston, who also brought an iPhone 6 Plus, said: "It is very

exciting.



"The time actually passed really quickly overnight, I'd definitely do it again -

the wait was worth it."



Shanice said: "I need a bath before I even think about playing on my phone - I

feel so gross. But I agree, it was worth the wait."



Jamie Patel, 19, of Thurmaston, who also joined the queue at 9am on Thursday,

said   "adrenalin" had kept him awake through the night.



"People might criticise us for queuing all night, but to them, I'd say 'ha ha,

I've got the new iPhone and you don't'."



Pal  Nikeal Choha, 19, of Evington,  said: "It's great, I can't stop smiling-

although, I'm ready for bed now."



Mohammed Ibrahim, 21, of Highfields, was among the first 20 in the queue. He

said: "It was a slightly chilly night, but I do it because I love Apple.



"I'm so excited to be one of the first in Leicester to get the phone."



Another keen iPhone user, Fred Ifedapo, 37, of Leicester city centre, had been

waiting since Thursday afternoon.



"I do it because of my passion for Apple and iPhones," he said. "I want to be

one of the first in Leicester to touch the new model."



The Apple Watch, which will work in synch with the iPhone 5, 5c, 5s, 6 and 6

Plus, will be available next year  in a range of colours and sizes.



leicestermercury.co.uk/news



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple corps: The queue in the Apple Store, at Leicester's Highcross,

where the iPhone 6 went on sale at 8am yesterday. One customer, Sham Patel, of

Thurmaston, queued for nearly 24 hours

it's In the bag! Ronak Karia and his girlfriend, Shanice Heggs



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                           Copyright 2014 Localworld

                              All Rights Reserved





