

Apple's new iPhones boast their best cameras ever, with many features that rival
those found in $1,000-and-up DSLRs. So we were excited to spend the past few
days shooting to see whether the results lived up to Apple's hype.

The verdict: Shooting on the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus is truly an improvement,
the best iPhone photo/video experience yet.

But, get this: The marketing hype would have you believe that to get the
ultimate iPhoneography experience, you'll need the iPhone 6 Plus, the larger and
more expensive of the two models, starting at $299 with a two-year contract,
because of one feature that isn't available on the easier-to-obtain iPhone 6.

But in my tests, the new feature didn't trump what I was getting on the plain
iPhone 6. The improved camera is that good.

The new feature only available on the 6 Plus: optical image stabilization, for
steadying the shot and getting sharper images in low light. It's fantastic. But
the image stabilization isn't so bad on the iPhone 6, either.

Let's dive in.

The new iSight camera has the same 8-megapixel sensor as the iPhone 5s, but
Apple says the new camera has larger individual pixels. Additionally, the
front-facing camera has been enhanced, and both can do a better job in low
light.

We shot images in the near-dark while visiting the set of CBS' new TV series,
Scorpion, and got acceptable -- but noisy -- results.

The advancement that most people will enjoy is a new "Burst" mode for selfies.
Hold your finger down on the shutter for as long as you like, and make multiple
silly faces. I got 40 wacky selfies with Scorpion star Katharine McPhee and had
lots of fun doing it. I did another test and quit after 175 shots -- the camera
showed no signs of letting go.

Slo-Mo. This is a gimmick feature that everyone will use at least once. But it's
so good, you'll want to come back for more. You can now get slower-than-ever
motion, at 240 frames per second, up from the previous 120 frames per second,
and it looks absolutely fantastic. Check out the accompanying video at
tech.usatoday.com for an example.

Time Lapse. This is the flip side of Slo Mo, where the world seems to fly by at
the speed of sound. You've seen online time-lapse videos, or perhaps Instagram's
popular new Hyperlapse app, watching sunsets zoom by or flowers bloom.

I like Time Lapse videos better on the iPhone than via the Hyperlapse app,
because you can shoot for longer periods ("hours," according to Apple, vs. 45
minutes tops for the app). To make a really good Time Lapse video, you have to
be willing to let it roll for a long time -- because two minutes of shooting
will produce just an eight-second video.

Focus Pixels. Apple promises double the pixel power for faster auto focusing.
Example: You're in a room, shooting your aunt, and you quickly pan to your
cousin, and then back to your aunt again. In the past, the camera would hunt
around for a few seconds to get the focus right. Now, with the iPhone 6 and 6
Plus, both relatives come immediately into focus. We tested this at the Scorpion
set, at lunch at Chipotle and in the #TalkingTech garage, where it worked as
advertised. It's fantastic, one of the best new features.

Exposure control. After years of shooting everything in 100% auto mode, Apple
has finally added manual exposure control to your images -- both before and
after the shot.

Reader alert: Two of the iPhone 6 camera features are included in the update to
Apple's iOS8 operating system -- Time Lapse and Exposure Control -- so if you
can't get your hands on a new phone, you can get these features for free as a
download.

ISIGHT FEATURES

"Burst" mode:  Allows continuous frame shooting.

Slo-Mo: Slows things down.

Time Lapse: Speeds them up.

Focus Pixels: Delivers faster auto-focus.

Exposure Control: Users can now manually adjust.

Improved image stabilization: Even in low light.

Optical image stabilization: For even sharper images. IPhone 6 Plus ONLY.

