

It's the ultimate first world problem. You go to the Apple store, drop $400 for
an iPhone 6 and then discover it doesn't fit in your pocket.

Gasp!

In the past, such problems were limited to hipsters with curly mustaches, whose
jeans were so skinny they might actually be cellophane wrap. But now mere
mortals with normal pants and purses are in despair.

Over the weekend people bravely took to the public complaint box, Twitter and
Facebook, to grumble about this oversized issue. (Pun intended.)

''My new iPhone 6 doesn't fit into the pocket of my Lululemons,'' Sarah Watson
wrote on Twitter.

''I capitulate. The iPhone 6 Plus simply won't fit comfortably in my not-at-all
skinny jeans,'' David Heinemeier Hansson lamented. He added, with a sad emoji
face, that he was ''downgrading'' to the iPhone 6. And an in-depth thread popped
up on Reddit discussing how to get around this problem.

Technology blogs have tried to help. Dozens of videos have appeared on YouTube
offering expert tests of iPhones slipping in and out of random pockets. (No, I'm
not kidding.) A number of downloadable guides allow users to print out a fake
iPhone 6 and 6 Plus to see if they will fit in your clothing. (Again, I'm not
kidding.) It won't be long before a Silicon Valley start-up gets $10 million in
funding for an app that tells people which iPhones will fit in which jeans.
(This time I am kidding -- I hope.)

While it's easy to joke about this being a non-problem, this is actually a bit
of a real issue, given that the smartphone is arguably the most important gadget
in our lives today, and one that is usually just inches away from us.

Among gadget reviewers, women seemed to have the most trouble with the new
iPhones. Lauren Goode of Re/code said the larger model was too big to hold in
her hands or wear on her arm while exercising. My colleague Molly Wood, a
columnist for The New York Times, told me that the iPhone 6 Plus won't fit into
her purse. And Abby Johnston of Bustle noted that because women's jean pockets
are smaller than men's, either pockets have to get bigger, or phones smaller.

But don't expect either of those to change anytime soon. I called around to
dozens of jean makers and designers, and heard a lot of noes when asked if
companies planned to change the style or aesthetic of their clothing to
accommodate bigger phones.

''Our skinny-jean pockets are too small for the new iPhone,'' said Katrina
Klein, denim director for Rag & Bone, adding that she has no plans to change
that. ''We expect people to carry their larger phones in bags and purses.''

Lela Tillem Becker, a founder of Mother, a high-end clothing designer, said that
the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus fit in the rear pocket of the company's jeans, but they
too won't make accommodations for the front pockets. ''If it disrupts the shape,
it's just not worth it,'' she said.

But fear not, men of Silicon Valley. Some guy-centric brands seem to be fine
forgoing form for techie function.

Last year Dockers announced that it had expanded its ''coin pocket,'' which is
the smaller pocket inside the larger pocket of men's pants, by an extra inch to
accommodate larger phones. Bonobos, the online clothing store, now offers a
jacket called the Jetsetter, which has a larger inside pocket that fits a
passport or larger smartphone.

''If none of our pants fit the iPhones, that would be a real problem,'' said
Dwight Fenton, vice president for design at Bonobos. ''You ignore them at your
own peril.''

But how much bigger can pockets even get? Josue Perzell, store director of Denim
Doctor, a Los Angeles-based vintage jean seller and repair shop, said that over
the years, jean pockets had already grown drastically.

''Early vintage jeans tend to have much smaller pockets because people didn't
have much to carry back in the day,'' he said. ''They weren't thinking of adding
phones or anything else. Today's pockets are much bigger.''

There are more serious pockets to worry about. For one, doctors have complained
that the larger iPhone 6 Plus does not fit in a lab coat and awkwardly juts out.
With many physicians in the United States using iPhones, this could pose a real
problem should they upgrade.

Style watchers are having fun predicting what fashion trends these larger
screens may usher in. The man purse, also known as the ''murse,'' could
resurface. Cargo pants, with their jumbo side pockets, could be the rage again.
Or fanny packs could make a miraculous comeback. (We could call them Phony
Packs.)

More than likely, the bloated new iPhones could alter public etiquette, again.
''You know how you're never supposed to take your phone out at dinner?'' wrote
Dennis Tang, an editor at GQ. (Besides being uncomfortable, there have been
reports of the iPhone bending -- the horror! -- after users kept them in their
pockets for extended periods.) The larger phone, he said, means it is now O.K.
to flout that rule. ''Leaving it untouched and silenced at the edge of the table
should do just fine.''

Some extreme hipsters won't have to worry about pockets being too small or new
etiquette. They are stalwartly refusing to upgrade.

Eric Goldstein, a founder of Jean Shop, a New York-based high-end jean maker,
said that some of his customers have said they don't want to buy the new iPhone
because it will leave a different wear mark on the front pocket of their jeans.

''A lot of our customers wear their jeans repeatedly to make them look
vintage,'' he said, and explained that they develop a unique rectangular shape
where their phone has rubbed up against the pocket. ''With the different sized
phones, people are getting upset that they are going to have an another shaped
rectangle on the pocket area,'' he said.

Now that is a first world problem.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/25/fashion/new-iphones
-bulge-in-all-the-wrong-places.html

