                              707 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                  Daily Mirror



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                Northern Ireland



iBEND;

Army of Apple fans furious after new device 'warps' inside pockets



BYLINE: RUKI SAYID



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6



LENGTH: 396 words





IT looks like Apple's failure to iron out the kinks in their latest highly

anticipated offering has left iPhone fans all bent out of shape.



Furious owners of the iPhone 6 Plus have hit out at the tech giant after

discovering that the newly released model goes wonky when left inside pockets.



Yesterday, a "BendGate" storm raged online as owners of the new phablet - a

device that works both as a smartphone and a tablet - detailed how the device

warped in their trousers.



It is thought the super-thin aluminium casing is to blame as the softer metal is

prone to deforming if enough pressure is applied for long enough.



The debacle comes less than a week after the highly-anticipated release of

Apple's latest toy, which saw an army of fans queuing for hours to get their

hands on the expensive device.



One fed-up owner of the iPhone 6 Plus, the slimline 5.5in phablet which costs

£619, explained how his swish new device bowed after he left it in his front

pocket for 18 hours.



The user, who called themselves Hamzoh, wrote on tech site Mac Rumours: "In

total, the 6 Plus was in my pocket for about 18 hours while I mostly sat down.

As I lay it on the coffee table, I saw the reflection of a window in the iPhone

slightly distorted."



And tech expert at www.Geek.com Russell Holly said: "I have never dropped the

phone or abused it in any way. But when I put it down on a flat surface it

wobbled.



"This seems like a serious issue that Apple needs to be warning consumers about.

Having spent quite a bit of time with many different smartphones, the severity

of this issue is unique."



Last night the blunder was trending on Twitter with the hashtag #BendGate as

owners vented their anger at the flaw in Apple's latest must-have gizmo.



Apple broke all sales records when its 4.7-inch iPhone 6, which costs £539, and

iPhone 6 Plus phablet went on sale last Friday with 10 million snapped up in the

three days of the launch across 10 countries.



This weekend the handsets will hit shelves in 20 more nations before going

worldwide by the end of the year. Analysts are expecting sales to top 60 million

by Christmas.



Yesterday, no one at Apple was available to comment.



ruki.sayid@mirror.co.uk



VOICE OF MIRROR: PAGE 8



"The severity of this issue is unique... Apple needs to warn the consumers

RUSSELL HOLLY TECH EXPERT FOR www.GEEK.COM



£619 Amount Apple fans forked out for the new iPhone 6 Plus at launch



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: TAKE A BOW Apple CEO Tim Cook launched the iPhone6 earlier this

monthAWRY PHONE One poor owner shows a clear bend at the top of their new iPhone

6 Plus



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DMR





                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





