                              708 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily The Pak Banker



                            February 9, 2015 Monday



Sprint Delivers Again - Two Iconic Devices, One Low Price



LENGTH: 442  words



DATELINE: Kansas





Sprint Corporation has issued the following Press release:





Ultimate iPhone & iPad Plan -- For only $100 per month and $0 down get an iPhone

6 with unlimited data, talk and text while on the Sprint network, and an iPad

Mini 3 with 2GB of data. Plus, no activation fees.





Once again, Sprint (NYSE: S) is delivering on its promise to simplify the

wireless purchasing experience while maintaining its tradition of providing

great value. With the Ultimate iPhone & iPad Plan, customers can now lease two

iconic devices, iPhone 6 16GB and iPad Mini 3 16GB, with service plans, for only

$100 a month1.



Boasting access to Sprint's 2.5GHz LTE network, iPhone 6 16GB pairs with an

unlimited data, text and talk service plan and the iPad Mini 3 16GB comes with a

2GB data service plan. Two devices. Both service plans. No activation fees. No

money down. All for $100 (excluding taxes and surcharges). All while on the

Sprint network.



 Pairing the two devices with two service plans saves a customer more than $200

annually.



"Sprint is making two of the hottest devices in the market available to

consumers for the best price, paired with great value service plans," said David

Owens, senior vice president-Marketing. "This is the first time Apple and Sprint

have offered virtually one low price for two great devices. The Ultimate iPhone

& iPad Plan is an extraordinary value for customers."



New qualified customers simply need to take advantage of iPhone for Life plan

and iPad for Life plan when choosing this limited time offer.



This is a breakdown of the pricing similar to how it will appear on a customer's

bill:





Customers also have the option to buy up to the iPhone 6 Plus and the iPad Air

2. Choosing the iPhone 6 Plus will add $5 per month to the iPhone for Life plan

and choosing the iPad Air 2 will add $3 per month to the iPad for Life plan.



About Sprint

Sprint (NYSE: S) is a communications services company that creates more and

better ways to connect its customers to the things they care about most. Sprint

served nearly 56 million connections as of Dec. 31, 2014, and is widely

recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies,

including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United

States; leading no-contract brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile,

and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk

capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. Sprint has been named to

the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America for the past four years.



In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





