                              714 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              Chicago Daily Herald



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Suburbanites storm Apple for new iPhone 6



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1



LENGTH: 357 words





to maintain Apple's sales growth. The devices generate more than half of the

company's annual $171 billion in revenue and precede a swath of other products,

including new iPads and Apple Watch. The iPhones have screens of 4.7 inches and

5.5 inches, compared with 4 inches for previous models, which is helping to

boost their appeal to new consumers.



"I came here for tourism, and my wife and friends asked me to bring them the new

iPhone," Yury Shchepetkov, a 24-year-old power engineer from Moscow, said while

waiting in Berlin. "I had no idea I would be stuck in line for two nights

without a sleeping bag."



Tiago Amorim was waiting outside of Apple's Fifth Avenue store in New York after

flying up from Brazil to get his hands on one.



"We love iPhones," the 14-year-old said.



Amorim was in a line that, as of 8 a.m., was 33 percent longer than last year's

debut of the iPhone 5s and 5c, according to Piper Jaffray Cos.



"There was an even more significant influence of international buyers, even more

than last year," Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, wrote in a note to

investors today.



Status Symbol



Apple hasn't said when China and Brazil will get the new iPhones. They aren't on

the list of countries that will get the phones in the next wave, which includes

Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Liechtenstein,

Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, Russia, Saudi

Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates.



"We traveled about 35 hours to get our hands on the new iPhone before everyone

else in Brazil," said William Marchiori, 25, who flew to Australia from Sao

Paulo. "We took three flights and got here two days ago, and we lined up."



The new iPhones are targeted directly at bigger-screen smartphones popular with

consumers in Asia. Those phones typically run on Android and are made by Samsung

Electronics Co., Xiaomi Corp. and Lenovo Group Ltd., among others.



"It's a big status symbol everywhere," Tim Bajarin, an analyst at Creative

Strategies Inc., said of the new iPhones and the global interest.



* Bloomberg News contributed to this report



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com People line up outside the Apple

Store at the Deer Park Mall Friday waiting to get the new iPhone 6. Steve

Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com People line up outside the Apple Store at the Deer

Park Mall Friday waiting to get the new iPhone 6.Rick West/rwest@dailyherald.com

People wait for their chance to pick up a new iPhone 6 outside the AT store in

South Elgin Friday morning. The store opened early at 8 a.m. Rick

West/rwest@dailyherald.com People wait for their chance to pick up a new iPhone

6 outside the AT store in South Elgin Friday morning. The store opened early at

8 a.m.Rick West/rwest@dailyherald.com Devang Patel of Elgin holds up his new

iPhone 6 Plus Friday morning at the South Elgin AT store. Patel was the last

person to get a phone. Other customers placed orders for the devices. Rick

West/rwest@dailyherald.com Devang Patel of Elgin holds up his new iPhone 6 Plus

Friday morning at the South Elgin AT store. Patel was the last person to get a

phone. Other customers placed orders for the devices.Steve

Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Amy McCracken of Des Plaines sits in a lawn chair

outside the Apple retail store at Deer Park Mall Friday morning waiting to get

the new iPhone 6. "I'm not into delayed gratification," McCracken said. Steve

Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Amy McCracken of Des Plaines sits in a lawn chair

outside the Apple retail store at Deer Park Mall Friday morning waiting to get

the new iPhone 6. "I'm not into delayed gratification," McCracken said. Steve

Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Amy McCracken of Des Plaines sits in a lawn chair

outside the Apple retail store at Deer Park Mall Friday morning waiting to get

the new iPhone 6. "I'm not into delayed gratification," McCracken said. Amy

McCracken, of Des Plaines, sits in a lawn chair outside the Apple Store at the

Deer Park Mall as she waits to get the new iPhone 6 Friday morning. "I'm not

into delayed gratification," said McCracken.Scott

Sanders/ssanders@dailyherald.com Nathaniel Fritz, of Bradley, Ill., shows off

his new Apple iPhone 6 Plus, which he drove 90 minutes and waited in line 14

hours for. Scott Sanders/ssanders@dailyherald.com Nathaniel Fritz, of Bradley,

Ill., shows off his new Apple iPhone 6 Plus, which he drove 90 minutes and

waited in line 14 hours for.Scott Sanders/ssanders@dailyherald.com Naperville

Apple retail store employees usher customers into the store to purchase or pick

up the new iPhone 6 Friday.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.





