                              716 of 998 DOCUMENTS







            The Daily Mercury and Rural Weekly (Mackay, Queensland)



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



Mackay in line for iPhone 6



SECTION: Pg. 6



LENGTH: 310  words







HIGHLIGHT: Queues to get newest technology





Dominick Czakilew



dominick.czakilew@dailymercury.com.au



MACKAY smartphone fans were impatiently lining up ahead of the iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus launch.



The phones went on sale from 8am yesterday.



From as early as 7am, queues were forming outside phone shops at both Caneland

Central and Mt Pleasant shopping centres.



Michelle Turner was the first person to get connected to the iPhone 6 at

Caneland Central's Telstra store.



"I was so excited," she said.



"I didn't expect to be first.



"So the one hour wait was definitely worth it."



Both Ms Turner and her soon-to-be-married sister Stacey are dedicated iPhoners.



They woke up early yesterday.



Stacey said she wasn't bothered her sister beat her in the challenge.



"We were both excited when we got out of bed," she said.



"Michelle got the phone first, but I got it a few minutes later.



"It's kind of an early wedding present for me."



The anticipation will be contagious as Mackay residents were among the first in

the world to get one of this year's most sought-after smartphones.



Telstra local area manager Madonna Burgess said Mackay residents embraced the

new technology.



"There are few things more exciting than an iPhone launch and we can't wait to

make iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus available to our customers on Australia's

largest and most reliable mobile network," she said.



"Over the years, technology has developed to superstar status, particularly the

smartphone.



"Our phones are more than a mobile now, they are a part of how we connect to the

people and things we love every day."



Three in four Aussie mobile users (76%) own or use a smartphone and almost half

(49%) own or use a tablet.



Forty-three per cent of Australians use both a smartphone and tablet.



DETAILS



Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus have crisper screens, faster processors and

sharper cameras.



They are also bigger than previous iPhones.



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: MDM





                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





