                              723 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                          September 15, 2016 Thursday



Now, shoot RAW images from your iPhone



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 265 words





NEW DELHI: Apple has announced that it will be adding the ability to capture RAW

images to iPhones, starting with iOS 10. While the stock iOS camera app doesn't

have the functionality to capture RAW images, iPhone users can use Adobe's

Lightroom app for the same. The only requirement for being able to shoot RAW

images is that the iPhone should be running iOS 10 and have a 12MP iSight

camera. This means that the supported devices are iPhone 6/6 Plus, iPhone 6s /6s

Plus, iPhone 7/7 Plus, iPhone SE and even the iPad Pro 9.7. Images captured in

RAW format are uncompressed and don't have any post-processing effects applied

to them, unlike those captured using the stock camera app.



As a result, users can tweak or enhance the images as they like to get the best

out of them. Adobe Lightroom captures RAW images in DNG format. It has also

expanded its has also expanded the colour gamut to match the new displays and

camera on the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus. Earlier this year, Adobe rolled out a

major update for its Lightroom app for mobile photography on iOS and Android.For

iOS users, the updated Adobe Lightroom v2.4 brings two major improvements. First

is the ability to import images clicked in RAW format and edit them.On Android,

Adobe Lightroom for Android v2.1 brings a new Pro mode in its built-in camera

option under DNG RAW mode. As expected, the mode lets users take control of the

White Balance, ISO and focus, all inside a new interface. There is also a new

Lightroom Camera widget7 which directly fires up the Lightroom's built-in

camera.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





