                              731 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                          September 13, 2014 Saturday



Fans jam Apple site as new iPhones go on sale



BYLINE: Chris Lau and Amy Nip



SECTION: NEWS; City; Technology; Pg.1



LENGTH: 333 words





There were winners and losers yesterday as iPhone fans in Hong Kong scrambled to

log on to tech giant Apple's website to get their hands on the latest gadgets.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus - unveiled in Cupertino,  California, on  Tuesday

- went on sale in the city at 3pm.



Buyers were told to place their pre-orders on Apple's local website, and that

their phones would be delivered to them within  the next four weeks.



But some who missed out on their favoured models reported delays of up to 45

minutes in accessing the site.



Hong Kong is among nine markets - including the United States and Singapore -

where the phones will first go on sale, in Hong Kong's case next Friday.



The second batch, including Taiwan and many European nations, will get hold of

the phones a week later. The mainland is not among markets in the second batch,

which is likely to fuel demand in Hong Kong as mainland tourists may come to the

city to buy the phones, meaning a higher price for touts.



All stock of the 11.9cm-screen iPhone 6 and the 14cm-screen Plus model was

snatched up within about two hours.



Buyer Pang Shun-sing, 25, said he spent 45 minutes just trying to get onto the

site.



"I wanted to get the 64GB iPhone 6 Plus in gold, but they were sold out by

then," he said.



Pang's comments echoed those posted on popular internet forum HKGolden.com, with

many saying they also had difficulties accessing the site.



Pang bought four iPhone 6s, which he hopes to sell for a higher price and use

the profit to get his desired model.



Some opted to secure one of the phones with their mobile service provider by

signing up for a plan. Catherine Chan Ka-yee ordered an iPhone 6 Plus from CSL

but was worried because she was not given details of the plan when she signed up

last month.



Some providers revealed their plans yesterday. CSL and SmarTone's cheapest

package offers a 1GB mobile data plan at a monthly fee of HK$298 for a 16GB

iPhone 6, with an additional payment of about HK$1,450 or HK$1,480,

respectively.



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



NOTES: 45 ; Some fans had to wait this many minutes to access Apple's website

yesterday



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2014 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





