

STOPPING off for a hot chocolate was the undoing of Nadine Yates' unblemished
record at iPhone launches in Tamworth.

For years now 28-year-old Nadine has been first in line at the Telstra Store in
Tamworth to secure the latest iPhone model, but when she arrived at 5.05am
yesterday, Ron Pratt had beaten her to the punch.

Age and treachery beat youth and skill every time, or so 58-year-old Ron
reckons.

"I was there at 5am. Nadine came in about five minutes after me," he said
yesterday.

"I'm saying this jokingly, but I've never been first in anything, so I was going
to make sure I was first today."

He chose the iPhone 6 over the 6 Plus and said size was the determining factor.

"It fits into my jeans pocket really well," he said.

"If you've got a handbag or a man bag, you could easily accommodate the 6 Plus,
but I'm very happy with the iPhone 6."

Ron previously had an iPhone 4, then switched to another company, but didn't
like it. As he'd given away his phone to his son, he decided to upgrade to the
iPhone 5.

"In 12 or 18 months when they bring in the iPhone 7, I'll be in the queue for
that. I find it to be a very reliable, well-supported system and the staff in
the Telstra Store are fantastic."

Nadine was on track for her 5am stakeout outside the Telstra Store until she got
a text from a staff member who said nobody was there, so she should go get
herself a hot chocolate.

Hot chocolate in hand, she discovered Ron there, but didn't mind, as he was as
big an iPhone fan as she was.

Nadine loves the two-side layout of her new iPhone 6 Plus and said it was
"fantastic".

"It's a beautiful phone. I love the new technology. It's faster, the photos are
better and while it's a bigger phone, it's thinner," she said.

"I can easily fit it into my pocket, but it might be another story once I get a
case on it.

"The product is made simple, but very intelligently laid out. And having the
longer-lasting battery is a bonus."

Chris Von Wieldt, 28, from Brisbane, is visiting his partner, Nadine, and was
third in line.

"I've had iPhones since the fourth generation and I've always loved the
product," Chris said.

"They have a quality feel to them, they always introduce cutting-edge technology
and they're very artistic in their design." Being a photographer, he opted for
the 6 Plus too and is impressed with the bigger screen, the high-resolution
photos and the higher-density pixels.

"These days your phone is so much more than just a phone," Chris said.

"You carry so much information with you, it's more like a portable computer."

Tamworth Telstra Store licensee Hayley Dunst said about 100 of the new models
had been snapped up by early afternoon yesterday and she expected to sell close
to 140 by day's end.

"The good thing is we have received another delivery after our initial allotment
of 130, so pending any crazy, late- afternoon rush today, we should have some
stock available on Saturday," Hayley said.

"We're happy to take an order if the phone the customer chooses isn't in stock,
though."

Telstra Country Wide North West NSW acting area general manager Peter Lamond
said all sites had reported excellent first-day sales.

"This has got to be the biggest launch we've seen so far, based on pre-interest
and turnout to stores," Peter said.

"It's been fantastic."

