                              738 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           September 23, 2016 Friday



From Google Glass to iPhone 4, five biggest tech blunders



BYLINE: Karan Bajaj



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 1102 words





The exploding Galaxy Note 7 battery might be the latest tech debacle you've

heard of but missteps are common in the consumer technology space. Here is a

look at some such events from recent memory.



APPLE



Apple has always had a way with design -their products, be it phones, laptops or

tablets have always been loved for stunning design and performance. However, the

company has not been without its share of missteps when it comes to iPhone. Back

in 2010 when Apple launched its iPhone 4, it was widely reported that when the

phone was held near the antenna band, it lost a significant chunk of signal

reception. Apple acknowledged that there was a problem and announced a fix via

software update.However, the issue persisted even after the fix. Steve Jobs

announced free bumper cases for iPhone 4 customers -using a case solved the

issue of the antenna being blocked. It came to be called antenna-gate.



iPhone 4 was launched in 2010.



The second big blunder was with the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Both phones came

with a new all-metal unibody design instead of the metal and glass design that

was used on the iPhone 5s. However, customers complained that both the iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus would bend easily when kept in a pocket or in bags -raising

concerns on the build quality of the phone. While Apple never officially

acknowledged it to be a big issue, the company did offer a free replacement to

users if the handset did appear to be accidently bent. In the next variants -

iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, Apple improved build quality of the devices by

using strengthened anodized aluminum to build the phone's shell.Bend-gate was

the term handed out this time.



HOVERBOARDS



Sub-standard lithium-ion batteries were used in the device which started

resulting in explosions. (Image: AP)



A hoverboard is the common name given to a self-balancing, battery-powered

scooter.These devices first came into the limelight in China (around 2014)

-within a year, they became the new craze for the urban elite. A number of

Indian companies also imported and launched them in India and many variants were

available at electronics and toy stores for a while. We reviewed one of the

variants -it was a lot of fun to ride it -you just need to bend slightly forward

to make it go forward and bend backwards to slow down or stop. Think of it like

a mini Segway. However, because of the hype and sudden demand, a lot of cheap

knock offs started appearing -these devices failed to meet many safety

requirements and used sub-standard lithium-ion batteries which started resulting

in explosions. As the number of YouTube videos grew -Hoverboards were quickly

deemed to a big fire hazard. Almost all commercial airlines quickly banned

carriage of hoverboards. Interest took a nosedive and the product faded away

slowly. Even the so called `certified' and quality controlled hoverboards have

not caught on.



GOOGLE



Just like Apple and Microsoft, Google has had its share of blunders over the

years when it comes to devices. The company raised a lot of interest when it

announced Google Glass and showed off a demo of how interactive it is and how

useful it is in daily life. However, the hype went down the drain when the price

was announced -at US$1,500, the glass was clearly overpriced, bulky, had limited

use and limited battery life. There has been no significant news regarding any

update of the product for a few months now.



The device was overpriced, bulky and had limited battery life. (Image: Reuters)



In addition, Nexus smartphones have done well great, but Google also tried its

hand at media players with the Nexus Q. It was announced in 2012 and priced at

US$300 -the idea was that the player will prove to be a one-stop solution for

anyone who wants to use Google's services (Google Play Music, YouTube, Google

Play Movies & TV) on a Television instead of a smartphone. Tech media liked the

device -the spherical design was unique but it lacked features in comparison to

existing media players and had a high price. The device never properly launched

for consumers and those who had pre-ordered it after the announcement got the

device for free. In 2013, Google quietly discontinued the failed product.



The latest misstep from Google is the modular smartphone project called Project

Ara. The concept of a modular smartphone -where you can replace a particular

component with another to improve performance and capabilities started in 2012.

Google demoed a few prototypes over the years but did not have a fixed date for

a launch. At the Google IO event in 2016, the company showcased a new prototype

of Project Ara called the Developer edition and announced that a consumer launch

of the device will happen in 2017. However, just a short while later, 2

September 2016, Google announced that the project had been discontinued to

streamline the company's hardware strategy -this throws 4 years of work on the

project down the drain.



HD DVD



Many of you will not have heard of HD DVD -it was an alternative, high-density

optical drive option that was released about the same time as Blu-Ray discs.

While the formats were announced in 2003, the industry was divided into two

groups: HD DVD vs Blu-Ray . Microsoft and Toshiba went with HD DVD and in 2006

the first HD DVD players and discs appeared for consumers.However, in 2008,

Warner Bros -who had the largest share of the DVD market announced, that they

would no longer support HD DVD. This was followed by Walmart -the largest DVD

retailer in the United States.Finally , NetFlix, which was one of the biggest

online video rental services, also revoked support for the HD DVD format which

essentially led to the victory of the Blu-Ray format in a short two years. One

big reason for the victory of Blu-Ray could be credited to Sony -they chose to

include Blu-Ray drives in the PlayStation 3 console which automatically resulted

in increasing the user base of the Blu-Ray format exponentially compared to HD

DVD.



MICROSOFT ZUNE



The iPod digital music player was a gamechanging device that brought Apple back

from bankruptcy . Microsoft wanted to replicate some of that success by

launching a digital music player of their own in 2006. While Apple sold over 100

million iPods in 2008, Microsoft manage to sell 2 million Zune players. Between

2006 to 2011, Microsoft launched four variants of the player but none of them

was able to make any dent on the market. In 2011 Microsoft officially announced

the discontinuation of the Zune device, thanks to what many described as a

spectacular failure against the Apple iPod and other portable music players.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





