

Improvements

Apple's iPhone 6, Plus more durable this year

NEW YORK * Apple's new and bigger iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are more durable
than last year's model and a leading Android phone, a study says.

Apple's iPhone 6, whose screen measures 4.7 inches, did the best across a
variety of tests that measures how prone smartphones are to break due to
everyday accidents, says SquareTrade, a company that provides extended
protection plans.

The iPhone Plus 6, whose screen measures 5.5 inches, wasn't far behind but lost
points because it could slip out of a person's hand because some users may have
a hard time gripping its large but slim form, SquareTrade says.

The iPhone 5s, which measures four inches and came out last year, fared better
than Samsung's Galaxy S5, which measures 5.1 inches. The Samsung phone got poor
marks on several tests, including the slide test. The more a phone slides, the
greater its chance of falling off the edge of a table.

Still, all four of the smartphones tested had a medium risk of breakage and had
no drastic differences among them.

"The phones are getting more and more durable," says Ty Shay, chief marketing
officer at SquareTrade. "Manufacturers are paying more attention."

SquareTrade examines the phones based on eight factors, including size, weight,
grip, and the quality of the front and back panels. The company measured how far
the phones slide when pushed across a table on their backs and how well they
withstand drops from four feet and being dunked in water for 10 seconds.
SquareTrade says it uses robots to do the testing to ensure consistency.

Economy

Relative calm expected for financial markets

TORONTO * Financial markets can look forward to some relative calm this week,
with little in the way of key economic data expected in either Canada or the
United States.

However, traders will be watching the latest earnings report from smartphone
maker BlackBerry (TSX:BB) on Friday.

CEO John Chen was hired last year to reshape the troubled company, which has cut
costs and refocused its product and service offerings. It's expected to release
a smartphone dubbed the Classic and a new format device called the Passport by
the end of the month.

Meanwhile, this week will be a marked change from recent trading sessions, which
included unease over the independence referendum in Scotland in which Scots
voted to remain in the United Kingdom and the latest interest rate announcement
from the Federal Reserve in which the U.S. central bank took a stand-pat stance.

The volatile end to the week resulted in the TSX shedding 1.71 per cent, while
the Dow finished the week ahead 1.72 per cent.

"It's pretty quiet everywhere for news," said Colin Cieszynski, a market analyst
with CMCMarkets. "People will have a chance to catch their breath after the week
we just had."

Fuel

U.S. gas prices fall 9 cents a gallon in 2 weeks

CAMARILLO, Calif. * A national survey says the average price of a gallon of
regular gasoline has dropped another nine cents over the last two weeks, to
$3.37, bringing the decline to 34 cents over the last 13 weeks.

Industry analyst Trilby Lundberg said Sunday that falling crude oil prices drove
the declines, but the drop was also heavily impacted by a crash in prices of
ethanol and the fact that winter-grade gasoline costs less to produce. If crude
prices don't rise, the average prices at the pump may drop a few more cents.

Sources: The Associated Press, The Canadian Press

