                              749 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday



iPhone 6S, 6S Plus to hit Indian shores on Oct 16



LENGTH: 289  words



DATELINE: New Delhi





New Delhi, Sept. 29 -- Iconic tech giant Apple will unveil its latest iPhone 6S

and iPhone 6S Plus in India on October 16.

 This will be the fastest iPhone rollout ever for the Indian market, coming less

than a month after the latest models became available globally.





 The availability of the new devices, that compete with the likes of Samsung's

Galaxy Note5 and Galaxy S6 Edge+, will enable the US-based firm to cash in on

the upcoming festive season.

 While the company announced the date of launch in India on its website, it did

not disclose the pricing for the Indian market.

 The company has sold over 13 million units of the new iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S

Plus on the first three days of their availability, breaking its record of 10

million units sold last year by iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.

 Apple made the new iPhone models available for sale on September 25 across the

US, the UK, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, New

Zealand, Puerto Rico, Singapore.

 The US-based tech giant is seeking to build on the success of large-screen

handsets introduced last year that have dominated the high-end smartphone

market.

 The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have the same overall dimensions as the previous

versions, but with new technologies under the hood.

 One of the key new features is called "3D touch," which responds to pressure

exerted on the screen to allow users to look inside messages and applications.

 The 6S has the 4.7-inch (about 12-centimeter) display of its predecessor and

the 6S Plus - which updates one of the more popular handsets in the "phablet

category" - has the same 5.5-inch screen.

 But the devices have more powerful processors that allow for improved graphics,

harder glass and a new aluminum body.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2015 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





