                              752 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)



                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday



My sexy 6 is finally here



BYLINE: Graham K. Rogers



LENGTH: 744  words





For several days late last month, there was a tantalising page on the Apple

Online Store for Thailand. Users could select the iPhone 6 model and colour of

their choice, as well as the capacity, but the "buy" button was stubbornly

greyed out. Until Friday.



Alternative slow WiFi router.



I had not been sure which model I wanted: the 4.7inch model or the iPhone 6 Plus

with its 5.5inch screen. I weighed up my options and thought about how I use the

iPhone. Most of the time, I carry it in the pocket of my trousers, although

sometimes (when I am on the BTS or in a taxi) I use the top pocket of my shirt.

The 5.5inch model might be a squeeze.



While battery life has been improved for both models, the iPhone Plus wins with

its larger capacity. There is also the feature of optical image stabilisation

that is only available on the iPhone 6 Plus.



I had intended to wait until I could handle both models, but when a marketing

email arrived from Apple on Friday morning, the temptation was too great. A

priority was space. As my 64GB iPhone 5s now has only 10% free, the 128GB iPhone

6 was my choice. My budget would not stretch that extra few thousand baht needed

for the iPhone 6 Plus with 128GB.



As it turns out, my decision was probably right as I was able to handle both

models on Saturday. The larger iPhone 6 Plus did not feel comfortable in my

hands or against my face.



This is not a matter of slavishly buying everything that Apple puts out as some

would want you to believe. The large number of firsttime buyers should now put

that absurd idea to rest. The iPhone is one component in my personal network  an

integration of devices that other manufacturers can only dream about.



As well as its A8 processor, these new iPhones belatedly fill a gap in the

networking capabilities with their new WiFi features (IEEE 802.11ac). New Macs

have been able to use such faster networks for a year or more; and I already

have the Airport Extreme router that transmits at these speeds. This will make

my home system faster with data transfers and synchronisation.



All I need now is for an update to Apple TV to bring that in line too. The

current Apple TV uses the slower 802.11n (up to 600 Mbs) standard, although that

is usually fast enough for me to view movies running on the iPhone or the Mac on

my television. That would not be the case if I were stuck with the router that

the internet service provider (ISP) gave me: the wifi for that is a creaky

802.11g (54Mbs).



The Apple router is also better as the firewall ports used for synchronisation

of iOS devices are not open on the router from the ISP. It was clear from my

phone calls to technicians that they did not understand what these were and

wanted to solve the problem (the problem they did not understand) by remotely

logging into my computer, which I firmly but politely declined. I solved this in

under a minute by connecting my old Apple router (now updated), which also gave

me faster home WiFi as a bonus.



With OS X 10.10, Yosemite, for a larger display of the information about any

networks a Mac can see, press the Option key and click on the WiFi icon in the

menu bar. If that icon is not in the menu bar, it can be added by using a

checkbox in System Preferences. That Option key is useful with other menu bar

icons: Bluetooth, Time Machine (when the menu is already open), Sound (speaker)

and Power Source.



On Saturday, at Central Pinklao, there were several people waiting for the

iPhones they had ordered. By early afternoon, they were sold out. Inside the

iStudio several cases were being offered.



I was watching Bloomberg TV during the week and one of their experts opined that

the iPhone was an "unfinished product" because a case was needed. I never use

these as I think it limits the device, particularly when the screen is covered.

The only protection I ever use is an old iPod sock and Apple have stopped making

these now.



While he omitted to mention the other handset makers whose customers also buy

cases, Apple has always left this particular door open to accessory makers,

particularly as this means the users have a wider range of options: from Hello

Kitty to the OtterBox Defender.



A few minutes after placing the online order for my iPhone, I received an SMS

and email to show that the order was being processed. Late on Saturday, an SMS

from Apple, followed by email, told me the item had been shipped and would be in

my eager little hands by Friday.



If anyone has an iPod sock, I would be grateful.



LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2014 The Bangkok Post

                              All Rights Reserved





