                              760 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                             October 6, 2014 Monday



Apple's iPhone 6 Plus Faces Another Hair-Snagging Issue



LENGTH: 271  words





Apple hasn't had much good fortune with it's latest release. On the heels of

BendGate, multiple iOS 8 bugs, dodgy updates and issues that are enough to cause

some Apple users to rip their hair out, the latest gadget seems to be doing the

job for them. According to reports from 9to5 mac it appears the seam gaps [...]

The post Apple's iPhone 6 Plus Faces Another Hair-Snagging Issue appeared first

on tbreak.ae.



Apple hasn't had much good fortune with it's latest release. On the heels of

BendGate, multiple iOS 8 bugs, dodgy updates and issues that are enough to cause

some Apple users to rip their hair out, the latest gadget seems to be doing the

job for them. According to reports from 9to5 mac it appears the seam gaps

between the iPhone 6 Plus' glass and aluminium casing can snag and yank out a

user's hair during calls. Yikes! As New York Magazine notes: "long-haired Steve

Jobs would have never let this happen." But before you consider a move to a

Samsung, be aware the Galaxy Note4 has it's own share of hair-tweezing problems.



Apple has yet to comment on the random hair and beard cuts their new device is

offering its users.



Some Twitter users wondering if "testers were mainly bald guys", others are

quick to crack a joke



iPhone 6/iPhone 6 Plus users in UAE, have you faced similar issues with your

units? Have you faced any other issues with your new gadgets? Have you faced

none of the issues that have plagued the latest Apple release? Why do you think

Apple has faced so many issues recently? Sound off below and let us know.



The post Apple's iPhone 6 Plus Faces Another Hair-Snagging Issue appeared first

on tbreak.ae.



LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2014 TBREAK MEDIA

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





