                              767 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                      September 4, 2015 Friday 1:09 AM GMT



iPhone 6S or iPhone 7 release date, rumours and new features ahead of Apple's

launch event;

The latest iteration of the iPhone is setto launch at the start of this month at

a conference in San Francisco- ahead of its release,here's everything we know so

far



BYLINE: Liz Connor



SECTION: LONDON LIFE



LENGTH: 1308 words





Apple has announced that its next big product update will take place in San

Francisco onSeptember 9 - with a new iPhone handset widely expected to launch in

time for the busy Christmas sales period.



Every year since 2007, the company has unveiled a new model of the device and

since 2011 it has announced the latest iteration in the autumn - at the same

time as global tech trade show IFA in Berlin.



As with every significant Apple launch, rumours about what's in-store from the

tech giant's announcement are rife. Read on for the latest features and specs

circulating the internet.



When and how is it launching?



Invitations to an event on Wednesday September 9 were sent out at the end of

last month, featuring the cryptic message 'Hey Siri, give us a hint'. This is

widely believed to be a nod towards Siri's integration into a new Apple TV

expected to be launched alongside a new phone.



'Hey Siri, give us a hint!': Apple's cryptic invitation toits upcoming

conference in San Francisco



As with previous announcements, the new handset is likely to be launched during

a keynote speech by Apple chief executive Tim Cook, with additional speeches

from senior vice president of worldwide marketing Phil Schiller and senior vice

president of internet software and services Eddy Cue. All three showcased the

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus at the Apple event in California last year.



Read more



Apple breaks record by selling 10 million iPhone 6 smartphones in just



Apple Music Festival: Take That, Chemical Brothers and The Weeknd



Apple's top-secret self-driving car 'almost ready for road'



What will it be called?



Following the pattern of previous announcements, it's likely we'll see Apple

launch the iPhone 6s and 6s plus - updated versions of the small (4.7-inch) and

large (5.5-inch) versions of the handset.



Following its previous pattern, the new handsets will likely be the 6s and 6s

plus



However, we may also see the arrival of a cheaper 6c handset, replacing the

discontinued 5c model. Earlier in May Apple appeared to leak a picture of what

could be the iPhone 6c on its site. The picture showed what looked like an

updated iPhone 5c with an Touch ID sensor on its home button. However, Apple

fans havesince concluded that the image ismost likely a poorly-rendered

graphicof an original 5c,and the image has since been removed from the site.



There are rumours currently circulating the internet that Apple could surprise

us all and go straight in with the iPhone 7 - breaking the tradition of its

previous naming conventions.



What new features can we expect?



A better camera



Apple has historically had the lead on smartphone integrated cameras, and we

could be about to witness its biggest camera jump ever. Rumors suggest that the

new iPhone will have a 12MP sensor with optical image stabilisation and 4k video

recording - offering quality to rival a DSLR. Selfie lovers will also be pleased

to hear that the front-facing camera is expected to be upgraded to a 5MP unit.



The iPhone 6 camera is rumoured to jump from 8MP to 12MP



No increase to 32GB



While initial rumors suggested that Apple might increase the base storage from

16GB to 32GB, alleged leaks now claim that 16GB base versions will continue -

with cloud services such as Apple Music streaming and iCloud helping to keep

internal storage free.



Improved hardware



While the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus both have dual core processor with 1GB RAM,

competition has moved to octa core processors with 4GB RAM. Apple are set to

attempt to catch up by upgrading the new iPhone handset with quad core processor

and 2GB RAM. Apple may also use the triple core A8+ processor that is currently

a feature of the iPad Air 2.



Force touch



Essentially, an improvedtouch screen that enables the device to identify the

difference between a light and strong touch. It is already present on the Apple

watch and Macbook's trackpad so the inclusion of the technology on upcoming

iPhone is widely expected.



The force touch feature on the Apple Watch could be coming to the iPhone



Added durability



Remember bendgate? Rumours say that Apple has taken steps to avoid repeat

embarrassments by improving the durability of its newest model using 7000 series

aluminum on the chassis.



Scratch resistant glass



Sapphire glass - a scratch resistant material used in screens - is another

possible feature. It was rumoured to be slated for the original iPhone 6,

however the production was believed to behalted due tomanufacturing issues.



IOS 9



Apple likes to release a new version of its mobile operating system, iOS, every

year alongside new hardware. Given that we had iOS 8 last year with the new

iPhones, the iOS 9 launch at Apple's conference will come as no surprise



When will it go on sale?



The iPhone 6s's sale date has reportedly been given away in a leaked email from

Vodafone, which suggests that the newest handset will go on sale on September

25, with pre-orders being accepted from September 18.



If correct, this release date would correspond with the usual pattern of an

announcement in the second week of September, followed by a release two weeks

later.



What will it look like?



9to5Mac claimed they had leaked photos of the new handset in early July. The

pictures show internal and external views of silver metal casing, which looks

very similar to the anodised aluminium used in the iPhone 6.



9to5 claim that these are leaked images of the new handset



Despite previous rumours, the case is the same thickness and width as the iPhone

6.



However, images leaked by a source with a Chinese supply line to Engadget Japan

suggests the iPhone 6s will be 0.2mm thicker than its predecessor at 7.1mm, a

potential concession to Force Touch.



A supposedly leaked schematic from Engagetsuggests the iPhone 6s will be 0.2mm

thicker than its predecessor



Elsewhere, Steve Hemmerstoffer of Nowwhereelse.fr has sourced what appears to be

renderings of the purported iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, with the same dimensionsof

7.1mm thickness.



Contradicting rumours: what appears to be renderings of the iPhone 6s with the

same dimensions as the iPhone 6



Internally the frame sports newly-located mounting points to support a new logic

board. The speaker holes, headphone jack, microphone and lightning charging

ports remain in the same places.



While the design of the handset might not change much (give or take a few mm),

Apple are rumoured to be working on brand newcolours for the iPhone 6s. Low-res

images of pink iPhones being boxed up in a factory are currently circulating on

the Internet. It's also been suggested that the iPhone will get a rose gold

upgrade, to match the Apple Watch iteration.



Coming soon? Images of a pink Iphone 6s have been circulating the Internet



Other than the iPhone, what else is expected to launch?



While Apple isfocusing on the iPhone 6s,Apple TV is also expected to get a

significant upgrade, if rumours and recently reported leaks are to be believed.

Apple's set-top box saw a hardware revision three years after its release in

2007, but has kept a low-profile since.



If "Hey Siri, give us a hint" means what the Internet thinks it does, Apple

could be readying to take a note from the Amazon's playbook, by putting its

voice assistant in Apple TV users' homes -offering similar functionality to

Siri, but without requiring you use a mobile phone. Simply speaking up in the

room of your choice would provide weather, news, music playback and more.



Apple isalso rumoured to be offering something even more compelling to viewers:

universal search, allowing you to see all the places you can watch a particular

show or movie, such as on iTunes or Netflix, and let you pick between them. The

result? No more searching for the latest episode of Game of Thrones when season

6 launches next year. This, we like.



Follow us on Twitter: @ESLife&Style



LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





