                              769 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            The Star (South Africa)



                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

                                   E1 Edition



Apple's new iPhones further blur the line between phone and tablet



BYLINE:  Hayley Tsukayama



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 20



LENGTH: 520 words





Those who use Apple's iPad should feel right at home with the company's new

phones, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The phones, which are significantly

bigger than Apple's four-inch iPhone 5s and 5c, take design cues and some

features from Apple's tablet line - further blurring the distinction between the

smartphone and the tablet.



Both phones are thinner and lighter than their predecessors, losing more in bulk

than they gain in overall size. But there's no doubt that both phones feel

noticeably bigger than the current line of iPhones and it will probably take

long-time Apple users time to get used to handling the larger devices. All that

fumbling around with the phones will no doubt lead to a lot of cracked screens.

Get ready, too, for new accessories, since this is Apple's first change to the

width of the iPhone.



For years, Apple has refused to make phones wider than the average thumb could

reach, saying that making phones any bigger was a disservice to consumers. The

new phones feel like an admission from Apple that it was wrong to fight the

big-screen revolution for so long.



But as consumers embrace phones to view more video and do more serious work, it

has become clear that big is in demand. And by releasing phones with larger

screens - the |4.7-inch iPhone 6 and the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 plus - Apple sets

itself more firmly against competitors who make phones for the Android platform

such as Samsung, LG and HTC.



Solely in terms of screen size, Apple has been behind the curve, with a screen

smaller than Samsung's latest model, the S5. But in my brief time with the

phones it was clear that Apple was mainly drawing inspiration from one source:

the iPad.



With the iPhone 6 Plus in particular, the similarities are striking. Thanks to

its tall, thin proportions, the Plus still feels more like a big phone than a

small tablet, but only just. Apple has, for example, given Plus users the option

to view a lot of its apps in a horizontal orientation that's pulled straight

from the iPad.



In Mail, for example, iPhone users can now look at a two-pane view - one to list

the messages in the inbox and one to preview messages. To deal with the thumb

question, Apple also has introduced a mode that pulls whatever is showing up at

the top of the screen halfway down the display, to get that upper corner within

easy reach.



On both phones, Apple has moved the sleep button from the top of the phone to

the side of phone, so you can use everything one-handed. Both also have crisp,

bright displays and the rounded corners that hark back to earlier iPhone models.



Both also carry Apple's new camera sensor, an eight-megapixel sensor with new

features that let users focus more easily on their photo subjects. The phones

are so thin that the camera actually sticks out a bit from the back of the

phone. The rounded corners and thin profiles should also help the new phones

slide into tight pockets.



For many people, bigger will feel better - clearer for photos, for video and for

work - but for those who've grown accustomed to Apple's standard iPhone size, it

will definitely take time to adjust. - The Washington Post



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SW





                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





