

Singapore

AS iPhone mania returned to Singapore on Friday, Apple's new jumbo-sized
offerings might just help it to reclaim consumers who had gone over to the
Android side in order to satisfy their large-screen cravings.

Now that the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus are available, the
jettisoning of other smartphones appears to have begun. Last week, trade-ins of
Samsung phones tripled week on week at US-based smartphone reseller Gazelle Inc,
according to reports. In Singapore, a redistribution of power from Android-based
handsets to iPhones is also likely to play out in similar fashion. "Old Apple
fans will return to the fold now that the phone screen sizes have caught up,"
said Clement Teo, a senior analyst at research firm Forrester.

Apple also has the advantage of timing. Said Ryan Huang, market strategist at
brokerage IG: "Another boost for Apple's market share is its earlier launch.
Despite an earlier unveiling of Samsung Note 4, Singapore is not likely to get
the handset before mid-October, giving Apple a one-month headstart."

The enthralment with the Cupertino firm's creations has not worn off here if the
figures are anything to go by. SingTel did not reveal how many registrations of
interest it received this year, but it said that more than 50,000 customers
tried to book an appointment to buy the new iPhones after getting through the
registration of interest phase. This implies a more enthusiastic response to the
handsets compared to last year when SingTel saw fewer than 40,000 registrations
of interest for the iPhone 5c and 5s. Even so, a record 68,000 people had
registered their interest for the iPhone 5 in the year before that.

The iPhone 6 Plus is sold out across all three telcos but gauging its popularity
relative to the smaller iPhone 6 is difficult, given how the supply of the
former is smaller worldwide, The Business Times understands. But even as
authentic fan frenzy was on display with arguments erupting at some resellers'
outlets here, this year's iPhone turnout had a distinctly scalper undertone.

By Friday afternoon, the new handsets were already listed for sale online, with
profiteers asking for about S$1,500 for an iPhone 6. Elsewhere, the iPhones'
delayed launch in China also created a scalping opportunity, with buyers
snapping up handsets in Sydney in order to resell them on the mainland.

Globally, the new iPhones are expected to outdo their predecessors yet again.
Apple took in more than four million pre-orders for the handsets in the first 24
hours of their launch last week - twice the number received for the iPhone 5 two
years ago. And while first-weekend sales for the iPhone 5s and 5c broke the
nine-million mark, analysts expect that those for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
will hit 10 million units.

Apple's annual product bonanza has also become a re-pricing opportunity for
telcos here. All three players rolled out increases in mobile subscription rates
for new or recontracting customers ranging from S$2 to S$5 a month in the weeks
leading up to the sale of the iPhones. Even so, these phones tend to cost telcos
dearly in terms of handset subsidies, which can, "weigh a bit on telco expenses
for the quarter", said IG's Mr Huang. "This is likely to put a lid on any
earnings upside in the near term, but over the longer term, we should start to
see the price hikes help provide a good lift."

