                              785 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                            Belfast Telegraph Online



                     October 21, 2014 Tuesday 12:36 AM GMT



New iPhones ring tills for Apple



SECTION: UK



LENGTH: 343 words





The record-breaking launch of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus means that technology

giant Apple has reported net profit of 8.5 billion dollars (£5.3bn) for the

final quarter of 2014.



That figure is one billion higher than the same quarter last year, and revenue

was also up by almost five billion dollars (£3.1bn)



Announcing the results, Apple chief executive Tim Cook said: "Our fiscal 2014

was one for the record books, including the biggest iPhone launch ever with

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



"With amazing innovations in our new iPhones, iPads and Macs, as well as iOS 8

and OS X Yosemite, we are heading into the holidays with Apple's strongest

product line-up ever. We are also incredibly excited about Apple Watch and other

great products and services in the pipeline for 2015."



Apple has refreshed almost its entire product line in the last few months, as

well as entering the wearable technology market for the first time with the

announcement of the Apple Watch, which will go on sale in early 2015.



In September, following the first weekend of sales of the new iPhone 6 and 6

Plus, both of which have the biggest yet screens on Apple's smartphone, the

coming confirmed they had sold more than10 million units in the first three days

of sale - a million more than the previous record.



These results were also an increase on the previous quarter, again by around

five billion dollars. According to the figures released, the firm sold almost 40

million iPhones, as well as 12 million iPads - a drop of 13% - although the

Cupertino, California-based company's latest tablets, the iPad Air 2 and iPad

mini 3 are yet to be launched, with pre-orders only beginning last week.



Increasing competition in the tablet market from the likes of Samsung, Microsoft

and Google is said to be behind the steady decline in iPad sales.



Following the announcement of the results, which are better than anticipated by

analysts, Apple shares rose 1% in after-hours trading.



The results come on the same day that the company's new mobile payment system,

Apple Pay, launched in the US.



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT





           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)

                              All Rights Reserved





