                              78 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                        Progressive Media - Company News



                           September 29, 2014 Monday



iPhone 6 Plus 'not as bendy as believed'



SECTION: MOBILE PLATFORMS AND INTEGRATION; Mobile Platforms and Integration



LENGTH: 325 words







HIGHLIGHT: Consumer product testers say iPhone should withstand normal use.





The iPhone 6 Plus, despite an ongoing Bendgate debacle, is not as bendy as some

users have suggested, claims a consumer technology product testers.



Consumer Reports, a firm which has been testing products of all shapes and sizes

since 1936, carried out tests on the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus with 'scientific' lab

equipment to see if the reports of the iuPhone 6 Plus 'bending' in users pockets

were true.



Consumer Reports said: "To stress test these phones, we used what's called a

"three-point flexural test," in which the phone is supported at two points on

either end, then force is applied at a third point on the top."



Alongside the iPhone 6 Plus, the LG G3, Samsung Galaxy Note 3, and the HTC One

M8 were also tested to see their strengths compared to Apple's latest offerings.



'All the phones after testing.' Photo credit: Consumer Reports



The firm said: "All the phones we tested showed themselves to be pretty tough.

The iPhone 6 Plus, the more robust of the new iPhones in our testing, started to

deform when we reached 90 pounds of force, and came apart with 110 pounds of

force. With those numbers, it slightly outperformed the HTC One (which is

largely regarded as a sturdy, solid phone), as well as the smaller iPhone 6, yet

underperformed some other smart phones.



"While nothing is (evidently) indestructible, we expect that any of these phones

should stand up to typical use."



Apple hit back claims that the iPhone 6 Plus is easily bent by stating that such

damage would be 'rare' with normal use.



In a statement, Apple said: "Our iPhones are designed, engineered and

manufactured to be both beautiful and sturdy. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus feature

a precision engineered unibody enclosure constructed from machining a custom

grade of 6000 series anodized aluminum, which is tempered for extra strength.

They also feature stainless steel and titanium inserts to reinforce high stress

locations and use the strongest glass in the smartphone industry."



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





