

Click for image

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus incorporated what were arguably the most significant
upgrades Apple's smartphone had ever seen. In addition to much larger screens,
the iPhone 6 models also introduced to Apple Pay, Cupertino's take on mobile
payments.

Not surprisingly, iPhone 6 sales have been record-setting, which of course leads
one to wonder what Apple has planned in order keep its iPhone sales momentum
going strong.

Well, thanks to KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, we now know a whole lot
more about what type of new features we can expect to see in Apple's next-gen
iPhone models.

One of the more exciting things about Apple's upcoming iPhones, according to
Kuo, and originally relayed by GforGames, is that they will finally come with
2GB of RAM. With more RAM in tow, next-gen iPhones will likely run a bit
smoother, a bit faster, and will be able to handle more intensive apps.

Kuo also reveals that Apple's upcoming iPhone 6s models will be powered by a
next-gen A9 processor. This tidbit shouldn't come as too much of a surprise
given that Apple has continuously enhanced the iPhone's processor each and every
year.

Some other new features to look forward to include a stronger caliber of
aluminum for the device's casing. While it's unclear if this was Apple's plan
all along, some are speculating that Apple is making the iPhone frame more
durable due to the overblown controversy that was bendgate. Also on the agenda
is an improved 12 megapixel camera. It's worth noting, though, that camera
quality isn't solely a function of megapixels. To that end, expect to see Apple
really up the ante in terms of photographic performance with some additional
software tweaks.

As if that weren't enough, Kuo also writes that Apple's next-gen iPhone models
will feature Force Touch functionality, similar to what Apple has implemented on
the Apple Watch and the recently released MacBook. It remains to be seen how
Force Touch might be implemented on the iPhone, but it certainly presents some
intriguing use-case scenarios. Intriguingly, Kuo writes that Force Touch may be
positioned as the iPhone's most attractive feature.

Touch ID will reportedly be getting an upgrade as well. Echoing similar reports
from earlier in the year, Kuo relays that Touch ID will be both quicker and more
reliable on account of enhanced Touch ID sensors.

Now, if you remember the run-up to the iPhone 6, you might also remember the
bevy of rumors surrounding sapphire displays. At the time, it was largely
assumed that Apple, thanks to its partnership with GT Advanced Technologies, was
going to release a scratch-proof smartphone with a sapphire display. But as it
turned out, GT Advanced Technologies filed for bankruptcy after failing to meet
some of Apple's stringent testing requirements. Well, sapphire displays may be
back on the agenda for this upcoming release cycle. To that end, Kuo writes that
there may be a limited edition model of the iPhone 6s with a sapphire display.
If this is in fact the case, expect Apple to charge a bit of a premium for it.
Some believe that Apple may gauge the interest in such a device in order to
determine if its entire iPhone lineup should get the sapphire treatment in the
future.

GforGames adds:

More interestingly is that the report claims that if certain yield issues will
be overcome, the 5.5-inch iPhone 6s Plus might come with a sapphire covered
display. Almost all hope for a sapphire display on an iPhone has been lost last
year when Apple's supplier, GT Advanced, went bankrupt. One source that relied
KGI's report says that Apple plans for a Limited iPhone 6s Plus edition with a
sapphire display as opposed to the new material being applied to the whole 6s
Plus line.

And finally, Kuo relays that Apple this September may introduce a new Rose Gold
color option for the iPhone.

All things considered, it looks as if Apple's next-gen iPhone will provide a
compelling upgrade opportunity for existing iPhone owners. While there may not
be an overwhelming "must-have" feature, all of the incremental upgrades, taken
together, are certainly compelling.

