                              798 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily Pakistan Today



                           September 26, 2014 Friday



Apple plays defense on iPhone 6 bending, software concerns



LENGTH: 498  words



DATELINE: ISLAMABAD





Apple Inc broke its silence on complaints about bending iPhones, hours after

withdrawing a glitch-ridden software update as the company struggles to restore

momentum to the rollout of its latest phones.



"With normal use, a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six

days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone

6 Plus," Apple spokeswoman Trudy Muller said in an email.



Apple shares closed down nearly 4 percent at $97.87 on Thursday, wiping out

nearly $23 billion in market value.



The new phones face criticism over their bendability, dubbed "bendgate". Social

media and online forums have been abuzz with comments about how the new phones

can bend when placed in back pockets or while wearing skinny jeans.



Apple said its iPhones feature stainless steel and titanium inserts to reinforce

high-stress locations and use the strongest glass in the smartphone industry.



The only way an iPhone may have bent is if someone put it in their back pocket

and sat on the phone for a very long time, said Laban Roomes, chief executive of

Goldgenie, which customizes and gold plates iPhones.



Apple was also forced to withdraw a faulty update to its latest operating system

after some users of its new phones complained of call service disruptions.



"We apologize for the great inconvenience experienced by users," Muller said.



Apple said on its website it was working on an iOS update to fix the issue, and

will release it in the next few days.



"I do believe this speaks to execution issues at Apple," said JMP Securities

analyst Alex Gauna. "At the end of the day I believe this too shall pass, but we

are noting with concern that the miscues pile up."



Apple said on Monday it had shipped 10 million units of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.



Users of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus also complained about the inability to use the

fingerprint-reading Touch ID after updating to iOS 8.0.1.



Some users had complained of "sluggish Wi-Fi and dwindling battery life" after

moving to iOS 8, Time magazine reported earlier this week.



On Thursday, Apple issued a step-by-step guide for users to reinstall iOS 8,

launched last week, through the latest version of iTunes. The health app will

not work for now and will be fixed in the next software update, the company

said.



Customers might, however, hope for replacements for their bent iPhones,

depending on whether their devices passed an inspection, tech news website The

Next Web reported, quoting an Apple support executive.



"It's not game over for Apple, but nor should we give them a pass on this,"

Gauna said.



Cases of bent iPhones 5 and 5s had been reported in 2013 by Cult of Mac, a

website that exclusively covers Apple.



Rival smartphone makers took digs at Apple's problems.



A Samsung Electronics Co Ltd advertisement showcased a bending phone against its

own product, while BlackBerry Ltd  CEO John Chen said: "I would challenge you

guys to bend our Passport."



Nestle SA's Kit-Kat chocolate wafer brand tweeted "We don't bend, we break".



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





