                              800 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



SKYWORKS SOLUTION Hot Chipmaker Skyworks Called "Big Winner' In iPhone 6



BYLINE: MARILYN MUCH



SECTION: THE NEW AMERICA; Pg. A05



LENGTH: 933 words





How sweet is it to win a slice of the Apple iPhone 6 business?



It should be like candy for analog chipmaker and IBD Leaderboard stock Skyworks

Solutions, a key supplier for the new Apple smartphone.



The Apple iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus use chips from Skyworks, Avago Technologies

and other firms, according to findings from tech repair firm iFixit, which

opened up iPhones bought in Melbourne, Australia.



Multiple power amplifier components from Skyworks were found in the iPhone 6

teardowns, Sterne Agee analyst Vijay Rakesh told IBD.



In terms of iPhone 6 component suppliers, "big winners" are Skyworks, Avago and

NXP Semiconductors "with content up 30%-90% from previous iPhone 5 s models," he

said in a research note.



Rakesh estimates about $4 worth of content comes from Skyworks in every new

iPhone 6. The opportunity for Skyworks, he adds, depends on the number of

iPhones Apple sells.



He cites Apple's Sept. 22 announcement that it sold over 10 million new iPhone 6

and iPhone 6 Plus models, a record, just three days after the launch Sept. 19.



"Apple is always a big catalyst for all smartphone component suppliers," Rakesh

said.



Stock Amps Up



Skyworks' stock on Sept. 19 notched its highest closing price since 2000, ending

at 57.68 after the Apple iPhone 6 teardown news. It closed up 3.4% Wednesday to

58.84. But Skyworks powered up well before the Apple iPhone 6 debut. It has

gained 106% this year.



In an interview with IBD, Skyworks CEO David Aldrich would not comment on

whether Skyworks is a supplier for the iPhone 6, although the iFixit teardowns

found the technology inside.



"I am not at liberty to comment about specific companies," he said. "But

Skyworks has become very successful at increasing our content with all of our

smartphone customers."



Skyworks develops and manufacturers high-performance analog semiconductor

products. Its portfolio includes amplifiers, attenuators, battery chargers,

circulators, DC/DC converters, demodulators, detectors, diodes, directional

couplers and infrastructure RF (radio frequency) subsystems.



Its semiconductors enable wireless connectivity in smartphones, tablets and

other devices.



Leveraging core technologies, Skyworks supports automotive, broadband, wireless

infrastructure, energy management, GPS, industrial, medical, military, wireless

networking, smartphone and tablet applications.



Skyworks has been on a roll on the financial front. It's seen double-digit sales

and earnings growth in all but one of the past seven quarters. Its growth

accelerated in the most recent quarter to the fastest pace since mid-2011.

Earnings rose 54% to 83 cents a share. Sales climbed 35% to $587 million.



Connectivity Is The Key



What's been fueling growth at Skyworks?



"Fortunately for us, the growth is being driven from both a market and product

standpoint," Aldrich told IBD. "We've worked very hard over the past decade to

diversify our business into a broader set of markets and to produce more

products and solutions. At the core is connectivity in all its forms, whether

that is through a smartphone or an automobile or the home, which is becoming

increasingly connected in many ways."



He said on a July conference call for Q3 of fiscal 2014: "Our business results

are being fueled by a surge in global adoption of connectivity in all its forms

across a diverse set of end markets. We are riding a wave of powerful underlying

market forces, all enabled by the availability of efficient, high-performance

connectivity solutions."



Among these forces, he said, are "the enabling of billions of unconnected users

with first-time Internet access in the emerging economies; advancing new forms

of content delivery, such as streaming music services, on-demand media and

over-the-content distribution; and supporting cloud services and mobile

ecommerce."



Skyworks' technology has its largest presence in smartphones, Aldrich told IBD.



In the past couple of quarters, smartphones and tablets have been big growth

drivers, he adds, whether it's increasing Skyworks' content in these products by

providing more complete solutions or by gaining market share.



"In general, smartphones are becoming more complicated and complex," he said.

"They need to operate over many frequencies having more functionality."



Skyworks provides a lot of the technology that goes into the more sophisticated

smartphones such as solutions that support GPS and high-resolution cameras.



Another growth driver: "Skyworks has been very successful at capturing

developing economic markets like China and penetrating new regions of the world

that are deploying connectivity in a big way," said Aldrich.



He points out that Skyworks is penetrating markets outside Europe and North

America, with many Chinese buying smartphones for the first time.



As for the future: "Skyworks is entering a new and exciting growth phase driven

by global wireless proliferation and the Internet of Things," said Aldrich in a

statement announcing Q3 results. "Quite simply, we are capitalizing on the macro

trend to connect virtually everyone and everything, all the time. Our

high-performance analog solutions and system-level integration capabilities

coupled with our operational agility and scalability are enabling us to connect

the previously unconnected."



Skyworks is a part of IBD's Electronic-Semiconductor Manufacturing industry

group. It has the highest Composite Rating in the group, with a 99 out of a

possible 99.



Key customers include Cisco Systems, General Electric, Google, Honeywell, Nokia

and Samsung Electronics. It competes with firms such as Analog Devices, Avago,

Hittite Microwave and Linear Technology.



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2014 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





