                              805 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)



                           February 25, 2016 Thursday



iPhone envy prompts internal police warning



BYLINE: WHAKATANE BEACON



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 306 words





Police staff could be intentionally damaging their iPhones to receive an upgrade

to the latest technology, a leaked email suggests.



In an internal email, inadvertently sent to media organisations on Tuesday,

Sergeant Roslyn Whitley from the police mobility team was concerned by the

number of requests for replacement cell phones.



"Since the 1st of February we have noticed an increase in the number of iPhone 6

requests received via the self-service portal," she wrote in the email.



"Our concern is that officers are too eager to receive the new device (as we all

are) and intentionally damage their devices to receive an iPhone 6 replacement.



"I am hopeful that this was not the case, however, the increase in replacement

requests is concerning."



Her comments are part of an email outlining the new self- service forms to

deploy of iPhone 6 and 6-plus devices.



The email went out to police staff on Friday and on Monday was inadvertently

distributed to media by a Rotorua-based police staffer.



The email was recalled with the staffer asking for it to be disregarded.



Police have since said there is no evidence of staff intentionally damaging

their devices, despite the comment in the email.



"All police mobility devices are provided under a managed service contract,

meaning there is no additional cost to police to replace lost or stolen

devices," a police spokesman said. "There are standard processes in place to

address any misuse of police equipment.



"The increase in requests from February 1 can be attributed to a number of

factors, including staff returning from long service and maternity leave and

secondments."



The original email outlined a new break-fix system implemented in February

whereby any new or replacement iPhone request would receive either an iPhone 6

or 6-plus rather than iPhone 5. Requests were assessed and prioritised.



LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





