                              811 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                             Herald Sun (Australia)



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday

                               HeraldSun Edition



Prize for a lucky few



BYLINE: Monique Hore



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23



LENGTH: 287  words





THOUSANDS of Apple enthusiasts scrambled to get their hands on the latest iPhone

yesterday after hours queuing for the new device.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus - priced from $868 to $1249 - hit the shelves at

8am but were quickly snapped up by those who camped overnight at shopping

centres across Melbourne.



Johnny Guan was the first to buy the iPhone 6 Plus at Highpoint Shopping Centre

after waiting 31 hours.



"It was worth it too because I was one of the first to get one," he said. "If

people come here again next year when the next one is released, I'll be here."

Diehard Apple supporters even flew to Melbourne from Taiwan - where the phone is

yet to be released - to nab the latest models.



The hysteria reached auction websites just hours after the release with some

phones being on-sold for hundreds of dollars above the retail price.



St Kilda's Brooke Carlson braved the elements to sleep the night outside the

Telstra store in Bourke Street.



"With the new software that came out there is so much more you can do with this

phone," she said.



"This is a big adjustment from the last iPhone so waiting was definitely worth

it." Apple announced earlier this week that it was inundated with a record

number of pre-orders, with more than four million people's order placed in the

first 24 hours. But the joy was short-lived, with Apple's Highpoint store

quickly selling out of the iPhone 6 Plus.



Xin Jin queued from more than nine hours, but was told the souped-up model -

with a bigger screen and better camera - had already sold out.



"We were about 30 in the queue but still didn't get one," he said. "Others have

told us that they only has eight (iPhone 6 Plus) in stock. Everybody is

disappointed."monique.hore@news.com.au



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Herald Sun





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





