                              81 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              China Business News



                     October 18, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



Big Demand at iPhone 6 Launch But Queues Smaller Than Before



LENGTH: 405  words





Oct. 18 -- Shanghai Municipal Government issued the following news release:



Although queues were smaller than in the past, customers line up in front of the

Apple flagship store at Lujiazui in Shanghai to buy the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6

Plus, which went on sale on the Chinese mainland yesterday.



Apple Inc started delivering the iPhone 6 to the Chinese mainland yesterday,

with the latest Apple model available through Apple stores, telecoms companies

and online shops.



The 64-gigabyte iPhone 6 Plus model seemed to be the most popular choice in

Shanghai, quickly selling out at some online outlets.



But while queues formed in front of Apple stores, the numbers waiting were fewer

than for previous iPhone debuts in the city.



As the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus were launched in the Chinese mainland a month

after its global debut, some hardcore fans are thought to have already bought

the new phone through overseas channels.



Some deliveries of the iPhone 6 models went to the four local Apple stores to

customers who had pre-ordered online.



Others were for customers who pre-ordered through local branches of China

Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom.



More than 150,000 pre-orders for the phone were made through carriers in

Shanghai, their figures show.



Prices of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, without contracts, range from 5,288

yuan (US$861) to 7,999 yuan, depending on the model. These include the 16, 64

and 128GB capacity versions.



Local carriers offering the iPhone 6 with contracts were giving discounts of up

to 50 percent on monthly fees.



The iPhone 6 Plus 64GB was the model to sell out first in China Telecom and

China Unicom's channels.



There will be a three-week wait for the next iPhone 6 Plus 64GB batch delivery,

said a staff member at the Apple store on Huaihai Road.



Customers can also buy the iPhone 6 online from retailers such as JD.com and

Suning.



Despite smaller queues, the release of the iPhone 6 once again created iPhone

fever in the company's largest potential market. More than 20 million pre-orders

were placed in China after October 10, reported Xinhua news agency.



For 4G networks, iPhones sold in Apple stores, China Unicom and China Telecom

outlets support both 4G standards including TD-LTE (time division-long term

evolution) and FDD-LTE (frequency division duplex-LTE).



China Mobile's models support TD-LTE only domestically but both technologies

during roaming overseas.



Source: Shanghai Municipal Government



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





