                              823 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               walesonline.co.uk



                     September 19, 2014 Friday 6:30 PM GMT



Apple fans get their hands on the new iPhone product - was it worth the

three-day wait in the queue?;

Some iPhone users were so keep to be the first to get the latest device from

Apple that they waited in queues overnight



BYLINE: By Alison Sanders



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 508 words





One of the first people in Britain to get their hands on the new iPhone said the

three-day queue outside the store was "worth the wait".



Self-employed Andy Walford, who travelled from Powys on Tuesday queued for three

nights in the Bullring, Birmingham to be first in line to get his hands on the

new iPhone 6.



The US company announced the new devices to much fanfare at a highly anticipated

event in California last week.



Many fans have been so keen to get their hands in the product they've been

queuing outside Apple stores for days in anticipation - among them Mr Walford.



He said: "I'm going to go home, have a shower, get some sleep and then play with

my iPhone. A friend is coming to give me a lift home.



"The last night was the hardest, I think because of the excitement. I got here

at 11am on Tuesday, My partner turned up on Wednesday which was a nice surprise

as I wasn't expecting her.



"It's the second time in a row I've been first in the queue. People say it's

crazy, but I've got a result and that's the result I came here for, I might see

you again next year."



iPhone quiz: Reckon you're a gadget guru? Test your knowledge of all things

iPhone



Dozens also queued outside Apple's shop in St David's Shopping Centre in

Cardiff.



Among them was Ramzan Iqbal, 45, from Pontypridd. He said: "I just want a new

iPhone, that's all. It just a thing I do, I normally try to get the new iPhones

on the launch day.



"It's just going to be a much more powerful device. Apple always makes really

good phones. The user experience is normally really good, so hopefully it's

going to be as good as they say it will."



Mike Nelson, 34, from Cardiff, said there was an element of wanting to be the

first to have the product.



He said: "I'm getting the small one, I don't really like the big one, I'd like

to keep the smaller size, the big one is practically an iPad.



"I don't have any expectations for it really, so I'm probably just spending

money on something that's no better than what I've already got.



"The things I like about the iPhone is it's convenience, it's easy to use,

iMessage, and most of my friends have got an iPhone, so it's easy to stay

connected."



Apple iPhone 6 fans queue through the night in Cardiff to buy the new phone



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are available in 10 countries from today,

including the UK, the US, Australia and Singapore, and a further 20 next Friday.



Both handsets will be available in new sizes for the first time, with the iPhone

6 offering a 4.7in screen, while the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen Apple has

ever produced for a smartphone at 5.5in.



Network operator EE said it will ensure that customers who pre-ordered new

handsets through Phones 4u, which went into administration on Sunday, would

still be able to get them in its stores.



A spokesman said: "All across the country we have set aside iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus handsets, enough for Phones 4u customers who pre-ordered iPhones on EE

through Phones 4u.



"If they go into EE stores and show their pre-order receipts they will be able

to claim one of the devices."



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM





                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





