                              826 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                          China Daily European Edition



                            September 9, 2016 Friday



After all the rumors, the big question: Has iPhone scored?



BYLINE: Liu Zheng in San Francisco



SECTION: COMPANIES



LENGTH: 796 words





Mega product launch, guaranteed media spotlight, but Apple's magic under

scrutiny



After listening to months of rumors, finally the climax: a mega product launch

event which once again caught the media spotlight for Apple Inc in September.



Moving on from initially being cheered up without a second's thought about the

new features of the latest generation of iPhones, which are equipped with dual

rear cameras and dust and water resistance features, a series of questions

popped up: does the design look familiar? Is Apple just following the trends

being set by the Huawei P9 and Samsung S7, rather than being innovative as it is

used to be?



I found the answer during my chats with online subscribers, who stayed up too

late to follow Apple's new business move on a live-streaming platform.



Some of them are independent IT critics who specialize in smartphone

photography. Some, who asked to be anonymous, said that the technologies and

algorithms behind the iPhone 7 Plus and Huawei P9 are different as the latter

provides a dual camera with one capturing monochrome and the other providing

color photos.



The dual camera system of the iPhone 7 Plus allows the two cameras to shoot as

one, for a high resolution optical zoom at two times.



"The new iPhone carries out the design theory of Apple, which is being simple,

fashion and user friendly," said James Yan, research director at Counterpoint

Technology Market Research.



Yan said there was no big surprises for the new iPhones, as the rumors prior to

the launch seemed to have disclosed most of the details. But he believes that

the products "will do well" in the first five months in China, and afterward,

the market performance will rely on whether its domestic competitors follow its

footsteps and launch products with similar technologies.



Meanwhile, the most regrettable thing for me this year is Augmented Reality

(AR).



As AR hardware manufacturing and investment has witnessed rapid growth from last

year in China and Pokemon Go, the location-based AR game, became a global hit

the market had been expecting to see Apple spread its wings.



Rumors linked to Apple's future VR strategy appeared online and drew the

industry's attention as CEO Tim Cook commented on the technology publicly, which

was interpreted as a sign Apple was about to extend into the AR sector.



But the "One More Thing" part of the event, described as the company's

traditional disclosure of a trend or innovative ideas that will be implemented

in its products, was not shown in the end.



People tend to think that Apple won't disclose any details until it's fully

ready to do so.



Sound bites



"Generally speaking, I am kind of disappointed with the iPhone 7 series. The new

series is not as innovative as I thought previously. Before the event, I really

look forward to the news that Apple may ditch the home button. But now Apple is

still keeping it. And since my iPhone 6s can meet my need for taking selfies, I

won't buy the new iPhone 7 or 7 plus. I would only buy one if I made a fortune."



Liu Yujing, 20, junior at North China University of Technology



"I have used the iPhone for around 7 years. Compared to other mobile phones,

iPhone is the best. So I always want to try Apple's new products. Seeing the

event, I really want to buy an iPhone 7 plus. Now I have a 64GB iPhone 6, and I

always need to delete stuff for new photos of my kid or news conferences. So I

really need a new one with enough space. And since the iPhone 7 plus packs dual

cameras, I will choose that instead of the iPhone 7."



Gao Suying, 39, chief editor at Bei-jing-based China Business Journal



"Compared with last year's iPhone 6s, I feel the new iPhone 7 series does not

bring any big change. Of course, there are some bright spots, such as the

waterproof feature and the final launch of the Super Mario Run for iPhone. For

me, the best part of the new series is the A-10 processor. Due to my Sony Xperia

Z3's small internal storage, I might consider buying an iPhone 6 plus or iPhone

6s. As you know, there definitely will be a price reduction on them."



Zhen Xiang, 26, staff member at Yiai Lake Park Administration in Huanggang,

Hubei province



"In design, the iPhone 7 series has not done enough on the innovation front. The

worst thing is the removal of the 3.55mm headphone jack, which will cause

inconvenience for users. Now users need to buy an extra convert-er for

headphones. What's more, consumers have to pay more money for more storage

space. So I certain-ly would not buy a new iPhone, Actually I have more fondness

for my own Huawei Honor 6 plus, which came out with dual cameras two years ago.

And the price is much better."



Zhu Yi, project manager at Research & Development Center (Jiaxing, Zhejiang

province) at Minth Group Ltd, a leading supplier of exterior auto parts



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 China Daily Information Co

                              All Rights Reserved





