                              834 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)



                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News



                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday



EDITORIAL: Catch the iPhone fever



BYLINE: The Anniston Star, Ala.



SECTION: COMMENTARY



LENGTH: 330 words





Sept. 23--The newest models of the iPhone, the 6 and 6 Plus, are gadgets. That's

all.



Granted, they're awesome gadgets -- if you're into that sort of thing. As

smartphones go, these newer, larger iPhones will do everything but cook

breakfast, though you can ask Siri for menu suggestions.



But they're just phones. And mini-computers. And cameras. All built into one.



Last week, the globe went nuts over Apple's latest perfection. More than 10

million iPhone 6 and 6 plus models were sold over the weekend, breaking previous

sales records. In the United States and Australia, Canada and France, Germany

and other nations, people stood in line for hours, if not days, hoping to be one

of the first humans to get their mitts on one of these things.



We love the iPhone as much as anyone else. (For what it's worth, smartphones are

revolutionary tools for journalists who now, with only a few taps on the screen,

can report, photograph and publish information from virtually anywhere and at

any time. We're sold on them.)



But imagine, if you will, a world that went this cuckoo over something less

flashy but more socially important. It would be a progressive thinker's dream.



Poverty's eradication can't compete with a bright, shiny object like an iPhone 6

Plus.



Neither can religious tolerance. Or medical research. Or any of the causes of

global pain -- wars, dictatorships, political differences, drug trafficking,

environmental and industrial pollution, climate change.



Lessening the impact of any of those ailments would be a godsend.



Instead, we get this odd, if not humorous, example of modern-day life on earth,

where millions of people clamor for the update of an expensive gadget. If given

the chance to channel that euphoria into something life-changing, something

morally right, would we? In all likelihood, we already know the answer.



___ (c)2014 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star

(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



ACC-NO: 20140923-AO-EDITORIAL-Catch-the-iPhone-fever-0923-20140923



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: AO





                        Copyright 2014 The Anniston Star





