                              836 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            October 31, 2014 Friday



New iPhones met with long lines '



LENGTH: 491 words





Won Kyung-hoon, a 41-year-old resident in Seoul, and other customers wait in

line at a sales outlet of LG Uplus in Seocho, Seoul, to receive the iPhone 6,

Friday. Won waited outside the store for more than two days to become the first

receiver of the iPhone 6. / Korea Times photo by Shim Hyun-chulBy Bahk Eun-ji



Hundreds of people waited in long lines to get their hands on the latest iPhone

models at some major outlets of mobile carriers and retail stores early Friday

when Apple started to release the phones in Korea.



Won Kyung-hoon, 41, waited for more than two days in front of a sales outlet of

LG Uplus in Seocho, southern Seoul, to become the first customer to receive an

iPhone 6 from the mobile carrier.



I have nothing to say except that I m happy, he told reporters after receiving

the phone.



The Apple s store, Frisbee in Myeongdong, central Seoul, had a long iPhone line,

with hundreds of customers braving light rain and cold weather to buy an

unlocked iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus.



The three mobile carriers, SK Telecom, KT and LG Uplus also competed to attract

customers, holding events and offering differentiated services and diverse phone

plans.



SK Telecom offers the 16G iPhone 6 for 789,800 won and the iPhone 6 Plus for

924,000 won.



KT offers a 250,000 won reduction as an incentive for users choosing a 129,000

won bill plan.



While LG Uplus provides a 246,050 won discount for those who choose a 120,000

won plan.



Lee Seung-lin, a civil servant in Seoul, said he joined the iPhone line at 6

a.m. and waited for more than five hours. He said he wanted to buy the unlocked

iPhone 6 Plus because he doesn t want to get a contract with the nation s major

mobile carriers.



I ll go with CJ Hellovision s bill plan because it s cheaper, and no requirement

of a two-year contract, Lee said.



CJ Hellovision is one of the mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) in Korea,

offering cheaper bill plans for budget handsets.



Another customer who bought an iPhone 6 at Frisbee, surnamed Kim living in

Seoul, said he also decided to go with CJ Hellovision s bill plan.



I really hate to sign two-year contracts with major telecommunications

companies. Although I paid 980,000 won for this device today, I think this way

is a lot cheaper, Kim said.



Kim got to the store and joined the line at 7 a.m.



Jung Ji-hee, a 23-year-old college student living in Seoul, visited the LG Uplus

store in Myeong-dong to receive the iPhone 6 she preordered a week ago.



Jung said she does not trust the service provided by MVNOS yet, because they

have little experience compared to major mobile carriers.



I chose LG Uplus because the price is the cheapest at 789,800 won. I liked it,

Jung said.



Kim Hyun-woo, a 27-year-old office worker, said he will choose KT for his iPhone

6.



I don t want to get bothered about bill plans and basically I don t see a big

difference among the telecom company s bill plans and incentives, Kim said. Kim

has used the iPhone 5 with KT s bill plan.



LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2014 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





