                              839 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday

                                NATIONAL EDITION



Apple Supply Of iPhone 6S Seen Lagging Lines Likely At Retail Launch



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ AND INVESTOR'S BUSINESS DAILY



SECTION: A; Pg. A04



LENGTH: 587 words





Apple has sold out its initial online inventory of iPhone 6 S series

smartphones, virtually assuring that there will be lines at its retail stores on

Friday when the new handsets go on sale.



Every model iPhone 6 S and i Phone 6 S Plus is on back order on Apple's website

and won't be shipped for at least one week. The iPhone 6 S Plus is most in

demand, with shipping dates pushed back three to four weeks.



Meanwhile, an analyst says Apple's timetable for its first electric car will

also likely have to be pushed back, and probably more than just three weeks.



In any case, Apple will start selling the iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus in its stores

at 8 a.m. local time Friday. It suggests customers arrive early.



The ninth-generation iPhones also will be available on Friday from wireless

carriers such as AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon, as well as select Apple

authorized resellers.



The iPhone 6 S series phones feature a pressure-sensitive display, a faster

processor, improved cameras and the Live Photos feature that adds motion to

still pictures. The phones come in four colors (silver, gold, space gray and

rose gold) and three data storage configurations (16 gigabytes, 64 GB and 128

GB).



The iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus start at $649 and $749, respectively, when paid in

full. Apple and wireless carriers also are offering monthly installment billing

plans.



Goldman Sachs analyst Simona Jankowski posted a bullish report on Apple on

Tuesday. She rates Apple stock as buy with a 12-month price target of 163.



Apple fell 1.6% Tuesday to 113.40.



Wall Street is modeling for flat i Phone revenue in fiscal 2016, but Goldman is

forecasting 6% growth.



FBR analyst Daniel Ives said i Phone 6 S demand "looks robust."Based on Apple

store checks, pre-order data and China market analysis, Apple is on a trajectory

to exceed the "Herculean-like" i Phone 6 sales in the December quarter last

year, Ives said. He upped his forecast for iPhone sales in Q4 to 77 million

units from 74 million units. In calendar Q4 last year, Apple sold 74.5 million

iPhones.



Ives rates Apple stock as outperform with a price target of 175.



Tesla Sets Example



As for any Apple e-car, it's unlikely to be in showrooms for consumers to buy in

2019, even if the tech firm is stepping on the accelerator to enter the auto

market, says a UBS analyst.



The Wall Street Journal on Monday said that's the year Apple is targeting for

its first e-car, citing people familiar with the matter.



When an Apple car is ready to hit the road could be a big issue for Tesla.



Tesla stock rose 1.4% Monday despite the WSJ report saying Apple aims to have a

car for sale within four years. Tesla's Model X electric crossover SUV is

expected launch on Sept. 29. But Tesla once hoped to be in volume production of

the Model X by 2014.



Tesla also is targeting the mass market with a $35,000 Model 3, due out in late

2017.



As for Apple, UBS analyst Steven Milunovich said in a research note Monday that

"the 2019 ship date may be overly ambitious, as Tesla delays suggest."



An e-car would "likely use an outsourced manufacturing model as (Apple) does

with most of its products," such as the iPhone, he wrote.



Reports surfaced earlier this year that Apple could be in talks with BMW. Its i3

electric car is said to be a strong challenger to Tesla.



The first Apple-branded electric car will not be self-driving, says the WSJ, but

an autonomous car could be part of Apple's long-range plans.



Goldman Sachs, in a report Sept. 17, said Apple and Google would face challenges

in the low-margin auto market.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





