                              83 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday



Apple kicks off gala event with larger iPhones



LENGTH: 421  words





Apple Inc unveiled two new iPhones on Tuesday with sharper and larger displays,

confirming longstanding speculation it will move into a market segment dominated

by arch-rival Samsung Electronics.



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



CUPERTINO, Calif. - Apple Inc unveiled two new iPhones on Tuesday with sharper

and larger displays, moving into a market segment dominated by arch-rival

Samsung Electronics.



The 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus will support more than 200

telecoms carriers worldwide, including all three in China - a key growth market

for the company.



Apple is expected to introduce its first new product since the iPad in 2010, a

smartwatch, later on Tuesday.



Bernstein Research analyst Toni Sacconaghi estimated on Tuesday that if Apple

were to sell 30 million iWatches at $250 each, it would add about $7.5 billion

to its revenue.



Rival electronics giants such as Sony Corp, Samsung, LG Electronics Inc and

Qualcomm Inc have already launched smartwatches, albeit without much success.



The pressure is on for the world's largest tech company to wow at its "special

event" in Cupertino. The prospect of Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook unveiling

the first device developed under his reign attracted a broader swathe of

attendees than usual, with celebrities, fashion industry editors and even

healthcare executives rounding out the mostly tech-industry crowd.



In a rare move for the company, Apple had planned on livecasting its event

online, with a simultaneous translation in Chinese. But the livestream went down

for many users about a half-hour in, prompting many to take to Twitter to

express their frustrations.



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice-president at Apple, Inc. speaks about the iPhone 6

and the iPhone 6 Plus during an Apple event at the Flint Center in Cupertino,

California, September 9, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



The battery life the Iphone 5s, Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9,

2014. [Photo by Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



Phil Schiller, Senior Vice President at Apple, Inc. speaks about the iPhone 6

during an Apple event at the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, September 9,

2014. [Photo/Agencies]



Apple announces the Iphone 6 and the Iphone 6 Plus, September 9, 2014. [Photo by

Eric Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



IPhone 6 Plus starts at $299 with a two-year contract. [Photo by Eric

Jou/chinadaily.com.cn]



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





