

Oct. 4 -- The Co-op Bank is making Apple Pay available to current account and
credit card customers from today.

Since its launch in mid-2015, Apple Pay has transformed the way consumers pay
for goods and services in the UK and Co-op Bank customers will now be able to
use this easy, secure and private way to pay that's fast and convenient.

Security and privacy is at the core of Apple Pay. When you use a credit or debit
card with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device, nor
on Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted
and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each transaction is
authorised with a one-time unique dynamic security code.

As part of its digital transformation, the Co-op Bank has already launched a new
website and improved online banking customer experience, as well as key upgrades
to its mobile banking app during 2016. More digital improvements are in the
pipeline before the end of the year; including: further updates and improvements
to the bank's website and online banking, and with more products and services
being made available online for customers.

Heather Lauder, Distribution Director at The Co-operative Bank said: "Apple Pay
has been something our customers have asked us to deliver and we're pleased we
can say that it's now available for over two million customers.

"Throughout 2016 we've made significant investment in our digital services to
improve customer experience that will make online banking with The Co-op Bank
more efficient and convenient. Security is a vital consideration and we want our
customers to feel secure when banking on the go."

When a customer uses Apple Pay on a compatible device none of the card details
are stored on the phone or hosted on Apple servers.

Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the
rewards and benets offered by credit and debit cards. In stores, Apple Pay works
with iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and later, iPhone SE and Apple Watch.

Online shopping in apps accepting Apple Pay is as simple as the touch of a
finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out lengthy account
forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information. When paying for
goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with iPhone 7, iPhone 7
Plus, iPhone SE, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2,
iPad mini 3, iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.

For more information on Apple Pay customers can visit:
http://www.apple.com/uk/apple-pay/

Source: Co-Operative Bank

