                              842 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                          September 10, 2016 Saturday



No midnight launch for Apple iPhone 7, 7 Plus in India?



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 468 words





NEW DELHI: Seems there will be no midnight launch for Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone

7 Plus in India this time. One of the biggest distributors for Apple devices in

India, Beetel Teletech Ltd has announced that it will launch the new iPhone 7

and iPhone 7 Plus phones at 7pm on October 7, 2016. The new smartphones will be

available at the company's 2,000 retail locations in North and East regions

across the country. The company said that it will also be holding special launch

events across Delhi/NCR region at select locations.



Since past many years, the new iPhone models have been launched at midnight

(sharp 12am) in India, similar to iPhones' midnight launch events in the US and

some other geopgraphies. Another Apple distributor Rashi Peripherals too has

announced that it will start selling the latest iPhones from October 7 in India.

The company, however, has so far not disclosed the time when it will start sales

at its 1,000 locations across the country.The all-new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus

come in three variants as per storage -- 32GB, 128GB and 256GB. The colour

options available include Silver, Gold, Rose Gold, Black and Jet Black. The

company has replaced the Space Grey colour variant with its new aluminium-finish

Jet Black and mirrorless-finish Black variants.Though there's not much change in

design terms in the new iPhones, the antenna lines, which previously ran across

the back panel on top and bottom of the devices, now run on the sides giving an

overall cleaner look. Another new feature is water and dust-proofing, courtesy

the IP67 rating. The models also have a new Home button which is now touch

sensitive and uses a new Taptic engine for better response.The handsets, as

rumoured before, have 3.5mm headphone jack replaced with the Lightning

port-based connectors. On display front, iPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch Retina HD

display while the iPhone 7 Plus comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD display. iPhone

7 packs 12MP rear camera with f/1.8 aperture, 6 Element lens, 4 flash LEDs and

flicker sensor. There's also an Image signal processor to apply machine learning

to distinguish between a human and an object in the image and adjust its

brightness and noise.While iPhone 7 features a single 12MP rear camera, its

big-screen variant iPhone 7 Plus comes with two 12MP rear camera with 2x optical

zooming capability up to 56mm. Both sport a 7MP FaceTime camera for selfies and

video chats.Talking about the performance, the two iPhone 7 handsets are powered

by quad-core Apple A10 Fusion processor. The processor has two high-performance

cores and two high-efficiency cores for a longer battery life and a new 6-core

GPU which is 50% faster than the A9 processor.Last but not the least, there are

also stereo speakers with high dynamic range.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





