                              843 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                    September 10, 2015 Thursday 4:13 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6s Plus hands-on review: Incremental update or phablet revolution?;



Just what is the difference between the new iPhone handset and its predecessors?

Tom Parsons, Deputy Editor of Stuff.tv, gets his hands on one...



BYLINE: By mirror



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 611 words





"The only things that's changed is everything".



As far as hyperbole goes, that's way up there, but Apple's slogan for the iPhone

6s and 6s Plus is designed to tackle the feeling of familiarity head-on.



Yes, these new phones look just like the ones that went before them, but

underneath the skin they're game-changing.



At least that's the theory.



To find out the truth I made a beeline for the 6s Plus table as soon as the

keynote finished. I've got a 6 Plus and I wanted to know whether it's going to

be worth upgrading. I now feel that it is.



The most significant change for the new phones is the addition of 3D Touch,

which is a further development of the Force Touch tech first seen on the

super-slim MacBook's trackpad back in June.



Force Touch on the MacBook is very handy, but it only really works in the same

way as the right-click of a mouse. 3D Touch is more clever than that.



Apply a bit of pressure in a compatible part of iOS 9 and you activate the

"peek" function, which gives you a glimpse at what's contained within.



iPhone launch live: FIRST LOOK at the new smart phone



Peek and pop feature all over the place on the 6s Plus. On an app icon it can

provide some very useful shortcuts.



For example, use peek on the Phone icon and you get a pop-up list of three

people you might want to call, on Music it can take you straight to a radio

station or an album.



Both versions of the new iPhone get a new 12MP iSight camera, up from the 8MP of

the existing models. And once again the Plus phone gets optical image

stabilisation while the standard 6s does without.



At a hands-on event like this it's impossible to really put a camera through its

paces, but it certainly looks as though those extra megapixels are being put to

good use, with images looking noticeably sharper than those of the 6 Plus.



The 12MP sensor also means panoramas are now 63MP, and the iPhone can now

capture 4K video for the very first time.



But far more interesting and surprising to me is the new Live Photo feature.



Apple reveal new Apple TV with exciting new features



As you scroll through the Photos app you'll see a flash of movement on those

that were taken with Live Photo, and if you press on them you'll see the extra

bit of footage that was captured.



Naturally the new iPhones are more powerful than those that went before.



Both the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus get Apple's new A9 chip, which the company says

improves overall CPU performance by up to 70% over the previous generation, and

graphics performance is apparently up by a whopping 90%.



Honestly, I didn't notice the difference during my brief hands-on with the 6s

Plus. Yes, it operation is lightning fast, but it's not as though the 6 Plus is

sluggish. Where the increased power will probably be useful is in new, more

graphically intensive games, such as the aforementioned Warhammer 40K:

Freeblade.



Both the 6s and 6s Plus are thicker than the phones that preceded them to the

tune of 0.2mm. That puts the 6s Plus at 7.3mm thick, and it's heavier too, at

192g compared to the 6 Plus' 172g.



3D Touch is just so simple, intuitive and time-saving that I think it's one of

those features that you'll grow so used to you'll wonder how you ever lived

without it, while Live Photos adds a really beautiful extra layer of warmth to

your still photos.



Both of those features are game-changing, and I want them in my life just as

soon as possible.



I won't have to wait long: pre-orders for both the 6s and 6s Plus open on 12th

September and both will be available on 25th September.



Tom Parsons is the Deputy Editor of Stuff.tv, where a longer version of this

review originally appeared. Check it out for the latest gadget news, reviews and

features.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





