                              844 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                           February 12, 2013, Tuesday



iPhone 6 rumor rollup - blizzard delayed - for week ending Feb. 8;

The 5-inch phone with 5G Wi-Fi, and how Apple can increase sales



BYLINE: John Cox



LENGTH: 2135 words





As a massive blizzard enveloped the Northeast U.S. (and delayed this edition of

The Rollup), a blizzard of rumors sweptthe iOSphere about iPhone 6.



There were "reports" from such sources as a "friend at a supplier" in Apple's

supply chain about seeing not one but two new iPhones, one with a

bigger-than-4-inch screen. There was actually some informed speculation on how

Apple might achieve that without disrupting its ecosystem for iOS apps.



Because Samsung is rumored to be introducing "5G" Wi-Fi in its next Galaxy S

smartphone, it logically follows that Apple will, too. And finally some sound

advice for Apple on how to make the 2013 holiday sales of the Next iPhone even

more successful: reduce the number of days that people can buy it.



You read it here second.



___________ ___________ CNET was one tech site that noticed, or noticed other

tech sites noticing, a Chinese language blog post that declared that both the

iPhone 5S and the 5-inch iPhone 6 "have shown up at an Apple supplier in China,"

writes CNET's Steven Musil.  [ RELATED: iPhoneys: iPhone 6 edition ] "The models

could be released this year, according to a post by a Sina Tech user called Old

Yao," Musil writes. "He reports that a friend of his at a supplier has seen the

models and says that the iPhone 5S resembles the iPhone 5, while the iPhone 6 is

wider, longer, and thinner."



"CNET has contacted Apple for comment and will update this report when we learn

more."



We're not holding our breath.



We're confident Musil got the general sense of the Chinese right. If you read

Chinese, you can have at it yourself. If not, savor the Google Translate version

of the original blog post: "A buddy from the apple vendor to see will be

released this year the iphone 5s and iphone iphone 5s iphone 5 is said to almost

the iphone 6 changes, screen should be Wucun, than crazy five wider, longer,

thinner, lighter, just people not to take pictures, otherwise everyone to

share."



We move from the ridiculous to the genuinely speculative. Apple watchers, Rene

Ritchie at iMore, and Marco Arment, creator of Instapaper, at Marco.org,

recently and separately put together some thoughtful analysis on how Apple could

actually create a larger-screen phone.



Essentially, they've asked the question, "If Apple did decide to create a 5-inch

iPhone, how could they do it, what would the trade-offs be, and which design

option would they be most likely to use?"



Ritchie's most recent commentary on this, "More on a 5-inch iPhone and scaling

the interface," reiterates his point that "stretching the screen" of the iPhone

5 offers the simplest way to create a big-screened iPhone.



"If you think of the iPad mini as a tablet that's using phone [pixel] density,

then the big iPhone is just a phone using tablet [pixel] density," he writes.

"[The result is that] you have phone interface at high density, phone interface

at less-high density, tablet interface at high density, tablet interface at

less-high density."



"Then, just like there's an 11- and 13-inch MacBook Air, and a 13- and 15-inch

MacBook Pro, there's a 4- and 5-inch iPhone, and a 7.9 and 9.7-inch iPad," he

writes.



Here's iMore's mockup of how the iPhone lineup would look. From right: the

5-inch "iPhone maxi," the 4-inch iPhone 5, iPhone 4, and at far left, the

original iPhone.



Arment argues along similar lines in his blog post "A crazier prediction: iPhone

Plus is real, and huge." "The iPad Mini uses iPhone 3GS-density screens at iPad

resolution," he notes. "What if an iPhone Plus used Retina iPad screens with

iPhone 5 resolution, keeping the rest of the design sized like an iPhone 5?" By

"keeping the rest of the design sized like an iPhone 5," Arment seems to mean

that the iPhone Plus would appear to be "an iPhone 5 that's proportionally

larger."



Here are the relevant current resolution and pixel densities (PPI) for

reference:



* iPad retina: resolution, 1028 x 1536; PPI, 264 * iPad 2: resolution, 1024 x

768; PPI, 132 * iPad mini: resolution, 1024 x 768; PPI, 163 * iPhone 3GS:

resolution, 480 x 320; PPI, 165 * iPhone 5: resolution, 1136 x 640; PPI, 326 *

Arment's iPhone Plus: resolution, 1136 x 640; PPI, 264The Plus would have the

iPhone 5's resolution and the retina iPad's pixel density. The screen size would

measure 4.94 inches diagonally, Arment says. He created a Photoshop rendering

comparing iPhone 5 and iPhone Plus.



"By keeping the pixel dimensions the same as the iPhone 5, no app changes would

be necessary," Arment writes, underscoring what is probably a vital concern for

Apple. "While the larger screen would hinder one-handed use, two-handed use

would actually be easier because the touch targets would all be larger, and

UIKit's standard metrics and controls still work well at that physical size."

The UIKit framework provides the classes needed to build and manage an iOS

application's user interface.



Why or whether Apple would create a larger phone remains an open question.

Ritchie uses some hard data to create a useful perspective for answering it.



"Almost 9 out of 10 AT&T customers bought 4-inch or smaller iPhones last quarter

rather than all big screen Android and Windows Phones combined, and roughly 6

out of 10 Verizon customers did the same," he writes. "So aside from geeks who

keep posting about how they really want it, and shoppers for whom bigger as a

feature is always better, Apple might not feel any pressing, mainstream need to

add another screen size to the iPhone product line. Yet."



And we know this because there are people who are expecting that Samsung's

forthcoming Galaxy S IV smartphone will use a Broadcom chip that supports the

IEEE 802.11ac standard, which can achieve 1.3Gbps. This expectation "has lead

[sic] to speculation" that the Next iPhone will, too.



Simple, eh? It's the iOSphere's idea of logic.



"News that Samsung's Galaxy S4 smartphone (expected to launch this month) may

support 802.11ac, also known as '5G Wi-Fi', has lead [sic] to speculation that

Apple's next iPhone could support standard as well," according to Macworld

Australia.



This "news" apparently is simply a comment, presumably in a Note To Investors,

by Evercore Partners stock analyst Patrick Wang. According to Macworld AU, Wang

"has said that new connectivity chips from Broadcom are expected to be used in

the Samsung's Galaxy S4, and that Apple is also believed to be in talks with

Broadcom about new chips for its iPhone 6, as well as the rumoured low-cost

iPhone."



The passive voice covers a multitude of speculation, guesses and sheer wishful

thinking.



Macworld AU quotes Wang as saying, "We conducted a series of check that indicate

[Broadcom's] combo chip (likely 4335, with 5G Wi-Fi, BT, FM) remains designed

into Samsung's forthcoming Galaxy S4."



One would give a great deal to be assured that "conducting a series of checks"

entailed more than "we searched a bunch of tech rumor websites."



But, Wang warns, according to the Macworld post, "that he believes Apple may

only use Broadcom's 43342 combo chip, which works on 802.11a/b/g/n, BT, FM

networks in its iPhone 6, alternatively dubbed iPhone 5S, with a ramp starting

mid-2013." That would be Bad News, because we might have "only" 802.11n on a

2013 iPhone instead of "5G Gigabit Smoking Awesome" 11ac.



Yet for the initial 11ac-equipped smartphones, the chips, including Broadcom's

BRC4335 supposedly destined for the Next Galaxy S, will only support one data

stream. Assuming it can find an 11ac access point or router to connect with, and

get an 80MHz-wide channel, and 256 QAM modulation, and it's not sharing the air

with other 11ac clients, it might realize a throughput of 300Mbps.



Which, no doubt about it, is pretty good.



Broadcom announced its 11ac chip lineup in January 2012, with a battery of chip

products supporting one to three spatial streams, targeted at different classes

of products (access points, routers, PCs, smartphones, tablets, embedded

devices); some of the chips, called "combo chips," also support Bluetooth 4.0

and/or FM radio. The BCM4335 11ac chip announced last July and "expected" in the

next Galaxy S is one such "combo" chip. It's due to ship in volume in Q1 2013 --

any time now.



AnandTech's Brian Klug noted in July that the BCM4335 that the BCM4335 "includes

a number of the optional 802.11ac features including 256QAM, short guard

interval, beamforming, low density parity check (LDPC), and space-time block

coding (STBC).



This results in a PHY rate of 433.3 Mbps [actual throughput as mentioned above

would be about 300Mbps] with 80 MHz channels on 802.11ac."



The BRC4334, which Wang fears may be Apple's choice for the Next iPhone, is also

a combo chip, which supports 802.11n. Apple first selected it for the iPhone 5.

It's widely used in the industry. One of its most important capabilities is that

the iPhone 5 become the first model, and one of the first phones in the

industry, to be able to use the uncluttered 5GHz band, instead of only the

2.4GHz band. [see "FAQ: iPhone 5 and 5GHz Wi-Fi"] Though still in the process of

being ratified formally by the IEEE, the 11ac standard is for all practical

purposes finalized.



The Wi-Fi Alliance will start interoperability testing and certification of 11ac

products this spring. That could be soon enough for Apple to introduce it in an

iPhone later this year. But Apple didn't rush into LTE: The iPhone 5 in fall of

2012 was the first iPhone model to support it.



The benefits of running 11n Wi-Fi in the 5GHz band probably will outweigh those

offered by an 11ac phone that will find far fewer 11ac routers and access points

and hotspots with which to connect, until home, office, and carrier networks are

gradually upgraded to the new standard. [See "11ac will be faster, but how much

faster really?"] So while there's little doubt that Apple is evaluating 11ac,

there's somewhat more doubt about when it might introduce it to the iPhone.



If Apple wants to succeed with the Next iPhone, it "might have better luck

waiting until the very end of the year to announce its newest iPhone, rather

than follow Apple's new 11-month release cycle that might see a new iPhone in

September, or even August."



That's the contention of Dave Smith, writing for International Business Times

(IBT).



Let's assume there is logic at work here.



"Last year, the iPhone 5 took product hype to a new level," Smith asserts.

"Unfortunately, despite people talking about this unknown device for more than a

full 12 months, introducing the device only seemed to dampen excitement

surrounding Apple."



Wait. The iPhone 5 was introduced and it dampened excitement? Could this be the

same iPhone 5 that set all-time sales records, and drove all-time revenue

records, in Apple's first quarter? The same iPhone that, as iMore's Rene Ritchie

pointed out above, "almost 9 out of 10 AT&T customers bought ... and roughly 6

out of 10 Verizon customers [also bought] ..."?



"The iPhone 5 has been a very successful product for Apple," Smith admits,

somewhat confusingly. So it didn't dampen excitement?



"[B]ut the company needs to reenergize its fan base if it hopes to outdo its

iPhone 5 sales with the 2013 iPhone." Yet every iPhone model has been

significantly more successful than the previous model, suggesting that the "fan

base" is has been increasingly energized.



"To feed the hype machine, Apple should wait for a longer-than-normal period to

release the iPhone 6," Smith concludes.



Specifically, without hashing the entire 2007-2012 history of Apple's iPhone

release dates yet again, Smith believes that the way for Apple to even more

successful with the Next iPhone is to delay releasing it until November 2013.



In other words, Apple will sell more iPhones during the holiday season by

selling them for a shorter holiday season.



That seems, shall we say, counterintuitive.



But, according to Smith, by releasing iPhone 5 in late September 2012,

"customers were left more time to choose between Apple's latest iPhone and all

other smartphones released during that time." So, logically, by releasing iPhone

6 in November or possibly even December, buyers would have less time to choose

between iPhone 6 and ... uh ... all the other phones that still could be

released between September and December.



Or something.



"If Apple wants the iPhone 6 to be its best-selling smartphone ever, the company

needs to release the phone closer to the Christmas holiday," Smith blithely

asserts, repeating his insight that shortening the holiday buying season for the

Next iPhone would result in higher sales. Somehow.



Perhaps he's counting on the Frenzy Factor in buying, which results in the

by-now-expected Black Friday shopping riots, visible in this handy YouTube

compilation for 2012 or one of the free-for-alls for the latest Air Jordan

basketball shoe.



John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.

Twitter: @johnwcoxnww Email: john_cox@nww.com







LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter





                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





