                              850 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                            February 9, 2015 Monday



Apple's iPhone profits leaves rivals with little but table scraps



BYLINE: Troy Wolverton



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 488 words





Apple has long gobbled up an outsized share of the smartphone industry's

profits. But in the fourth quarter, the iPhone maker's slice of the profit pie

reached comically largely proportions.



In the holiday period, Apple made about $19.4 billion in pre-tax profits from

selling its lineup of iPhones, estimated Michael Walkley, a financial analyst

who covers Apple for Canaccord Genuity, in a report issued Sunday. That

represented about 93 percent of the total operating profits generated by the

entire industry, which was an all-time high for Apple, Walkley wrote.



"We believe Apple's iPhone 6/6 Plus smartphones dominated December smartphone

sales at unprecedented levels," Walkley wrote in his report.



In the fourth quarter a year earlier, Apple soaked up 75 percent of smartphone

industry profits, according to Walkley. For all of 2014, profits from iPhone

sales accounted for 79 percent of profits.



Apple reported record earnings last month on huge iPhone sales growth . The

company sold 74.5 million iPhones in the quarter, which was up 46 percent from

the same period a year earlier.



According to Walkley's report, Apple was one of only two companies whose slice

of the smartphone profit pie was larger than 1 percent. Samsung, which gleaned

about $1.8 billion in profits from selling its lineup of Galaxy phones,

accounted for 9 percent of total industry profits. That was Samsung's smallest

portion of industry profits since 2008, Walkley wrote.



The six other companies mentioned in Walkley's report either posted profits that

were so small that they essentially had a 0 percent share of the pie, or they

lost money on their smartphone sales, meaning that their share was actually

negative. Microsoft was the worst in that regard; according to Walkley's

analysis, the software giant lost about $414 million on its smartphone sales in

the fourth quarter, giving it a -2 percent share of industry profits.



"Other leading (smartphone manufacturers) continue to struggle," he wrote.



Apple's expanding portion of the smartphone industry's profits has come despite

the fact that its share of total smartphones sold actually was flat last year,

according to Walkley's estimate. Apple sold 192.7 million iPhones in 2014, which

accounted for 15.5 percent of the total smartphones sold. That's the same share

Apple had in 2013, when it sold 153.5 million, according to Walkley.



Other estimates have indicated that Apple's share of smartphone device sales

actually fell last year.



Walkley forecast that Apple's strong iPhone sales will continue this year, as

existing iPhone owners upgrade their phones to the new models and the new

big-screened iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models lure away Android users.



"We believe these trends should grow Apple's iPhone installed base and bodes

well for future strong iPhone replacement sales, earnings, and cash flow

generation," he wrote.



Photo of Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models courtesy of the company.



LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





