                              859 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              The Washington Post



                           September 26, 2014 Friday

                                Suburban Edition



To bend new iPhones, you have to be trying



BYLINE: Hayley Tsukayama



SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13



LENGTH: 645 words





The verdict is in: You can bend an iPhone 6 Plus. But unless you are really

trying to do it, it probably will be fine.



That's the conclusion coming out of phone warranty provider and durability

tester SquareTrade, which ran some basic bending "tests" this week on the iPhone

6 Plus at The Washington Post's request after reports circulated that the phone

with a 5.5-inch display is warping from the strain of being in people's pockets.



Apple itself acknowledged Thursday that it has received reports of the phone

bending. But cases are "extremely rare." Out of the millions of phones sold,

Apple said, nine customers contacted the company about a bent iPhone 6 Plus.



Apple performs "rigorous tests throughout the entire development cycle including

3-point bending, pressure point cycling, sit, torsion, and user studies," a

spokeswoman said in a statement. "iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus meet or exceed all

of our high quality standards to endure everyday, real life use."



SquareTrade's tests are worth noting, though they probably fell short of what

Apple did in its labs. For the first trial, SquareTrade asked two of the most

physically fit members of its office to try to bend some phones.



Employee Jessica Hoffman - a 5-foot-4-inch pianist who, like her colleagues,

"considers herself strong," the company said - couldn't make it budge, even when

applying direct pressure to the weakest part of the phone, near the volume

buttons. But her colleague Pace Lu, a bodybuilder and certified personal trainer

who can bench-press 405 pounds, bent the phone "pretty easily," said Ty Shay,

SquareTrade's chief marketing officer.



"He tried with about half his strength; he could have broken it if he wanted

to," Shay said.



To judge the phone's durability in more routine situations, the company ran a

"skinny jeans" test, to see whether the device would bend under the strain of

being wedged in a tight pocket, a claim made by users on several Apple online

forums.



SquareTrade sought out an employee wearing skinny jeans - in this case Pourmeh

Sarram, who is 5-foot-10 and told The Post that he has a 31-inch waist. Sarram

wedged the phone in his front pocket, then sat in an office chair for 30 minutes

with the phone in his front pocket - mirroring a situation that a user described

in a widely circulated MacRumors post.



Sarram said this was "very uncomfortable." And SquareTrade asked Sarram to do 10

squats with the phone in his pocket. None of these situations managed to bend

the phone. (The company didn't try a test with the phone in the back pocket, so

we have no official test of what happens when iPhone meets butt.)



So, yes, the phone can bend. But at least from these "tests," you really have to

be trying to bend it in order to do any noticeable damage.



That's not to say the photos of severely bent iPhones circulating under the

Twitter              hashtag              #bendgate Wednesday were faked or

doctored. But there's no way to independently verify whether the phones really

warped during normal use or if people bent them on purpose and then claimed a

defect. For SquareTrade, whose whole business is assessing the risk of phone

damage, bending is not something it thinks will happen often. And, Shay said,

the company is unlikely to add a bendability exercise to its normal battery of

tests any time soon.



"My opinion is that this is an edge case," he said. In looking through the

dozens of insurance claims filed on the iPhone 6 Plus - yes, just a few days

after its launch, people have already dropped them on the sidewalk or immersed

them in water - there have been no claims about bending.



Plus, Shay said, the bent iPhone still worked. "I think this is mostly cosmetic

damage, like scratching the case," he said.



But if it ends up being a common problem, Shay said that SquareTrade would

"definitely create a bend test going forward."



hayley.tsukayama@washpost.com



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





     Copyright 2014 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a

                            Washington Post Digital

                              All Rights Reserved





