                              863 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                             coventrytelegraph.net



                     September 6, 2016 Tuesday 10:56 AM GMT



iPhone 7 to come in FIVE colours - all the latest updates, features and rumours;



All the latest news as Apple gets ready to launch new model in San Francisco



BYLINE: By James Rodger



SECTION: WHAT'S ON



LENGTH: 416 words





The iPhone 7 is coming, according to reports, and new details are now emerging

ahead of the launch.



Apple will reportedly unveil the new smartphone model - which is eagerly

anticipated by millions across the globe, including Coventry and Warwickshire

residents - at a big event in San Francisco on September 7.



And the new details come from well-connected analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI

Securities, who issued a new research note on Saturday.



According to the note, the iPhone 7 model will include one very useful feature

for photo fanatics - it will have four LED flash lights, up from two in the

iPhone 6s.



Furthermore, two of these LEDs will be in cool colours, and two in warm colours,

and Apple is also expected to add an ambient light sensor to the iPhone 7.



Apple and Netflix customers targeted by new scam



These additions should improve image quality, according to experts, but it

remains to be seen whether the new features will appear on the 4.7-inch iPhone 7

or just the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus.



The latter is also expected to feature a dual-lens camera capable of taking

SLR-quality photos.



According to Kuo, the iPhone 7 Plus camera will feature two 12-megapixel lenses

- one wide angle, and one telephoto.



iPhone 7 launch date CONFIRMED by Apple - find out when



The new design is expected to offer optical zoom and light field camera

applications.



The research note, seen by AppleInsider, also suggests the iPhone 7 will come in

32GB, 128GB, and 256GB storage options, eliminating both the 16GB and 64GB

tiers, according to Kuo.



It will come in five colours - silver, gold, rose gold, dark black and "piano

black".



iPhone hackers can access your device with just ONE click



Recently, Apple has been facing issues in the form of the dreaded 'Touch

Disease', first spotted last week by gadget repair specialist iFixit.



According to reports, a growing number of customers have been sending their

iPhone 6 handsets in for repair after a grey, flickering bar appeared at the top

of their display.



Shortly after the appearance of this grey bar, the iPhone's touchscreen has

reportedly become unresponsive, rendering the device useless.



iFixit claims that the issue can be traced back to a structural design flaw in

the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus - meaning millions of handsets could potentially be

vulnerable.



Despite this revelation, it currently remains unclear how widespread the problem

is.



Several users have been left angry by their handset's vulnerability, with many

taking to the Apple website to report the issue.



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET





                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





