                              864 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           September 29, 2014 Monday



Offline retailers may boycott iPhone 6 as iPhone 5S being offered at discounted

prices on e-commerce sites like Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal



BYLINE: Gulveen Aulakh



SECTION: HARDWARE



LENGTH: 885 words





NEW DELHI: Some mobile phone retailers have threatened to boycott Apple's

much-awaited iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models after their expected pre-Diwali launch

because they are miffed that the iPhone 5S is being offered at heavily

discounted prices on popular e-commerce sites Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal.



According to sellers that ET spoke to, some of the 1.5 lakh retailers claimed

they have returned their iPhone 5S models, saying they can't compete with the

discounts, which have lowered the price of the device to less than their cost.



"All over India, there is a huge uproar and heartburn among retailers against

online sellers since their business and reputation is being lost," said Subhash

Chandra, managing director of retail store chain Sangeetha Mobiles, adding that

offline sellers were adversely affected as customers were increasingly going

online.



A top executive at another retailer told ET that if things stay as they are, he

would neither display nor sell the Apple iPhone 6 or 6 Plus. Apple products are

distributed in India by Redington and Ingram Micro. ET could not independently

confirm whether retailers had returned iPhone 5S models. Apple didn't respond to

emailed queries seeking comment.



An executive close to dealings at Apple India said the company hasn't authorised

marketplaces such as Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal to sell iPhones in India.

Infibeam is the sole authorised online seller for iPhones while Flipkart is

authorised to sell iPads and iPods.



The emergence of online retailing and its pricing benefits and the rift created

with traditional sales channels exists in other global markets as well, for

instance, when Amazon started operating in the US.



In India, where the online retail growth story has only just begun, about 12-14%

of mobile phone sales are being diverted from offline retailers on a monthly

basis, according to research firm Convergence Catalyst. This will only increase

as Internet penetration spreads and e-commerce grows.



"There is unrest among retailers, as even brands are supporting online," said

Satish Babu, founder of retail store chain UniverCell Mobiles.



Titu Tanwani, one of the largest distributors of mobile phones in Jaipur, told

ET that many retailers had decided to stop selling iPhones as they were facing

massive flak from consumers who are able to buy the devices online at much lower

prices.



"The price difference is as high as Rs 11,000 on some models. Apple is

liquidating stocks of the older models," he said, alleging that the company was

doing so in anticipation of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus launch expected next

month. He added that state trade associations, such as that of Rajasthan, were

protesting against the brands.



E-commerce sites show that the 16 GB iPhone 5S, the highest-selling model for

the company in India this year, on offer at betweenRs 34,000 and Rs 36,000, as

much as 36% less than the original retail price of Rs 53,500.



The 16 GB iPhone 5S is available on Amazon for Rs 33,999.



Tanwani added that retailers were also rallying against local handset makers.

The retailers are threatening to boycott Micromax, Spice and Karbonn, which have

launched devices backed by Google's Android One platform exclusively online.



Google has partnered with Micromax, Karbonn and Spice to sell Android One

smartphones priced between Rs 6,299 and Rs 6,499, exclusively on the three

e-commerce sites.



Spice didn't respond to ET's queries at the time of writing. "To ensure

convenient access to our devices, our distribution strategy is a judicious mix

of both traditional and new-age sales channels. Retailers continue to be the

lynchpin of our distribution nexus and we would continue to expand our retail

network in the future," Karbonn said in a statement.



A Micromax company spokesperson said all distribution channels will coexist but

consumers should have the choice to buy from any platform they choose. "India is

a huge market and hence different channels are developing to serve the various

consumer segments. As part of our tactical promotions, we might choose a partner

for a particular activity but our strategic intent is a balanced approach

towards all sales channels."



A senior executive from a large format retail chain told ET that he had returned

his Apple phones to distributors in protest, adding that they cannot compete

with prices offered online. "We will be talking to the brands individually, but

I won't hesitate to boycott a brand if I am being treated unfairly."



Several large format retailers, including UniverCell, Sangeetha Mobiles, The

Mobile Store and Spice's Hot Spot, have created an informal association that is

trying to sort out the situation and will be speaking to consumers and the

government on the matter, which they say threatens their survival.



However, the existence of e-commerce stores and competition from them are a

reality that none of the retailers can ignore, said The Mobile Store's Chief

Executive Himanshu Chakravarti.



The Essar Group-owned company, which owns more than 800 stores across the

country, plans to partner with e-commerce players to augment revenue and limit

the loss of customers.



Sangeetha Mobiles' online store, ShopNo47.com, launched on eBay India's site

early this month to sell mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and accessories.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





