                              865 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                              Indian Banking News



                      July 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Apple Pay Now Available for HSBC Customers in Hong Kong



LENGTH: 477  words





July 20 -- HSBC today brings Apple Pay to Hong Kong customers, offering a fast,

easy and secure way to pay. HSBC Visa and MasterCard cardholders can make

payments conveniently using Apple Pay in stores with Visa payWave or MasterCard

contactless payment terminals in Hong Kong and overseas.



Greg Hingston, Head of Retail Banking and Wealth Management, Hong Kong, HSBC

said, "We are pleased to enable our customers to be among the first to enjoy

Apple Pay in Hong Kong. It is a fast, easy and secure way for us to do our

everyday shopping. Digital is an integral part of our strategy as technology and

mobility are changing the way our customers access information, products and

services. This is re-shaping people's lifestyles, including how they do their

banking. The number of active Mobile Banking customers has increased almost 50%

over the past three years. We expect this to rise as customers continue to

migrate to digital banking and as we roll out innovative offerings such as Apple

Pay."



Security and privacy are at the core of Apple Pay. When you use a credit card

with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device, nor on

Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted

and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each transaction is

authorised with a one-time unique dynamic security code.



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benefits offered by HSBC credit cards, with access a wide range of

credit card offers and privileges such as enjoying extra RewardCash. From now

till 31 August 2016, HSBC cardholders can enjoy instant offers when conducting a

single contactless payment transaction of a specified spending amount at our

respective *participating merchants. In addition, HSBC Visa or MasterCard

cardholders will enjoy an extra $10 RewardCash upon conducting a single

transaction of HKD 30 or above with a Personal Credit Card via Apple Pay three

times.



Apple Pay works with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone

SE and Apple Watch in participating stores. For online shopping in apps

accepting Apple Pay, it is simple, without needing to repeatedly fill out

lengthy account forms or type in shipping and billing information. When paying

for goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with iPhone 6s,

iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone SE, iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3,

iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.



For more information on Apple Pay, visit: www.apple.com/hk/en/apple-pay/



For more information on how to set HSBC credit card for Apple Pay, visit:

https://www.hsbc.com.hk/personal/credit-cards/apple-pay.html



Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at

http://www.about.hsbc.com.hk/~/media/hong-kong/en/news-and-media/160720-hsbc-app

le-pay-launch-en.pdf)



Source: HSBC Hong Kong



LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





