                              867 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                    February 25, 2016 Thursday 10:58 PM GMT



iPhone 5se: New phone 'could hit the shops as early as March 18';

Schematic drawings and renderings of Apple's next iPhone reveal that the new

device will look very similar to the iPhone 5s



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 579 words





Apple's eagerly anticipated 'mini iPhone' could be in shops as soon as March 18,

it has been claimed.



Expected to be called the iPhone 5se, the new handset is set to be unveiled at a

special event on March 15.



Tech newspaper 9to5Mac said it had been informed by sources what the date of the

release was and when it would hit the shops.



It reported: "Apple is currently planning to introduce a new 4-inch iPhone

dubbed the 'iPhone 5se' and a new iPad Air at an event on Tuesday, March 15th,

then put the products up for sale online and in retail stores as early as

Friday, March 18th, according to sources."



"Apple is unlikely to offer pre-orders for the new devices, according to sources

who cautioned that the plans could still change," it added.



The revelations came as drawings claiming to be leaked images showed the new

phone will be the same size and shape as the 5s - the last iPhone to feature a

four-inch screen - with some minor design changes.



For example, designs for iPhone case makers obtained by 9to5Mac show that the

lock button will be moved from the top to the right-hand side of the device,

like on the iPhone 6.



However, separate schematics obtained by OnLeaks appear to show that the button

will remain on the top.



Evleaks tweet



Apple originally moved the lock button from the top to the side of the device

with the launch of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus - partly because the larger screen

sizes make the top difficult to reach.



If the iPhone 5se retains the 4-inch screen size of the iPhone 5s, there would

be no reason to move the button, other other than to create consistency with the

rest of the iPhone line.



Apple traditionally updates its iPhone line once a year, at an event in

September, but rumours have been building for months that Apple is developing a

new device that will launch in the spring.



The iPad Air 3 and Apple Watch 2 will also be launched on March 15, it has been

claimed.



Read more: iPhone 5se: Leaked pictures and schematics show what Apple's next

iPhone will look like



Apple currently sells three iPhone models - the 4.7-inch iPhone 6s and 5.5-inch

6s Plus, which were both launched in September 2015, and the 4-inch iPhone 5s,

which launched in September 2013.



The iPhone 5se is rumoured to be a replacement for the iPhone 5s - bringing

Apple's 4-inch iPhone up to date with the other two devices.



The "se" suffix has reportedly been described in two ways by Apple employees: as

a "special edition" variation of the 4-inch iPhone screen size, and as an

"enhanced" version of the iPhone 5s.



Read more: iPhone sales may have peaked, but our love affair with Apple is far

from over



Earlier leaked photos suggest that it will take some design queues from the

iPhone 6s and 6s Plus - with curved glass edges and a "Touch ID" fingerprint

reader.



Could this be the iPhone 7? Amazing concept video shows new futuristic design



Other rumoured features include an 8-megapixel rear camera and 1.2-megapixel

front camera, support for Live Photos and Apple Pay, and the same Silver, Space

Grey, Gold and Rose Gold colour options as the 6s lineup.



The iPhone 5se will sell alongside the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, but will be

significantly cheaper, according to KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, who

suggests it will cost around $400-500 (£250-350).



It will only account for 8-9% of next year's iPhone sales, but it will help

Apple expand its presence in emerging markets, and among consumers on tighter

budgets, according to Mr Kuo.



Should Apple make a budget iPhone?



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





