                              868 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday



iPhone 7 launch: Seven things that you need to know



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 303 words





It's just over 24 hours remaining for the new iPhone 7 launch. And the tech

world has gone into a frenzy, and for good reasons.



In the biggest smartphone launch of the year, Apple will unveil the iPhone 7 and

the iPhone 7 plus on Wednesday. It will, like always, be live-streaming the

launch.



Here are seven things that you need to know about the newest members of the

Apple family.



1.Venue: It's the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco that will be

hosting the grand event. Apparently, the auditorium has been jazzed up for the

biggest smartphone.



2.Chip: Preliminary reports suggest that the iPhone 7 will be powered by Apple's

new A10 chip offering a maximum clock speed of 2.4 GHz.



3.What's out: The tech major is likely to drop 16GB and 64GB models and add a

256GB variant. As a result, Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus models will come in

32GB, 128 GB and 256GB variants. Both the iPhones are also likely to get a RAM

boost.



4.Thin is In: If rumours are to be believed, Apple is apparently aiming to make

the iPhone 7 up to 1mm thinner. Tech wizards hint that it will perhaps do away

with the traditional headphone jack. Also, the iPhone 7 may finally reveal the

Apple's rumored wireless "AirPods" earbuds.



5.Water-safe: Dropped your phone into the sink? Chill! The new iPhones will be

water-resistant.



6.Picture-Perfect: There have not been too many complaints about the iPhone 6

camera. But things may get better with the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus. Both

cameras will have 12-megapixel sensors.



7.Desi love: The good news is that we can expect the company to launch the

device in India before Diwali. This means you have to re-budget your Diwali

expenses.



All of the above information is speculative as nothing has been revealed

officially about the iPhone 7 by Apple so far.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





