                              881 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               The Sun (England)



                           September 21, 2014 Sunday

                                   Edition 2;

                                    Scotland



SIX MAD;

WE ROAD-TEST NEW IPHONES



SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 47



LENGTH: 835 words





APPLE's two new, larger iPhones came out on Friday - and my testing suggests the

US giant has finally nailed the batteries.



The Sun was one of just a handful of newspapers given an early look.



I have been testing the iPhone 6 and "phablet"-sized 6 Plus, right.



They are the same but for screen size, battery and camera. But there are lots of

differences when compared with previous models. Here, I tell you how I got on

with the bigger devices and new features, and give my thoughts on whether or not

you should fork out your hard-earned to get one.



The 6 costs from £599 to £699 and the 6 Plus from £619 to £789, depending on how

much storage you go for.



This is similar to previous models.



Of course, the phones will be cheaper on two-year deals.



For example, EE has them for £49.99 then £58.99 a month, with calls, texts and

data.



DESIGN + SCREEN BOTH have a new sleeker look with curved edges - and both are

thinner.



The normal 6 is lighter than current models and feels great to hold, even with

its bigger 4.7in screen. The current models have 4in displays.



The yet larger 6 Plus, at 5.5in, is a handful even for my giant hands.



I think this is aimed more at those who have no tablet or will watch a lot of

films on the device, because the viewing area is almost twice as big as those of

current models.



Bigger screens can make it hard to reach stuff at the very top. But the

Reachability view - accessed with a double tap on the home button - brings the

top half of the screen down for easy access.



SOFTWARE APPLE's new iOS8 software is included on the new models - and has some

really neat new features.



Owners of the iPhone 5s, 5c, 5 and 4s can also download the software from

Friday.



Family Sharing stands out.



Use it to share photos, calendars and app purchases, music and films among

family members. As part of this, Ask to Buy requires parental consent before

kids buy stuff.



A feature called Handoff means you can start a message, email or photo editing

on your iPhone, and it is ready to finish on an iPad or Mac.



And the Messages app has been revamped, too, with a feature to share your

location with a pal so they can find you.



BATTERY SOME good news here. Apple says the battery will last longer - and it is

right. I certainly noticed a huge improvement.



I am a heavy user, getting lots of emails, using maps a lot and checking apps.



My 5s would need a boost in the afternoon.



The 6 got me through the day - just.



And the 6 Plus had 20 per cent of battery to spare.



With heavy use - streaming video, making lots of calls and downloads - a brand

new 5s lasted 5 hours 59 minutes, the 6 another hour and a half and the 6 Plus

with its giant battery just over ten hours.



SHOULD YOU UPGRADE? SO, should you get a new iPhone or switch from another make

of phone? If you have an iPhone 5s or 5c and are happy with the screen size, I'd

stick with what you have.



If you have a 4, 4s or 5 and are due an upgrade then go for it. Both will do

stuff much quicker and take better snaps - as well as wowing you with bigger

screens.



And what if you use a phone running Google's Android software, like Samsung's

Galaxy devices, or one running Windows Phone 8, like Nokia's Lumia series? The

iPhone is still the best-looking phone, easy to use and has most apps. It is

also thin and light.



But there are a couple of trade-offs. The top-end design and features mean it is

pricier than others, whether you buy it outright or get a contract.



In the end, it comes down to personal preference. Go into your local phone store

and play around with the new iPhones and see for yourself.



CAMERA THE new snapper may not have extra megapixels - it is still 8MP - but a

bigger lens makes your pictures much sharper, particularly when the light is

low.



The camera is another area where the 6 Plus is different, because it has optical

image stabilisation.



It works like the suspension on a car, keeping the picture still even if your

hand shakes.



It can also record videos in twice as much detail and better slow motion,

meaning you can take even better movies of little Johnny at sports day.



OTHER STUFF ANOTHER key boost is the "brain". The new processor, called the A8,

is 25 per cent faster than the one in the 5s but uses half as much power, which

is a reason for the improved battery.



I noticed apps load faster and games run more smoothly. And it will mean new

apps that come out will be able to do a lot more.



Apple Pay will turn your iPhone into a digital wallet, although I was not able

to test this because it is not out in the UK until next year. But the demos I

tried at Apple's HQ made it look simple.



Both phones still have the Touch ID fingerprint scanner and Siri voice control.



WHAT'S MISSING WITH bigger screens, Apple has addressed a key feature that drove

people to its rivals.



The battery is also much better but the phones still lack a software feature

that kicks in when your charge gets low and you desperately need your phone to

last a bit longer.



Rivals such as Sony offer a Stamina mode that turns off all but, say, calling

and texting.



LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot





                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              All Rights Reserved





