

Resistance is futile, at least when it comes to the ever increasing sizes of
mobile phone screens. Or at least that's what you might think, given Apple's
decision to release not one but two iPhones with larger displays.

The iPhone 6 Plus is the monster of the family, with a massive 5.5-inch display
that dwarfs the iPhone 5S's four inches and the Galaxy S5's 5.1 inches. The
iPhone 6 Plus falls into that category that has been dubbed "phablet", and it's
not apologising for it.

And why should it, given that Apple has been criticised in the past for failing
to keep up with the trend to supersize your screen? This could be pushing it a
bit for some users though, in which case, the iPhone 6 is a compromise.

It's not just about size though. Apple has wedged a few more upgrades in there,
from the chip that has been bumped up to A8, to the camera, which now includes
optical image stabilisation.

The good . . .

The most obviously improved feature

is the screen. Not only is it huge - watching movies, playing games or even
working on documents can be done comfortably without the need for a tablet - but
it's pin-sharp. It has a resolution of 401 pixels per inch, compared with the
326ppi in the iPhone 5S.

The camera is a noticeable improvement. In a side by side comparison with the
iPhone 5S, low light images turned out far better on the iPhone 6 Plus, and that
has been extended to the front facing camera. It's particularly useful for
FaceTime, as the number of times you'll have perfect lighting conditions are far
fewer than those when half your face is in shadow, or you're peering at a screen
trying to make out who you're talking to. It also helps that you have a massive
display.

Focus Pixels, meanwhile, deliver faster autofocus. In theory, you should get
better images, although there is only so much a bad photographer can blame on
the phone.

You can also get timelapse video, and 240 frames per second slow motion video.

The bad

. . . While the size of the handset is

touted as a selling point, it may be a step too far for some users. It's not
quite iPad Mini sized, but it's still a little large for throwing into your
pocket. And you can't quite shake the feeling that it looks a bit ridiculous
when you hold it up to your ear to make a call - at least, for a little while
anyway. There have also been some reports of handsets bending, which is not a
design feature of the phone.  Eventually though, it all comes down to price.
Along with that larger than average display is a larger than average price. At
EUR 799 Sim free and unlocked, the iPhone 6 plus may be too rich for many users'
blood; looking at the contracts on offer for the device, it's still not going to
be a cheap upgrade. Especially if you end up with a warped handset a few months
later.

. . . and the rest

Much has been made of the iPhone 6 Plus's design, both its size and the
modification to Apple's now familiar design. But how does it actually feel to
hold? Even if you aren't equipped with larger than average mitts, the answer is:
not as bad as you'd think. Sure, it can take a few minutes to get used to, and
those with small hands may find it a touch more difficult to make the
adjustment, but

this device can be used by almost anyone.

Also, Apple has taken this issue into account and brought in something called
Reachability for the phones. Double-tapping the home key, rather than
double-pressing, will shorten the screen. So when web browsing, for example, you
can double-tap the home button lightly and the address bar will move down to the
middle of the screen, making it perfectly reachable while using the phone with
one hand. It also works in your music app, your camera, the iTunes store, even
third party apps. That double-tap will bring the top of the screen down to
within reach, so you can cancel that order you may have just placed for a giant
fake thumb.  Balancing the phone while you perform the manoeuvre may be slightly
more difficult, however. A gentle suggestion: invest in a case, because it's
likely that you will drop the iPhone 6 Plus at some stage, and any damage will
be glaringly obvious.

Another thing in its favour is the landscape mode. Turn your phone sideways and
not only do apps rotate but so does your homescreen and your email. It's very
iPad-like, so your Mini's days may be numbered. Considering the screen size,
you'd expect the battery life to be short, but it outlasted the comparison
iPhone 5S, even with extensive use.

The verdict HHHH This super-sized smartphone is a compromise between phone and
tablet; look past the figures to see its true potential.

