                              892 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                            Asia News Network (ANN)



                              June 20, 2016 Monday



Apple's appeal in iPhone case accepted by China's IP court



BYLINE: Xu Wei



LENGTH: 419  words





The Beijing Intellectual Property Court has accepted an appeal by Apple to

review a ruling by the capital's patent office ordering the company to halt the

sales of its iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in Beijing after finding the design too

closely resembles a Chinese phone.



The Beijing Intellectual Property Office said in a statement on its website that

it ordered Apple and a reseller of its products in Beijing, Beijing Zoomflight

Communication Equipment Co, to stop selling the two iPhone models after it found

they infringed upon the rights of a Shenzhen-based company.



A spokesman for the court said it had accepted Apple's appeal to review the

ruling, but it has not set a time for the hearing.



An Apple spokesman told AFP that the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, as well as

iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus and iPhone SE models are "all available for sale today

in China".



"We appealed an administrative order from a regional patent tribunal in Beijing

last month, and as a result the order has been stayed pending review by the

Beijing IP Court," the Apple spokesman said.



The complaint against Apple was filed by Shenzhen Baili Marketing Service Co, a

small Chinese brand that designed a cellphone model called the 100C.



Despite a number of differences between the 100C and the iPhone 6, "the

differences are too tiny to be noticeable by average consumers, and thus it

should be deemed that there is no apparent difference between the two phone

models", according to a verdict by the Beijing patent tribunal.



The tribunal made its ruling in May, and it was reported by Chinese media

recently.



The IP dispute is the latest faced by Apple over the design of its products in

China, its second-largest market after the Americas.



The company lost a four-year fight against a Beijing leather products maker in

May after the Beijing Municipal High People's Court ruled in favor of Xintong

Tiandi Technology, which sells a number of leather products such as smartphone

cases and handbags under the name "iphone".



In 2012, Apple paid $60 million to a Shenzhen-based maker of computer screens

and LED lights to settle a dispute over the iPad trademark on the Chinese

mainland.



The company, Proview Technology, claimed that the Taipei subsidiary of its Hong

Kong-based parent registered the iPad trademark in a number of countries and

regions in 2000. Even though the iPad trademark was purchased by Apple from

Proview Taipei in 2009, Proview Shenzhen said it reserved the right to use the

trademark it registered on the Chinese mainland in 2001.



LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 2075





                       Copyright 2016 Asia News Network.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





