

Apple"s new-generation mobile software is now available for download, but many
users have hit a snag trying to install iOS 8 due to the size of the update.

iOS 8 requires at least 5.7GB of free space to be installed on most iPhone and
iPad models, according to the Global News. Previous iOS updates only needed
about 1GB of free space.

The free software will be pre-installed on iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus - which
New Zealand customers can pre-order starting from next Friday - but that doesn"t
help users with an older version of iPhone.

Many of those users took to Twitter to vent their frustration with updating to
the iOS 8 mobile operating system.

"just deleted about 1,000 pics so i can have enough storage for iOS8," Twitter
user @jords97 wrote.

Welp... I have no friends now.. Mostly because I deleted all my pictures, apps,
songs, and contacts. To make room for ios8.. &mdash; Zakry Hayden
(@ZakHaydenMusic)

>Full list of iOS 8 compatible devices:>

iPhones

? iPhone 4s

? iPhone 5

? iPhone 5s

? iPhone 5c

? iPhone 6

? iPhone 6 Plus

iPads

? iPad 2

? 3rd and 4th-generation iPad

? iPad Air

? iPad Mini

? iPad Mini with Retina display

iPod

? 5th generation iPod Touch

Deleting 400 messages, 900 songs, 1000 pictures, deleting my house, my life...
just to get &mdash; Nicole Solin (@NicoleSolin)

Read more:

? Smartwatch, iPhone 6 unveiled

? iPhone 5s vs iPhone 6: Should you buy Apple"s new phone?

what else does iOS8 want me to delete, my childhood memories???&mdash; S.
(@asandsaforever)

A tip for updating your iPhone/iPad/iPod software is to connect your device to a
computer and download then install iOS 8 via iTunes rather than directly onto
your device through Wi-Fi.

It also goes without saying that you back up your device before downloading the
new software, as there is always a chance your data could be lost if something
goes wrong mid-installation.

And be prepared to wait. some users have reported total install times taking
over an hour.

-With AFP, Daily Telegraph

