                              901 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                           December 4, 2014 Thursday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Apple's first phablet has grabbed a 41% US market share



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 265 words





It has taken the iPhone 6 Plus little more than a month to firmly establish

itself as one of America's most popular phablets.



The latest data from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech, which covers smartphone sales

and consumer insights over the three months to the end of October, reveals that

despite only going on sale on September 19, the iPhone 6 Plus already accounts

for 41 percent of US phablet sales.



Phablets, which in terms of Kantar's data are classified as smartphones with a

display 5.5-inches or greater, have been widely expected to become mainstream

devices in 2014.



In the Asia Pacific region, the handsets already account for 25% of all new

smartphones where consumers are seeing the benefit of owning one larger mobile

device that offers the best features of both a smartphone and a small tablet.



The iPhone 6 Plus is Apple's first phablet and this year also saw Google go

bigger still with its first 5-inch plus handset, the Nexus 6, which sports a

huge, 5.9-inch display.



And while interest and demand are clearly growing, in the US at least, phablets

are still very much a niche.

Kantar Worldpanel ComTech's figures show that phablets currently make up just

10% of the total US smartphone market.



However, the company notes that just one year ago, the figure stood at 2%.



New iPhone 6 Plus owners who were questioned at the point of sale about why they

chose the handset indicated the handset's larger screen (58%) was the primary

driver.



When consumers who had plumped for the smaller iPhone 6 instead were asked the

same question, bigger screen size (60%) was also the most popular answer.



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





