                              905 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday

                              Australian2 Edition



Samsung's big Note shakes Apple's tree



BYLINE: Chris Griffith



SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 271  words





SAMSUNG last night launched an updated Galaxy Note phone with a screen that's

larger than that of rival iPhone 6 Plus.



At an event at the Sydney Opera House, the Korean manufacturer launched two

versions of the new Note 4 - one with a flat screen and one with a screen that

folds at the right-hand edge.



The Note 4 features a large -5.7-inch 1440 x 2560 quad HD display with a

whopping 515 pixels per inch. The curved screen Note Edge has similar screen

quality.



Apple's iPhone 6 Plus screen resolution is 401 ppi and its display is 0.2 inches

shorter.



Samsung also launched another smartwatch, a curved- screen Gear S, which can

operate by pairing with a smartphone by Bluetooth or using its own nano-SIM

card.



A new headset, the Gear Circle, has a magnetic lock that clasps around the neck.

The piece de resistance may have been Samsung's Gear VR, a virtual reality

headset that lets a user experience the screen of the Note 4 immersively.



At $249, the Gear VR looms as a magnet for gamers and may help make the Note 4 a

success.



It is the child of a partnership between Samsung and US virtual reality company

Oculus VR, which Facebook bought for $2 billion in July.



Samsung said that, when combined with the Note 4, the Gear VR would access

optimised VR content from Oculus.



Users would enjoy dynamic 360-degree video, games, educational and -experiential

content.



Apple said it had sold more than 10 million iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus model

handset in just three days since Friday's launch."Sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone

6 Plus exceeded our expectations for the launch weekend, and we couldn't be

happier," Apple chief Tim Cook said.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





