

By now, you have heard about it and probably seen it, too. The new iPhone 6 has
been very popular, and it is currently the top cellphone on the market. Apple
has changed the design to deliver a much larger, yet thinner phone that can
compete with the latest Android devices.

So what do teens think about the iPhone 6?

Clayton Holley, a seventh grader at John Adams Middle School, is not impressed
with the iPhone 6. In fact, he isn't a fan of Apple products at all.

"I don't like iPhones, he said. "They are taking over people's minds. [People]
just sit there all day and text. I personally have a flip phone because I don't
need something that fancy.

Other teens share the opinion that this latest phone may not live up to the
hype. Fellow John Adams seventh grader Jared Jones said he does not dislike
iPhones in general, but he does not see the benefit of the iPhone 6.

"The iPhone 6 isn't much better than the iPhone 5. It just has a bigger display,
he said.

At first, the iPhone 6 had a pretty good appearance. It sold thousands on the
day of its release, and many people were on wait-lists to obtain one.

Shortly after, though, a YouTube video of a man easily bending the iPhone 6 Plus
went viral. Quickly, the rumor of the phone's incredible flexibility spread from
person to person.

Although Apple said there were very few reported cases, that didn't seem to stop
speculation. Later, the phone was proven to only bend under strong force when
pressed near the volume button. Also, according to multiple reports, with a good
sturdy case, the iPhone 6 Plus has almost no chance of bending in your pocket.

Even with size problems, one teen who owns the iPhone 6 enjoys it. Katie
Hageboeck, a George Washington High School senior, has a positive opinion about
Apple's latest effort and thinks it was a worthwhile purchase.

"I love the iPhone 6, she said. "I find it very useful for everyday tasks with
the new apps. Even though the phone is larger and does not fit in my pocket, I
think the screen is easier to type on. I think the iPhone 6 is a great phone,
and I would recommend it.

The iPhone 6 was marketed with several new features. These features include a
larger screen, thinner body, better computer chip, and, of course, a better
camera. Many have said that these features add up to create a new iPhone that is
an improvement over the others.

But while the iPhone 6 is very popular, it's not a hit with everyone.

