                              912 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               Smart Photography



                                November 1, 2016



Preview: The Siblings are Back - Apple iPhone 7 Plus



BYLINE: Sujith Gopinath



LENGTH: 683  words





Apple has launched its latest twins, the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, which, Apple

claims, are the best iPhones ever produced and we have no reason to believe

otherwise. We have had the iPhone 7 Plus with us for a few days and this is

quite short a period for a full-fledged review. Well, here is a sneakpeak into

the goodies. Do wait for our full featured review in the our upcoming issue.







Apple has introduced two new finishes for the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus-Jet Black and

Matte Black. The Jet Black version has a glossy finish, while the Matte Black

has, as the name indicates, a matte finish. The 7 Plus has an aluminium unibody

design that is splash and water resistant (not waterproof, though) with an IP 67

rating, a first in an iPhone. Being a little over-sized for an average-sized

hand, the phone has the tendency to slip. Both the 7 and the 7 Plus feature a

redesigned advanced solid-state Home button that is pressure-sensitive. A new

Taptic engine provides tactile feedback, letting you experience a real sense of

touch. The Home button embeds an advanced fingerprint sensor that lets you

quickly unlock the phone.



The most striking feature of the 7 Plus, though, is the camera. The iPhone 7

Plus uses a dual camera system on the lines of many new smartphones in the

market. However, the difference is that these two cameras operate in tandem,

producing a 12-megapixel image. One of the cameras sports a wide-angle lens

(28mm equivalent) f/1.8 and the other a telephoto (56mm equivalent) f/2.8. The

camera interface provides you with the choice of 1x or 2x optical zoom. This is

achieved by switching between the two cameras. The end result is a zoomed-in

image that retains the same quality as that of the zoomed-out version. The

lenses are equipped with optical image stabilisation and feature a 6-element

design. The camera unit features a true tone flash. The front camera is a 7

megapixel model. Speaking about the camera interface, the iPhone's native camera

interface provides options such as Time-Lapse, Slow motion, Video, Photo, Square

and Panorama, without any manual control. Apple is getting ready with a Portrait

mode with depth-of-field (bokeh) effect (now in Beta), which promises to provide

a better experience with these cameras-another reason to look forward to our

full-feature review. The App Store now has third party apps for professional

camera features, thanks to Apple opening up to third party developers. Trust us

to bring you the real capabilities of the camera while we put it through its

paces. The first impressions are certainly positive with the camera churning out

sharp images with lots of detail and colour.



The 7 Plus uses a 5.5-inch Retina HD display, which, according to Apple, is the

brightest and most colourful iPhone display yet with wider gamut and 25 percent

more brightness. The display has a native resolution of 401ppi. The iPhone 7

Plus' power centre is the A10 Fusion Chip that makes the device twice as fast as

the iPhone 6 and provides longer battery life. This is achieved by employing two

high-performance cores and two high-efficiency cores. The 7 Plus has 3GB RAM and

is available in three variants with 32GB, 128GB and 256GB internal memory.



These iPhones have a stereo speaker system with twice the audio output of iPhone

6s. The speakers reside on the top and bottom portions of the device, providing

true stereo experience. As you must have already heard, Apple has done away with

the 3.5mm audio jack. But the device is shipped with an EarPod having a

Lightning connector. Apple has also included a 3.5mm headphone jack adapter to

plug into the Lightning port. I see this as a positive development since it

prevents you from listening to music while the device is charging, negating any

chance of overheating. As it is, we have not yet experienced any overheating

with the phone.



The iPhone 7 Plus is powered by a 3000mAh battery. The device measures 158.2 x

77.9 x 7.3mm and weighs 188g. The 32GB model retails at an MRP of Rs.72,000

while the 128GB version carries a price tag of Rs.82,000. The 256GB top-end

variant is priced at Rs.92,000.



LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





         Copyright 2016 Next Gen Publishing, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





