                              925 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                     April 27, 2016 Wednesday 10:17 AM EST



I am the reason for Apple's falling iPhone sales



BYLINE: Fredric Paul



SECTION: NEWSANALYSIS



LENGTH: 472  words





Click for image



If you're looking for the reason why Apple just experienced a decline in

year-over-year iPhone sales, go ahead and blame it on me. Well, me and millions

of other people just like me.



Formerly faithful upgrades



For the past six years, I have upgraded my iPhone every 24 months, as soon as my

carrier contract was up for renewal. I happily went from an iPhone 4 to an

iPhone 5 to an iPhone 6 Plus. Each time I upgraded, I was thrilled to get the

new model with its bigger screen, faster performance and other cool bells and

whistles.



Sure, I was bummed when I had to throw away all of my old peripherals to work

with the new Lightning connector used in the Apple 5, but I got over it.

Eventually. And I loved each new phone I bought, convinced it was the best

mobile device available-or at least close enough for government work, as they

used to say.



SEE ALSO: iPhone 6 Plus review: It's not big enough!



While I often had some desire to get the improved S versions of each phone

model, it was never enough to justify paying full boat instead of waiting for

that sweet carrier subsidy.



Good enough, I guess



But now-not only did I not have even a passing interest in the iPhone 6s, but I

also don't really have much interest in the iPhone 7. Like the record-breaking

crowds of other iPhone 6 buyers, I'm now pretty much committed to keeping my

device for as long as I can. The new features in the S models don't seem

compelling to me, and some of the stuff being rumored for the iPhone actually

sound counter-productive.



No headphone jack? Seriously? I've spent real money on some sweet aftermarket

noise-cancelling headphones, not to mention earbuds and exercise phones that

actually stay in my ears. (Apple's earbuds fall out almost instantly.) The last

thing I want is to have to toss them out like my old 30-pin connector music

docks or gum up the sleek lines of my device carrying around a bulky, expensive

adapter.



On the plus side for Apple, when my current device gives up the ghost, I still

fully intend to replace it with a new iPhone, unless Android ups its level of

fit and finish or concocts some awesome new feature that I haven't heard about

yet but just gotta have.



But I'm not going to buy a new iPhone just because my contract is up. Plus, the

carriers are making device subsidies harder and harder to get anyway.



Me, and lots of other people



Apple's numbers make it clear that I'm far from being the only one who feels

this way. Enterprises for sure aren't going to upgrade just for the heck of it.



Ultimately, Apple seems to be a victim of its own success. The company sold

record numbers of the iPhone, and it's such a great device that few people are

clamoring to replace it. I may be wrong, but there's a real chance that

situation will hold true even when the iPhone 7 comes out. We'll see later this

year.



LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





