

Monday, October 20, 2014: Vuzix Corporation (OTCQB: VUZI), a leading supplier of
Video Eyewear and Smart Glasses products in the consumer, commercial and
entertainment markets, today announced that with the release of the OS 2.0
upgrade for the M100 Smart Glasses, compatibility with iOS devices is enabled
and iPhone and iPad support is being prepared to ship. The M100 Smart Glasses
Manager application for iOS is now in final test for submission to Apple for
iTunes launch approval.

With iOS support, the M100 will connect seamlessly to most iOS devices including
the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The Smart Glasses Manager application allows
the M100 to be controlled by iPhones and enables features like Bluetooth
hands-free headset coms, streaming audio, and many other advanced M100 Smart
Glasses capabilities including support for both M100 native applications and
M100 legacy Android applications alike.

"We delivered the M100 Smart Glasses OS 2.0 upgrade just in time for the new
iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus launch. As many of our Enterprise customers use the
iOS devices by corporate mandate, it is critical that our products support the
iOS platform. The Vuzix M100 Smart Glasses Manager running on iOS allows
seamless integration of our Smart Glasses for both iOS centric enterprise
customers and avid prosumer customers alike." said Paul Travers, President and
CEO of Vuzix.

The Company's M100 Smart Glasses are effectively a wearable computer that
provides solutions for hands-free computing in mobile applications. The M100 can
also support advanced features like virtual and augmented reality needed in many
enterprise applications like warehouse picking and plant floor machine
maintenance. Managing these unique capabilities have been available only through
connectivity with Android devices but with this new release, the M100 now has
support for iOS devices including the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Vuzix'
award-winning M100 Smart Glasses contain a virtual display with an integrated
camera and dual core ARM processing engine that is powerful enough to connect to
the internet and run advanced applications on its own. With the M100 Smart
Glasses Manager running on an iPhone, the M100 will now work in harmony with the
iPhone as it was meant to be experienced.

