                              931 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                   September 24, 2014 Wednesday 12:06 PM GMT



Apple iPhone 6 Plus owners complain it 'bends in trouser pockets'



BYLINE: Robin de Peyer



SECTION: HOME



LENGTH: 341 words





Owners of the new iPhone 6 Plus have complained that it bends in their pockets.



Reports of the unusual design flaw have flooded Twitter and online forums since

the new model was released to the public on Friday.



And a video of someone applying force to the phone and bending its screen was

viewed almost three million times in around 24 hours after it was posted on

YouTube.



The fault is only believed to be affecting the iPhone 6 Plus - the larger of two

new models unveiled by Apple this month.



The technology giant reported it had sold a record-breaking 10 million of the

new devices worldwide within three days of them going on sale.



The iPhone 6 Could Bend In Your Pocket... !! haha.. love u APPLE

pic.twitter.com/MJV2s5kT1a- Nelson Cardoz (@nelsoncardoz) September 23, 2014



But some of those who bought the more expensive 6 Plus model, which boasts a

5.5-inch display, have complained the device is no longer straight after being

kept in trouser pockets.



One owner posted a picture of a curved device apparently belonging to his friend

on Apple forum MacRumors.



"Put it in his front pocket and it was like this when he took it out after

getting out of the car," he wrote.



Oups, l'iPhone 6 se déforme dans la poche !

http://t.co/szFfovaHB7pic.twitter.com/Zru9uozhMU- Florian Paulmier

(@FlorianP123) September 23, 2014



Lewis Hilsenteger, of Unbox Therapy, said in a video in which he apparently

verified the claims: "Unfortunate, but under the pressure of my hands, it does

bend quite significantly."



Another Twitter user posted a picture of an apparently bent iPhone alongside the

caption: "Putting a phone in your pocket is irresponsible and reckless abuse".



It comes after rumours circulated that the new models of iPhone could feature a

deliberately flexible display.



But as Apple made no announcement about the feature it seems the flexibility is

a design flaw caused by the phone's lightweight aluminium body.



Users complained of similar problems after the launches of the iPhone 4 and 5

models.



The Evening Standard has approached Apple for a comment.



LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





