

TELEVISION

Sony Bravia X9000C Series

Pricing unknown, available next month

Remember that old Sony TV with lockable doors, which was huge enough to double
as a spare surface for dumping books, ornaments and anything you did not have
time to put away immediately'

At its thinnest, Sony's new Bravia X9000C 4K LCD TV is only 4.9mm thick. Sony's
slimmest LCD TV is all but bezel-free. In your living room, it will look as if
it is floating.

Powered by Sony's new 4K Processor X1 and X-Reality Pro, the 4K (3,840 x 2,160
pixels) moving images deliver improved colour accuracy and stunning details.

This set supports Google's latest Android TV operating system, so it is easy for
Android smartphone users to stream videos, or to use the TV as a gaming device.
It comes in 55-inch and 65-inch models.

IPHONE CASE

Mujjo Leather Wallet Case 80° for iPhone 6/6 Plus

$89 (iPhone 6), $99 (iPhone 6 Plus)

The Mujjo Leather Wallet Case 80° is an elegant and practical case for your new
Apple iPhone 6 or 6 Plus.

Designed to hold up to three essential cards, this leather case eliminates
wallet bulge. The card slots are slanted at an angle of 80 degrees to keep an
EZLink card, an ATM card and a credit card securely in place. Crafted from
high-quality vegetable-tanned leather for which Mujjo is known, the exterior
will acquire a beautiful patina over time. It is available in tan and black.

RUNNING SHOES

On Cloudsurfer

$229

From the country that brought you high-precision mechanical watches, On is a
young Swiss sports company that developed the innovative CloudTech cushioning
technology to transform running energy into forward momentum.

The CloudTech system features hollow pods on the outsole of the shoe. These
stretch back on impact to cushion your landing, then lock to form a solid
foundation for a powerful push-off.

Cloudsurfer is On's latest model to use this technology. Its mesh upper with
smart foam adapts to the foot for comfort and fit, while the durable high-grade
ethylene-vinyl acetate midsole makes Cloudsurfer a great training and racing
shoe.

HEADPHONES

Sennheiser Momentum Wireless

$699

The award-winning Sennheiser Momentum gets a wireless upgrade which uses
Bluetooth and Near Field Communication technology to connect to your devices.

Goodbye, cable spaghetti.

Momentum Wireless uses Sennheiser's NoiseGard active noise-cancellation
technology to monitor and block ambient noise, while its VoiceMax technology
cancels out external interference to ensure optimum crystal-clear voice
conversations.

LENS

Olympus M.Zuiko Digital ED 7-14mm F2.8 Pro

Pricing unknown, available next month

The Olympus M.Zuiko Digital ED 7-14mm F2.8 Pro is the lens that Olympus and
Micro Four Thirds (MFT) mirrorless camera users have been waiting for.

With an effective focal length of 14-28mm (a MFT image sensor has a 2x crop
factor) and a constant big aperture of f/2.8 throughout, it is perfect for
landscape, architecture and wedding photography.

Compact and lightweight at 534g, the lens will not weigh you down while you
pound the streets for that perfect shot. It is sealed against dust, water and
cold, so you can use it in most weather conditions.

SMARTPHONE

Panasonic Lumix DMC-CM1

$1,399

Add a 1-inch image sensor to a smartphone and you get the Panasonic Lumix
DMC-CM1. It is the world's slimmest communication camera at only 21.1mm,
according to Panasonic.

The 1-inch, 20.1-megapixel image sensor is the kind found only in some high-end
compact cameras, such as the Panasonic LX100. It gives superb low-light
performance with the wide-angle Leica 28mm f/2.8 lens. This 4.7-inch Android
smartphone delivers photos that other smartphones can only dream about.

A physical control ring around the lens gives you quick and direct access to
controls, such as shutter speed, aperture and ISO settings.

Compiled by Trevor Tan

