                              934 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily The Pak Banker



                            March 30, 2016 Wednesday



Ally Bank Adds Apple Pay® for iPhone® to List of Services Available to Customers

Via Mobile Device



LENGTH: 281 words



DATELINE: Lahore







 MIDVALE, Utah: Ally Bank, the direct banking subsidiary of Ally Financial Inc.

(NYSE: ALLY), today announced it is offering customers with debit cards access

to Apple Pay®, a simple and secure way to pay for goods and services with a

compatible Apple mobile device.





 In participating stores, Apple Pay will work with iPhone® 6, iPhone 6 Plus and

Apple Watch®, upon availability. Within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air® 2 and iPad mini&trade; 3. Once a customer

has entered their Ally Bank debit card information on a device, they will be

ready to make payments with Apple Pay at supported merchants.

 "Given the growing use of mobile devices, offering Apple Pay to our customers

is yet another way we are making banking convenient and simple," said Diane

Morais, chief executive officer and president of Ally Bank. "But we're not

stopping there: our team is currently working on supporting two other mobile pay

options &ndash; Android Pay® and Samsung Pay&trade; &ndash; to bring mobile

payments services to a broader base of Ally Bank customers."

 To pay at checkout, users simply hold their mobile device near a contactless

reader and authorize the payment using a passcode or Touch ID®, and a subtle

vibration and beep will confirm that the payment has been processed.

 In addition to being easy to use, Apple Pay provides a secure form of payment.

Since the card data is encrypted and not stored on Apple servers, it is

inaccessible if the mobile device is either lost or stolen. In addition, the

retailer or merchant never has direct access to a consumer's card details.

 Android Pay and Samsung Pay support are expected to launch later this year.



LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





