                              935 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                   Arab News



                          September 27, 2014 Saturday



Apple sorry for software glitch, defends new iPhones



LENGTH: 697 words





A man holds an iPhone 6 in a mobile phone shop. (Reuters)





Agence Frane Presse



WASHINGTON: Apple made a rare apology for a software bug that has seen iPhone

users lose service, while seeking to quell a storm over reports that its new

handsets are susceptible to bending.

The slew of negative headlines saw a steep drop in Apple stock, as the US tech

giant acknowledged the software glitch, offering a temporary fix immediately and

a full update "in the next few days."

But Apple sought to minimize reports on bending of its newly released oversize

iPhone -- one analyst described the damaging claims as "a black eye" for Apple

-- saying it had only received nine complaints about the matter.





"Our iPhones are designed, engineered and manufactured to be both beautiful and

sturdy," a spokeswoman said in an e-mail to AFP.

"They also feature stainless steel and titanium inserts to reinforce high-stress

locations and use the strongest glass in the smartphone industry."

The statement said that "with normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and

through our first six days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted

Apple with a bent iPhone 6 Plus."

Apple offered a "workaround" to the software glitch after numerous users

complained on social media and online forums that the iOS 8.0.1 update left

their phones largely inoperable.

The update, which was released and then pulled within hours Wednesday, had been

developed to add in fitness monitoring programs which were omitted from the iOS

8 platform released last week.

"We have a workaround for you if you have an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus and you

lost cellular service and Touch ID functionality today after updating to iOS

8.0.1," Apple said.

The California company released fully updated iOS 8.0.2 software late on

Thursday to fix the problem, but it was not immediately clear if that had done

the trick.

It is further embarrassment to Apple after some users posted comments about

bends in the bodies of the oversize iPhone 6 Plus when carried in trouser

pockets.

On the MacRumors forum of Apple users, one iPhone buyer noted that, after

carrying the handset in a front pocket for 18 hours, "I saw the reflection of

the window in the iPhone slightly distorted."

The user posted a picture of the bent phone, and dozens posted similar

complaints on Twitter, using the hashtag #BendGate.

"It's certainly a black eye for Apple," said Roger Kay, analyst at Endpoint

Technologies Associates.

Kay said the software glitch "is not a major problem, they can fix that."

More serious, said Kay, is the whether Apple's new "phablet" will be viewed as

too fragile for some buyers.



"The bending problem is baked into the design of the phone so it's something

they can't just fix," Kay said. "They're committed to this design."

The analyst said Apple may offer some compensation to buyers or it may take a

"hardball" approach by saying, "you're not supposed to abuse your phone or sit

on your phone, you're supposed to treat it like a piece of electronics."

Brian White, analyst at the brokerage Cantor Fitzgerald, said the problems were

blown out of proportion and that the share drop offered a good buying

opportunity for Apple stocks.

"Let's get real," White said in a note to clients, calling the concerns about

bending "irrational."

"After taking both new iPhones for a spin at Apple's special event, and again

this week in Hong Kong, concerns with bending the iPhones never crossed our mind

as both felt very durable," he said.

"As such, we believe this concern offers investors an opportunity to take

advantage of this media-hyped situation and participate in what we believe is

the next 'super cycle' for Apple."

Apple said Monday it sold more than 10 million of the new smartphones in the

first three days since launching to fanfare in a handful of countries, setting a

new record for opening weekend sales as Apple diehards queued outside shops for

days.

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus were launched on Friday in the US, Britain,

Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico and Singapore.



They will be available in more than 20 additional countries on September 26, and

115 countries by the end of the year.



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 9





           Copyright 2014 Arab News - Saudi Research & Publishing Co.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





