

Click for image

While iPhone users might want it all - thinner, faster, indestructible -iPhone 7
might not quite have all those things, with Apple making the usual trade-offs
between power and elegance.

BIGGER BATTERY

The latest rumors, started via leaked photos on the Chinese Twitter (Weibo),
suggest Apple has higher capacity batteries in the works for its next flagship
smartphones: we're talking 1735 mAH and 2810 mAH for the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus vs.
1715 mAH and 2750 mAH for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus (the 6 and 6 Plus actually had
smaller batteries than their predecessors).

9to5Mac, picking up on the Weibo tip, notes that higher capacity doesn't
necessarily mean longer battery life, even though battery life continues to be a
drag for many iPhone users. "Although additional capacity gives the device more
power budget to play with, the efficiency of the components will influence the
final battery life ratings," 9to5Mac writes.

Perhaps with the increased availability of power-boosting iPhone cases, Apple
figures it can still get away without significantly boosting battery life.

HEADPHONE JACK IS BACK?

If there's one thing we've known for sure about the iPhone 7 is that it would
not include a traditional 3.5mm headphone jack. It was even tipped in Apple's
iOS 9.3 beta code. But according to the latest scuttlebutt, even this sure thing
isn't to be believed.

Once again it is the dynamic duo of Weibo and 9to5Mac we have to thank for
giving this story life. An image posted on Weibo seems to show an iPhone 7
component with a regular headphone jack. Rumor has had it that Apple would
boldly ditch the 3.5mm jack and force customers to go with a proprietary
Lightning connector-enabled headset, or perhaps better yet, Bluetooth-enabled
wireless AirBuds.

Meanwhile, those who have invested heavily in nice headsets are hoping that they
won't have to buy another stupid adapter to prolong the life of their
investments.

COOKING UP GREAT NEW FEATURES

 Apple's had a tough time of late on Wall Street after reporting a smartphone
sales slump, but CEO Tim Cook assures us that everyone is overreacting. And of
course, why wouldn't people react to a company that prefaces everything it does
with words like brilliant and magical and special?

Cook attempted to get people in off their ledges by affirming with CNBC's Jim
Cramer that "We are going to give you things that you can't live without, that
you just don't even know you need today."

And who doesn't want to see what that's going to be. I don't think he's
referring merely to Airbuds and a bigger battery.

