                              942 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           September 15, 2014 Monday

                                 FINAL EDITION



Dial down impatience for iPhone 6;

Expect long lines, waits for Apple's latest product



BYLINE: Jefferson Graham, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B



LENGTH: 323 words





Hoping to snag a new iPhone Friday?



Get ready to either stand in a long line or wait until late September or early

October.



Pre-orders for the new Apple iPhone 6 and larger iPhone 6 Plus began Friday and

many outlets sold out quickly.



The 6 Plus, Apple's largest iPhone to date with a 5.5-inch screen, is totally

gone: Apple says online orders will be fulfilled within three to four weeks.



The iPhone 6, boasting a 4.7-inch screen, up from the iPhone 5s's 4-inch LCD, is

mostly sold out on pre-orders at various outlets, with sporadic availability as

of Sunday. Verizon Wireless still had models, but T-Mobile and Sprint were sold

out. AT&T had the gold iPhone 6 available.



Your only option if you want the new phone Friday: Put in the time at Apple

stores, wireless carriers or retailers who carry the iPhone, such as Walmart,

Target and Best Buy.



"There are going to be ridiculously huge lines," says Tim Bajarin, an analyst

with Creative Strategies. "Demand for iPhone 6 is so high."



Despite the pre-order frenzy, stores will have phones for the weekend. But they

are expected to sell out quickly due to three factors:



Immense interest in the new iPhone from Apple customers with older iPhones.

Bajarin estimates a pool of 100 million people have been waiting to upgrade from

the iPhone 5 and earlier models.



Apple's traditional manufacturing supply constraints getting tens of millions of

new devices off the assembly line in the first weeks of a launch.



Fewer international countries -- just 10 -- will have the iPhone available

Friday than last time. Notable omissions include China, Russia, Spain, Italy and

New Zealand. More countries get the new iPhones on Sept. 26.



If you're planning to wait in line, here's a tip:



Richard Doherty, an Envisioneering Group analyst, says it's not a given that

Apple Stores will get most of phones. He suggests seeking a local Walmart that's

open 24 hours: "At least you don't have to stand out in the rain."



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo USA TODAY



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





