                              947 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)



                             May 18, 2016 Wednesday



Why is iPhone 7 held up



LENGTH: 583 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, May 18 -- Apple is expected to launch a next-gen 4.7-inch "iPhone 7"

this September, within its usual timeframe. The previous iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s

design will be changed, as Apple is believed to be planning an all-new chassis

that will eliminate the camera "bump," as well as visible antenna bands. Expect

a faster processor, better camera, and potentially the elimination of the 3.5mm

headphone jack, requiring either Lightning or Bluetooth headphones.



Appearance & Design



Early reports suggest Apple's next-gen iPhone will be even thinner than current

models, potentially between 6.0 to 6.5mm thick. The slimmed down chassis is also

expected to boast a revamped design. Some rumors claim iPhone 7 will move away

from an all-metal construction to a new as-yet-unknown material, possibly

ceramic. Other rumblings point to a completely flat screen that does away with

curved edges found on iPhone 6s.



The phone may or may not be fully waterproof, which would be an evolution from

the iPhone 6s, which is only partially water-resistant. If the headphone jack

does disappear, it may be replaced with a second speaker. Recent schematic

"leaks" suggest Apple might delete the 3.5mm headphone jack on the "iPhone 7

Plus," while keeping it intact on the smaller 4.7-inch version.



Some case leaks have suggested the possibility of a Smart Connector and/or a

design without a home button. The iPad Pro can recharge through its Smart

Connector, so it's possible the addition of the



magnetic port to the iPhone 7 could allow new ways to dock or use an external

battery case without needing to rely on the Lightning port. Smart Connector

charging could also allow



users to listen to audio through the Lightning port while repowering the

battery.



Apple is thought to be preparing the usual two-model offering for 2016, likely

sticking with 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch screen sizes. There are strong rumors that a

4-inch iPhone will make an appearance, but similar rumors have circulated ever

since Apple moved to a larger format with the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.



Internals



Due to its slimmer profile, iPhone 7 is expected to integrate existing 3D Touch

technology that detects pressure input via capacitive sensors embedded in the

handset's backlight array. Apple will likely introduce a new system-on-chip

design in 2016 which, if current naming conventions hold, should be dubbed A10.

An M10 motion coprocessor is also likely to make an appearance, potentially

embedded into the A-series SoC as with 2015's M9 design.



Apple reportedly tapped Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company to handle all

A10 processor orders, a change from iPhone 6s which saw its A9 dual-sourced from

TSMC and Samsung. The iPhone 7 and/or the 7 Plus may potentially be equipped

with a dual-lens camera, using two 12-megapixel sensors -- the second supporting

a 2-3x telephoto lens. Supply issues could theoretically limit the dual-lens

feature to a special model of the Plus, although one case leak suggests that the

standard iPhone 7 might at least have a very different camera design.



No hard evidence exists regarding Apple's iPhone 7 launch plans, but the company

traditionally debuts its smartphone in early September with sales following one

week later. With iPhone 6s, however, preorders went live two weeks prior to

shipments.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2016 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





