                              949 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                The Toronto Star



                           September 5, 2015 Saturday



Apple hopes to regain stride with iPad, Apple TV updates;

Tech giant faces pressure as declining growth in China could hurt company's

sales



BYLINE: Michael Lewis Toronto Star



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1



LENGTH: 702 words





When Apple Inc. CEO Tim Cook takes the stage in San Francisco Wednesday, he's

expected to unveil improved iPhones and a revamped Apple TV in the company's

annual hardware update.



But this year's event is anything but typical.



Unlike last September, when Cook debuted big-screen iPhones that spurred record

sales, global economies today are feeling the pain of a China-led slowdown that

has raised questions about Apple's ambitions in Asia.



Shares in the Cupertino-Calif.-based giant gave back most of the year's

21-per-cent gain during a late-August global markets meltdown. Analysts pointed

out that declining Chinese growth could hit spending on goods such as iPhones.



Apple is also facing tough competition in new product areas including wearable

computers, music streaming and mobile payments as it seeks to leverage its

iPhone customer base and diversify sales that are increasingly dependant on the

iconic device.



Against this backdrop, the Sept. 9 event has taken on wider relevance, playing

out against the macroeconomic worries and shifting investor sentiment on Apple

shares.



"We view this as critical for Apple to help turn the negative investor tide and

lay out its growth vision for the next year," said FBR analyst Dan Ives.



Apple, in its third-quarter earnings report in July, posted iPhone sales just

below forecasts and said iPad shipments dropped 18 per cent year over year as

mature markets approach saturation.



The company has been banking on China to pick up the slack and drive sales of

the iPhone, which now accounts for nearly two-thirds of Apple's revenue.



Annual GDP growth in China, however, has slowed to less than 7 per cent after

decades of double-digit expansion, leading to a currency devaluation that has

triggered a sell-off in Chinese equities.



Cook moved in late August to quell disquiet over China amid the market turmoil,

emailing CNBC to assert accelerating sales for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus

and App Store in mainland China in July and August.



Despite the assurance, analysts at Cowen said in a note that "evidence of a

widespread demand reset from China is mounting."



The note cited drops in China business reported by bellwether U.S. firms

including construction equipment maker Caterpillar and defence contractor United

Technologies.



Apple, meanwhile, is not commenting on Wednesday's event after it sent

invitations to media under the banner "Hey Siri, give us a hint."



Rumours suggest it will reveal a fourth-generation TV set-top box that adds Siri

capabilities, motion sensors for gaming and a dedicated App Store - at a price

more than double its $69 (U.S.) predecessor.



Some analysts say Apple lags rivals such as Roku, Google's Chromecast and

Amazon's Fire TV in the interactive TV market, where it has not made significant

improvements to its device since 2012.



Upgrades to the iPhone 6 including a display feature allowing different actions

by light tap or deep press are also expected.



There may be an update of the iPad Mini 4 and debut of the long anticipated

12.9-inch iPad Pro aimed at enterprise.



The iPad Pro likely won't ship until fall, but could be unveiled to give

developers time to create new apps for the device.



Apple announced a partnership Monday with Cisco aimed at bringing more phones

and tablets to so-called prosumers amid weakness in consumer tablet sales.



FBR's Ives expects Cook will introduce the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus, which

upgrades the processor and camera of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus while

keeping the same dimensions and basic design.



He said the new models would come equipped with Force Touch, which will enable

developers to design new features that can be unlocked depending on how

forcefully the user presses down.



Apple has also reportedly been working on a new four-inch iPhone with the

capabilities of the iPhone 6 and a lower price, although blog site 9to5Mac said

the device is not yet ready to ship. It said Apple plans to discontinue the

iPhone 5c after the 6S and 6S Plus go on sale.



The company is also likely to introduce Apple Watch sports bands in new colours,

but analysts will be looking for any comment on sales of the device - the first

new product category since the death of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs in 2011.



LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                 Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited





