                              952 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                            Belfast Telegraph Online



                     September 9, 2014 Tuesday 11:41 PM GMT



Apple introduces new iPhone 6 Plus



SECTION: UK



LENGTH: 866 words





Apple has introduced a new bigger iPhone for the first time, called the iPhone 6

Plus.



At an event in California, CEO Tim Cook said: "Today we're launching the biggest

advancement in the history of iPhone."



The new iPhone 6 Plus comes with a 5.5-inch screen, compared to the four-inch

screen of the current generation iPhone 5s.



Apple also introduced the iPhone 6, which is also larger, now coming with a

4.7-inch screen. Both devices also have what Apple call "ion-strengthened glass"

screens.



The larger of the two new devices, the 6 Plus, also allows for apps such as

Messages and Mail to be displayed in landscape orientation for the first time.



The firm also confirmed a new processor chip, the A8, which will be used to

power new apps and games, with partnerships with game studios including Disney

and EA also confirmed on stage by Apple's Phil Schiller.



The Cupertino-based technology giant had been expected to announce two new

iPhones, with speculation and alleged leaks appearing online over the last few

weeks.



The new iPhone devices will ship on September 19, with the company's new mobile

operating system, iOS 8, becoming available on iPhone 4s and above from

September 17.



Mr Schiller confirmed that the new iPhone 6 will be priced in the US at 199 US

dollars (£123) for the 16GB model, going up to 399 US dollars (£248) for the

128GB model. The iPhone 6 Plus will start at 299 US dollars (£185).



Apple has also announced plans to enter the payment market.



"Our vision is to replace the wallet and we're going to start with payments",

said Mr Cook.



He also called magnetic strips on credit cards "outdated and vulnerable" before

introducing Apple's take on the area.



"We love this kind of problem. This is what Apple does best. We've created a new

payment process and it's called Apple Pay," he added.



The new software uses the fingerprint scanner on your phone and native payment

apps to allow users to pay for products by touching their iPhone to payment

outlets.



It uses near-field communication (NFC) technology, used in existing contactless

payments, and the company's own Passbook app to secure your details.



The Find My iPhone app would be used to track and suspend your account if the

device is stolen.



"We are not in the business of collecting your data", said Apple, confirming

that all Apple Pay transactions are not logged by the company.



Major retailers have already signed up to use Apple Pay in their stores,

including Toys R US and Staples.



Online, it is also possible to pay within some apps. For now, the technology is

just been introduced in the US.



Apple has entered the smartwatch market for the first time, with the Apple

Watch.



"I am so excited and I am so proud to share it with you this morning. It is the

next chapter in Apple's story," said Mr Cook.



"Apple Watch is most personal device we've ever created."



The Apple Watch was described as a comprehensive health and fitness interface,

and the traditional watch crown, which Apple calls the Digital Crown, is used to

control the interface. Mr Cook compared it to the innovation of the mouse on the

Mac, and click wheel on the iPod. The crown can be used to scroll through lists

as well as zoom in on images and maps.



A huge array of designs and straps were shown on-stage, before the audience rose

to give Mr Cook a standing ovation. "It's incredibly customisable", he said. The

Apple Watch works directly with iPhone, but has its own native version of iOS.



Rivals Samsung launched their first smartwatch last year, and currently have

several on the market. This is Apple's first piece of wearable technology and

also follows on from Google introducing their Glass headset, and Android Wear

smartwatches.



The Apple Watch has a flexible Retina display, and the screen can sense force

used when tapping it. Apple also confirmed that the device will come in two

sizes.



There are three collections of the Apple Watch - Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport

and Apple Watch Edition.



The new Apple Watch can be completely customised to suit the style of the user,

and also comes with Apple's voice assistant Siri. It will also work with Apple

Pay.



The watch can also be used to personally communicate with friends - tapping

their name and sending a vibration to the sensor in their own device. Apple also

say it is possible to send a replica of your heartbeat to another user. Apple

call it Digital Touch, and it also supports drawing pictures and messages on

screen in order to communicate.



The device will also be available to app developers through a software

development kit, and the Twitter app was demonstrated on stage. Navigation is

also on offer through the Maps app.



Apple Watch also comes with health-focused apps called Fitness and Workout,

which measure movement and fitness in detail. This will put it in direct

competition with Samsung, and the S Health app that Android users turn to for

their health and fitness tracking by combining their smartphone and watch.



It can also be used to control Apple TV, as well as serving as a remote control

for the camera on a connected iPhone.



Mr Cook confirmed that the Apple Watch will start at 349 US dollars, and will go

on sale on early in 2015. "It is worth the wait", he said.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT





           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)

                              All Rights Reserved





