                              964 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                            Legal Monitor Worldwide



                            June 22, 2016 Wednesday



Review appeal of Apple is accepted in Beijing court



LENGTH: 423  words





An appeal of Apple is accepted in the Beijing Intellectual Property Court to

review a ruling by the capital's patent office ordering the company to halt the

sales of its iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in Beijing after finding the design too

closely resembles a Chinese phone.



In a statement on its website, the Beijing Intellectual Property Office said

that it ordered Apple and a reseller of its products in Beijing, Beijing

Zoomflight Communication Equipment Co, to stop selling the two iPhone models

after it found they infringed upon the rights of a Shenzhen-based company.



For the court, a spokesman said it had accepted Apple's appeal to review the

ruling, but it has not set a time for the hearing.



As per an Apple spokesman, AFP that the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, as well as

iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus and iPhone SE models are "all available for sale today

in China".



The Apple spokesman said "We appealed an administrative order from a regional

patent tribunal in Beijing last month, and as a result the order has been stayed

pending review by the Beijing IP Court".



The complaint against Apple was filed by Shenzhen Baili Marketing Service Co, a

small Chinese brand that designed a cellphone model called the 100C.



Despite a number of differences between the 100C and the iPhone 6, "the

differences are too tiny to be noticeable by average consumers, and thus it

should be deemed that there is no apparent difference between the two phone

models", according to a verdict by the Beijing patent tribunal.



The tribunal made its ruling in May, and it was reported by Chinese media

recently.



The IP dispute is the latest faced by Apple over the design of its products in

China, its second-largest market after the Americas.



The company lost a four-year fight against a Beijing leather products maker in

May after the Beijing Municipal High People's Court ruled in favor of Xintong

Tiandi Technology, which sells a number of leather products such as smartphone

cases and handbags under the name "iphone".



Apple in 2012 paid $60 million to a Shenzhen-based maker of computer screens and

LED lights to settle a dispute over the iPad trademark on the Chinese mainland.



Proview Technology declared that the Taipei subsidiary of its Hong Kong-based

parent registered the iPad trademark in a number of countries and regions in

2000. Even though the iPad trademark was purchased by Apple from Proview Taipei

in 2009, Proview Shenzhen said it reserved the right to use the trademark it

registered on the Chinese mainland in 2001. 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide.



LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1258





                     Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





