                              967 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)



                             August 14, 2015 Friday

                                Ontario Edition



TECHNOLOGY;

Samsung hopes to regain ground with new phones



BYLINE: The Associated Press



SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS; Pg. B7



LENGTH: 371 words



DATELINE: NEW YORK





Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. has unveiled two new Android smartphones with jumbo

screens as it seeks to recapture some of the sales lost to Apple Inc. after

larger iPhones came out last year.



Samsung said Thursday that the new Galaxy Note 5 and S6 Edge Plus will start

shipping Aug. 21 in the United States and Canada. Usually, Note phones don't

come out until well after Apple's new iPhone models in September.



The timing reflects a shift in fortunes for a company that pioneered jumbo

phones with the original Note in 2011. Now, Samsung needs to beat Apple to the

punch or risk seeing its products drowned out by all the attention on the iPhone

, IDC analyst Ramon Llamas said.



The new phones from Samsung have screens measuring 5.7 inches diagonally, the

same as last year's Note 4, yet both are lighter and thinner. They are

comparable to Apple's 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, the larger of the two new iPhones.

Samsung's Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge phones, which are closer in size to the regular

iPhone 6, came out in April.



The Note 5 will cost $696 (U.S.) to $740 without a contract, depending on the

carrier. The Edge Plus will cost about $75 more. The iPhone 6 Plus sells for

about $750. T-Mobile is throwing in a year of Netflix with both phones, while

Sprint is giving away a low-end Samsung tablet with a two-year contract.



Advance orders begin in the United States on Thursday.



Samsung Electronics Co. also said its Samsung Pay mobile-payment service will

debut in its home country of South Korea on Aug. 20.



Testing in the United States will begin Aug. 25, with a formal launch on Sept.

28.



Although there's competition from Apple Pay and Google's upcoming Android Pay,

Samsung is hoping its payments system will catch on with the inclusion of a

technology that mimics the old-school, magnetic signals from credit-card swipes.

That allows it to work with a wider range of merchants, though it still won't

work everywhere cards are accepted.



Samsung also teased an upcoming smartwatch, the Gear S2. It will have a round

face, rather than the rectangular design in Apple Watch and previous Samsung

watches. A video from Samsung suggests snazzy graphics to rival Apple Watch.

More details will come at the IFA tech show in Berlin next month.



LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





