                              970 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                               Irish Independent



                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

                                   Edition 3;

                                National Edition



iPhone 6 Plus ushers in golden age of 'phablets'



BYLINE: Weckler



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 43



LENGTH: 279 words





iPhone 6 Plus Price: from (EURO)800 off-contract, from free on contract Rating:

**** I'VE waxed on for years about how Apple was ruling itself out of a vital

business market by not having a large-screen phone. Last Tuesday, it introduced

two such models. For me, the pick of them is the iPhone 6 Plus.



Its 5.5-inch screen goes toe to toe with the benchmark 'phablet', Samsung's

Galaxy Note. In the hands-on time I've so far had with the 6 Plus, it's clear

that Samsung has a lethal competitor.



Despite being almost exactly the same weight, the 6 Plus is considerably slimmer

at 7mm than the Note 4, which is 9mm in depth.



However, it's slightly larger in length.



To deal with those who have small hands, it allows you to double tap the screen

to shift the top part down, a feature it calls "reachability".



Battery life is improved over the iPhone 5S, but only by about 20pc for most

functions.



The phone has a Near Field Communications (NFC) chip designed mainly to take

advantage of Apple Pay, the company's new digital payments service (which won't

be available in Ireland until well into next year).



It's also preloaded with iOS 8, which means that it has a host of new features

for smart lifestyle and health apps.



There's a lot more power under the hood, thanks to Apple's 64-bit A8 chip. It's

a shame that it doesn't have 'sapphire' toughened glass, but that will probably

be added in the next update.



At this price, it would have been nice if Apple had offered more than 16GB of

storage (Samsung's Note 4 has 32GB), but it's hard to see this not being a smash

hit.



Two Irish operators say it will be available from September 26, though supply is

expected to be very constricted.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IIN





             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





