                              971 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                          The Daily Telegraph (London)



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Secrets of the iPhone Plus revealed as 'teardown' casts light on gadget's

suppliers;

Apple core



BYLINE: Rhiannon Williams



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20



LENGTH: 333 words





HAVING spent hundreds of pounds on the latest iPhone, few buyers would be

expected to dismantle it with a screwdriver.



Yet enthusiasts from Melbourne, Australia, have already prised apart an iPhone 6

Plus to get a look at the inner components.



Apple's latest smartphone went on sale alongside the iPhone 6 yesterday morning,

causing queues of around 1,000 people outside the company's Covent Garden store

in London.



In a "teardown", repair website www.iFixit.com removed the screen to reveal that

Apple uses chips from Qualcomm, Skyworks Solutions and Avago Technologies, among

others, in its new device. The team also took a closer look at the phone's 8

megapixel camera, hefty battery and vibrator assembly component.



Notoriously secretive, Apple refuses to name its components' suppliers and

forbids them from discussing Apple-related matters with the press or investors.



The 5.5-inch device is the largest iPhone the company has produced to date, and

costs between £619 and £789, while the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 costs between £539 and

£699. All configurations are available in silver, gold and space grey. Apple

received more than four million pre-orders for its new phone within 24 hours, a

record for the company. Demand for both models exceeded supply, meaning online

customers may have to wait four weeks to receive their new phone.



Rhiannon Williams



CAMERA



The rear-facing 8MP iSight camera uses optical image stabilisation and "Focus

Pixel" phase-detection autofocus technology - the first iPhone to do so



SCREEN



The 5.5inch screen (measured diagonally) is the largest screen on an iPhone to

date, and is made of ion-strengthened glass



BATTERY



The 43gram battery is considerably larger than its predecessor the iPhone 5s',

and results in a significantly longer battery life, the company has said



VIBRATOR ASSEMBLY



The vibrator assembly is responsible for the vibrations which accompany incoming

calls, texts and other notifications. It contains copper coils, arranged to

create alternating magnetic fields



LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Enthusiasts in Australia have dismantled an iPhone 6 Plus, the release

of which yesterday attracted queues of 1,000 people outside Apple's Covent

Garden store in LondonIFIXIT



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DTL





                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





