                              974 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                           The Advertiser (Australia)



                           September 8, 2016 Thursday

                               Advertiser Edition



Apple prepares to ring in changes on its favourite gadget



BYLINE: ROD CHESTER NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY WRITER



SECTION: OPED; Pg. 23



LENGTH: 363  words





WHEN Apple CEO Tim Cook launches the iPhone 7 today, it will be a case of the

same iPhone you know but with more and less.



The more is expected to be a dual lens camera in the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus

"phablet" and the less is the expected removal of the headphone jack in the

iPhone 7 range, something that will make the phones slimmer but will also mean

people will be scrambling for an adaptor to plug in their favourite earphones.



There have been so many leaks in the past few months that it would be a genuine

surprise if the iPhone 7 Plus did not have a dual lens camera. But what is still

an unknown is exactly what the camera will do.



It could mean clearer pictures in a camera that works better in low light or it

could be an optical zoom. Time, and Tim Cook, will tell.



The smaller iPhone 7 seems, according to the leaks, unlikely to get a camera to

match the bigger phone but is still likely to be a step up from the previous

model.



Those iPhone fans hoping for a new look for their favourite smartphone are set

for disappointment.



The leaks suggest the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will have a similar form factor to the

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, aside from moving the antenna strip from the back of the

phone, the addition of the extra lens in the bigger phone and a second speaker

likely to replace the headphone port.



Apple is expected to release new headphones with the iPhone with some tipping a

new style of wireless beats called AirPods, based on leaked reports of

registered trade names ahead of today's event.



The front of the iPhone 7 is set to be noticeably different. 9To5Mac says the

home button will be incorporated flush into the screen but will still give the

feeling of being something you can press.



After years of calls falling on deaf ears, it seems likely this is the iPhone

that will have a waterproof rating.



Of course it's not all going to be about iPhones.



Apple is expected to release the second generation of Apple Watch, with the

addition of GPS making a far more useful watch for runners and cyclists.



There are a lot of predictions about new products but all will be revealed when

the event begins overnight.FIND OUT WHAT'S INCLUDED IN THE NEW PHONE.

ADVERTISER.COM.AU



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





