                              976 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                               India Retail News



                        June 13, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Apple Pay Coming to Carrefour's Customers in France



LENGTH: 492  words





June 13 -- Smartphones are now part of our everyday lives. Three in every four

mobiles are smartphones and 35 million people in France have one. Our consumer

habits are changing as new services become available, made possible thanks to

the new technologies available to us.



The mobile payment market is also undergoing rapid growth: Mobile payment

solutions are now being rolled out on a large scale. Carrefour has decided to be

a key player in this digital transformation.



The current landscape provides us with a real opportunity to create new types of

relationships with our customers. We have one sole objective in mind in deciding

to adopt this innovative approach: we want to provide our customers with the

best possible experience, so the path they take through our stores can be fast,

fluid, straightforward and secure.



Because we are mindful of our customers' needs and expectations, we have to

ensure that we can provide them with an excellent level of service, keeping

their personal information secure and protected, and intelligently linking

payment up to loyalty schemes and the redeeming of coupons in the Carrefour

ecosystem.



Therefore, Apple Pay coming to Carrefour's Customers in France this Summer,

offering an Easy, Secure & Private Way to Pay.



Carrefour will be among first retailers in France to offer its customers Apple

Pay, which is transforming mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way

to pay that's fast and convenient when it launches this Summer.



With Carrefour Banque's support (2.5M customers), Apple Pay will provide a

simplified, seamless and practical shopping experience to all "PASS MasterCard"

cardholders. Through this additional service, Carrefour continues to foster

disruptive innovation.



Security and privacy is at the core of Apple Pay. When you use a credit or debit

card with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device, nor

on Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted

and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each transaction is

authorised with a one-time unique dynamic security code.



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benets offered by credit and debit cards. The service will be

available from Day 1 in all stores under Carrefour's banner in France. In

participating stores, Apple Pay works with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6,

iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone SE and Apple Watch.



Online shopping in apps accepting Apple Pay is as simple as the touch of a

finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out lengthy account

forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information. When paying for

goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with iPhone SE, iPhone

6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini

4 and iPad Pro.



For more information on Apple Pay, visit: http://www.apple.com/fr/apple-pay/.



Source: Carrefour



LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





