                              978 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                                 therecord.com



                            October 20, 2014 Monday



Apple's forecast for holiday quarter exceeds analyst estimates



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 651 words





SAN FRANCISCO - Apple is projecting a happy holiday season.



New larger-screened iPhones are set to help boost sales by at least 10 per cent

during the crucial holiday quarter, the Cupertino, Calif.-based company said in

a statement on Monday. Revenue in the current period will be $63.5 billion to

$66.5 billion, just topping the $63.5 billion estimated on average by analysts,

according to data compiled by Bloomberg.



The October-through-December period is the biggest test yet of chief executive

officer Tim Cook's ability to roll out breakthrough new products since becoming

Apple's chief executive officer in 2011. He's counting on updated versions of

the iPhone and iPad to help revive sales while he pushes Apple into new

categories, including mobile payments with a service dubbed Apple Pay that

debuted Monday. A smartwatch called Apple Watch is also slated to arrive next

year.



"The stock still remains undervalued," Brian White, an analyst at Cantor

Fitzgerald, said Monday in a note to investors. "The market needs to start

thinking more boldly about Apple and appreciate the company's opportunity to

reinvent new product categories for years to come."



Investor optimism about the new products has boosted Apple's shares more than 24

per cent this year. The stock rose 2.1 per cent to $99.76 at the close in New

York.



For the fiscal fourth quarter ended Sept. 27, Apple's net income rose to $8.47

billion, or $1.42 a share, from $7.51 billion, or $1.18 a share, a year ago.

Sales were $42.1 billion, up 12 per cent from $37.5 billion a year earlier.

Analysts had projected profit of $1.30 a share on sales of $39.91 billion.



"Our fiscal 2014 was one for the record books, including the biggest iPhone

launch ever with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus," Cook said Monday in a statement.



The results give a peek into how the introduction of the new bigger-screen

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus have gone after becoming available on Sept. 19. Apple has

said it sold more than 10 million of the devices in their debut weekend, yet the

rollout was marred by snafus with updates to the iOS 8 mobile-operating system

and some user complaints that the 6 Plus would bend when sat upon.



IPhone sales for the fourth quarter, including more than a week of the new

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus on store shelves, were 39.3 million, up 16 per cent from a

year ago and more than the 38 million predicted by analysts on average in a

Bloomberg survey.



The company sold 12.3 million iPads, below an estimated 13 million units

projected by analysts and down 13 per cent from a year ago, according to data

compiled by Bloomberg. It was the third consecutive quarter that iPad sales

declined.



The quarter included the closing of Apple's $3-billion acquisition of Beats

Electronics, which makes headphones and has a music-streaming service.



Following the unveiling of the new iPhones last month, investor expectations for

Apple have only grown. Activist investor Carl Icahn is also turning up the

pressure on Cook, saying Apple's shares should be trading at more than twice

their current value and indicating he believes the world's most valuable company

should be worth more than $1 trillion based upon the potential for the new

iPhones, iPads and other products in the near future.



"Expectations for Apple always are high," said Tim Bajarin, president of

Creative Strategies, who's bullish about the potential for the new iPhones to

give the company a record quarter. "As long as they can deliver, they'll sell as

many as they can make in this quarter."



Having new iPhones and iPads on store shelves is crucial for Apple. During the

holiday season, consumer spending on electronics in the U.S. is anticipated to

increase 2.5 per cent to $33.8 billion, the highest level since the Consumer

Electronics Association began tracking it in 1994. The top items on technology

wish lists, according to the group's annual Holiday Purchase Pattern Study, are

tablets.



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2014 Metroland Media Group Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





