

SAN FRANCISCO -- Christmas came in September this year for Apple devotees, who
stormed the company's Bay Area stores Friday morning to buy new iPhones, though
not all got the models on their wish lists.

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were met with delirious excitement by fans, many of whom
had awakened at the crack of dawn -- or even camped out -- to buy them first.
With significantly larger screens, the new iPhones help Apple match competitors
like Samsung, which have long offered devices that blur the line between
smartphones and tablets.

Hundreds of people clogged Chestnut Street in San Francisco's Marina
neighborhood, where the line to enter the Apple Store wrapped around the block.
Many were fatigued after a sleepless night in the cold, but they perked up once
they'd secured the prized phones. Raul Ramos, a 68-year-old San Francisco
resident, was jubilant as he strolled out of the store with a gold 6 Plus in
hand.

"I'm not going home to sleep," said Ramos, a retired pharmacist who has camped
out for every new model since the iPhone 3. "I'm going to be playing with it."

Like Ramos, many Apple fans on Chestnut Street set their sights on the 6 Plus,
which has a 5.5-inch screen that dwarfs Apple's previous versions. But supplies
did not last long. Reza Asadi, who spent a night of his San Francisco vacation
on the sidewalk in hopes of buying the 6 Plus, left the Apple Store
disappointed.

"After 14 hours of waiting, I didn't manage to get what I wanted," said the
40-year-old journalist and London resident, who bought a space-gray iPhone 6
instead.

Fans clustered on University Avenue in Palo Alto were treated to a visit from
CEO Tim Cook, who opened the doors of the Apple Store with a broad smile.

"Thanks to all the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus owners around the world!" he
wrote on Twitter Friday morning.

Apple unveiled the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus last week as part of a wave of new
products and services at a star-studded event in Cupertino. If supplies don't
run out, many analysts predict that Apple will sell more than 10 million iPhones
this weekend, up from 9 million during the opening weekend for the iPhone 5S and
5C last year. 451 Research analyst Carl Howe expects sales to reach 12 million
to 15 million units, noting that cities around the world have reported record
lines.

"This is a very strong launch," he said.

The devices also went up for sale in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the U.K. on Friday, and Apple will open
up sales in more than 20 additional countries next Friday.

The iPhone 6 costs $199 with a two-year contract, while the 6 Plus starts at
$299. Apart from their superior size, the phones offer sharper displays,
improved battery life and an upgraded camera, Apple has said. In addition, the
gadgets are equipped with Apple Pay, a mobile payments service that allows users
to buy items in stores with a wave of their phones.

Braving a cold and gray night in San Francisco, Apple fans were, if not
comfortable, at least well fed. Apple employees served up coffee and biscuits
for breakfast, and later in the morning, Chase representatives dressed in shirts
that read "#feedtheline" doled out burritos.

Fans slept at their own peril. Kelly Sanders, a 22-year-old nurse who came to
trade her iPhone 5S for a 6 Plus, said she dozed off in the wee hours of the
morning with about 20 people ahead of her in line. She woke up two hours later
to find some 40 people standing between her and the doors of the Apple Store.

With rampant cutting in line, "you couldn't shut your eyes," said Sanders, who
was visiting from Las Vegas.

People in line said tensions flared during the night between die-hard Apple fans
and people who planned to resell the devices on the booming gray market. San
Francisco photographer Diane Rieger, 32, said she agreed to buy the phone for a
local startup, and expected to take home about $500 for her work. But she was
dismayed by the resellers' behavior.

"I'm worried about humanity," she said. "Forget the phone -- don't be that kind
of person."

Tony Ring-Dowell, a four-year veteran of the iPhone line, agreed that the scene
was more cutthroat this year. But by the time he strode out of the Apple Store
with a pair of iPhone 6s, he said he was "elated."

"This year I'm even more excited because the phone is so different and I waited
much longer for it," said Ring-Dowell, who lives in Daly City.

Shaun Johnson, who works on PayPal's mobile team, said he felt confident
springing for the 5.5-inch 6 Plus after test-driving a cardboard model of the
device that was circulating the line. Though he had to show up shortly after 5
p.m. Thursday to claim the device, Johnson and those he befriended in line found
a place to seek refuge.

"We spent most of the night in a wine bar," the 35-year-old San Francisco
resident said.

Staff writer Patrick May contributed to this story. Contact Julia Love at
408-920-5536. Follow her at Twitter.com/byJuliaLove .

