                              981 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                    September 26, 2015 Saturday 12:04 AM GMT



iPhone 6S: Apple's star could be on the wane with smaller queues at UK launch;

The expected lines outside Apple's stores in London and beyond were still

400-strong but down 60% on last year's iPhone 6 launch



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs and agencies



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 547 words





The now-yearly queue for the new iPhone release was back again, but outside

Apple's Covent Garden store - the biggest in Europe - the mass of people queuing

for the just released iPhone 6S wasn't quite as big as last year.



Some die-hard fans queued overnight to be the first few to get their hands on

the new iPhone 6S or 6S Plus, of course. Front of the queue was 29-year-old Sam

Shaikh, from Stratford, who had camped outside the store "since 8.30pm on Monday

night" and had been the first in line for the iPhone 6 last year.



But the metal barriers erected in the cobbled streets in front of the store were

not full to bursting, as they were last year and the year before. The scene in

London was described by onlookers as "a lot less hectic".



Estimates put the queue at around 400 people strong by the time the doors opened

at 8am; an impressive number for any launch butfar short of the 1,000 or so that

queued last year.



Does that mean the appeal of the iPhone 6S was just not big enough to drag as

many people onto the streets overnight as last year's iPhone?



Tick, tock



The iPhone 6S is the "tock" in Apple's two-year "tick, tock" update cycle. Once

every two years - the "tick" year - the design of the smartphone changes making

it look like a new phone. In the alternate, "tock" year the outside stays the

same while Apple upgrades the internal components. The iPhone 6 was the tick

with a larger screen, the iPhone 6S is the tock.



The new iPhone 6S and larger 6S Plus have a new pressure sensitive "3D Touch"

screen, improved camera, quicker fingerprint scanner and faster processor, but

they essentially look the same as last year's models - save for a new pink

colour.



Early reviews were positive, but revealed that Apple had failed to address a

major pain point for consumers: short battery life.



Smaller queues could show a couple of things. First that buyers might not be

quite as eager this time around. Apple claims the new iPhone is looking set to

beat the 10m sold of last year's iPhone 6 with the first few days.



Perhaps queuing overnight has lost the allure it once had when that was the only

way to guarantee being one of the first in the country to buy one. But queueing

is not the only way to buy one and hasn't been for several years, leaving only

the die-hard fans or those looking to flip the devices and sell them for a

profit.



Apple opens up pre-orders on its online store several days after announcing its

smartphones. Typically pre-order delivery times quickly increase. This year,

however, Apple either had enough stock in place to deliver many more new iPhones

to buyers on launch day or the demand was not quite as big. Only in the last

week has the delivery time increased to one-to-two weeks.



Buyers can also reserve and iPhone for purchase in store, like many other shops

offering "click and collect", which means there isn't quite such the urgency to

rush to the shops.



Whatever the reason, and we won't know until Apple reveals sales numbers, the

queues are not as massive and the streets in front of various Apple stores

around the country are not quite as clogged as they once were.





     ·    Apple iPhone 6S and 6S Plus review roundup: stronger, faster, heavier

     ·    iOS 9 review: an upgrade to jump for, or skip?

     ·    Why Apple shouldn't be selling a 16GB iPhone 6S or 6S Plus





LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





