                              982 of 998 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



The iPhone 6 coming to more countries this month



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 346 words





Apple's latest smartphone and its first phablet, the iPhone 6 Plus, will be

going on sale in a further 36 countries by the end of October, starting with

China on Friday.



On the same day, the handsets will also be making their debuts in India and

Monaco as Apple targets Middle East, European and Asian territories.



The handsets will go on sale in Israel on October 23, and one day later in the

Czech Republic, French West Indies, Greenland, Malta, Poland, Reunion Island and

South Africa.



By the end of the month the phones will also be officially available in Bahrain,

Kuwait, Albania, Bosnia, Croatia, Estonia, Greece, Guam, Hungary, Iceland,

Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Macau, Macedonia, Mexico, Moldova, Montenegro,

Serbia, South Korea, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Ukraine and Thailand, bringing

the number of countries where the iPhone is available up to 69.



Apple plans to have rolled the new devices out to 115 countries in total before

the end of the year.



The iPhone 6 boasts a 4.7-inch display while the larger iPhone 6 Plus offers a

5.5-inch screen. Both handsets are available in a choice of space grey, gold or

silver, and despite achieving record sales -- 10 million+ handsets over their

initial weekend of availability -- the handsets have also attracted their fair

share of controversy.



First there was 'Bendgate,' a criticism that went viral about how easy it was to

bend an iPhone when it was carried in a back pocket, followed by Beardgate and

Hairgate.



Thanks to the tiny gap between the screen and the edge of the handset's body,

users are complaining that they are snagging their facial hair in the space and

like tweezers, they are being plucked every time they take a voice call. Female

users have also reported getting their hair tangled around the rear-facing

camera which protrudes slightly from the body when making phone calls.



Nevertheless, the handsets, in particular the larger phablet iPhone 6 Plus, are

proving very popular. So popular in fact that Apple has reportedly increased

manufacturing capacity for the larger Plus model to keep up with demand.



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





