

By Hitesh Bhagat

It's easy to see the iPhone's appeal. Apple was singlehandedly responsible in
shifting the market towards responsive touchscreen phones. They also made app
stores and after market accessories popular, creating multiple new markets along
the way. Each iPhone iteration along the line has seen tremendous success,
despite the odd hiccup or two (remember antenna-gate and the more recent
bendgate)?

First impressions

The iPhone has always stood for three key things: a beautiful design, seamlessly
integrated hardware and software and nearly limitless, highquality apps. Much of
the same tradition is carried forward here.

The phones are completely new from the inside out and both have been designed to
cater to the shift in preference for larger screens. As the quantity of content
we consume has increased, so have screen sizes. The iPhone 4 and 5 series now
look positively tiny in comparison.

At first glance, you'll notice the more rounded edges of the iPhone 6 and 6
Plus. They both have the exact same design but different screen sizes: 4.7-inch
for the 6 and 5.5-inch for the 6 plus. On the face of it, the iPhone 6 seems to
be logical choice for anyone upgrading from an existing iPhone while the 6 Plus
is designed to attract anyone who's already using a phablet sized device.

The screen curves lightly at all four edges - to meet the curve of the sides. On
the iPhone 6, it makes the device feel premium. On the 6 Plus, it just feels
slippery because of the larger dimensions. The 6 Plus also seems to have
unnecessarily large bezels and this makes it larger than other phones with
similar screen sizes.

We feel that the only glaring design flaw is the protruding camera lens at the
back. When placed flat on a surface without a case, the phone will rest on the
lens. It's probably bad for the lens in the long run (despite it being sapphire
glass - you don't a camera lens to be the first thing that makes contact with a
hard surface) and also makes the phone wobble when placed flat. It's almost as
if Apple designed it to be used only with a case.

Hardware

Odd as it may seem - the devices do not have identical specifications. The 6
Plus has a larger battery which is understandable given the larger size. But it
also has a higher resolution display (having the same resolution on both would
have made it easier on developers) and a better camera equipped with optical
image stabilisation.

The rest of the device is all aluminium and the unibody shape now does without
the chamfered edges. Apple never gives out detailed hardware specifications,
insisting that it's the experience that matters more than specs on paper. While
this is true for the most part, this feels like another Apple bastion (after
screen size) that is destined to fall with time. A lot of people buy a device
based solely on specs now.

Both new iPhones have a 1.4Ghz dual core A8 processor and 1GB RAM. This seems
like a far cry from the 2.5Ghz quad/octa core processors and 3GB RAM that many
of the other flagship phones have. To make up for this, the devices have much
more powerful PowerVR quad core graphics. Needless to say, you'll not be wanting
for performance because the combination of iOS 8 and optimised hardware results
in a very zippy device. The phone blazes through all the software benchmarks.
Specifically browser rendering benchmarks and 3D gaming.

\xA0

Software

Both devices are preloaded with iOS 8, which behaves slightly differently on
both. The first thing you'll notice is that the interface rotates into landscape
view on the 6 Plus. Recognising the larger size of the device/screen, Apple has
also included some tweaks that can help in onehanded use.

For example, Reachability can bring the top part of the screen down if you can't
reach something. Some of the other native apps (Mail, Calendar) have dual pane
views which can make better use of a larger screen. Apart of these things, iOS 8
will look and feel pretty similar if you're already using it on an older device.

Display

The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch screen (1334 x 750 pixels) while iPhone 6 Plus has a
5.5-inch screen (1920 x 1080 pixels). Apple also says that both phones have
retina-class displays: roughly 326 pixels per inch (ppi) on the iPhone 6 and 401
ppi on the iPhone 6 Plus. Look carefully and you'll still see individual pixels
on the 6. In comparison, Samsung's Galaxy Note 4 has a 5.7-inch display ( 2560 x
1440 pixels; 515 ppi).

Having said all that, both iPhones have a very pleasing display - brilliant,
accurate colours, excellent viewing angles and high levels of contrast. The 6
Plus still has the edge because of the higher resolution.

Camera

Strong camera performance is expected and the new iPhones will not disappoint.
The 6 Plus in particular has optical image stabilisation which compensates
effectively for camera shake. Apart from this, specs are similar: same sensor
size, same resolution (8MP), phase detection autofocus (being used in
smartphones for the second time - first was on Galaxy S5) and dual tone LED
flash. For video, the primary camera is capable of 1080p video at 60fps while
the front camera can do 720p video at 30fps.

The slow motion video is quite enticing - rear cameras on both phones can
capture 720p video at 240 frames per second. Try capturing a fire, falling water
or action sports in this mode.

As expected, daytime photos are stunning from both phones. The 6 Plus has the
obvious edge in low light thanks to OIS. There are very few cameras that can
stand up to the quality that the iPhone 6 Plus offers. Only thing is, we would
have liked to see 4K video recording and more options for exposure adjustment.

Also see

The reduced prices of the iPhone 5S have made it a very enticing buy for anyone
who thought it was too expensive earlier. For the iPhone 6, the obvious
competition would be Samsung's Galaxy Alpha. It's available for Rs 38,900 (only
one version, 32GB without memory expansion) and has the same size screen.

Other flagship 5-inch phones like the HTC One M8, Sony Xperia Z3 and Galaxy S5
also qualify as competition. For the iPhone 6 Plus, we think a worthy competitor
is the Galaxy Note 4. The Note 4 has a better camera overall, a higher
resolution screen, expandable memory, removable battery, a precise
pressure-sensitive stylus and many more features (heart rate monitor, IR
emitter, 4K video recording etc).

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

