
DATELINE: New Delhi


The Apple iPhone SE was supposed to be the big price play from Apple. But Apple
held on to its price, at least in markets like India, with this new small phone.
However, it is still a phone with a unique selling proposition, thanks to its
now rare form factor. Can the 4-inch frame be the one thing that endures this
new phone to the world?

The SE in iPhone SE is supposed to stand for special edition. That it is in more
ways than one-it brings back to vogue the 4-inch screen which we all thought we
had moved on from and it puts into this tiny frame specs similar to a top-end
device, another rarity these days. Despite all that this is still a phone that
looks a bit like another that was sold a couple of years back. The iPhone 5S, at
least it's looks, sure gets a new lease of life with the SE.

What is good?

The best feature of this phone has to be its size. There are lots of people who
struggle with large phones and find no viable alternative given that smaller
phones are now becoming really rare. The 4-inch frame of the iPhone SE will
endear this phone to lots of people with small hands and tiny fingers. This is
for people who want something handy, and I am sure there are quite a few of this
target audience around the world.

But does small mean weak? No. And that is the beauty of the iPhone SE. It is in
no way an underwhelming smartphone. Moving from an iPhone 6s Plus to this
smaller phone, I was in no way struggling for power. Given that this was a brand
new phone, there were times when the phone actually felt faster and smoother
than the six-month-old 6s Plus. The phone works well in all conditions.

The phone has a pretty neat camera. If you compare it to the iPhone 6s series,
the SE might not be that good with low-light. But it has a very good camera that
gives you crisp, sharp and very iPhone-like photos. Plus, this phone comes with
Live photo option too though there is no 3D Touch. The phone does everything
that the 6s does right from 4K video to timelapse and does it well.

The iPhone offers pretty decent battery life. It is by no means great, but will
last you about 12 hours on Delhi's patchy networks with LTE. With the battery
save mode there could be a couple more hours you could add to the day.

What is not that good?

Strangely, the biggest issue with the phone is also its biggest strength: the
size. The 4-inch screen is a tough cookie for anyone who has been exposed to a
larger screen. Switching from the iPhone 6s Plus, initially I struggled to even
add my passwords. In a couple of days I was more comfortable, but still aching
for more screen space. This is ideally for those buying their first smartphone
or for those upgrading from an iPhone 4 for 5.

Unlike the iPhone 6s series, the SE does heat up a bit when the 4k video is
recording. The warming up starts after around two minutes. I got the feeling at
times that the fingerprint scanner was a micro-second slower than the one of the
6s Plus. This could be because Apple is using a slightly different hardware for
the Touch ID on the new phone.

Should you buy?

Yes, if you are looking for a phone that fits in your hands and it is handy at
all times. The phone is in no way underwhelming, despite its smaller size and
that is the best bit about the SE. It would have been great if Apple had kept
the pricing a bit more aggressive on this phone, making it compellingly better
than the iPhone 6 in a market like India. If you are looking for the best priced
iPhone, the SE is not really there with the iPhone 6 available for a bit cheaper
online.

Now, your need to buy has a smaller phone has to be strong enough for you to pay
premium.

Estimated street price: R39,000+

