

It has not been very long since Apple iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus have been out.
However, the rumour mill has already started churning 'details' about Apple's
next iPhone(s). Thanks to sources from Taiwan, 'potential' features of the
next-generation iPhone have surfaced. A look at six likely features of what is
to come:

1. Two lens camera

It is being reported that Apple will use a two-lens system in the camera module
of the next-generation iPhone. The dual lens setup will allow the iPhone to
capture more light, resulting in better photos. Apple will also add optical zoom
capability to the phone's camera, resulting in better photos compared to cameras
with digital zoom, as per rumours.

2. Force touch

Apple will reportedly use its Force Touch technology in the upcoming iPhones.
This technology, already being used in Apple Watch, will allow the touchscreen
to distinguish between light taps and long presses, enabling users to interact
with their iPhones in several new ways.

Moreover, the touch sensors said to be used in the new iPhones will be able to
determine the users' blood pressure and pulse more accurately.

3. Same screen sizes

The anonymous supply chain sources cited in the report also mention that iPhone
will stick to the current crop of screen sizes, 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch.

There is no mention of the rumoured 4-inch iPhone 6S model yet.

4. Minimum 32GB storage

Apple is also said to be upgrading the minimum storage option in next-generation
iPhone to 32GB, from the current 16GB.

With the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Apple had eliminated the 32GB storage option
allowing users to choose between 16GB, 64GB and 128GB options.

5. RAM 2GB

The next-generation iPhone will also reportedly get a memory upgrade.

According to sources from Taiwan, Apple may finally endow the next generation
iPhone with 2GB RAM.

While the close integration between the software and hardware ensures a smooth
user experience, the bump in RAM will facilitate better multitasking.

6. New A9 processor

The next-generation iPhone will be powered by Apple's new A9 processor. Just
like the A8 processor, Apple's new A9 processor will be based on 64-bit
architecture. There are conf licting reports on which company will make the
processor.

Some reports suggest that Apple will go to Samsung to get the chip made as its
foundries support 14nm FinFET chips, that offer improved performance and use
less power. However, some other reports claim that Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company (TSMC) will produce most of the A9 application processors.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

