                              998 of 998 DOCUMENTS





                             Central Western Daily



                          September 20, 2014 Saturday



ORANGE caught iPhone fever yesterday as about 100 peo



BYLINE: TRACEY PRISK



SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 302 words





ORANGE caught iPhone fever yesterday as about 100 people lined up before 8am to

purchase the new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



Telstra Orange named Grant Dombrain an iPhone super fan, thanks to his brand

loyalty, and contacted him ahead of yesterday's release to ensure he was first

Telstra customer to purchase the new iPhone.



"I've always had iPhones, they're just easy to use, and I get good service from

Telstra," Mr Dombrain said.



"(But) I'm surprised to see so many people here to get phones."



Josh Cheney said his contract had expired on his previous iPhone and he decided

to use yesterday's iPhone 6 launch as an opportunity to upgrade.



"My missus talked me into doing it. She probably wants to get her hands on it,"

he joked.



Bathurst residents Britney Stelzner and her father Brett lined up at about

7.30am to nab a new phone.



Britney, who is upgrading from an iPhone 4 to an iPhone 6, plans to work with

her father over the holidays to help pay off the device.



"It's a lot different to the old one, it's got more storage and it's bigger, and

I like the different colours, I'm getting a white and gold phone," she said.



Telstra Country Wide Western NSW general manager Scott Curtin said the Telstra

store had been overwhelmed with interest in the iPhone 6 in the lead-up to the

launch.



"Some of them are keen Apple fans and wanted to get in early and be part of the

opening," he said.



Mr Curtin said yesterday was Telstra Orange's biggest trading day of the year.



"The consumers are looking for a much bigger, broader phone and that's what

Apple have brought to the market," he said.



There are 18 different combinations of phone colours, features and storage

capacities for customers to choose from with the iPhone 6 Plus and the grey

mid-range iPhone 6 proving the most popular options.



tracey.prisk@



fairfaxmedia.com.au



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved

