
                              501 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

Google's latest Pixel phones wont be waterproof

LENGTH: 182  words


Maybe not dive into the pool with this one.

Google's upcoming Pixel phones wont be waterproof, but they will be water
resistant, says latest news reports.

According to a source speaking to Android Police, the rumored Pixel and Pixel XL
will be IP53 dust and water resistant - the same level as the HTC 10. The three
in IP53 means that it will be resistant to spraying water, which translates to
"water falling as a spray at any angle up to 60° from the vertical shall have no
harmful effect."

Potentially, this means that you can hold your phone out in the rain, but the
rating does not guarantee protection if it falls into a puddle or the pool,
which is something the new flagships like iPhone 7, Sony Xperia XZ and Samsung
Galaxy S7 Edge are protected against. The rating also means that the phone wont
be able to cope with high pressure water, so running the phone under a tap or in
the shower is out of the question as well.

As of now the phones are still rumors, but it looks like Google will launch them
at an event planned for October 4th, and might hit the shelves on October 21st.

Source

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              502 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on August 19 titled as "Automatic
color correction"

LENGTH: 205  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,811,740 on
August 19, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Automatic color
correction"

Inventors:  Brendel; William (San Francisco, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods, systems and computer program products for automatic color correction
of image and video content are provided. A computer-implemented method may
include generating an auto-level linear transform and a histogram equalization
transform of a color distribution histogram for an original image among a set of
sequential images. The auto-level linear transform and the histogram
equalization transform are blended to create a modified image. Pixel color is
adjusted in the modified image so that a color difference between a pixel and
neighboring pixels in the modified image corresponds to a color difference
between respective pixels in the original image."

The patent was filed on October 19, 2012 Application no. 13/656,550

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              503 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                          September 30, 2015 Wednesday

The Google Nexus: tech, specs and pricing

LENGTH: 658  words

DATELINE: San Francisco


San Francisco, Sept. 30 -- Google is countering the release of Apple's latest
iPhones with two devices running on a new version of Android software.
 The Nexus 6P and Nexus 5X unveiled Tuesday are the first smartphones sold with
the Marshmallow upgrade.


 The Marshmallow version of Android enables users to summon Google Now to scan
whatever content might be on a mobile device's screen so it can present
pertinent information about the topic of a text, a song, a video clip or an
article.
 The new Android feature, called 'Now on Tap', can be activated by holding down
the device's home button or speaking, "OK Google," into the microphone. It will
prompt 'Now on Tap' to scan the screen in an attempt to figure out how to be the
most helpful.
 "In a multiscreen world, it is even more important for Google to do the hard
work so the experience is simple and delightful for the users," Google CEO
Sundar Pichai said.
 Apple's new operating system also has programmed the iPhone's Siri assistant to
be more intuitive so it can anticipate what the user might want or need before
being explicitly asked.
 Google began taking pre-orders for the Nexus phones in the U.S., United
Kingdom, Ireland and Japan on Tuesday with prices for the 6P starting at $499
and $379 for the 5X with no commitment to a wireless contract required. They are
expected to start shipping by mid-October.
 The Nexus phones are undercutting Apple, which sells the iPhone 6s for $649 and
the 6S Plus for $749 without a subsidy from a wireless carrier.
 Google uses its Nexus line of phones to showcase how the company would like
Android to be set up. Most phone makers, though, still take advantage of the
freedom that Google gives them to alter Android, although the free software
usually is still set up to drive traffic to Google's search engine, YouTube
video site and other digital services.
 The Nexus phones also feature better cameras than previous models, matching
similar upgrades that Apple just made to its iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus.
 The Nexus 6P has a 5.7-inch screen, slightly larger than the iPhone 6s Plus.
The Nexus 5X has a 5.2-inch screen.
 But it won't be necessary to have a Nexus phone to get Marshmallow. People will
receive the option to install a free upgrade beginning next week.
 The debut of the latest Nexus phones underscores the steadily intensifying
rivalry between Google and Apple as they duel for consumers' loyalty in the
increasingly important mobile device market.
 Besides its Nexus phones, Google also began selling upgrades to its Chromecast
video-streaming device and a new Chromecast model that can be plugged into
speakers to play music from a phone or an Internet service. The devices will
sell for $35 apiece, the same price that Google has been charging for the
original Chromecast, which has won over a lot of households.
 Google disclosed on Tuesday that more than 20 million of the Chromecast video
devices have been sold since the gadget's debut two years ago.
 Google also provided a peek at a tablet called the Pixel C that is aimed at
consumers and workers who want a device that can accommodate a lot of typing.
The $499 tablet comes with a 10-inch display screen an attachable $149 keyboard
that transforms the device into the equivalent of a laptop, when needed. Apple
will begin selling a similar model of its pioneering iPad with a 13-inch screen
later this fall. Prices start at $799 for that iPad and $169 for the keyboard.
 Nexus 5X Nexus 6P
 Dimensions 72.6 x 147.0 x 7.9 mm
 77.8 x 159.3 x 7.3mm
 136g 178g
 Processor Qualcomm® Snapdragon(TM) 808 processor, 1.8 GHz
 Hexa-core 64-bit
 Adreno 418 GPU Qualcomm® Snapdragon(TM) 810 v2.1, 2.0 GHz
 Octa-core 64-bit
 Adreno 430 GPU
 Screen 5.2" FHD LCD 5.7" AMOLED
 Corning® Gorilla® Glass 3 Corning® Gorilla® Glass 4
 Resolution 1920 x 1080 pixels 2560 x 1440 pixels
 Camera Rear: 12.3 MP; 1.55[#x3bc]m pixels; f/2.0
 Rear: 12.3 MP; 1.55[#x3bc]m pixels; f/2.0
 Front: 5 MP Front: 8 MP
 Battery 2700 mAh 3450 mAh

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              504 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     October 16, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Motorola Nexus 6 is Google's take on the Apple iPhone 6 Plus

LENGTH: 269  words


Google's new Nexus Smartphone launched in partnership with Motorola was unveiled
last night via a blog post. The Nexus 6 boasts the power of Android's latest
update - the Lollipop (5.0 version) on board, which was also announced last
night along with the HTC-built Nexus 9 tablet.

The Nexus 6 is a powerhouse with a Qualcomm's Snapdragon 805 chipset paired with
3GB of RAM, which should be good to power up the giant 5.96-inch display device.
This apart, the Smartphone brings a 13-megapixel snapper and other premium
features on-board, all of which make it a tough competitor against high-end
Android Smartphones from top tier brands as well as the newly launched iPhone
6s.

Since the Nexus 6 dons a 6-inch display, it is obvious that the phone will be
compared against the Iphone 6 Plus which will be up on sale starting tonight in
India.

Here we give you specification comparison between the two beasts with different
operating systems.


Features          Google Nexus 6    Iphone 6 Plus
Dimensions        82.98159.2610.06m 158.177.87.1mm
                  m
Weight            184 grams         172 grams
Display           5.96-inch QHD     5.5-inch Retina HD
Display           25601440 pixels   1080 x 1920 pixels (401 ppi pixel
resolution        (493 ppi pixel    density) 16/64/128GB
                  density)
Processor         2.7GHz Snapdragon Apple A8 64-bit processor with M8
                  805 quad-core     coprocessor
RAM               3GB               1GB
Storage           32/64GB           16/64/128 GB
MicroSD support   N/A               N/A
Rear Camera       13-megapixel with 8-megapixel iSight camera with OIS,
                  OIS and F/2.0     true-tone flash, 1.5 micron pixels, and
                                    F/2.2 aperture
Front Camera      2-megapixel       2.1-megapixel Facetime camera
Battery           3,220mAh          2,915mAh
Software          Android 5.0       iOS 8.0.2
                  Lollipop
Price             $649 (in the US)  Starting from INR 53,500

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              505 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                            October 1, 2016 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Google sets bar high as Oct. reveal event nears

BYLINE: By, Eli Blumenthal

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 398 words


Google has built intense speculation for its Oct. 4 event in San Francisco,
where it's expected to reveal new phones that will power a new virtual-reality
platform, and possibly, other smart-home devices.

Google has been teasing the event as one for the history books. A tweet Monday
from Hiroshi Lockheimer, the company's senior vice president of Android, Chrome
OS and Google Play, turned up the volume.

"We announced the 1st version of Android 8 years ago today," Lockheimer wrote in
the tweet that has been retweeted more than 2,200 times. "I have a feeling 8
years from now we'll be talking about Oct 4, 2016."

In the days since Google sent out the invitations to the media, the company has
set up a website, https://madeby.google.com/, and put up large billboards in New
York and other cities in the U.S. featuring the silhouette of a phone centered
around the hashtag, #madebyGoogle.

What does this all point to? A likely candidate: new phones from manufacturer
HTC, taking on the Pixel brand the company used with its Chromebook and tablet
efforts. Rumors and leaks point to devices with large displays - 5 inches for
the Pixel and 5.5 inches for the larger Pixel XL, fast processors, improved
cameras and sleek aluminum and glass designs. Both phones are expected to have
headphone jacks, according to the website Android Police. A Google spokesperson
declined to comment.

Mobile is the path Google is taking as it preps its new virtual-reality platform
called Daydream,  a big move up from the Google Cardboard-based VR experience
that helped consumers experience early VR at a low cost.

Another area of major interest: Google Home, the Amazon Echo rival
smart-speaker. Whereas phones may be the emphasis for getting to users wherever
they go, Home is the target for keeping them connected to Google when they are
at home.

Rumors  also point to an updated Google Chromecast, an updated Wi-Fi router and
potentially even a new Android tablet made by Huawei.

Even so, analysts say none of these innovations would back up Lockheimer's bold
statement - at least not right away.

"There is nothing Google can have that will initially be seen as significant as
the launch of Android does in hindsight," says Jan Dawson, chief analyst at
Jackdaw Research, noting that at its launch it wasn't clear Android would become
as important as it has.

"I think it's inevitably going to seem disappointing."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cpo


                         Copyright 2016 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                              506 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday

Google introduces Pixel C tablet, new Nexus phones

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mobrien@mercurynews.com

SECTION: NEWS; Business

LENGTH: 521 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Google introduced a tablet-laptop hybrid Tuesday, along with
two new Nexus phones and updates to Chromecast that together marked the
company's first big product launch since reorganizing under parent company
Alphabet.

Emphasizing a push by the company to build its own in-house hardware, Google CEO
Sundar Pichai announced the new tablet, called Pixel C, that is powered with
Google's Android operating system and is likely to compete with Microsoft's
Surface and Apple's iPad Pro, all of which transform into laptop-like devices
with the addition of a keyboard.

"There's no kickstand," said Andrew Bowers, a Google product director, as he
demonstrated how the lightweight keyboard magnetically attaches. "I can hold it
by the tablet, I can hold it by the keyboard, I can hold it upside-down."

He said the 10.2-inch-screen device goes on sale in time for the holidays --
$499 for the tablet and an additional $149 for the keyboard.

The company also introduced two new phones in its Nexus line, which is now 5
years old but has been used as more of a showcase of Google's edgiest technology
than a big market mover.

But that could change, said the Google executives who revealed the 5.2-inch
Nexus 5X (starting at $379), the premium 5.7-inch Nexus 6P (starting at $499 and
made of "aeronautical-grade anodized aluminum") and a back-to-back series of new
and updated features in the hotly anticipated but relatively low-key launch
event inside a photography studio near San Francisco's Mission District.

Both phones take advantage of one of Google's strengths -- the artificial
intelligence and machine-learning capabilities of its latest version of Android,
named Marshmallow, which launches next week. Both phones are also able to use
Project Fi, Google's new wireless service (starting at $30 a month), and
fingerprint sensing to unlock the phone and use the Android Pay system for
buying items at store payment terminals.

Contact Matt O'Brien at 408-920-5011. Follow him at Twitter.com/Mattoyeah .
Google's new products
Android Marshmallow: The latest version of Google's mobile operating system will
be available on new model Nexus phones and eventually other Android-powered
phones. It includes an advanced version of the Google Now personal assistant.
Nexus 5X: Made by South Korea's LG Electronics, the 5.2-inch smartphone starts
at $379. It has a 12 megapixel camera, fingerprint sensor for locking and mobile
payments, a USB Type-C charging port.
Nexus 6P: Made by China's Huawei Technologies, the sleek, premium 5.7-inch
smartphone starts at $499. It has a 12.3 megapixel camera, fingerprint sensor
for locking and mobile payments, a USB Type-C charging port.
Pixel C: Google's first Android tablet ($499) also transforms into a laptop with
$149 magnetic keyboard attached. The search giant's answer to Microsoft Surface
and Apple's new iPad Pro.
Chromecast Audio: Along with updating its digital media playing Chromecast
plug-in stick, Google's media universe expands with the new Chromecast Audio
circular device -- meant to resemble a vinyl record -- that allows streaming
music to play from a home audio system.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Google product manager Andrew Bowers announces the new Android-based
Pixel C tablet during a Google media event on September 29, 2015 in San
Francisco, California.
Google VP of engineering Dave Burke announces a new Nexus 6P phone during a
Google media event on September 29, 2015 in San Francisco, California.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              507 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 1, 2014 Monday

USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc titled as "AUTOMATIC COLOR
CORRECTION"

LENGTH: 204  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20140348427, published on November 27, 2014, by Google Inc, titled as "AUTOMATIC
COLOR CORRECTION" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:   Brendel; William; (San Francisco, CA)
Assignee: Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA
US

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods, systems and computer program products for automatic color correction
of image and video content are provided. A computer-implemented method may
include generating an auto-level linear transform and a histogram equalization
transform of a color distribution histogram for an original image among a set of
sequential images. The auto-level linear transform and the histogram
equalization transform are blended to create a modified image. Pixel color is
adjusted in the modified image so that a color difference between a pixel and
neighboring pixels in the modified image corresponds to a color difference
between respective pixels in the original image."

The Patent was filed on August 13, 2014 under application No. 20140348427

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              508 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Smartphone battery crisis presents opportunity for Apple and Google;
Note 7 users may be shopping for replacement devices during holiday season

BYLINE: Jing Cao Bloomberg

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 537 words


Samsung Electronics Co.'s mounting crisis with its flagship Galaxy Note 7 has
left millions of premium smartphone buyers looking for an alternative.

The obvious candidate is Apple's iPhone 7, but Google's slick new Pixel device
could get a lift, too.

Samsung recalled and pledged to replace millions of Note 7 phones in early
September after reports emerged that their batteries were bursting into flames.

But over the past week, new reports have indicated that some of Samsung's
replacement phones are catching on fire, too. Samsung has now stopped production
of all Note 7 phones.

Many people upgrade their phones during the Christmas shopping season, giving
Apple and Google an opportunity to fill the Samsung vacuum - and making it even
harder for the South Korean company to bounce back.

The Pixel may be especially appealing to Samsung users looking for another
device that runs the Android operating system.

"There's been a shift toward bigger-screen devices, and there's less competition
there given the Note 7 issue, so there's definitely more opportunities for the
iPhone 7 Plus," said James Cordwell, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP.

As for Google, "the Pixel suddenly has got very limited competition at the high
end of the market."

Samsung on Tuesday asked wireless carriers to stop selling its most expensive
phone and instructed consumers to stop using them.

The move came as carriers including ATT Inc., T-Mobile US Inc., Sprint Corp.,
Verizon Communications Inc. and Australia's Telstra Corp. halted Note 7 sales
following reports of problems with devices thought to be safe.

Before the exploding batteries, Samsung had defied a slowing smartphone market
with better-than-expected Galaxy sales and successfully capitalized on a lull in
demand for new iPhones.

In recent months, Samsung had expanded its already-considerable market share.

The company shipped 77 million smartphones in the second quarter for a market
share of 22 per cent.

That's up from 73 million, or 21-per-cent share, a year ago, according to IDC.
Apple's shipments dropped 15 per cent to leave it with market share of 12 per
cent.

Now, the South Korean company enters the crucial holiday shopping season with no
large-screen smartphone.

Because Samsung and Apple have basically split the market for $700-plus
smartphones between them, the latter is a natural beneficiary of Samsung's woes.

Investors seem to expect that to happen and pushed Apple shares up 1.7 per cent
to $116.05 Monday in New York, the highest level since December 2015.

In the long-term, Apple could attract Android users to its "sticky iOS
ecosystem, which boasts a 95 per cent loyalty rate," Credit Suisse Group AG
analyst Kulbinder Garcha wrote in a note.

Still, Google's Pixel, which debuts in the U.S., U.K., Australia, Canada and
Germany on Oct. 20, could appeal to those who are immune to Apple's charms.

The Pixel is the first phone the search giant has conceptualized, designed,
engineered and tested in-house.

It has a number of features that will be broadly appealing, including a
Siri-like virtual assistant, a flashy camera and speedy apps.

Of course, the Pixel is untested, Google's previous forays into hardware have
floundered and the company lacks its own retail stores.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              509 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Early Christmas for gadget lovers

SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 871 words


As if this week's celebrations from Apple (the probable launch of an iPad Mini)
and Microsoft (the launch of Windows 8) weren't enough, Google has joined the
party with what's said to be the launch of a new phone, a new tablet and a new
operating system at the end of the week.

Christmas is coming early in gadget land, it seems.

Google sent out invitations last week for an "Android event" that will take
place on October 29. That's what's known for certain.

What's not certain is what the Android event will be about, specifically.

Shaping up as the leading rumour is a report from The Next Web , which says
Google will reveal new models of its prized Nexus 7 tablet, a new phone known as
the LG Nexus 4, and a new 10-inch tablet.

Those last two will be running a new version of the Android operating system,
known as Android 4.2.

The new Nexus 7 will have 32 gigabytes of internal storage (current models have
only 8 or 16 gigabytes). And it will have mobile broadband, in the form of
HSPA+.

The new tablet, likely to be known as the Nexus 10, will be made by Samsung and
will have a 10-inch display that more than matches Apple's Retina display for
sharpness: it will be 2560x1600 pixels, with a pixel density of 300 pixels per
inch. The Retina display on the iPad is a mere 264 pixels per inch, and is so
sharp that it's hard to imagine the extra 36 pixels per inch making much
difference.

Meanwhile, the LG Nexus 4 will obviously be made by LG, and will sport a
quad-core processor and will otherwise be unremarkable except for the fact that
it runs Android 4.2, which includes the exciting new feature known as "Tablet
Sharing", which will allow multiple people to use the one tablet, each with
their own set of apps and data.

It's like user switching in Windows, and it's something a lot of Android users
(including me) have been waiting for.

Google is touting it as the laptop "for everyone": its new Samsung-built
Chromebook that went on pre-sale on Google's website for $US249 on Friday.

But when you click on the "Buy Now" button, you're given a list of four
retailers in the US, and one in the UK. So what exactly do they mean by
"everyone"? Everyone in the non-metric, English speaking part of the northern
hemisphere, perhaps?

Mind you, it is only pre-sale. By the time the new Samsung Chromebook actually
goes on sale later this week, there will be more places to buy it from,
including from the Google Play store itself, and hopefully one or two of those
will ship it to the rest of the world where almost everyone lives.

Google says the new, cheap computer weighs just 2.5 pounds (that's 1.13 kilos,
everyone) and is "a mere 0.8 inches thick" (that's 2 cm in most of the world),
which doesn't make it the lightest or slimmest notebook going around, but does
make it very slim and very light given the price and the fact it has an
11.6-inch screen.

For the uninitiated (which, let's face it, almost everyone is, despite the
devices having been around for a few years), Chromebooks are notebook PCs that
run Google's own lightweight operating system, Chrome. Google being Google,
Chrome is deigned to be very internet based. Apps run inside the Chrome browser,
for instance. Data is stored online (buyers of the Samsung Chromebook get 100
gigs of cloud storage, free of extra charge, for two years), that sort of thing.

The new notebook is also completely quiet, just like the internet: it's powered
by a fanless Samsung Exynos 5 dual-core processor, more akin to something you'd
find in a mobile phone or a tablet than in a notebook. That low-powered
processor gives the notebook a 6.5-hour battery life, according to Google.

Naturally, we'll do our own tests and get back to you, should the Samsung
Chromebook actually be available here. Of course it will be, it being for
everyone and all.

Microsoft's Surface-to-Apple missile plans

Microsoft has announced local pricing and availability for its Surface tablet,
which will go on sale in Australia on Friday, the same time that it goes on sale
in the US and elsewhere.

The 32 gigabyte version of the Surface with Windows RT will cost $559, and the
32 gigabyte version bundled with a black Touch Cover will cost $679. The 64
gigabyte version with that same cover will cost $789. The keyboard cover
(pictured below) can be bought separately for $139.99, while a slightly thicker
cover which has real keyboard keys will cost $149.99. These are all Australian
prices.

Whether you'll actually get your grubby little mitts on a Surface with Windows
RT come October 26 will depend on Microsoft's courier company, however. It's
only going to be available online on that date in Australia, China, France,
Germany, Hong Kong, and the UK. Shoppers in the US and Canada will be able to
buy it online and in stores.

Australian pre-orders are available here.

Windows RT, in case you haven't been paying attention, is the version of Windows
8 that is designed to run on low-powered ARM chips, similar to the chips that go
into iPads. The Surface tablets running that operating system will generally be
smaller and lighter than tablets running the full-blown Windows 8, but will lack
the ability to run "legacy" applications, "legacy" being just about all the
Windows apps you know and love today.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              510 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on September 2 titled as "Video
compression method"

LENGTH: 268  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,824,553 on
September 2, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Video compression
method"

Inventors:  Ameres; Eric (Cohoes, NY), Bankoski; James (Wynantskill, NY),
Lavarnway; Scott (Chestertown, NY), Xu; Yaowu (Clifton Park, NY), Miller; Dan
(New York, NY), Grange; Adrian (Cambridge, GB), Wilkins; Paul (Cambridge, GB)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
method of compressing video data having at least one frame having at least one
block and each block having an array of pixels is provided. The method
transforms the pixels of each block into coefficients and creates an optimal
transmission order of the coefficients. The method also optimizes the speed of
processing compressed video data by partitioning the data bitstream and coding
each partition independently. The method also predicts fractional pixel motion
by selecting an interpolation method for each given plurality or block of pixels
depending upon at least one metric related to each given block and varies the
method from block to block. The method also enhances error recovery for a
current frame using a frame prior to the frame immediately before the current
frame as the only reference frame for lessening quality loss during data
transmission. Enhanced motion vector coding is also provided."

The patent was filed on November 14, 2003 Application no. 10/713,807

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              511 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     October 30, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Nestle Releases Teaser Video For Android KitKat

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 245  words


Both Google and Nestle have been teasing about the OS for some time now.

Wednesday, October 30, 2013: A new teaser video released by Nestle comes with
the tagline, "Android KitKat 4.4 - one to enjoy whilst you're
waiting#magicbreak." The video was poste don Google+ and adds to the several
other teasers that both Google and Nestle have posted about the upcoming Android
4.4 KitKat operating system. The new version of Google's Android OS is going to
be launched alongside the company's Nexus 5 smartphone, which is expected
anytime now.

According to some reports, the Android KitKat OS, along with the LG made Nexus 5
smartphone, is going to be released sometime during this week. Rumours have
often pointed towards a 31 October announcement date for the device and hence
the new OS. This would mean that the device and OS would launch on Halloween.

The specifications of the Google Nexus 5 have already been leaked on the
internet. In fact, the handset also appeared for a brief period on the Google
Play Store. In addition, images of the white version of the smartphone have also
been leaked.

The Google Nexus 5 will have a 12.7-cm (5-inch) full HD display, which offers a
resolution of 1,920 x 1,080 pixel resolution. The device is powered by the 2.3
GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 quad core processor and will have 2 GB of RAM. In
addition, it will have an 8 mega pixel rear camera and a 1.3 mega pixel front
camera. The device will be available in 16 GB and 32 GB variants.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              512 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      April 27, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 7 32 GB temporarily out of stock in India

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 153  words


The Google Nexus 7 32 GB variant, which was spotted on Google Play store in
India two days back, is temporarily out of stock now.

Earlier Google launched only the 16 GB variant in India that was priced at Rs
15999. This 32 GB 7 inch tablet with Wi-Fi is priced at Rs 18999, which is a
decent price for this NVIDIA Tegra 3 quad-core processor powered 7-inch tablet.

One of lightest tablets in its category this Nexus 7 tablet runs the latest
Android Jelly Bean operating system. Designed by Asus TruVivid technology, the
display of the tablet is an IPS display scratch-resistance surface that offers a
178 degrees wide-viewing angle. The screen ha a resolution of 1280 by 800 pixels
that offers a pixel density of 216 pixels per inches on the 7-inch screen. It
has 1 GB RAM and a 4325 mAh battery.

The tablet however, is available for purchased in other online stores like the
rediff shopping and tradus, at a higher price.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              513 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FIRST Edition

World vision

BYLINE: Dave Bullard and Danny Gorog

SECTION: CONNECT; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 848  words


The Earth can groove for you too. All you need is a computer and Google, as Dave
Bullard and Danny Gorog discover

TO SEE the Earth from the air is a wonderful thing -- a privilege we've only had
in the past three or four generations.

But these days anyone with a computer and internet access can see every
kilometre of the world through Google Earth.

And see it in breathtaking detail.

For instance, if you zoom in on Melbourne, you can see the rides at Luna Park.
Or -- and this is probably the first thing any user does -- check out your home.
Chances are, you'll be able to see the pile of dirt in the driveway your wife's
been nagging you to get rid of.

Google Earth (GE) is an application that you download to your PC or Mac.

When you launch it, it connects to Google's data servers and gives you access to
a view of the globe made up of composite images from several aerial and
satellite photography sources, plus Geographic Information Systems (GIS).

On January 8, Google launched version 4.0 of the program, taking it even
further.

It's all a long way from the first aerial photograph, taken in 1858 by Felix
Tournachon from a balloon flying over France's Bievre Valley.

Or the first picture of Earth from space, which was taken in 1960 by the TIROS-1
weather satellite.

Both media have been developed over the years to a point that beggars belief.

For example, DigitalGlobe's QuickBird satellite allows commercial users to see
objects on the ground as small as 60cm.

And we don't know how much more advanced military satellites are.

Google Earth isn't as precise, but still has a base resolution of 15m per pixel,
and thousands of cities have high-resolution imagery greater than 1m per pixel
which provides an aerial view of about 460m.

In fact, it's still so sensitive and so handy to anyone's enemies that Google is
now under pressure to blur some areas of strategic importance.

A recent Times of India report said the Indian government was asking for
sensitive areas to have an image resolution no greater than 25 to 50 metres per
pixel.

Apparently Australia, Russia, South Korea and Thailand are also demanding that
Google blur sensitive images.

There are several ways of finding what you're looking for in Google Earth.

You can search for map co-ordinates, place names (such as St Kilda, Australia)
or just browse by spinning the globe and zooming in and out. We did the latter
to find the images on these pages -- and it's amazing what you can find.

In Australia Google has partnered with TrueLocal to make finding local
businesses easy.

You can click on the ''Find Businesses'' tab in the search box and type
''pizza'' and ''St Kilda, Australia'' to get a listing of pizza restaurants in
St Kilda.

When GE finds the location you'll also get all the contact info.

Your browsing can be made easier by activating information layers such as
country borders, populated areas, topographical information, and social and
population data.

The Geographic Web overlay, for example, will show certain icons that, when
clicked, can take you to a description of a place or even a series of
photographs.

Placemarks let you ''bookmark'' locations that you want to return to. These
marks, which you can give your own names to, also contain co-ordinates and will
show up in your ''Places'' window.

When you've found what you're looking for, you'll need to rotate the view to get
it upright. If you keep the images rotated to the default North, some will look
upside down and, in extreme cases, hills will look like depressions and vice
versa.

You can export and print the images you find at 1000-pixel resolution, which
gives roughly a 20x14cm (8x6 inch) image at 150dpi, or a 2.8MB file size.

One of the great new features in GE 4 is support of 3D models.

To see how this works type in ''New York'' and make sure you have the ''3D''
layer turned on.

New York should appear in 3D with realistic-looking buildings.

You can then use the tilt features in GE to change your viewing angle. To adjust
your tilt use the new navigation console that will appear when you move your
mouse over the top right-hand corner of the image.

The slider at the top of the navigation lets you adjust your tilt.

Lots of people are discovering secret archaeological treasures from around the
world.

Recently somebody found what looks to be the remains of a Roman city underwater
(www.20minutos.es/noticia/199121/1/pueblo/romano/Google).

It's an amazing program with endless possibilities -- so what are you waiting
for?


AND IT WON'T COST YOU THE EARTH

THE basic version of Google Earth is free, but you can get enhanced and
professional versions for an annual fee.

For $26, Google Earth Plus gives you higher performance, 1400-pixel printing,
real-time GPS tracking and data import from Magellan and Garmin devices,
100-point spreadsheet data import and email support. The Pro version, which will
set you back $512 a year, adds even faster performance, 4800-pixel saving and
printing, 2500-point data import, chat support, a movie-maker and the ability to
import Geographic Information System (GIS) data.

Download Google Earth from www.google.com/earth

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              514 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

A day with Google Pixel XL

BYLINE: Marco D'Souza

LENGTH: 600  words


A quick first impression of the phone that Google currently deems its greatest

It's not often that Google outs their very own smartphone. And by very own,
we're talking about one that bears their own stamp of approval, a device that
they ascribe to embodying the current state of the art. Today, this phone is the
Google Pixel.

Unveiled to much fanfare during their October 4, 'Made By Google' event, this
phone marks a way point in Google's smartphones strategy. While they have in the
past had their formidable Nexus line that came to be known as the company's
interpretation of an ideal Android smartphone, the Pixel takes this up several
notches.

With this phone, the company has-for the first time-controlled the entire chain
of events that go into the creation of a device. Google has brushed a line that
has until now been stoically defined by their rival Apple-a line that links both
the device hardware and the operating software; the two elements that embody a
phone's experience.

Diving in

The box itself is quite understated-a bookcase design comprising an outer shell
from which an inside compartment slides out. Opening this reveals the phone,
which at first glance is larger than your average 5.5-inch device owing to the
noticeable space above and beneath the screen. It's comfortably narrow width
does make it easy to hold though. The matt metal finish (specifically called
'Very Silver,) the chamfers, and especially the glass that envelopes the camera
module and fingerprint sensor at the back all exhibit pristine build quality.

Getting the phone up and running is quick-a few screens after first power on and
you are prompted to connect the Pixel phone to your earlier device. That done,
all data gets copied over seamlessly-it took me under two minutes to move about
2.2GB of local data from my existing device.

Once set up, I dived right into its key feature-to start, Google Assistant.
Long-pressing the on-screen home button brings up Google's all-new AI assistant.
Off the bat, I didn't perceive any big difference compared to the earlier Google
Now but it did appear a lot quicker, with information and search results showing
up on screen in neatly laid out tiles. Searching for 'the nearest ice cream
shop' and 'upcoming flights to Goa' worked quite well.

I also fired off several shots on its all-new 12.3 MP main camera, and the
results looked stellar. Besides shooting a couple of landscapes and still life
shots, the 'Lens blur' feature worked to especially great effect. Of course, I
couldn't help but compare it with the shots I've been taking with the new iPhone
7 Plus. However with these cameras being as hugely capable as they are, I was
hard pressed to pick a clear winner in such a short time. More will be revealed
when I put it through a wider variety of lighting and photography situations.

Android Nougat, which powers this new phone, appeared lag-free even after firing
up several apps and tossing in a few-albeit brief-bouts of gaming with the likes
of Machinarium and Asphalt 8-clearly its fast Snapdragon 821 processor and 4GB
of RAM held it in good stead here.

There's more to be revealed in this phone as we dig deeper and stack it up
against its formidable Apple counterpart.

specifications

Screen: 5.5-inches AMOLED, QHD (2560x1440) resolution (~534 ppi), Gorilla Glass
4

Key hardware: Quad-core 2.15/1.6GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 821, Adreno 530 GPU, 4GB
RAM, only 32/128GB internal storage

Camera: 12.3MP rear with PDAF, laser AF, EIS, 1.55 um pixels, f/2.0, 8MP front
f/2.4

OS: Android 7.1 Nougat

Price: Rs57,000 (32GB)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              515 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Times (Australia)

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday
                              ReadersMart Edition

SMART OPERATORS

BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 473  words


GEAR UP The latest technology to help you tackle the great outdoors

Here are some sharp and sassy phones that will catch your attention, writes
Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

PIXEL XL GOOGLE This is the Android Samsung refugees have been looking for.
Google calls Pixel its "first phone", but it is more advanced than typical debut
hardware. The 5.5-inch Pixel XL is a sophisticated metal and glass handset with
a reliable rear fingerprint sensor and an advanced camera. Its 12-megapixel
shooter will let you lock focus, change white balance and exposure quickly, and
features unusual settings like HDR+ Auto, and Lens Blur. This phone's software
is the real star, though, with a built-in voice assistant smarter than Siri,
hidden app shortcuts, gestures, and a smart app drawer. It lacks waterresistance
and expandable storage, but this is a genuine Note7 alternative.

$1269 / STORE.GOOGLE.COM

MOTO Z LENOVO While other firms gave up, Lenovo has harnessed magnets to create
something customisable. The 5.5-inch smartphone is super slender, at 5.1mm, and
boasts a fingerprint reader, 13-megapixel camera, Quad HD screen, 64GB and
expandable storage, and water resistance. But some of these features can be
bolstered with magnetic accessories, or Moto Mods, that clip securely to its
back. They include a Hasselblad camera with 10x optical zoom, a JBL speaker, and
a projector. This phone's lack of a headphone jack may throw off some, and its
battery is not big for its size, but its price, quality, and those Mods make a
compelling package.

$999 / HARVEYNORMAN.COM.AU

XPERIA XZ SONY Of all the new phones vying for your attention, this is the
speediest shooter. Sony's newest flagship is an update to the X Performance, and
its hero feature is a 23-megapixel camera that comes with laser autofocus and an
infra-red sensor. It's a powerful mix made better by the addition of 4K video
capture, five-axis stabilisation, and a start time of just 0.6 of a second. This
handset is waterresistant, and its sidemounted fingerprint scanner makes sense,
though quite similar to previous models, photos can be over-sharpened, and wi-fi
connection is not as robust as some.

$999 / SONYMOBILE.COM/AU

X POWER LG For a mid-range phone, this handset has serious staying power. The
sub-$350 LG X Power offers a 5.3-inch screen with high-definition resolution, a
13-megapixel main camera, and a plastic body that, while it won't win any style
awards, is quietly formal. Its surprising, standout feature is its battery that
weighs in at 4100mAh, making it more powerful (in terms of electricity) than
most flagship smartphones. There are trade-offs. Its screen is slightly muddy,
it only has 16GB built-in storage, and its quad-core chip is on the slower side.
Those looking for a reliable caller or a mobile games machine should appreciate
its inclusions.$349 / LG.COM.AU

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sunday Times


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              516 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on April 1 titled as "Depthmap
compression using a primitive"

LENGTH: 250  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,687,903 on
April 1, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Depthmap compression using
a primitive"

Inventors:  Hernandez Esteban; Carlos (Kirkland, WA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Systems and methods for compressing a depthmap are provided. In some aspects, a
system includes an encoding module configured to group a plurality of pixels of
a depthmap. Each grouped pixel of the depthmap includes a depth value and is
associated with an optic ray aligned with a camera capturing the depthmap. Each
of the plurality of depth values is within a predetermined offset from one
another. The encoding module is further configured to generate a primitive based
on the grouped plurality of pixels. The primitive includes an identification
value. Each of the plurality of optic rays intersects a corresponding portion of
the primitive. The encoding module is further configured to transform the
depthmap based on the primitive. Each grouped pixel of the transformed depthmap
includes the identification value. The system also includes a compression module
configured to compress the transformed depthmap."

The patent was filed on September 9, 2013 Application no. 14/022,127

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              517 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on October 08 titled as "Depthmap
compression using a primitive"

LENGTH: 250  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,553,998 on
October 08, 2013, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Depthmap compression
using a primitive"

Inventors:  Hernandez Esteban; Carlos (Kirkland, WA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Systems and methods for compressing a depthmap are provided. In some aspects, a
system includes an encoding module configured to group a plurality of pixels of
a depthmap. Each grouped pixel of the depthmap includes a depth value and is
associated with an optic ray aligned with a camera capturing the depthmap. Each
of the plurality of depth values is within a predetermined offset from one
another. The encoding module is further configured to generate a primitive based
on the grouped plurality of pixels. The primitive includes an identification
value. Each of the plurality of optic rays intersects a corresponding portion of
the primitive. The encoding module is further configured to transform the
depthmap based on the primitive. Each grouped pixel of the transformed depthmap
includes the identification value. The system also includes a compression module
configured to compress the transformed depthmap."

The patent was filed on November 22, 2011 Application no. 13/303,095

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              518 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            February 5, 2016 Friday

CNET: Best tablets of 2015;
In the market for a new tablet? Here's a collection of the devices rated highest
by CNET editors.;
PRODUCT REVIEWS

SECTION: ; Pg. SA3

LENGTH: 608 words


The iPad Air 2 is the perfect mix of size and performance for almost anyone.

The Google Pixel C offers a slim, compact aluminum build, fast performance and a
powerful, long-running battery.

A host of small refinements cements the Microsoft Surface Pro 4's position as
the best-in-class Windows tablet - as long as you pay extra for the required
keyboard cover accessory.

The Google Nexus 9's premium build, speedy performance and consistent updates
render it one of the best high-end Android tablets.

iPad Air 2

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/appleipad-air-2/#ftag=CAD187281f
CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding) ? The good: The iPad Air 2 has a
great balance of size and weight. Crisp, bright display. iOS 9 runs perfectly,
including split-screen apps. ? The bad: Priced relatively high for a tablet;
single speaker isn't that loud compared to iPad Pro. ? The cost: $439.99 to
$629.99 ? The bottom line: Apple's midrange tablet is a year old, but it's still
the perfect mix of size and performance for nearly anyone.

Google Pixel C

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/google-pixel-c/#ftag=CAD187281f ?
CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding) ? The good: The Google Pixel C has
a slim, compact aluminum build that feels sturdy. Its optional Bluetooth
keyboard is equally solid and doubles as the tablet's cover and it has a
powerful, long-running battery. The tablet runs the latest version of Android,
and its performance is lightning fast. The screen is sharp, bright and colorful,
and gaming graphics look stellar. ? The bad: It's a bit heavy when attached to
the keyboard (which is sold separately). Big-name apps and games still tend to
hit iOS before Android. The cost: $751.99 The bottom line: The Google Pixel C is
the best Android tablet money can buy.

Microsoft Surface Pro 4

? Product Review:
http://www.cnet.com/products/microsoft-surface-pro-4/#ftag=CAD187281f ? CNET
rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent) ? The good: The Surface Pro 4 fits a larger
screen with a higher resolution into a slightly slimmer body than last year's
model. The pen and keyboard cover are also improved, and this is one of the
first mobile systems shipping with Intel's latest processors. ? The bad:
Microsoft still refuses to include the Type Cover keyboard by default, forcing a
separate purchase. Battery life still isn't enough for a full day. ? The cost:
$879.99 to $899.00 ? The bottom line: A host of small refinements cements the
Surface Pro 4's position as the best-in-class Windows tablet

- as long as you're prepared to pay extra for the required keyboard cover
accessory.

Google Nexus 9

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/googlenexus-9/#ftag=CAD187281f ?
CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent) ? The good: The Google Nexus 9 is the
first tablet to run Android Lollipop 5.0, which should receive timely updates.
It performs steadily with many apps open, and switching between them is fluid.
Its streamlined construction has a deluxe, comfortable feel. ? The bad: Not all
apps work smoothly with Android 5.0 yet. Firm contact is necessary for efficient
touchscreen response and it's slow to charge. The largest capacity model offered
is 32GB and there's no microSD card slot. ? The cost: $293.88 to $293.92 ? The
bottom line: The Google Nexus 9's premium build, speedy performance and
consistent updates render it one of the best high-end Android tablets.

The following CNET staff contributed to this story: Section Editor Dan
Ackerman,Associate Editor Xiomara Blanco, Senior Editor Scott Stein and Senior
Editor Laura K. Cucullu. For more reviews of personal technology products,
please visit www.cnet.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              519 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            February 5, 2016 Friday

CNET: Best tablets of 2015;
In the market for a new tablet? Here's a collection of the devices rated highest
by CNET editors.;
PRODUCT REVIEWS

SECTION: ; Pg. SA3

LENGTH: 608 words


The iPad Air 2 is the perfect mix of size and performance for almost anyone.

The Google Pixel C offers a slim, compact aluminum build, fast performance and a
powerful, long-running battery.

A host of small refinements cements the Microsoft Surface Pro 4's position as
the best-in-class Windows tablet - as long as you pay extra for the required
keyboard cover accessory.

The Google Nexus 9's premium build, speedy performance and consistent updates
render it one of the best high-end Android tablets.

iPad Air 2

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/appleipad-air-2/#ftag=CAD187281f
CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding) ? The good: The iPad Air 2 has a
great balance of size and weight. Crisp, bright display. iOS 9 runs perfectly,
including split-screen apps. ? The bad: Priced relatively high for a tablet;
single speaker isn't that loud compared to iPad Pro. ? The cost: $439.99 to
$629.99 ? The bottom line: Apple's midrange tablet is a year old, but it's still
the perfect mix of size and performance for nearly anyone.

Google Pixel C

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/google-pixel-c/#ftag=CAD187281f ?
CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding) ? The good: The Google Pixel C has
a slim, compact aluminum build that feels sturdy. Its optional Bluetooth
keyboard is equally solid and doubles as the tablet's cover and it has a
powerful, long-running battery. The tablet runs the latest version of Android,
and its performance is lightning fast. The screen is sharp, bright and colorful,
and gaming graphics look stellar. ? The bad: It's a bit heavy when attached to
the keyboard (which is sold separately). Big-name apps and games still tend to
hit iOS before Android. The cost: $751.99 The bottom line: The Google Pixel C is
the best Android tablet money can buy.

Microsoft Surface Pro 4

? Product Review:
http://www.cnet.com/products/microsoft-surface-pro-4/#ftag=CAD187281f ? CNET
rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent) ? The good: The Surface Pro 4 fits a larger
screen with a higher resolution into a slightly slimmer body than last year's
model. The pen and keyboard cover are also improved, and this is one of the
first mobile systems shipping with Intel's latest processors. ? The bad:
Microsoft still refuses to include the Type Cover keyboard by default, forcing a
separate purchase. Battery life still isn't enough for a full day. ? The cost:
$879.99 to $899.00 ? The bottom line: A host of small refinements cements the
Surface Pro 4's position as the best-in-class Windows tablet

- as long as you're prepared to pay extra for the required keyboard cover
accessory.

Google Nexus 9

? Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/googlenexus-9/#ftag=CAD187281f ?
CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent) ? The good: The Google Nexus 9 is the
first tablet to run Android Lollipop 5.0, which should receive timely updates.
It performs steadily with many apps open, and switching between them is fluid.
Its streamlined construction has a deluxe, comfortable feel. ? The bad: Not all
apps work smoothly with Android 5.0 yet. Firm contact is necessary for efficient
touchscreen response and it's slow to charge. The largest capacity model offered
is 32GB and there's no microSD card slot. ? The cost: $293.88 to $293.92 ? The
bottom line: The Google Nexus 9's premium build, speedy performance and
consistent updates render it one of the best high-end Android tablets.

The following CNET staff contributed to this story: Section Editor Dan
Ackerman,Associate Editor Xiomara Blanco, Senior Editor Scott Stein and Senior
Editor Laura K. Cucullu. For more reviews of personal technology products,
please visit www.cnet.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              520 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 30, 2015 Wednesday

Google unveils laptop-cum-tablet, two Chromecasts

SECTION: MORE GADGETS

LENGTH: 287 words


NEW DELHI: While announcing, Google also unveiled the first Android-powered
convertible laptop-cum-tablet, along with the second-generation Chromecast.

Named Pixel C, the new device has a 10.2-inch display with 2560x1800p resolution
and 500 nits brightness. It runs on Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) and packs the
quad-core Tegra X1 processor with 3GB RAM under the hood.

The compatible Pixel C keyboard supports inductive charging and will work for up
to two months on a single charge. Google has used a USB Type C port in the new
tablet, same as the new Nexus smartphones.

Google said the 32GB variant of Pixel C will cost $499, whereas the 64GB model
is priced at $599. The keyboard will be sold separately for $149. While there is
no official release date for the devices yet, Google said it will become
available in time for the US holiday season.

Now in its second iteration, Chromecast has shed the old USB-stick design and
now sports a circular body and multiple colours. According to Google, the new
Chromecast streams high-resolution content faster than its predecessor, with
less buffering. Its Fast Play feature allows it to connect faster with the TV,
the company said.

A music-centric device called Chromecast Audio, which lets users stream audio on
their existing speakers via Wi-Fi, was also announced at the event. The device
automatically recognizes devices on the same Wi-Fi network and 'casts' audio
from them to the speakers. It will support multi-room devices like Sonos.

Google says both Chromecast models will cost $35 (same as the first-generation
Chromecast) and will be available in 17 countries (no word on India launch)
starting today in lemonade, coral and black colours.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              521 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Apple wanted you to think bigg...

BYLINE: john davidson

SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 868 words


Apple wanted you to think bigger. HP wants you to "think smaller". It's just
announced the Slate 7, an Android tablet with a small, 7-inch (18 cm) screen and
an even smaller price tag of just $US169.

The tablet, announced on the weekend at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona,
features the usual menu of software and features - Android 4.1.2, a 1.6GHz
dual-core processor, Wi-Fi but not 4G - plus some exotic dishes, too, such as a
Beats Audio sound system and simplified printing over a network. It just
wouldn't be an HP device if there wasn't something about printing and Beats
Audio.

HP is itself accustomed to thinking small when it comes to tablets. You may
recall the last time it came out with a consumer-oriented tablet, the TouchPad,
it yanked the thing off the market in a few short weeks. It was the blink of an
eye, however long it was. A small amount of time.

This tablet looks a little more promising. For starters, it's as cheap as chips,
and Amazon and Google have both proven there's a market for cheap-as-chips,
7-inch Android tablets with their respective Kindle Fire ($US159) and Nexus 7
($US199) tablets.

Also, it's Android, which means that HP execs won't be burdened with the task of
trying to establish an ecosystem for the Slate 7, which so overwhelmed them with
the TouchPad. That tablet, you may recall, ran the webOS operating system which
HP acquired from poor old Palm. HP so couldn't be bothered building up webOS, it
kicked it to open source and told the world, have a go at it.

The Slate 7 is due to be released in the US in April, with the rest of the world
to follow shortly thereafter. There's not yet any word on Australian pricing,
but there doesn't appear to be anything about the Slate 7 that would stop you
buying it in the US for a trifling $US169 anyway, thereby avoiding the usual
Tyranny Of Distance Tax nonsense.

Lovingly crafted. Futuristic camera technology. Simply lovely. Those are some of
the early reviews coming out about HTC's One, the Taiwanese company's major push
to get back into the smartphone business in a big way.

At launch events in New York and London, HTC launched the much-hyped phone, that
has an all-aluminium body and an array of latest hardware and software that has
some critics already saying "this could be something of a winner".

The phone sports all the latest specs, and then some: a 1.7 GHz quad-core
processor; Near Field Communication; LTE mobile broadband; stereo speakers; a
big, 4.7 inch screen with a 468 (!) pixel-per-inch resolution; and a 4 megapixel
camera. Though HTC calls them "UltraPixels", a distinction we hope to dive into
when we do a full review of the phone just as soon as we can get our hands on
one. Apparently UltraPixels gather three times the light of ordinary pixels, or
something.

If you think the aluminium unibody on the HTC One makes it look a little like an
iPhone 5, you're not the only one. But it's said to be a little heavier than an
iPhone 5, which in my book is a good thing. The iPhone 5 is a trifle too light.
When you fork over your hard-earned for a device, you want it to be substantial.
And, apparently, the HTC One is just that.

On the software front, the HTC One runs a very recent version of Android
(4.1.2), on top of which HTC has added its usual Sense user interface, this time
with quite a twist. The home screen now features "BlinkFeed", a live feed of
news and social feeds from around the web, a bit like Flipboard.

There's also a feature called Zoe, which takes photos that are actually
three-second-long snippets of life. So I guess that makes them short videos,
which could be handy for various social-media services such as Twitter's Vine.

The HTC One is due to be released in March in 80 countries around the world,
including in Australia. Vodafone, Telstra and Optus are all listed as carrying
the device. This is going to be one of the major phones of the year.

Google has rolled out a touch-screen, high-resolution-display Chromebook
notebook PC that paves the way for Google's first ever Chromeblet. Or Chrometab,
or whatever Google's inevitable Chrome OS-based tablet will be called.

The new Chromebook Pixel, announced on Google's Chrome Blog, packs what Google
describes as "the highest pixel density (239 pixels per inch) of any laptop
screen on the market today".

If that doesn't make you think "tablet", I don't know what will. By introducing
a notebook with a tablet-style pixel density and a tablet-style touch screen,
Google has set itself up nicely to come out with a tablet. All it needs to do is
rip the keyboard off.

In the meantime, the $US1299 Chromebook Pixel might be just the thing for power
users of notebooks who like their stuff to live in the cloud. Aside from that
fancy screen, it's got a fairly powerful Intel Core i5 processor, a solid-state
drive and in the US it will have an optional 4G connection.

For those of you unfamiliar with Chromebooks, they're notebook PCs that run
Google's Chrome operating system, rather than Windows or Android or Linux or
some other operating system. Chrome OS is essentially just the Chrome web
browser, in which you run other apps such as YouTube, TweetDeck, Evernote or
Angry Birds. The browser even has its own app store.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              522 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

Google to unveil new tablet from Samsung

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Operating Systems

LENGTH: 253 words



HIGHLIGHT: The search engine will also unveil a new phone from LG, an updated
operating system


Google is planning to unveil a new tablet from Samsung, a new phone from LG and
an updated operating system during its upcoming event on 29 October 2012 in New
York, US.

The search engine is also expected to unveil a new Google Nexus phone and a new
version of its existing Nexus 7 tablet that will add more memory and 3G
capabilities.

The most exciting product will be a 10-inch tablet developed with Samsung
codenamed 'Manta', according to The Telegraph.

Expected to be called Nexus 10, the device, with a 10-inch display, will feature
2560×1600 pixels resolution and a 300 ppi pixel density display, offering more
than the latest iPad display, which has a 264 ppi pixel density display.

The LG Nexus 4 mobile handset will feature a quad-core 1.5 GHz Qualcomm APQ8064
Snapdragon processor, 4.7-inch 1280 x 768 display, 2GB RAM, 16GB storage, an
8-megapixel rear-facing camera (and 1.3-megapixel front-facing snapper) and a
2100mAh battery.

Google will extend its Nexus 7 range with a 32 GB version of the device in order
to distract the concentration of customers from Microsoft and its Windows Phone
8 smartphones and Windows 8/Windows RT tablets which will be launched on 26
October.

Google's event's tagline is 'The playground is open', causing a speculation that
it will feature a range of devices.

Earlier this month, Google had revealed its plans to introduce a new
anti-malware system for its mobile OS, which is claimed to detect malicious apps
in its Google Play store as well as on the Android devices themselves.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              523 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                          September 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Google could have a new VR headset in store for October 2016

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 355 words


Google is expected to unveil a new virtual reality headset October 4, 2016, due
on sale shortly afterwards, reports the specialist website Cnet.

The headset, which could be called the "Daydream View," will accompany the
launch of Google's Android-powered VR platform, announced in the springtime at
the Google I/O conference. It's expected to work in conjunction with a
smartphone, probably Google's own handsets first of all. Cnet also reports that
the headset is being built by HTC and that it's due on sale soon after its
unveiling, probably October 20 in the USA.

The device could allow wearers to explore augmented reality environments, in a
similar fashion to Microsoft's Hololens glasses, currently available to
developers. For that, Google can count on Magic Leap, a startup in which the
Mountain View, California tech giant has already invested heavily. The firm is
known to be developing spectacular augmented reality solutions that bring
virtual content to real-world environments, any time, any place.

Tough competition

Google's new headset will be a direct rival for the HTC Vive, currently on sale
for $799, as well as the Oculus Rift, out now priced $599. The Sony PlayStation
VR is also set to land October 13, for just $399.

Google already offers a rudimentary virtual reality viewer that goes by the name
of Cardboard. Users simply load a smartphone running YouTube and compatible
applications into a build-it-yourself cardboard viewer. It sells for $15 and is
compatible with most Android and iOS handsets with 4" to 6" screens.

Ahead of news on the headset and compatible smartphones, Google has already
opened its virtual reality platform up to developers with a first "VR SDK" kit,
still in beta.

A new smartphone and a hybrid PC in the pipeline

The October 4 conference is likely to see Google unveil a new smartphone line
under its own brand name, replacing the Nexus range built in collaboration with
third-party manufacturers. The handsets could be named "Pixel," following
Google's Pixel C tablet and the Chromebook Pixel. The event could also see
Google hit hard in the PC market with a high-end hybrid laptop.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              524 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "SYSTEMS AND METHODS
FOR CALCULATING EPIPOLAR CONSTRAINTS BETWEEN GENERALIZED CAMERAS"

LENGTH: 252  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150163477 for US Patent, published on June 11, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CALCULATING EPIPOLAR
CONSTRAINTS BETWEEN GENERALIZED CAMERAS" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:  Klingner; Bryan; (Oakland, CA) ; Martin; David; (Mountain View, CA)
; Ettinger; Scott; (Mountain View, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods and systems for calculating epipolar constraints between a plurality of
generalized cameras are provided. Each generalized camera implements two pixel
projection functions. One function converts a known pixel location into a ray
emanating from a projection center of a first camera to a point on a feature at
the pixel location. Another function converts a three dimensional point on the
feature in Euclidean space to a pixel location on a projection of the feature in
the image space of a second camera. Subsegments of along the ray are projected
onto the image space of the second camera and are subdivided until each
subsegment spans no more than one pixel in the second camera's image space. The
endpoints of all subsegments are projected into the image space of the second
camera and the discrete pixel locations of each subsegment are recorded to form
epipolar zones."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              525 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     November 2, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 5 Coming To India On 12 November: Report

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 215  words


The Nexus 5 was launched on 31 October.

Saturday, November 02, 2013: The Google Nexus 5 will reportedly be coming to
India on 12 November. According to a report by TOI Tech, the smartphone will
come along with the Nexus 7 (2013) tablet, which has been built by Asus. Google
launched the product on Thursday and has already put up the India pricing for it
on the Google Play page for the device. TOI Tech apparently also learned the
launch date from its website.

The Google Nexus 5 smartphone finally got Google flagship treatment from the
media and other outlets. The device has a 12.7-cm (5-inch) full HD IPS display
and is powered by the 2.3 GHz quad core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor. It
has 2 GB of RAM and is available in 16 GB and 32 GB variants. In addition, it
also has a 8 megapixel rear camera with optical image stabilisation and 1.3 mega
pixel front camera. It runs on a 2,300 mAh battery.

According to the Google pricing on the Play Store, the Nexus 5 is available for
Rs 28,999 for the 16 GB variant and Rs 32,999 for the 32 GB variant.

The Nexus 7 (2013) tablet on the other hand is a 17.7-cm (7-inch) tablet device,
which is powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro quad core processor and has 2
GB of RAM. It has a 5 mega pixel rear camera and a 1.2 mega pixel front camera.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              526 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 1, 2016 Friday

Google updates Maps and Keep apps with new features

SECTION: TECH NEWS

LENGTH: 270 words


NEW DELHI: Google has reportedly started rolling out a new Waypoint feature for
its Maps app on Android . The new feature will allow users to set multiple stops
between their starting point and their destination. The stops in between are
denoted as A, B and more depending on the number of stops and also appear on the
map.

The feature also shows the total time it would take to cover the trip and lets
users rearrange the stops if required.The feature is said to be a server-side
update. This means, users need not update their Maps app for the feature to get
activated. Yes, but it may take a while for it to reach all users across the
world. There's also a redesigned timeline feature.The search giant has also
updated its note-making app Keep with a new organisational feature.The feature
will allow users to organise notes by topic like food, books, quotes and more.
Users can also later search for them using keywords. This feature is available
on both iOS , Android app as well as web version of Google Keep.Google recently
also rolled out sharper and more seamless imagery to the Maps and Google Earth
applications. The update includes photos from Landsat 8 designed by NASA and the
United States Geological Survey and "new processing techniques for sharper
images than ever before."Google claims that it is mining data from nearly a
petabyte of Landsat imagery. To put that in perspective, 700 trillion pixels is
7,000 times more pixels than the estimated number of stars in the Milky Way
Galaxy, or 70 times more pixels than the estimated number of galaxies in the
Universe.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              527 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                           November 3, 2012 Saturday

Know what you get when you buy a smartphone

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1177 words


With normal mobile phones fast becoming "so yesterday", nearly half of all New
Zealand households now have a smartphone. Claire Rogers takes you through the
options to make sure your switch is indeed a smart one.

--------------------

OPERATING SYSTEMS

In short, the brains of your device. They manage your phone's hardware and
software, dictate the functionality and usability of your phone and the apps you
can download.

IOS

Apple's iOS has led the way in making smartphones easy and attractive to use
ever since the debut of the iPhone and many would agree it is still tops for
usability. When it comes to apps, iOS is also still No 1, with more than 700,000
apps to choose from.

ANDROID

Google's Android is the most popular, because there are a multitude of handsets
(at a range of prices) from different manufacturers running it.

Google doesn't tightly control which manufacturers use Android or what features
they include in their handsets - which makes for some cutting-edge phones but
some inconsistency across Android devices.

Unsurprisingly, Android integrates well with Google's range of online services,
Gmail, Maps, Calendar, Talk, etc. Google's app store Google Play has just ticked
over 700,000 apps, closing in on Apple.

WINDOWS PHONE 8

Microsoft's latest version of its mobile operating system made its debut this
week and Windows Phone 8 smartphones should be appearing in shops shortly.

It displays your most-used apps such as Hotmail as live or updated tiles on your
home screen, so you can see at a glance all the latest activity. The range of
apps is still relatively limited but should improve over time. And, of course,
there's tight integration with Outlook and Microsoft Office.

BLACKBERRY

BlackBerry's star has faded big time with the arrival of the iPhone and Android
smartphones, but it's still an appealing choice for some businesspeople.
Advantages are long battery life, secure emailing, and - for some - a physical
keyboard. But on the downside there are very few apps, and the hardware - with a
low-res, non- touchscreen - means you won't be getting a true smartphone
experience.

SPECS

Touchscreens: The most visible and for many the most important spec.

Touchscreen resolution is often expressed in pixel dimensions, such as the
Samsung Galaxy S3's 1280 x 720 - this basically means the screen has 1280 pixels
(units of colour) along the length of the screen and 720 pixels along the width.
Other manufacturers express resolution as pixel density - the iPhone 5 has
smaller pixel dimensions but a pixel density of 326 pixels an inch (306ppi for
the Samsung Galaxy S3). For a phone with good screen resolution, go for at least
800 x 400 pixels, and if you want razor-sharp resolution, look for the highest
pixel density count.

Battery life: You'll probably find you need to charge your smartphone a lot more
than you did your old, more basic mobile because it's doing so much more.

Most of the time battery life is described in milliampere hours (mAh) to give an
idea of how long the device will run for before the battery needs recharging.

The rule of thumb then is the higher the mAh number the better the battery life,
but this is not hard and fast as it depends on the phone, and devices with
bigger screens will use more power. Higher-end smartphones today have more than
1400mAh of battery life.

Processor power: Processors are the brawn that enable smartphones to carry out
all the tasks you ask of them, such as surfing the web, playing games and
watching video.

Processor power is measured in gigahertz - the higher the number the better -
and the number of cores a processor has - dual-core processors are better at
multitasking than their single-core counterparts, and quad-core processors are
another step up altogether. If you can, go for a processor of at least 1GHz and
two cores.

Other specs to consider:

Camera - smartphone cameras are typically pretty sharp these days. Again, bigger
is better when it comes to megapixels but between 2MP and 8MP is usually
adequate.

Memory - for photos and video you will need a bit of memory. Today's smartphones
pack between 1GB and 16GB, and many also let you expand memory with a micro SD
card.

PROVIDERS AND PLANS

Most smartphone users are on a monthly post-paid plan, which gives them a
certain number of minutes and texts and a mobile broadband allowance.

There are myriad plans available and one size does not fit all, so think
carefully about your usage before opting for a plan. Consumer NZ's TelMe website
is a handy tool in this regard.

As a general rule of thumb, Telecom plans have traditionally offered more data,
Vodafone is more generous with its text allowances and 2degrees has cheaper
calling and text rates but smaller data bundles.

Consumer says Telecom deals are currently the most attractive, with more data,
lots of texts and good prepay plans.

Before choosing a provider, make sure it has 3G coverage including mobile
broadband coverage in your area - you can find coverage maps on providers'
websites and through the TelMe site. 2degrees is still building its network and
uses Vodafone's where it doesn't have coverage.

It has mobile broadband zones and customers must use other data packs or pay
different data rates.

Sources: LaptopMag, Dow Jones Newswires, Apple, Telecom, Vodafone, Cnet,
Consumer, ReadWrite, 2degrees, Vodafone, Samsung, HTC, Engadget, Know Your
Mobile, PC Mag, PC World.

SMARTPHONE OPTIONS

Low range: $200 and under

LG Optimus L3: Android, 3.2-inch touchscreen, 800MHz single-core processor, 1500
mAh battery. $179 at Telecom.

2degrees Smart Touch: Android, 3.2-inch touchscreen, 800MHz single-core
processor, 1200mAh battery. $149 at 2degrees.

Samsung Galaxy Mini: Android, 3.3-inch touchscreen with 320 x 240 pixels, a 600
MHz single-core processor, and 1200mAh battery. $99 on prepay at Vodafone.

Mid range: $200 to $800

Motorola XT: Android, 3.7-inch touchscreen with 854 x 480 pixels, a 1GHz
single-core processor, 1650mAh battery. $399 this Christmas at Telecom.

HTC Desire X: Android, 4-inch touchscreen with 800 x 480 pixels, 1GHz dual- core
processor, 1650mAh battery. $399 through Vodafone.

Samsung Galaxy SII: Android, 4.3-inch touchscreen with 800 x 480 pixels, 1.2 GHz
dual-core processor, 1650mAh battery. $599 at 2degrees and Telecom.

High range: $800+

Samsung Galaxy SIII: Android, 4.8-inch touchscreen with 1280 x 720 pixels, 1.4
Ghz quad-core processor, 2100mAh battery. $949 at Vodafone, $999 at 2degrees and
Telecom.

iPhone 5: iOS, 4-inch touchscreen with 1136 x 640 pixels (326 pixels per INCH),
1.2 GHz dual-core processor, 1440mAh battery. From $1029 at Telecom.

Samsung Ativ S: Windows Phone 8, 4.8-inch touchscreen with 1280 x 720 pixels,
1.5 GHz dual-core processor, 2300 mAh battery.

Pricing TBA, at 2degrees and Telecom soon.

* Telcos often provide handset subsidies - including "free" phones - when
customers sign up to contracts. Fairfax NZ

--------------------

CAPTION:

Going up: The Samsung Galaxy SIII Android.

Picture: Reuters

Going down: The Blackberry, while still popular with businesspeople, has been on
the decline since the advent of smartphones.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Fairfax New Zealand Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              528 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By J.D. Biersdorfer

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Q & A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 695 words



Shrinking Photos For E-Mail

Q. When I drag digital pictures into an e-mail message, they come in huge and
fill up the screen, making it impossible to see the entire image at once. Can I
adjust the size of photos so they fit in the message window?

A. Giant photo syndrome can occur when the resolution of the digital picture
exceeds that of the computer monitor. Although the computer's graphics software
can sometimes correct the situation and reduce the image's display to fit
properly on the screen, this is not always the case.

Digital photographs are made up of pixels -- the word is short for ''picture
elements'' -- and a pixel is a single point in an image. The total image
resolution of a photo taken with a three-megapixel camera, for example, is about
2,048 by 1,536 pixels -- which, when multiplied together, is more than three
million pixels working together to make up the picture.

Monitor resolution is also measured in pixels, and most monitors these days use
screen resolutions of 800 by 600 pixels; 1,024 by 768 pixels; or 1,152 by 864
pixels. All of these resolutions are smaller than a three-megapixel photo, so
when the photo is displayed at its full size, it exceeds the monitor's screen
size. But both Windows XP and Mac OS X give you the opportunity to shrink photos
to resolutions that fit better on a computer screen, like 640 by 480 pixels.

In Windows XP, click to select the photos you want to send from My Pictures or
another location on your computer. After you have selected the pictures, click
in the ''E-mail selected items'' option in the task pane. You can also
right-click with the mouse and select ''Send to Mail Recipient'' from the pop-up
menu.

In the resulting box, click the button next to ''Make all my pictures smaller''
and then on the link for ''Show more options'' to see a selection of resolutions
to use for the picture attachments. Choose one and click O.K. Google's Picasa
photo-management program for Windows and Linux (free to download at
http://picasa.google.com) can also shrink photo attachments.

Mac OS X users have an option in the iPhoto program to reduce image sizes for
e-mail. After you select pictures from your iPhoto library that you want to
share, click the e-mail icon at the bottom of the window; a box will pop up
asking if you'd like to shrink the image for e-mailing.

Keeping Bookmarks In a Safe Place

Q. I use various browsers in my work. Is there a way to have a central bookmarks
repository instead of trying to keep a master on one browser and exporting, then
importing, into the other browsers?

A. An online bookmark manager program that lets you store your favorite Web
addresses on the Web itself may help you keep your links current among all your
browsers -- and keep your bookmarks safe if your hard drive dies. Because the
bookmarks are online, you can also get to them from any Internet-connected
computer, in the office, at home or at a Parisian cybercafe.

Most Web-based bookmark manager programs work like this: You sign up for an
account (often free) and import your existing bookmarks. You usually get a
browser toolbar button or menu command from your chosen service to use for
adding new bookmarks to your collection. Once you have populated your bookmarks
within the online service, you can get to your collection from any computer when
you log back into the site.

LinkaGoGo (www.linkagogo.com) and BlinkList (www.blinklist.com) are among the
many bookmark manager programs available online, and there's a long list of
other options at
http://dmoz.org/Computers/Internet/On--the--Web/Web--Applications/Bookmark--Mana
gers/.

Organizing On Windows

Q. I have so many programs installed on my PC, I can never find anything in the
All Programs list in my Windows Start menu. Is there a way to organize it to my
own liking?

A. You can rearrange the way all your computer's applications are listed by
clicking and dragging the icons around to different places on the All Programs
menu when you have it open. You can also reshuffle all the items in the All
Programs menu into alphabetical order. Select any program icon in the menu and
right-click it. Choose ''Sort By Name'' to reorder the list.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              529 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "ADAPTIVE ARTIFACT
REMOVAL"

LENGTH: 223  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150154738 for US Patent, published on June 04, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "ADAPTIVE ARTIFACT REMOVAL" for the registration of
patent.

Inventors:  Sinram; Olaf; (Dublin, CA) ; Adams; Jamie; (San Ramon, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA
US

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Aspects of the disclosure relate to generating a digital terrain model ("DTM")
from a digital surface model ("DSM"). For example, the DSM may include a
plurality pixels associated with coordinate information and elevation
information, including the elevation of features such as buildings and large
vegetation. Initially, a set of vertices defining a polygon may be identified. A
set of seed pixels, corresponding to points of the DSM of "bare" earth (without
buildings or large vegetation) may also be identified. These may be the same or
different from the set of vertices. An adaptive flood filler algorithm is used
to evaluate the pixels of the polygon starting with the seed pixels. This
process validates or invalidates the state of the pixels. The result is an
approximation of a DTM for the polygon."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              530 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                    Trak.in

                      October 28, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Diwali Shopping Special: 5 Smart Gadgets You Should Invest In!

BYLINE: Anand Karwa

LENGTH: 704  words


It is Diwali! We all have been planning to treat ourselves for what we have
achieved this year, but we keep on procrastinating the celebrations for some
reason or the other. I am pretty sure that you would have already begun with the
Diwali celebrations. Now it is time to take it to the next level.

This Diwali reward yourself with something that you have always wanted and
motivate yourself to achieve even higher targets.

It is all about smart gadgets these days, be it a phone, a watch, a
refrigerator, or even a TV. So here is the list of 5 smart gadgets that you can
purchase this Diwali and uplift your lifestyle to new heights.

1. A Cool Smartphone: iPhone 7 or Google Pixel

There wouldn't be any better time to buy a new smartphone, than Diwali. In case
you have been saving to buy yourself a new smartphone that you can carry with
pride amongst your peers, then look no further than the iPhone 7/ iPhone 7 Plus.


Both the iPhone offer similar features except the screen size, battery backup,
and cameras. If you don't want to spend much than 32GB iPhone 7 is a good option
@ Rs. 60,000. However if you want the best of everything, then the 32 GB iPhone
7 Plus (Rs. 72,000) is your phone.

On the other hand, if you are just bored of your current phone, and want to try
something new in Android, then you should consider purchasing Google Pixel.

Pixel is the latest smartphone from Google and packs the goodness of Android
with a unique design. Read more about Google Pixel and Pixel XL here.

Get iPhone 7 | Get Google Pixel

2. A Smart Band To Keep You Fit- Xiaomi Mi Band 2

"Good things come to those who sweat!"

While there are many expensive smart bands or fitness trackers available in the
market, my favourite is the Xiaomi Mi Band 2. It costs Rs. 1,999 and has all the
features that you might need in your fitness companion.

Mi Band 2 not only counts just steps, but also measures heart rate, shows time,
sends you activity reminders when you are sitting for too long, tracks your
sleep, and many more things to keep you fit.

The Mi Band 2 sports an IP 67 splash & dust resistant rating and has a highly
power efficient OLED that provides it with a 20-day battery life. The band also
sends you calls and SMS alerts and can also be used to unlock your smartphone.

Get Mi Band 2

3. A Smart TV- Vu 50" UHD

Enough of watching your favourite TV shows and movies on a small TV whose
display is comparable to the size of your laptop. Start living life in Ultra HD
(4K). If you are under the impression that Ultra-HD smart TV costs lakhs of
rupees then you will be surprised to know that now you can buy a UHD TV within
Rs. 50,000.

The Vu 50" UHD Smart TV (LEDN50K310X3D) costs Rs. 46,989 smart TV not only
supports Ultra HD 4K resolution, but also comes pre-installed with many useful
features like Netflix and Opera TV store, A+ Grade Panel, 178 degree viewing
angle, 20W speakers, 4xHDMI ports, 3xUSB ports, DLNA support, and comes with a 3
year warranty.

Get Vu UHD Smart TV

4. E-book Reader- Kindle Paper white

If you are an ardent reader who is always lost in the books, then you should
consider buying e-book reader like the Amazon Kindle.

Kindle Paperwhite costs Rs. 9,449 and offers the best reading experience that
you can ever get. It has a large 6" high resolution display and can store
thousands of books while weighing lighter than most of them.

Buy Kindle Paperwhite

5. Eat Healthy- Usha Infiniti Cook

Usha Infinity Cook is a halogen oven that uses infrared waves for heating the
food. The in-built fan ensures that heat is circulated inside in every direction
so you don't have to stir while cooking.

You can even cook food without oil and relish on cuisines without worry about
your tummy. Check Usha's website for more details.

Bonus Item- If you watch a lot of movies on your smartphone then you should
consider investing in a VR headset. It will escalate your multimedia experience
to the next level. AuraVR Pro VR headset costs Rs. 1,999 and is worth its asking
price.

Get AuraVR Pro VR headset

These are some of the coolest and most useful gadgets that we think you should
buy this Diwali and start leading a better lifestyle.

Happy Diwali to all our readers! TagsAmazon Kindle Google Pixel iPhone 7 Mi Band
Smart Gadgets Smart TV

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 Trak.in, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              531 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                           November 12, 2015 Thursday

Google to build its own phone

LENGTH: 184  words


By tbreak Staff -

If rumors are to be believed, Google is apparently working on designing its own
chips for Android devices.

According to the latest rumors, Google might be working on a in-house chip for
Android device, however it is not sure if the chip is for any Android phone, or
a phone made by Google itself. This has further fuelled the rumors if Google is
indeed working on its own device, which apparently Google is seriously
considering.

Rumors have been around of Google's Pixel phone concept, which does seem to be
getting closer to being a reality, but there are still a lot of steps for Google
to take. Rumors area also ablaze of Google's Nexus partners to be not so happy
as the amount of feedback and reward they get for the hard work put into the
Nexus devices does not pay off. If that was not enough, the amount of legal
procedures from regarding the permissions manufacturers have to access Google
Play and Google Apps, all give Google a good reason to focus on building its own
hardware.

Although, would you get a Google Pixel phone?

http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/69/144744438316.jpg



LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2015 TBREAK MEDIA
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              532 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Google may offer early peak at Andromeda;
Single operating system combines Android, Chrome

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, and Brett Molina, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 326 words


Google is said to be preparing some big news, not just about new devices but the
software that powers them.

Tuesday at its launch event in San Francisco, Google may offer a sneak peek at
what tech blog Android Police is calling "Android's biggest evolution yet:"
Andromeda, a long-rumored operating system that works on desktop computers and
mobile devices, combining Android and Chrome.

Last week, Hiroshi Lockheimer fanned speculation when he tweeted: "I have a
feeling 8 years from now we'll be talking about Oct 4, 2016."

That would suggest a significant announcement about Android, the world's most
popular smartphone operating system that runs on a number of devices from
tablets to smartwatches. Chrome powers personal computers, mostly laptops called
Chromebooks. Andromeda,  rumored to be coming next year, is expected to bring
desktop capabilities of Chrome into Android.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai has said in the past that mobile would eventually
"blend" with desktop.

"The lines have blurred between all of those devices," Gartner research analyst
Mark Hung said. "There is no longer a need for a separate operating system."

At Google's event, it is expected to show off new phones from manufacturer HTC,
taking on the Pixel brand the company used with its Chromebook and tablet
efforts. The Pixel and Pixel XL will boast AMOLED displays using Gorilla Glass
4, minimum storage of 32 GB and 12 megapixel rear cameras, according to Android
Police, which cited details leaked by U.K.-based retailer Carphone Warehouse.

It's also expected to show off its new virtual reality platform, Daydream, which
it foreshadowed at its May developer conferences as a big move up from the
Google Cardboard-based VR experience. And it's also likely to provide more
details on Google Home, the Amazon Echo-rival smart speaker that will respond to
its owner's queries using its AI-driven Google Assistant.

USA TODAY will host a live blog of the event at tech.usatoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jeff Pachoud, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              533 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                       July 28, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Lava Launches Pixel V1, Its First Android One Smartphone

BYLINE: Anurima Mondal, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 299  words


Priced at  11, 350, the much-hyped smartphone is expected to be available in
Gold and White-Silver variants

Tuesday, July 28, 2015: Indian handset maker Lava has joined hands with Google
in order to launch the Pixel Series; a new smartphone series running on Android.
The flagship variant under this series, Pixel V1 claims to be the first
second-generation device from Google's Android One smartphones. Priced at  11,
350, the much-hyped smartphone is expected to be available in Gold and
White-Silver variants.

While the specifications of the handset were listed online hours ahead of its
launch, we bring you more features which were previously kept under the wraps.

Similar to what had been leaked earlier, the much-awaited handset sports a
12.7cm (5.5- inch) display with a resolution of 720 x 1280 pixels. Powered by a
1.3GHz quad-core MediaTek processor coupled with 2GB DDR3 RAM, the phone claims
to have 32GB ROM which can be further expanded up to 32GB more via microSD card.

Backed by a 2560mAh battery, the device comes with dual-SIM slot and Asahi
Dragon Trail glass promising high scratch and damage-resistance.

The phone runs on Android 5.1.1. It has a 13MP rear camera with f/2.0 aperture,
BSI sensor, blue glass filter along with an 8MP front-facing camera with f/2.4
lens to capture exceptionally beautiful selfies. Its connectivity options
include Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0, GPS, USB OTG and micro-USB.

As Lava was a partner for Android One initiative by Google, the handset is
likely to get two years' worth of Android updates straight from Google, which is
expected to begin with Android M.

While the first Android One smartphone by the firm will be sold exclusively
through Flipkart starting today, the device will be available in various retail
stores across the country.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              534 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Google takes on Apple with a phone that charges in 15mins

BYLINE: Mark Bridge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 377 words


Google launched a direct attack on Apple yesterday by unveiling its first
own-brand smartphone, which is similar to the iPhone but offers seven hours of
battery power from a 15-minute charge.

The company said that the cameras on its Pixel phone would be the highestrated
of any on the market and highlighted the headphone jack, a feature
controversially left off Apple's latest model. It also announced Google Home -a
new voice-activated smart home system that will let people play music, turn up
the heating or order an Uber car without leaving the sofa - which is not yet
available in the UK.

At the launch in San Francisco, Sundar Pichai, chief executive of Google, said
the company's move into hardware was all about bringing its voice-activated
Google Assistant artificial intelligence (AI) services to customers so that
Google will be available "everywhere".

He said: "It's clear to me that we're moving from a mobile-first world to an
AI-first world. A computer will be available everywhere - people will be able to
interact with it wherever they are."

The launch demonstrates how big tech companies are competing to use hardware and
software to act as omnipresent interfaces between people and brands, whether
that involves using a phone to play a game, or asking a smart-speaker in the
living room to preheat the oven. In the process, they are harvesting terrific
volumes of data.

The new Pixel phone comes preloaded with Google Assistant, so that people can
ask their phones questions or order services by voice. It is branded as a Google
product, unlike previous Nexus phones, which were built in partnerships with
manufacturers. The phone resembles the latest iPhones and comes in 5in and 5.5in
versions, with the latest Android operating system, a 12.3 megapixel camera and
storage of up to 128GB. It is now available to order at prices from £599, the
same as the iPhone.

Carolina Milanesi, a technology analyst at Creative Strategies in California,
tweeted: "Pixel looks more & more the phone that will turn Android lovers into
Google lovers - Samsung will hurt the most".

Experts' initial reaction to the phones was positive but Ian Fogg, of IHS
Technology, said: "It will take years to scale a phone hardware business to have
a shot of being number one."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              535 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday

Oppo Find 7 To Be Launched on March 19th

LENGTH: 208  words


Successor to the Oppo N1 features a QHD display. Oppo's Google+ page have
confirmed the launch of its next smartphone, the Find 7 on March 19th in
Beijing. The Oppo Find 7 will feature a Quad HD screen, a whopping 2560 x 1440
pixels packed inside a 5.5-inch screen - that's a pixel density of538 [...]The
post Oppo Find 7 To Be Launched on March 19th appeared first on tbreak.

Successor to the Oppo N1 features a QHD display.

Oppo's Google+ page have confirmed the launch of its next smartphone, the Find 7
on March 19th in Beijing. The Oppo Find 7 will feature a Quad HD screen, a
whopping 2560 x 1440 pixels packed inside a 5.5-inch screen - that's a pixel
density of538 ppi. Oppo have also confirmed the smartphone will support LTE and
a new feature called 'Touch On Lens'. Additional rumours point to a Snapdragon
800 or 805 processor along with 3 GB of RAM and a 13-megapixel camera.

Oppo's last smartphone, the N1, featured a full HD display along with Snapdragon
processor with 2 GB of RAM and runs on Android 4.2 Jelly Bean. There was also
another version that came with CyanogenMod installed. It featured a unique
rotating lens that eliminates having two separate cameras.

The post Oppo Find 7 To Be Launched on March 19th appeared first on tbreak.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2014 TBREAK MEDIA
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              536 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 12, 2013 Thursday

'Pure Android' Xperia Z Ultra, G Pad 8.3 launched

SECTION: GADGETS SPECIAL

LENGTH: 536 words


NEW DELHI: Sony and Google have released the Google Play edition of the Sony
Xperia Z Ultra, the Japanese electronic giant's 6.4-inch device which tries to
marry the tablet and smartphone form factors.

The Sony Xperia Z Ultra Google Play edition is available for purchase on the
Google Play Store only in the United States, at a $649 price tag. For the
uninitiated, Google Play editions feature Stock Android just like Google's Nexus
devices, stripping off the user interface customizations deployed by device
manufacturers.

The Sony Xperia Z Ultra Google Play edition is powered by a 2.2GHz Snapdragon
800 quad-core processor, along with an Adreno 330 GPU, and 2GB of RAM. The
device runs Android 4.4 KitKat, the latest iteration of Google's mobile
operating system.

The Xperia Z Ultra Google Play edition sports a 6.4-inch display with a
resolution of 1080 X 1920 pixels and pixel density of 342ppi, incorporating
Sony's Triluminos and X-Reality for mobile display technology.

The water-proof and dust-resistant (IP55 and IP58) device, sports an 8-megapixel
rear camera with Exmor RS for mobile sensor, capable of recording full-HD video.
It doesn't feature an LED flash. The front of the device features a 2-megapixel
shooter, also capable of recording 1080p video. It comes with 16GB internal
storage expandable up to 64GB via microSD card, and NFC capability in addition
to supporting 4G LTE networks.

The Xperia Z Ultra Google Play edition also includes Sony's proprietary
technology including 3D surround sound, ClearAudio+, Clear Bass, Clear Phase,
xLoud experience. It also supports Pen input with stylus though handwriting
recognition is not supported.

It's interesting to note that the Sony Xperia Z Ultra Google Play edition (GPE)
is the company's first such device. Previously, HTC and Samsung had released
Google Play edition variants of the HTC One and the Samsung Galaxy S4,
respectively.

Sony was not the only one to announce a GPE device. South Korean giant LG, also
announced the Google Play edition of its 8.3-inch Android tablet, the G Pad 8.3.
The tablet features an 8.3-inch IPS display with a resolution of 1920 X 1200
pixels.

The tablet is powered by a 1.7GHz Snapdragon 600 quad-core processor and 2GB of
RAM. It comes with 16GB of internal storage and a 4.600mAh battery. It runs
Android 4.4 KitKat.

The LG G Pad 8.3 sports a 5-megapixel rear camera and a 1.3-megapixel
front-facing camera.The Wi-Fi only device is available at a price point of
$349.99 on the Google Play Store in the United States. It's not clear if LG
intends to sell it outside of the US, at the moment.

In addition to the Google Play editions, Google has also taken the wraps off a
white colour variant of the Nexus 7 (2013) tablet. The variant is available only
in the US, UK and Japan, and is only available for the Wi-Fi only 32GB version
of the tablet, at the moment.

The Nexus 7 (2013) is powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro, a quad-core
processor running at 1.5 GHz. It comes in 16GB or 32GB internal storage
variants, and features 2GB RAM, a 7-inch screen with FullHD resolution(1920 X
1200 pixels), 3950 mAh battery, a 5-megapixel primary camera and a 1.2MP front
camera with fixed focus.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              537 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on December 2, titled as "System
and method for sub-pixel alignment of digital geographic imagery"

LENGTH: 258  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,903,137, on
December 2, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "System and method for
sub-pixel alignment of digital geographic imagery"

Inventors:  Guo; Hong (Palo Alto, CA), Yonas; Aaron David (Berkeley, CA),
Marwood; David (Mountain View, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Systems and methods for associating geographic coordinates with one or more
points in a digital geographic image, such as a satellite image, aerial image,
ground based image, street level image or other suitable geographic image are
provided. More particularly, a digital geographic image can be analyzed to
identify one or more features that may be suitable as measurement points for
collecting measured ground truth data. The one or more features can be described
as a mathematical model that defines image coordinates along the feature
depicted in the digital geographic image with sub-pixel accuracy. Image
coordinates can be assigned to the measurement points with sub-pixel accuracy
using the mathematical model. Collected ground truth data can then be associated
with the identified image coordinates to allow for the more precise association
of geographic coordinate information to points in the digital geographic
imagery."

The patent was filed on October 26, 2012 Application no. 13/661,598

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              538 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

(The Nexus 6P from ...)

BYLINE: Edwin Kee

SECTION: 1-2-know; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1038 words


SMARTPHONE CLAD IN METAL

THE Nexus 6P from Google is quite a big smartphone. At 5.7 inch, it may be too
unwieldy for some, although it does packits fair share of goodies underneath the
hood. Sporting a metal unibody chassis, it is certainly nice to look at and
great to hold in the palm of your hand too.

Despite the metal unibody chassis, this sturdy device has a rather light feel to
it. The phone comes with a Snapdragon 810 chipset accompanied by 3GB of RAM
running within. The Nexus 6P features Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS right out of
the box, and sports a 5.7 inch WQHD AMOLED display that should keep most
eyeballs pleased as punch. At the back lies a 12.3-megapixel rear camera lens,
which is accompanied by a two-tone LED flash and a near-invisible laser
autofocus module.

The phone has an 8-megapixel selfie camera which should be more than sufficient
to get the job done right, even in low light conditions. You will be able to
pick up the Nexus 6P in 32GB, 64GB and 128GB storage options, but none of them
will sport a microSD memory card slot.To keep up with the times, the Nexus 6P
also sports a finger print sensor-Nexus Imprint-located on the back. This sensor
is used to control access to the device.

Other specifications include Gorilla Glass 4 and dual stereo speakers, which is
accompanied by a USB Type-C port that is located at the bottom for data transfer
and charging the 3,450mAh battery. Shipment of the Nexus 6P is slated at the end
of this month, with prices starting at USD499 for the base 32GB model, and
USD549 and USD649 for the 64GB and 128GB models, respectively.

www.huawei.com

CHIC NOTEBOOK

NOT all notebooks are created equal, as there will always be a differentiation
in class-the entry level, mid-range and high end units that cater to different
needs and budgets. Even a single kind of notebook can arrive in various form
factors and sizes, such as the spanking new HP Elite-Book 705 G3 series. This
notebook is thin, light and powerful.

The notebook comes with a new silver magnesium and aluminium chassis and weights
1.27kg. It is just 18.9mm at its thickest point. Depending on your eyesight as
well as needs, the EliteBook 705 G3 series are available in 12.5 inch, 14.0 inch
and 15.6 inch diagonal HD, FHD or QHD screens, and all of them will run on the
new high-performance AMD PRO A12 APU, which happens to be the very first
commercial APU that comes integrated with R7 Radeon graphics. Not only that,
each of these new notebooks will arrive with the HP Premium Keyboard which
provides a remarkable balance of comfort and feedback that goes far beyond a
traditional notebook keyboard.

There is also an enterprise docking capability, letting you be productive while
on-the-go, thanks to a full-size Display Port and VGA and RJ-45 ports. You won't
find yourself running out of juice all too often here, simply because the HP
EliteBook 705 series comes with HP Long-Life Rechargeable Batteries, which can
offer up to a three-year lifespan or 1,000 full charge and discharge cycles. The
batteries are said to last 2 to 3 times longer compared to standard notebook
batteries. An external SIM slot and optional WWAN capability are also part of
the deal, letting you have the added flexibility to connect while on the road.
It is a decent purchase for those who value time and would like to maximise
their waking hours with productivity.

www.hp.com

GOOGLE-MADE TABLET

IN addition to the new Chromecast devices and Nexus phones, Google has also
announced the Pixel C tablet. It is the first tablet in the market to run on the
all-new Android 6.0 Marshmallow mobile operating system version.

Pixel C is tipped to be a high-end model, featuring a 10.2-inch display with a
pixel density of 308 pixels per inch (ppi), while a Tegra X1 processor from
NVIDIA coupled with a Maxwell graphics processor, a USB Type-C port and 3GB of
RAM, keep things humming nicely underneath the hood.

It lacks a physical keyboard like the regular Chromebook, but there is a
lightbar that is borrowed from the Pixel Chromebooks. Double tapping on the
lightbar will show off the remaining battery life. In due time, Google will
ensure that there is an external keyboard accessory that attaches to the tablet
magnetically and connects via Bluetooth, for you to make use of it as a portable
computer.

There will be inductive charging built right into the tablet, ensuring the
keyboard accessory remains juiced up whenever it is closed. The Pixel C will
arrive in 32GB and 64GB capacities, retailing at USD499 (RM2,219) and USD599,
respectively. As for the external keyboard accessory, it will carry a price tag
of USD150. The Pixel C tablet is tipped to arrive in the coming months, so stay
tuned! pixel.google.com

ULTRA-LIGHT KEYBOARD

LOGITECHG410 Atlas Spectrum TKL mechanical gaming keyboard, has exclusive
Romer-G mechanical switches,intelligent RGB illumination and Arx Control
Integration.

This ultra-light Romer-G mechanical switches are said to deliver 25 per cent
faster actuation as opposed to standard mechanical keyboards, thanks to an
actuation point of 1.5mm which enables the Romer-G switches to receive commands
faster so that you have an edge in competitive games where every millisecond
matters. There is also improved durability at 70 million keystrokes.

The Arx Control Integration, which is a Logitech G app which will show off a
wide array of in-game information on your mobile device. Since all the vital
keys for gaming can be easily carried to provides LAN events or a friend's
house, it will nestle in perfectly with smaller gaming spaces. Dropping the
number pad or macro keys, one has additional space to make wide motions with
one's mouse.

While the intelligent Full Spectrum RGB Illumination Central backlighting makes
it a snap to locate the correct keys in game and in the dark, and you can even
individually customise the lighting in every key from a palette of 16.8 million
colours, thanks to the included Logitech software. The Logitech G410 Atlas
Spectrum will arrive with a USD129.99 price tag.

www.gaming.logitech.com

Edwin Kee has made the jump from the analogue era to digital, and loves every
minute of it. He is a firm believer that technology should serve mankind, and
not the other way around.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              539 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Techtree.com

                     October 13, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Google Pixel And Pixel XL Open For Pre-Orders On Flipkart

BYLINE: Wrik Sen

LENGTH: 380  words


The pre-orders for the new phone have begun, alongside some offers for
financing.

Google Pixel has bought it's latest flagship, the Pixel and Pixel XL
smart-phones in the country, and the counter for pre-orders have been opened.
The orders shall be taken from mid-might on Flipkart, and the deliveries for the
same ought to begin by the 26th October. Starting at Rs 57,000 for the Pixel,
there are the 32GB and 128GB options available for storage, and for the colors,
only the 'Very Silver' and 'Quiet Black' are open for sales. In fact, the Pixel
is available in Quiet Black color only, and the special edition 'Really Blue'
color is expected to come to India at a later date, but according to some
sources, may not come to India at all.

In terms of pricing, the Pixel 32GB is available for Rs 57,000, and the 128GB is
on the market for Rs 66,000. On the other hand, the Pixel XL is on the market
for Rs 67,000 for the 32 GB edition, and Rs 76,000 for the 128GB edition. Inn
terms of features, the handsets offer, there is the common 2.5D curved glass on
top and are protected by Corning Gorilla Glass 4, but the screen sizes differ;
Pixel is 5-inch on the face, whereas the Pixel XL is 5.5-inch on the face. As
the battery goes, there is the 2,770 mAh with 26 hours of talktime on the Pixel,
whereas the Pixel XL has a 3,450 mAh with 32 hours of talktime available.

Flipkart has managed to bring the most prominent banks, Axis, Citibank, HDFC
Bank, and ICICI Bank on board for sale of the phone. With 'No cost EMIs' for the
longest tenure of 18 months, the minimum instalment comes out to be Rs 3,167 a
month. If there is an old handset to be exchanged, one can take up on that as
well, with the maximum discount for an older handset on offer is Rs 27,000. This
would reduce the price of the 32GB edition of the Pixel to Rs 30,050, but then
it would differ from brand, model, and age of the older handset. Currently, the
only handset offering the full exchange value, is the Apple iPhone 6s+.

For those looking to buy the handsets offline, they will go on sale via stores
like Croma, Reliance Digital, Vijay Sales, and Jumbo Electronics to name a few.
The main company handling the offline sales in India, is Redington, who is the
official distributor of the Pixel smartphones in India.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              540 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

Google introduces the Chromebook Pixel, an Ultrabook, MacBook Air competitor -
News

LENGTH: 198  words


Rumors about a higher-end Google Chromebook were floating around the web these
past few days and today we get the official word from Google. The Chromebook
pixel is very real and available right now- although at a price level that
doesn't make sense.    The Acer and Samsung Chromebooks cost $199 and $249 (AED
730 and 915) which makes the $1300 or AED 4775 figure of Chrome Pixel a bit hard
to swallow. Yes, it has much better specs and people spend that much on Windows
or Mac laptops but that's because you already have a full suite of applications
available for these platforms. The Google Chrome OS is still very much in its
infancy stage.    [embedded content]     The hardware is configuration is nice
with an Intel Core i5 processor, 4GB or RAM and 64/128GB of SSD storage. What is
definitely worth lusting after is the 12.85" touchscreen with an insanely high
resolution of 2560 x 1700 which gives it a PPI of 239 which is a bit higher that
the 13" MacBook Pro with a 227 ppi. A model equipped with LTE will also be
coming up in the next couple of months with a price tag of $1450. Google is
justifying the price by providing the buyer with 1TB of cloud storage free for
three years.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2013 TBREAK MEDIA
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              541 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                            November 1, 2016 Tuesday

Galaxy S7 edge can charge much faster than Google Pixel XL or an iPhone 7 Plus

LENGTH: 335  words


In a smartphone battery charging test speed results, Galaxy S7 edge is able to
get the better of both Pixel XL and iPhone 7 Plus

One popular YouTuber who goes by the name of SuperSaf TV has made a video of a
speed charging test between Samsung's Galaxy S7 edge, iPhone 7 Plus and the
Google Pixel XL. To bring you to a recap of the battery capacities of each
phablet, Galaxy S7 edge features the biggest cell, at 3,600mAh, followed by the
Pixel XL at 3,450mAh and iPhone 7 Plus at 2,900mAh.

However, despite sporting the largest battery in comparison to the remaining two
handsets, Galaxy S7 edge still manages to charge the battery much faster than
the remaining two flagships. To start a fair comparison between all three
smartphones, all three were started from 1% battery life with all three phones
having Wi-Fi disabled and set on airplane mode. All three phones were also using
their own chargers that came bundled with the phone's packaging. If there were
different chargers used, the results obtained would have been much different.

Looking at the video, Galaxy S7 edge is the clear winner here most likely
because the smartphone's charger delivers more amperage compared to the
remaining two. Both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus take a long time to charge
because Apple has continued to ship its iPhones with 5W chargers, thus
increasing the overall time it takes for the battery capacity to reach its
maximum level.

Galaxy S7 edge also supports Qualcomm's Quick Charge 3.0, which dramatically
decreases the total battery charging time, which you can evidently see in the
video posted above. Google Pixel XL happily accepted second place, which is
disappointing because it doesn't feature premium features despite carrying an
expensive price of $649 for the base model. Galaxy S7 edge also features a
wireless charging feature, making it an even better smartphone if you're looking
for a handset that provides you with a ton of options for your money.

Source

http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/95/147799191068.jpg



LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              542 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

Google's Pixel smartphone takes on Apple

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 199 words


Ernest Doku, mobiles expert at comparison site uSwitch, said:  It s taken Google
forever to bring its own-brand hardware stylings to the smartphone, but it s
logical the search giant would eventually offer something to showcase the best
of Android, in the same way Apple has the iPhone to carry iOS. There s every
reason to believe the Pixel could be a genuine iPhone killer, in a market that
appears to be growing tired of the incumbents.

A battery that charges seven hours in just 15 minutes might not seem as cool as
an intelligent voice-activated assistant, but this combination of core
functionality and bleeding-edge features is highly likely to win people over.
Never underestimate the importance of battery life.

Google s biggest challenge will be differentiating in an incredibly competitive
space, where Android fans could easily default to Samsung.

Mr Doku added that the inclusion of artificial intelligence and virtual reality
content could help the Pixel stand out.

With a potentially market-leading camera, sleek design and a Google ecosystem
stacked with the latest in AI and VR, this might just be the handset to inject a
dose of cool back into the smartphone market,  he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              543 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             October 9, 2016 Sunday

In the AI wars, Google wants to change the world one 'Pixel' at a time

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 701 words


By Sreeraman Thiagarajan

Since Steve Jobs' version of Macintosh the one that was 'the computer for the
rest of us', to today's iPhone7, hardware devices are the strategy and cloud is
a tactic at Apple. They build beautiful, pricey hardware around which a unified,
controlled garden of ecosystem runs on cloud such as iTunes, Music and App store
seamlessly. Google has been the antithesis of this philosophy, for Google cloud
is the strategy and devices are tactics. Their revenues rake in from the likes
of cloud powered products such as Search and YouTube and the devices on which it
runs are a series of tactic, of which, the nitty gritties are mostly handled by
OEMs like Samsung and LG. But, that has all changed for good with the launch of
hardware from the house of Google - Pixel phones and Google Home.

Sundar Pichai's keynote on October 4 clearly articulated how computing has
evolved from PC to mobile and how it is headed towards being A.I. powered. The
hardware devices launched by Google are the beads of pearl strung together by
their A.I. powered technology running on clouds, which has to learn about every
user, every minute to ambitiously give 'a personal Google for everyone'
experience, which aims to get things done in real life.

But, it will not function the way Google imagines until they can control the
hardware on which it runs - there is snowflake's chance in furnace for Google
Assistant and ambitious A.I. products like Allo messenger to run on devices
manufactured by competition like Amazon Alexa. If Google has to succeed in
making their A.I. dreams come true, then they do not just have to outgrow the
dependency on third party device makers, but must also have direct play in
hardware to fend off competition and stay alive in what is coming - the A.I.
wars.

Launching a series of hardware is a tectonic shift in Sundar's Google, a company
who otherwise open up their technology as much as possible for developers and
OEMs to innovate openly and build independently. Their mobile OS Android is an
open source software, their annual developer conference is befittingly called as
I/O, which stand for innovation in the open (nope, not input/output) and for the
last three years at Google I/O conference, Sundar has ended the keynote by
saying, "we are excited to see what you will build"; The potency of that
statement is getting diluted when they build their own hardware. Developers and
press will probably retort to Google next year saying, we are excited to see
what hardware Google will build and launch this year!

Beside the osmosis of changing tactics into strategy, Google has been constantly
trying to make the search results as infamous as possible by calling them as
'just those blue links'. First they introduced knowledge graph a few years ago,
now the A.I. agenda; all of which to self-disrupt and reinvent a space where
they can be market leader. Subtle taunt is a good way to make planned obsolesce
happen to technology, we all know how it feels to have an iPhone6 when iPhone7
is launched, the same effect is what Google probably wishes for the blue
coloured search results to happen - they want people to move on, try voice
search, and better get habituated with it.

As of May 2016, they said nearly 20% of search is voice based. Google Home
devices does not even have a display screen to show search results, it is
completely voice controlled and outcome of users inputs are actions like turn on
music, book a table, etc., and not mere listing of information as blue links
that we typically see in a search page. Their video teaser that ran before the
Pixel phone announcement sums it all up pretty well - the ubiquitous horizontal
Google search bar morphs into a portrait screen resembling a smartphone screen.

Google turned eighteen last month and now have a vision beyond the horizon, an
ambition to power the world with A.I. and are equipped with a range of hardware
devices to do so- we can say surely say they have come of age. Happy birthday
Google! Maybe you will change the world, one Pixel at a time.

(Sreeraman Thiagarajan is Vice President at Publicis Beehive. Views expressed
are personal. He tweets at @sree_raman )

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              544 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 1, 2015 Sunday

USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc titled as "VIDEO CODING USING
REFERENCE MOTION VECTORS"

LENGTH: 265  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150055706, published on February 26, 2015, by Google Inc, titled as "VIDEO
CODING USING REFERENCE MOTION VECTORS" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:   Xu; Yaowu; (Sunnyvale, CA) ; Wilkins; Paul Gordon; (Milton, UK) ;
Grange; Adrian William; (Los Gatos, CA) ; Bultje; Ronald Sebastiaan; (San Jose,
CA)

Assignee:   Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Techniques are described to use a reference motion vector to reduce the amount
of bits needed to encode motion vectors for inter prediction. One method
includes identifying a candidate motion vector used to inter predict each of a
plurality of previously coded blocks to define a plurality of candidate motion
vectors, identifying a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set
of previously coded pixels for the current block, and generating, using each
candidate motion vector, a corresponding set of predicted values for the set of
previously coded pixel values within each reference frame of a plurality of
reference frames. A respective error value based on a difference between the set
of reconstructed pixel values and each set of predicted values is used to select
a reference motion vector from the candidate motion vectors that is used to
encode the motion vector for the current block."

The Patent was filed on August 23, 2013 under application No. 20150055706

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              545 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on January 20 titled as
"Generating a road network based on satellite imagery"

LENGTH: 251  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,938,094, on
January 20, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Generating a road
network based on satellite imagery"

Inventors:  Kehl; Roland (Dubendorf, CH), Heiler; Matthias (Zurich, CH), Bakir;
Gokhan Hasan (Zurich, CH)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
system and method for generating a road network based on satellite imagery.
Plural pixels corresponding to satellite imagery of a region are obtained. For
each of the plural pixels, a probability value corresponding to the probability
that the pixel belongs within the road network is calculated. A grayscale image
is formed based on the calculated probability values. Plural curves are produced
based on the grayscale image, wherein the producing of each curve includes
positioning a shape on the grayscale image so that an average intensity of the
grayscale image covered by the shape exceeds a preset threshold, moving the
shape about the grayscale image while the average intensity is maintained, and
tracking the movement of the shape to produce the curve. A planar-connected
graph is generated by connecting at least portions of the plural curves. The
planar-connected graph corresponds to the road network."

The patent was filed on April 13, 2012 Application no. 13/446,948

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              546 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday

Google releases new phones, tablet

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 508 words


Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new
streaming device and tablet.

The release comes only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of
products.

NEW PHONES

The 6P is Google's new flagship and has a 5.7-inch screen, featuring ultra- high
definition resolution.

It charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It charges
quickly and the connector is reversible.

Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any
previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each
one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.

The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just
7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.

In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early
November.

A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership
with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution, and
a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.

Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the
6P. You still get the rear- mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and
the same new camera.

With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB model, you could look at
the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality to save the customer a
little over $100.

No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for
New Zealand.

TABLET

Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking
on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.

The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32
gigabytes of storage.

The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that
struggled to find widespread market adoption.

The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links
to the device with a Bluetooth connection.

STREAMING DEVICE

Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not
a moment too soon.

The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their
televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku
and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set-top boxes to
download content in their living rooms. The new Chromecast, which resembles a
small hockey puck, is easier to set up and plug into the back of a TV. It has an
improved wireless antenna, which should speed up the delivery of video from
Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets, Google said in a statement

The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55).

Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio
to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new
mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              547 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Google Nexus 4 phone planned for July launch

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, June 12 -- CG Impex, a subsidiary of the Chaudhary Group and the sole
authorised distributor of LG mobiles in Nepal, is all set to unveil the Google
Nexus 4 mobile phone by the second week of July. CG Impex is marketing the
device in Nepal as its hardware components has been manufactured by South Korean
tech giant LG.

The new handset from Google is likely to give competition to brands like
Samsung, Sony, Apple and HTC which are the main contenders in the country's
premium smartphone segment.

The new device from Google features a 4.7 mega-pixel true HD IPS plus capacitive
touchscreen. The screen has multi-touch functionality and is protected with
scratch resistant corning gorilla glass 2. Likewise, Google has equipped the
mobile phone with Android v4.2.2 (Jelly Bean) Operating System (OS) which has
been supported by 1.5 GHz krait quad-core CPU and Adreno 320 GPU.

The mobile phone is equipped with an 8 mega pixel primary camera with features
like autofocus and LED flash. The device, according to the company, takes Photo
Sphere images, letting users capture every detail of the world around them. The
Nexus 4 also allows users to quickly view and edit pictures with powerful new
tools and share them.

Likewise, the Nexus 4 comes with a 1.3 mega pixel secondary camera option for
making video calls. The camera comprises features like geo-tagging, touch focus,
face detection and photo sphere. As for memory, the device is available with an
internal storage capacity of 8 GB and 16 GB and features 2 GB RAM. However,
Google hasn't given it a card slot to expand its memory.

The handset's non-removable Li-Po 2100 mAh battery offers power backup of 390
hours while in stand-by mode. As for talk time, it provides battery backup of up
to 15 hours.

CG Impex has stated that the device is likely to cost around Rs 52,000 in the
Nepali market. It will be available at the LG mobiles concept store situated at
Civil Mall and a number of other exclusive LG outlets in big cities across the
country.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              548 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      November 11, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Moto G Seen On GFXBench Running Android KitKat OS

LENGTH: 247  words


The device spotted on the listing could be the Google Play Edition.

Monday, November 11, 2013: The rumoured Moto G smartphone has reportedly been
spotted on the GFXBench website. According to reports, the sighting was
consistent with many of the rumours that had been heard about the smartphone in
the past, thus confirming them. Also, the leak said that the smartphone may be
coming with the new Android KitKat operating system from Google. Neither
Motorola nor Google have made any comment on the matter.

The benchmark listing on GFXBench shows that the Moto G will run on the Qualcomm
Snapdragon S4 MSM8226 quad core processor, which is based on the Cortex A7
architecture. Further, as with this processor, the device will sport the Adreno
305 graphics processing unit and a 1280 x 720 pixels screen.

Further, the fact that the KitKat OS has been seen on the benchmark listing
could mean that this smartphone, the Moto G XT1032 could be the Google Play
edition of the device. This is also suggested by the 'falcon_gpe' product name
that the listing ha shown. On the other hand, the appearance of the Android 4.4
OS could also mean that Google owner Motorola are testing the device with
KitKat, but will launch with the Android 4.3 Jelly Bean OS.

According to earlier rumours, the device will have an 11.9-cm (4.5-inch) display
along with 8 GB of internal storage and a 5 mega pixel rear camera. It also has
a 1.3 mega pixel front camera and is expected to be announced on 13 November.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              549 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

Google launches new phones, other gadgets

BYLINE: MICHAEL LIEDTKE The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 818 words


SAN FRANCISCO - Google ratcheted up its rivalry with Apple and Amazon by
unveiling new smartphones, an internet-connected speaker that channels a digital
assistant, and other gadgets the company hopes to make indispensable

The devices announced Tuesday are part of Google's bold move to design and sell
its own hardware, instead of just supplying Android and other software for other
companies to make products. Google's previous attempts at hardware have had
limited distribution and included such high-profile flops as its
internet-connected Glass headgear.

Google is betting that it can design software and hardware to work seamlessly
with each other. That's an art Apple mastered over the past 15 years as it
turned out finely crafted iPods, iPhones, iPads and Macs.

Borrowing another page from Apple's book, Google is backing its expanded product
lineup with the biggest marketing campaign in its 18-year history. The company
isn't disclosing how much it will spend, but made it clear the ads touting
products "Made by Google" will be ubiquitous during the next few months.

"They have done some advertising in the past, but it's never been with this kind
of 'let us take care of everything for you' way," Gartner analyst Brian Blau
said. "This is more like Apple's way of doing things."

Google executives showed off a series of gadgets in rapid succession in San
Francisco on Tuesday.

The new Pixel phones, starting at a price of $650, are aimed squarely at Apple's
iPhone and could also siphon sales from the biggest manufacturer of
Android-powered phones, Samsung.

Android now powers more than 80 percent of the smartphones sold around the
world. But Samsung has increasingly been adding more of its own software,
including its own mobile wallet, on its phones.

Meanwhile, Google's new Home speaker represents a counterpunch to Amazon's Echo,
a similar device that has become a big hit since its release about 15 months
ago.

Google also announced a virtual-reality headset called Daydream View, a new
Wi-Fi router and an update to the company's Chromecast device for streaming
video.

Available in two sizes, the Pixel phones replace Google's previous foray into
smartphones with a Nexus brand introduced six years ago. Google never hailed
Nexus as its own phone, but instead positioned it as an example of how it
believed the Android system worked best.

In promoting the Pixels, Google highlighted a camera it says trumps the latest
iPhone, a long-lasting battery and a dedicated headphone jack - a staple that
Apple eliminated from the iPhones released last month. The Pixel will be sold by
Verizon in the U.S. The phones come out Oct. 20.

Analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy said in an email that
Google was smart to emphasize the performance of the new smartphone cameras, as
"consumers care about this a lot."

But he said other features in the new phones didn't seem that much different
from what Samsung and Apple have offered in their latest devices.

SMART ASSISTANT

The phones and speaker will serve as a showcase for Google's digital helper,
Google Assistant. The helper will respond to spoken questions such as "How do
you remove wine stains out of the carpet?" and commands to control the volume of
the television and other home appliances with internet connections.

Google Assistant escalates the company's battle against Apple, which offers a
virtual helping hand through Siri, and Amazon, whose Alexa concierge resides in
Echo and other devices.

Google believes its assistant will be more knowledgeable, more personable and
more versatile than the competition. Its confidence stems from the more than 70
billion facts that it has stockpiled in a database that it calls a "knowledge
graph," as well as the ability of its dominant search engine to quickly scan the
web to retrieve a specific piece of information.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai boasts that the assistant will draw upon the company's
advances in artificial intelligence to deliver "a personal Google for each and
every user." The artificial intelligence programming is designed to learn more
about the person using it with each interaction, according to Google.

That's one reason why Google eventually wants the assistant on more devices,
though the company currently doesn't have plans to build directly into Android
the way Siri is automatically included in Apple's mobile software. Instead,
Google will allow other device makers to include the assistant in their products
if they want, beginning early next year.

"Search has been Google's golden ticket for the past 20 years of the internet,
and now they are hoping artificial intelligence will become the next golden
ticket," Blau said.

Still, while Google showed its new Assistant performing a variety of impressive
tasks, Moorhead cautioned that similar services such as Siri and Microsoft's
Cortana haven't fulfilled their early promises to ingrain themselves into
people's lives.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              550 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 17, 2016 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We clicked: you're my type of tablet;
Tablets with detachable keyboards have come of age. Matt Bingham connects to
three

BYLINE: Matt Bingham

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 586 words


BEST FOR PRICE ? GOOGLE PIXEL C From £399 Google's Android software is the most
popular for smartphones but has made less of an impact on tablets. The Pixel C
is Google's attempt to show how it can now compete with the king of tablets, the
Apple iPad, and as a hardware project it succeeds brilliantly. At 10.2in, the
display is similarly squarish but slightly larger than that of the iPad Air 2,
and, at 308ppi, has 15% more pixels per inch.

As such, it's as sharp, colourful and bright as any on the market. The case is
metal, the build feels premium and it runs Marshmallow, the latest version of
the Android operating system. Charging is fast over the new USB C standard
(sadly, none of your old cables will fit) and battery life is about 10 hours.
The keyboard (an additional £119) is a beautiful piece of engineering that
doubles as a cover to protect the screen (and recharge the wireless connector at
the same time). It is attached by magnets so strong they almost grab the tablet
from your hands; detach, flip and snap it back together to create a laptop. The
tablet's weak spots are a stingy 32GB capacity (a 64GB version costs £479) with
no memory card slot and the relatively few third-party apps optimised for this
size of screen and aspect ratio. Verdict The best Android tablet yet. App
makers, take notice.

???? www.pixel.google.com BEST FOR APP STORE ? APPLE iPAD PRO From £679 It looks
like a blown-up iPad, and that's basically what it is. The Pro runs Apple's
regular tablet software, and while the screen is now 12.9in, it retains the same
aspect ratio and pixel density - 264ppi - as its smaller cousin, the Air 2, so
apps do not need to be rewritten to fill the display. The good news is that
means all items in the world's best tablet software store, the hundreds of
thousands of apps already optimised for the iPad, run without fuss. They look
fantastic too: the extra screen space makes this feel more like using a laptop
than a tablet, and tweaks under the bonnet leave you in no doubt of the
computing power available when you need it. Accessories are not cheap: the Smart
Keyboard (£139) is a wireless, MacBook-like keyboardcum-case, and the Pencil
(£79) is an excellent pressure-sensitive stylus. Memory is an underwhelming 32GB
(a 128GB version costs £799) and it's heavy, weighing in at more than 2lb (with
case).

Verdict Warn the bank manager: you might mock at first sight, but use the Pro
for a while and all other iPads start to feel undersized and underpowered.
{{{{(apple.com/uk BEST FOR POWER ? MICROSOFT SURFACE PRO 4 From £749 The Pro 4
is the fastest Surface yet, with a 12.3in screen at better-than-iPad pixel
density of 267ppi. It's a thick device but light, despite a metal casing that
finds room for a useful USB slot. Ticking beneath is a genuine computer
operating system, Windows 10, running two types of software: apps (from a
not-great store) and, more usefully, thousands of regular programs. The base
model has 128GB of storage and the Intel Core m3 processor used by many cheaper
laptops. For silly money (£1,799) you can go up to a Core i7 and 512GB,
outpowering any tablet rival. The £82 Type Cover is an improvement on previous
Surface keyboards, offering well-spaced, clicky keys. A pressuresensitive stylus
is supplied. As a stylish laptop, the Pro 4 is a success; where it falls down is
in touchscreen tablet mode, where Windows 10 feels clunky compared with iOS and
Android.

Verdict Powerful but pricy, as you'll want the keyboard cover too.

{{{{(microsoft.com/uk

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              551 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      April 3, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 7 32 GB variant to come to India soon

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 292  words


Google has recently launched the Google Nexus 7 tablet in India at a decent
price of Rs 15999. Now it is ready to add another variant of this 7- inch low
cost Android tablet in its list for India.

Asus, the manufacturer of the Google Nexus 7 tablet has launched the 32 GB
variant for India,  with 3G+Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi capabilities for India. The 3G
version of the tablet will cost Rs 21999 and the Wi-Fi variant is going to be
available at a price of Rs 18999.

The added products are not reflecting on the Google Play page (https://play.
google.com/store/devices/details?id=nexus_7_16gb&feature=microsite&hl=en) for
now, and we expect these to appear soon. But the 32 GB version have been online
stores in India for some time now. The Wi-Fi+Cellular version could be spotted
at eBay India at a price above Rs 26000 ready for shipping from within India.

Competition:

The Nexus 7 will compete with a range of low cost voice-calling 7 inch Android
tablets below Rs 10000 from Indian manufacturers. The tablet will however
compete with the Samsung 7 inch Galaxy Tab GT-P3100 of 16 GB (3G + Wi-Fi)
variant which costs about Rs 16499 and Apple's Wi-Fi only 32 GB iPad Mini which
costs about Rs 27900.

About Google Nexus 7:

The Nexus 7 is a 7-incher running on the Nvidia Tegra 3 quad-core processor
clocked at 1.3 GHz supported by a 12-core graphics processor. It has a crystal
clear HD display protected by a scratch-resistant Corning glass screen
protection with a screen resolution of 1280 by 800 pixels at 216 pixel per
inches pixel density. The tablet has the advantage of running the purest form of
the Android Jelly Bean 4.2 operating system. It has 1 GB of RAM, a 1.2 megapixel
front camera and a 4325 mAh battery. It also includes Bluetooth and NFC
functionality.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              552 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 17, 2016 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

We clicked: you're my type of tablet;
Tablets with detachable keyboards have come of age. Matt Bingham connects to
three

SECTION: SUNDAY;NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 596 words


BEST FOR PRICE ? GOOGLE PIXEL C From (EURO)509 Google's Android software is the
most popular for smartphones but has made less of an impact on tablets. The
Pixel C is Google's attempt to show how it can now compete with the king of
tablets, the Apple iPad, and as a hardware project it succeeds brilliantly. At
10.2in, the display is similarly squarish but slightly larger than that of the
iPad Air 2, and, at 308ppi, has 15% more pixels per inch.

As such, it's as sharp, colourful and bright as any on the market. The case is
metal, the build feels premium and it runs Marshmallow, the latest version of
the Android operating system. Charging is fast over the new USB C standard
(sadly, none of your old cables will fit) and battery life is about 10 hours.
The keyboard (an additional (EURO)169) is a beautiful piece of engineering that
doubles as a cover to protect the screen (and recharge the wireless connector at
the same time). It is attached by magnets so strong they almost grab the tablet
from your hands; detach, flip and snap it back together to create a laptop. The
tablet's weak spots are a stingy 32GB capacity (a 64GB version costs (EURO)609)
with no memory card slot and the relatively few third-party apps optimised for
this size of screen and aspect ratio. Verdict The best Android tablet yet. App
makers, take notice.

???? www.pixel.google.com BEST FOR APP STORE ? APPLE iPAD PRO From (EURO)939 It
looks like a blown-up iPad, and that's basically what it is. The Pro runs
Apple's regular tablet software, and while the screen is now 12.9in, it retains
the same aspect ratio and pixel density - 264ppi - as its smaller cousin, the
Air 2, so apps do not need to be rewritten to fill the display. The good news is
that means all items in the world's best tablet software store, the hundreds of
thousands of apps already optimised for the iPad, run without fuss. They look
fantastic too: the extra screen space makes this feel more like using a laptop
than a tablet, and tweaks under the bonnet leave you in no doubt of the
computing power available when you need it. Accessories are not cheap: the Smart
Keyboard ((EURO)179) is a wireless, MacBook-like keyboardcum-case, and the
Pencil ((EURO)109) is an excellent pressure-sensitive stylus. Memory is an
underwhelming 32GB (a 128GB version costs (EURO)1,119) and it's heavy, weighing
in at more than 2lb (with case).

Verdict Warn the bank manager: you might mock at first sight, but use the Pro
for a while and all other iPads start to feel undersized and underpowered.
{{{{(apple.com/ie BEST FOR POWER ? MICROSOFT SURFACE PRO 4 From (EURO)1,029 The
Pro 4 is the fastest Surface yet, with a 12.3in screen at better-than-iPad pixel
density of 267ppi. It's a thick device but light, despite a metal casing that
finds room for a useful USB slot. Ticking beneath is a genuine computer
operating system, Windows 10, running two types of software: apps (from a
not-great store) and, more usefully, thousands of regular programs. The base
model has 128GB of storage and the Intel Core m3 processor used by many cheaper
laptops. For silly money ((EURO)2,499) you can go up to a Core i7 and 512GB,
outpowering any tablet rival. The (EURO)154.95 Type Cover is an improvement on
previous Surface keyboards, offering well-spaced, clicky keys. A
pressuresensitive stylus is supplied. As a stylish laptop, the Pro 4 is a
success; where it falls down is in touchscreen tablet mode, where Windows 10
feels clunky compared with iOS and Android.

Verdict Powerful but pricy, as you'll want the keyboard cover too.

{{{{(microsoft.com/ie

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              553 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

Scotland set to tap into virtual reality revolution

BYLINE: Gareth Mackie

LENGTH: 674  words


With Google unveiling its latest virtual reality (VR) headset, a leading figure
in the digital technologies sector believes Scotland is ideally placed to
benefit in this brave new world.

Polly Purvis, chief executive of trade body
{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/tech/digital-sector-urged-to-think-b
ig-and-move-fast-1-4249619| ScotlandIS | Digital sector urged to think big and
move fast' - The Scotsman}, said Google's Daydream View headset - designed to
work with the technology giant's new Pixel smartphones - shows the combination
of pricing and processing power means VR is now becoming "very attractive."

Daydream View, designed for comfort in a fabric finish, will be priced at £69,
well below the £349 price tag for Sony's PlayStation VR headset, which is due to
go on sale next month. Google's offering will need to be powered by a compatible
smartphone, such as the Pixel - which starts at £599 - although future Android
phones will also come with Daydream support.

Gaming is a key market for VR, as the technology will be able to give players as
immersive an experience as possible, but Purvis said there are a wide range of
other uses. When it launches, Daydream View will enable users to watch YouTube
videos and access Google Maps, as well as play games.

READ MORE:
{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/tech/will-2016-become-the-year-of-vi
rtual-reality-1-4162211 | Will 2016 become the year of virtual reality? | Will
2016 become the year of virtual reality? - The Scotsman}

"We see a number of opportunities in tourism and more generally in marketing,
allowing people to tell a more memorable story," Purvis told The Scotsman.

"There are also some very practical opportunities - healthcare is enormous; you
could deliver support or consultations remotely and there are also some really
good examples of it being used in maintenance, with oil rigs being a great
example. VR gives people access to information where they are."

While current headsets, such as the Oculus Rift and HTC's Vive, are rather
clunky," Purvis said manufacturers were putting lot of effort into their design
"and ten years from now they'll look very different".

Scotland has long had an enviable reputation for technological innovation, with
a thriving start-up scene and strong games sector, and Purvis said "there are
things people haven't even thought about yet" when it comes to tapping into the
power of VR.

Goldman Sachs predicts that the annual market for VR hardware sales alone could
be worth up to $110 billion (£86.4bn) by 2025. Add in the potential for a
further $72bn of software revenues, and the market could become almost twice as
big as that for television.

"We're certainly not short of good ideas and innovation in Scotland, and I don't
see any reason why we couldn't capitalise on it as much as any other country,"
Purvis said.

"Where we have a leading edge is clearly in the quality of our games
development, where the expertise in that sector is substantial. Increasingly
we're seeing gaming methodology being used in learning and education, and I
think we'll start to see it spilling over into those sorts of areas.

"We also have an exceptional research pool in our universities in Scotland.

"There's no lack of interest and expertise in Scotland - it's now just a case of
finding those killer uses'. As more of these products are available, the more
people will tinker and experiment with them, so we'll see them coming out with
breakthroughs."

Google also announced last night that its Pixel handset has its Assistant
artificial intelligence program built in, designed to understand context in
conversations and help with tasks.

The new phone was unveiled at an event in San Francisco, and comes in both a 5in
and 5.5in size, the latter known as the Pixel XL. It was billed by Google as
housing the "best smartphone camera ever made". Pixel will start at £599 in the
UK, with the larger Pixel XL at £719.

{https://www.facebook.com/scotsmanbusiness/ | Click here to Like' The Scotsman
Business on Facebook | Link to Facebook page}

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              554 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

Scotland set to tap into virtual reality revolution

BYLINE: Gareth Mackie

LENGTH: 674  words


With Google unveiling its latest virtual reality (VR) headset, a leading figure
in the digital technologies sector believes Scotland is ideally placed to
benefit in this brave new world.

Polly Purvis, chief executive of trade body
{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/tech/digital-sector-urged-to-think-b
ig-and-move-fast-1-4249619| ScotlandIS | Digital sector urged to think big and
move fast' - The Scotsman}, said Google's Daydream View headset - designed to
work with the technology giant's new Pixel smartphones - shows the combination
of pricing and processing power means VR is now becoming "very attractive."

Daydream View, designed for comfort in a fabric finish, will be priced at £69,
well below the £349 price tag for Sony's PlayStation VR headset, which is due to
go on sale next month. Google's offering will need to be powered by a compatible
smartphone, such as the Pixel - which starts at £599 - although future Android
phones will also come with Daydream support.

Gaming is a key market for VR, as the technology will be able to give players as
immersive an experience as possible, but Purvis said there are a wide range of
other uses. When it launches, Daydream View will enable users to watch YouTube
videos and access Google Maps, as well as play games.

READ MORE:
{http://www.scotsman.com/business/companies/tech/will-2016-become-the-year-of-vi
rtual-reality-1-4162211 | Will 2016 become the year of virtual reality? | Will
2016 become the year of virtual reality? - The Scotsman}

"We see a number of opportunities in tourism and more generally in marketing,
allowing people to tell a more memorable story," Purvis told The Scotsman.

"There are also some very practical opportunities - healthcare is enormous; you
could deliver support or consultations remotely and there are also some really
good examples of it being used in maintenance, with oil rigs being a great
example. VR gives people access to information where they are."

While current headsets, such as the Oculus Rift and HTC's Vive, are rather
clunky," Purvis said manufacturers were putting lot of effort into their design
"and ten years from now they'll look very different".

Scotland has long had an enviable reputation for technological innovation, with
a thriving start-up scene and strong games sector, and Purvis said "there are
things people haven't even thought about yet" when it comes to tapping into the
power of VR.

Goldman Sachs predicts that the annual market for VR hardware sales alone could
be worth up to $110 billion (£86.4bn) by 2025. Add in the potential for a
further $72bn of software revenues, and the market could become almost twice as
big as that for television.

"We're certainly not short of good ideas and innovation in Scotland, and I don't
see any reason why we couldn't capitalise on it as much as any other country,"
Purvis said.

"Where we have a leading edge is clearly in the quality of our games
development, where the expertise in that sector is substantial. Increasingly
we're seeing gaming methodology being used in learning and education, and I
think we'll start to see it spilling over into those sorts of areas.

"We also have an exceptional research pool in our universities in Scotland.

"There's no lack of interest and expertise in Scotland - it's now just a case of
finding those killer uses'. As more of these products are available, the more
people will tinker and experiment with them, so we'll see them coming out with
breakthroughs."

Google also announced last night that its Pixel handset has its Assistant
artificial intelligence program built in, designed to understand context in
conversations and help with tasks.

The new phone was unveiled at an event in San Francisco, and comes in both a 5in
and 5.5in size, the latter known as the Pixel XL. It was billed by Google as
housing the "best smartphone camera ever made". Pixel will start at £599 in the
UK, with the larger Pixel XL at £719.

{https://www.facebook.com/scotsmanbusiness/ | Click here to Like' The Scotsman
Business on Facebook | Link to Facebook page}

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              555 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 26, 2014 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on June 24 titled as "Bilateral
filter optimization"

LENGTH: 190  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,761,507 on
June 24, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Bilateral filter
optimization"

Inventors:  Steger; Eron Samuel (Mountain View, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Systems and methods for optimizing bilateral filtering operation, by segmenting
an image based on predetermined ranges of colors, and reiteratively blurring the
image based on each color. In one aspect, colors associated with pixels that are
located in such compartment are substantially similar. A blurring procedure(s)
can subsequently be applied to each compartment, wherein pixels on the image
that have more color similarity to a color of the compartment are weighted more,
as compared to pixels that have less color similarity to the color of such
compartment."

The patent was filed on August 2, 2012 Application no. 13/564,852

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              556 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                    November 27, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Moto G booking begins at $179, here's where to buy yours

LENGTH: 309  words


The low cost (in fact the cheapest) Google phone from Motorola's stable is now
here. The phone has come for sale now at a price of $179 only.

"From $179. Order now. Starts shipping on 12/2" says Google indicating an early
December date for the phone to ship. The $179 price (for the 8 GB one without
any contract requirement. This version will work on GSM networks but not with
CDMA network for now.

Google was expected to launch the phone in January but has started taking
pre-orders almost a month before the date. The Moto G comes with a 4.5-inch HD
display and is going to market a re-entry into the Indian smartphone market,
after it pulled out of India few years ago.

Moto G Review: Cheaper Nexus 5 with nippy performance, must buy for those who
want a budget phone

Moto G coming to India, what will happen to Nokia, Micromax, Samsung, Lava and
others

The Moto G is 4.5-inch display phone and will come with a Qualcomm Snapdragon
400 quad-core processor, 1 GB of RAM. This one has got a display resolution of
1280 x 720 pixels that come to a display density of 329 pixels per inch (ppi).
This display density is quite close the iPhone 5S and 5C's display that is 640 x
1136 pixels on a 4-inch display for a 326 ppi pixel density.

The phone sports a 5 megapixel shooter and 1.3 megapixel front camera. Though
this is not a great camera when compared to the 13 megapixel Indian players are
offering in budget phones, considering the low-cost of this phone, this should
be okay. The phone packs a battery of 2070 mAh that can support you for a whole
day, and runs Android 4.3.

The most attractive part of this cheap phone is its price which makes it cheaper
than the best Indian players are offering. The price $199 translates to Rs 11150
when we make a simple conversion using the exchange rate USD 1 = Rs 62.28. The
16 GB global variant has been priced at $199.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              557 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            January 9, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A new level of Android tablet

SECTION: REVIEW;NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 284 words


Google Pixel C Price: (EURO)509 from www.store.google.com (free delivery)
Rating: ???? HHHH Ever since Apple introduced the iPad, it has dominated tablet
sales. It's not just because of the bigger, deeper app store, either. The iPad
has always been better designed, sleeker and more durable than almost any of its
Android counterparts.

The only way to compete in the long term, it seems, is to really invest heavily
in the hardware. This is what is giving Microsoft traction with its Surface Pro
hybrid range. And it is very clearly in evidence with Google's new 10-inch Pixel
C tablet. The Pixel C is staking a major claim to being the best Android tablet
you can get, largely because of its solid aluminium build, fantastic screen and
lightning fast graphics.

It also has a dedicated keyboard built specially for it (but sold separately)
that turns this into a very competent laptop replacement for light, on-the-go
tasks.

It's a little heavier than the iPad Air 2, its closest rival, but is
considerably lighter than Microsoft's Surface 3, if one wants to bring Windows
into the comparison. (I've gone off the Surface 3: it's underpowered and its
keyboard will frustrate the bejesus out of you.) For anyone who cares, there's
also an 8-megapixel HD camera on the rear of the machine.

Is it worth the price of a top-end iPad? For anyone who lives off Google apps
(Docs, Drive and Gmail), it's certainly a valid contender.

One tip: if you're considering this machine, you should really get the keyboard
designed to go with it. It's a superior Bluetooth model with wide, spacious keys
and a clever magnetic mechanism that lets you angle the tablet-screen at almost
any pitch. It also supports inductive charging.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              558 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

How new 7-inch Kindle compares with smaller rivals

SECTION: BUSINESS; General

LENGTH: 651 words


Amazon is the latest company to unveil new tablets, including a new 7-inch
(17.8-centimeter) Kindle Fire HDX and an updated HD model. That screen size has
gotten popular because devices are cheaper and easier to carry around. Here's
how Amazon's new tablets compare with Apple's iPad Mini and Google's Nexus 7.

Amazon.com Inc.'s Kindle Fire HDX (shipping Oct. 18, 2013):

Price: $229 with 16 gigabytes of storage, $269 with 32 GB and $309 with 64 GB.
Add $100 for versions with 4G LTE cellular capability.

Screen size: 7 inches (17.8 centimeters) diagonally

Screen resolution: 1920 x 1200 (323 pixels per inch)

Size: height: 7.3 inches (18.5 centimeters); width: 5.0 inches (12.7
centimeters); thickness: 0.35 inch (0.9 centimeter)

Weight: 10.7 ounces (303 grams) for base model, 11.0 ounces (311 grams) for
cellular version

Cameras: Front-facing camera

Battery life: 11 hours of mixed use, 17 hours when reading.

Operating system: Modified version of Google's Android

Pros: Cheap and portable. Convenient access to Amazon store. Integration with
Amazon Prime subscription benefits such as book-borrowing, videos.
High-resolution screen. "Mayday" live video support 24/7.

Cons: Third-party applications limited to what's available through Amazon store,
not broader Google Play store. No rear camera.

Amazon.com Inc.'s Kindle Fire HD, 2013 model (shipping Oct. 2, 2013):

Price: $139 with 8 gigabytes of storage, $169 with 16 GB

Screen size: 7 inches (17.8 centimeters) diagonally

Screen resolution: 1280 by 800 pixels (216 pixels per inch)

Size: height: 7.5 inches (19 centimeters); width: 5.0 inches (12.7 centimeters);
thickness: 0.42 inch (1.1 centimeter)

Weight: 12.2 ounces (345 grams)

Cameras: None

Battery life: 10 hours

Operating system: Modified version of Google's Android

Pros: Really cheap and portable. Convenient access to Amazon store. Integration
with Amazon Prime subscription benefits such as book-borrowing, videos.

Cons: Third-party applications limited to what's available through Amazon store,
not broader Google Play store. No camera or option for cellular access. Fewer
features than 2012 model, including less storage and the exclusion of
front-facing camera and microphone in new model. No "Mayday" support.

Apple Inc.'s iPad Mini (released Nov. 2, 2012):

Price: $329 with 16 gigabytes of storage, $429 with 32 GB and $529 with 64 GB.
Add $130 for versions with 4G LTE cellular capability.

Screen size: 7.9 inches (20.1 centimeters) diagonally

Screen resolution: 1024 by 768 pixels (163 pixels per inch)

Size: height 7.87 inches (20 centimeters); width: 5.3 inches (13.46
centimeters); thickness: 0.28 inch (0.7 centimeters)

Weight: 10.9 ounces (308 grams) for base model, 11 ounces (312 grams) for
cellular version

Cameras: 5-megapixel camera on back and a low-resolution camera on front, for
videoconferencing

Battery life: 10 hours

Operating system: Apple's iOS

Pros: Portable. Unmatched access to third-party applications, high-quality Apple
software and the iTunes store. Screen larger than on rival devices.

Cons: Screen resolution is among the lowest. Pricey.

Google Inc.'s Nexus 7 (released July 30, 2013):

Price: $229 with 16 gigabytes of storage, $269 with 32 GB. Add $80 for 32 GB
model with 4G LTE cellular capability.

Screen size: 7 inches (17.8 centimeters) diagonally

Screen resolution: 1920 x 1200 (323 pixels per inch)

Size: height: 7.87 inches (20 centimeters); width 4.49 inches (11.4
centimeters); thickness: 0.34 inch (0.86 centimeters).

Weight: 10.2 ounces (290 grams) for base model, 10.5 ounces (299 grams) for
cellular version

Cameras: 5 megapixel rear camera, 1.2 megapixel front-facing camera

Battery life: 9 hours

Operating system: Google's Android

Pros: Cheap and portable. Access to a variety of games, utilities and other
software for Android devices, though not as extensive as apps available for
iPad. High-resolution screen.

Cons: No major standout features compared with similar Android tablets.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              559 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Google releases new devices

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 725 words


Google is taking on Apple and Microsoft with a new range of gadgets.

--------------------

Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new
streaming device and tablet.

The releases come only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of
products.

NEW PHONES

The 6P is Google's new flagship, and it's the successor to last year's Nexus 6.

It is the first Nexus phone made by Chinese company Huawei, and it tries to fix
what was wrong with the 6, while bringing a few new things to the party as well.

The 6P is a little smaller than its predecessor, with a 5.7-inch instead of
6-inch screen, featuring ultra-high definition resolution.

The 6P charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It
charges quickly and the connector is reversible.

Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any
previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each
one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.

The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just
7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.

In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early
November.

A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership
with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution and
a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.

Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the
6P. You still get the rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and
the same new camera. With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB
model, you could look at the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality
to save the customer a little over $100.

Although there will be plenty of people who want the 5X for its smaller size
alone as well. Also, it's the better looking of the pair, and the plastic back
makes it insanely lightweight.

No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for
New Zealand.

TABLET

Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking
on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.

The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32
gigabytes of storage.

The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that
struggled to find widespread market adoption.

Although the Pixel C is a tablet, with a touchscreen, it's also designed to
replace a traditional laptop. Microsoft was one of the first major technology
companies to embrace that configuration when it introduced the Surface tablet
computer in 2012. And earlier this month, Apple took the wraps off the iPad Pro,
a bigger version of its tablet (also with a detachable keyboard) aimed at
corporate users.

The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links
to the device with a Bluetooth connection.

STREAMING DEVICE

Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not
a moment too soon.

The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their
televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku
and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set- top boxes to
download content in their living rooms.

The new Chromecast, which resembles a small hockey puck, is easier to set up and
plug into the back of a TV. It has an improved wireless antenna, which should
speed up the delivery of video from Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets,
Google said in a statement

The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55). Chromecast,
which debuted in 2013, had about 23 per cent of the market for streaming digital
devices in the first quarter of this year, just behind approximately 30 per cent
for Amazon's Fire TV devices and 25 per cent for Roku, according to estimates by
Strategy Analytics. Apple, which is also updating its lineup, was ranked fourth
at 18 per cent.

Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio
to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new
mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              560 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Marlborough Express (New Zealand)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Google releases new devices

SECTION: BUSINESS; NATIONAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words


Google is taking on Apple and Microsoft with a new range of gadgets.

--------------------

Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new
streaming device and tablet.

The releases come only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of
products.

NEW PHONES

The 6P is Google's new flagship, and it's the successor to last year's Nexus 6.

It is the first Nexus phone made by Chinese company Huawei, and it tries to fix
what was wrong with the 6, while bringing a few new things to the party as well.

The 6P is a little smaller than its predecessor, with a 5.7-inch instead of
6-inch screen, featuring ultra-high definition resolution.

The 6P charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It
charges quickly and the connector is reversible.

Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any
previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each
one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.

The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just
7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.

In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early
November.

A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership
with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution and
a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.

Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the
6P. You still get the rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and
the same new camera. With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB
model, you could look at the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality
to save the customer a little over $100.

Although there will be plenty of people who want the 5X for its smaller size
alone as well. Also, it's the better looking of the pair, and the plastic back
makes it insanely lightweight.

No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for
New Zealand.

TABLET

Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking
on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.

The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32
gigabytes of storage.

The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that
struggled to find widespread market adoption.

Although the Pixel C is a tablet, with a touchscreen, it's also designed to
replace a traditional laptop. Microsoft was one of the first major technology
companies to embrace that configuration when it introduced the Surface tablet
computer in 2012. And earlier this month, Apple took the wraps off the iPad Pro,
a bigger version of its tablet (also with a detachable keyboard) aimed at
corporate users.

The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links
to the device with a Bluetooth connection.

STREAMING DEVICE

Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not
a moment too soon.

The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their
televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku
and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set- top boxes to
download content in their living rooms.

The new Chromecast, which resembles a small hockey puck, is easier to set up and
plug into the back of a TV. It has an improved wireless antenna, which should
speed up the delivery of video from Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets,
Google said in a statement

The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55). Chromecast,
which debuted in 2013, had about 23 per cent of the market for streaming digital
devices in the first quarter of this year, just behind approximately 30 per cent
for Amazon's Fire TV devices and 25 per cent for Roku, according to estimates by
Strategy Analytics. Apple, which is also updating its lineup, was ranked fourth
at 18 per cent.

Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio
to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new
mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              561 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Google releases new devices

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words


Google is taking on Apple and Microsoft with a new range of gadgets.

--------------------

Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new
streaming device and tablet.

The releases come only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of
products.

NEW PHONES

The 6P is Google's new flagship, and it's the successor to last year's Nexus 6.

It is the first Nexus phone made by Chinese company Huawei, and it tries to fix
what was wrong with the 6, while bringing a few new things to the party as well.

The 6P is a little smaller than its predecessor, with a 5.7-inch instead of
6-inch screen, featuring ultra-high definition resolution.

The 6P charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It
charges quickly and the connector is reversible.

Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any
previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each
one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.

The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just
7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.

In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early
November.

A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership
with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution and
a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.

Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the
6P. You still get the rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and
the same new camera. With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB
model, you could look at the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality
to save the customer a little over $100.

Although there will be plenty of people who want the 5X for its smaller size
alone as well. Also, it's the better looking of the pair, and the plastic back
makes it insanely lightweight.

No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for
New Zealand.

TABLET

Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking
on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.

The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32
gigabytes of storage.

The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that
struggled to find widespread market adoption.

Although the Pixel C is a tablet, with a touchscreen, it's also designed to
replace a traditional laptop. Microsoft was one of the first major technology
companies to embrace that configuration when it introduced the Surface tablet
computer in 2012. And earlier this month, Apple took the wraps off the iPad Pro,
a bigger version of its tablet (also with a detachable keyboard) aimed at
corporate users.

The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links
to the device with a Bluetooth connection.

STREAMING DEVICE

Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not
a moment too soon.

The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their
televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku
and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set- top boxes to
download content in their living rooms.

The new Chromecast, which resembles a small hockey puck, is easier to set up and
plug into the back of a TV. It has an improved wireless antenna, which should
speed up the delivery of video from Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets,
Google said in a statement

The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55). Chromecast,
which debuted in 2013, had about 23 per cent of the market for streaming digital
devices in the first quarter of this year, just behind approximately 30 per cent
for Amazon's Fire TV devices and 25 per cent for Roku, according to estimates by
Strategy Analytics. Apple, which is also updating its lineup, was ranked fourth
at 18 per cent.

Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio
to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new
mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              562 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Taranaki Daily News (New Zealand)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Google releases new devices

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 725 words


Google is taking on Apple and Microsoft with a new range of gadgets.

--------------------

Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new
streaming device and tablet.

The releases come only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of
products.

NEW PHONES

The 6P is Google's new flagship, and it's the successor to last year's Nexus 6.

It is the first Nexus phone made by Chinese company Huawei, and it tries to fix
what was wrong with the 6, while bringing a few new things to the party as well.

The 6P is a little smaller than its predecessor, with a 5.7-inch instead of
6-inch screen, featuring ultra-high definition resolution.

The 6P charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It
charges quickly and the connector is reversible.

Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any
previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each
one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.

The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just
7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.

In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early
November.

A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership
with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution and
a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.

Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the
6P. You still get the rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and
the same new camera. With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB
model, you could look at the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality
to save the customer a little over $100.

Although there will be plenty of people who want the 5X for its smaller size
alone as well. Also, it's the better looking of the pair, and the plastic back
makes it insanely lightweight.

No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for
New Zealand.

TABLET

Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking
on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.

The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32
gigabytes of storage.

The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that
struggled to find widespread market adoption.

Although the Pixel C is a tablet, with a touchscreen, it's also designed to
replace a traditional laptop. Microsoft was one of the first major technology
companies to embrace that configuration when it introduced the Surface tablet
computer in 2012. And earlier this month, Apple took the wraps off the iPad Pro,
a bigger version of its tablet (also with a detachable keyboard) aimed at
corporate users.

The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links
to the device with a Bluetooth connection.

STREAMING DEVICE

Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not
a moment too soon.

The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their
televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku
and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set- top boxes to
download content in their living rooms.

The new Chromecast, which resembles a small hockey puck, is easier to set up and
plug into the back of a TV. It has an improved wireless antenna, which should
speed up the delivery of video from Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets,
Google said in a statement

The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55). Chromecast,
which debuted in 2013, had about 23 per cent of the market for streaming digital
devices in the first quarter of this year, just behind approximately 30 per cent
for Amazon's Fire TV devices and 25 per cent for Roku, according to estimates by
Strategy Analytics. Apple, which is also updating its lineup, was ranked fourth
at 18 per cent.

Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio
to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new
mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              563 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Timaru Herald (New Zealand)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Google releases new devices

SECTION: FEATURES; NATIONAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 725 words


Google is taking on Apple and Microsoft with a new range of gadgets.

--------------------

Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new
streaming device and tablet.

The releases come only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of
products.

NEW PHONES

The 6P is Google's new flagship, and it's the successor to last year's Nexus 6.

It is the first Nexus phone made by Chinese company Huawei, and it tries to fix
what was wrong with the 6, while bringing a few new things to the party as well.

The 6P is a little smaller than its predecessor, with a 5.7-inch instead of
6-inch screen, featuring ultra-high definition resolution.

The 6P charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It
charges quickly and the connector is reversible.

Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any
previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each
one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.

The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just
7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.

In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early
November.

A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership
with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution and
a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.

Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the
6P. You still get the rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and
the same new camera. With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB
model, you could look at the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality
to save the customer a little over $100.

Although there will be plenty of people who want the 5X for its smaller size
alone as well. Also, it's the better looking of the pair, and the plastic back
makes it insanely lightweight.

No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for
New Zealand.

TABLET

Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking
on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.

The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32
gigabytes of storage.

The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that
struggled to find widespread market adoption.

Although the Pixel C is a tablet, with a touchscreen, it's also designed to
replace a traditional laptop. Microsoft was one of the first major technology
companies to embrace that configuration when it introduced the Surface tablet
computer in 2012. And earlier this month, Apple took the wraps off the iPad Pro,
a bigger version of its tablet (also with a detachable keyboard) aimed at
corporate users.

The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links
to the device with a Bluetooth connection.

STREAMING DEVICE

Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not
a moment too soon.

The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their
televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku
and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set- top boxes to
download content in their living rooms.

The new Chromecast, which resembles a small hockey puck, is easier to set up and
plug into the back of a TV. It has an improved wireless antenna, which should
speed up the delivery of video from Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets,
Google said in a statement

The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55). Chromecast,
which debuted in 2013, had about 23 per cent of the market for streaming digital
devices in the first quarter of this year, just behind approximately 30 per cent
for Amazon's Fire TV devices and 25 per cent for Roku, according to estimates by
Strategy Analytics. Apple, which is also updating its lineup, was ranked fourth
at 18 per cent.

Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio
to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new
mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              564 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Google releases new devices

SECTION: BUSINESS; NATIONAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words


Google is taking on Apple and Microsoft with a new range of gadgets.

--------------------

Google has announced its newest pair of Android smartphones, along with a new
streaming device and tablet.

The releases come only a few weeks after rival Apple released a similar range of
products.

NEW PHONES

The 6P is Google's new flagship, and it's the successor to last year's Nexus 6.

It is the first Nexus phone made by Chinese company Huawei, and it tries to fix
what was wrong with the 6, while bringing a few new things to the party as well.

The 6P is a little smaller than its predecessor, with a 5.7-inch instead of
6-inch screen, featuring ultra-high definition resolution.

The 6P charges with USB-C, the new standard that's still in its infancy. It
charges quickly and the connector is reversible.

Finally, there's the camera. It's 12 megapixels, with larger pixels than any
previous Nexus camera. Bigger pixels means more light can be absorbed by each
one, so you get better low-light performance and richer colours.

The body of the phone is unibody aluminum, not unlike the iPhone, and at just
7.3mm it's exactly the same thickness as the new iPhone 6s Plus.

In New Zealand, prices start at $1099 and they will be on sale here from early
November.

A more budget-friendly option is the Nexus 5X. The 5X is made in partnership
with LG. It's a smaller phone with a 5.2-inch screen, full 1080p resolution and
a soft touch plastic back in place of the 6P's aluminum.

Short of these reductions, the 5X retains most of the upgrades present in the
6P. You still get the rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, the USB-C charging, and
the same new camera. With a starting price of US$379 (NZ$600) for the 16GB
model, you could look at the 5X as trading screen resolution and build quality
to save the customer a little over $100.

Although there will be plenty of people who want the 5X for its smaller size
alone as well. Also, it's the better looking of the pair, and the plastic back
makes it insanely lightweight.

No details about pricing and availability have been released about the 5X for
New Zealand.

TABLET

Google also unveiled a high-end tablet featuring a detachable keyboard, taking
on similar devices offered by Microsoft and Apple.

The new Pixel C sports a 10.2-inch screen and starts at US$499 (NZ$785) with 32
gigabytes of storage.

The device is part of Google's Pixel lineup, a series of high-end laptops that
struggled to find widespread market adoption.

Although the Pixel C is a tablet, with a touchscreen, it's also designed to
replace a traditional laptop. Microsoft was one of the first major technology
companies to embrace that configuration when it introduced the Surface tablet
computer in 2012. And earlier this month, Apple took the wraps off the iPad Pro,
a bigger version of its tablet (also with a detachable keyboard) aimed at
corporate users.

The keyboard, which costs US$149, attaches to the tablet via magnets and links
to the device with a Bluetooth connection.

STREAMING DEVICE

Google Chromecast streaming device is getting its first major upgrade - and not
a moment too soon.

The device, which lets people stream movies and videos from the web to their
televisions, is in the middle of an increasingly heated race with Amazon, Roku
and Apple for the attention of consumers who are turning to set- top boxes to
download content in their living rooms.

The new Chromecast, which resembles a small hockey puck, is easier to set up and
plug into the back of a TV. It has an improved wireless antenna, which should
speed up the delivery of video from Netflix, YouTube and other Internet outlets,
Google said in a statement

The device, which comes in three colours, will cost US$35 (NZ$55). Chromecast,
which debuted in 2013, had about 23 per cent of the market for streaming digital
devices in the first quarter of this year, just behind approximately 30 per cent
for Amazon's Fire TV devices and 25 per cent for Roku, according to estimates by
Strategy Analytics. Apple, which is also updating its lineup, was ranked fourth
at 18 per cent.

Google is also introducing Chromecast Audio, a device for streaming just audio
to speaker systems. In addition to the hardware, Google is rolling out a new
mobile application to manage the content shown on the devices.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The Nexus 5X, left, has a plastic back and the Nexus 6P has a metal back.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              565 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 16, 2016 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

These are the Androids you're looking for...;
keeps you up to date with the technology which future

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 637 words


SAMSUNG'S flagship Galaxy Note 7, above, was permanently withdrawn from sale on
Tuesday - because handsets were catching fire.

Having hit shelves only weeks earlier, the mobile had initially been getting
rave reviews but the feature set wasn't meant to include it doubling up as a
room heater.

So if you were planning to upgrade to the phone, what are your options now? We
know all about the iPhone 7 and Samsung's other top phone, the Galaxy S7
released back in the spring, but there are others unveiled this autumn that are
worth a look.

Here's my take on the best Android alternatives released in the last few weeks,
so just as new as the Galaxy Note 7.

Sony Xperia XZ £539.99, Carphone Warehouse Technical stuff: 5.2in display, 1080
x 1920 pixels, 23MP rear camera, 13MP front camera, waterproof.

SONY'S latest is a real corker. Its camera outstrips Samsung - this one has a
23MP sensor, laser focus (don't be frightened, it just means it's very fast) and
predictive features to ensure the best shot.

Selfies look great thanks to a 13MP frontfacing camera. It's also waterproof,
like the iPhone 7 and Galaxy S7. Sony's design is highly attractive, especially
in blue, and stands out from the crowd. You can even put it on its end, handy
for those selfies.

Pixel Phone by Google £599, Carphone Warehouse or from £50.99 a month on EE
Technical stuff: 5in display, 1080 x 1920 pixels, 12MP rear camera, 8MP front
camera. GOOGLE'S own handset, out in the next few days, has a lot to offer.

It's a sleek, beautiful gadget with a fast camera, helped along by software that
reacts fast in low light for better shots.

It also has a clever extra: Google Assistant, a voice-activated virtual personal
assistant. And it comes with unlimited free Cloud storage for photos and videos.

Honor 8 £339.99, www.Three.co.uk Technical stuff: 5.2in display, 1080 x 1920
pixels, 12MP rear camera, 8MP front camera.

THIS is another smashing, good-value phone with some tech spec beating the
iPhone or Samsung Galaxy S7, but for a lower price.

The rear dual-sensor 12MP camera sits neatly in the shell and produces sharp
shots but struggles to retain the quality in lower light.

Like the Pixel and Huawei models, the fingerprint sensor is on the back and
takes a bit of getting used to.

Sony Xperia X Compact £369.99 from O2 Technical stuff: 4.6in display, 720 x 1280
pixels, 23MP rear camera, 5MP front camera.

IF you don't want a big-screen mobile, this phone offers many of the features of
the XZ but with a more manageable 4.6in display.

Its camera has the same high resolution as the bigger phone, with the
laserassisted auto-focus thrown in as well, but the front camera is the
lowest-res in the X-series line-up. It's not waterproof either.

The X Compact has a decent battery that lasts a full day easily.

Huawei Nova/Nova Plus £320/£429 out soon Technical stuff: Nova: 5in display,
1080 x 1920 pixels, 12MP rear camera, 8MP front camera. Nova Plus: 5.5in
display, 1080 x 1920 pixels, 16MP rear camera, 8MP front camera. THESE two
classy-looking phones from Huawei offer strong value and cuttingedge features
such as fingerprint sensor. The smaller phone's 12MP camera is good, but the
larger one has a 16MP version.

Both offer fast battery charging so if you run low on juice it won't take long
to be up and running again.

Alcatel Pixi 4 (5) £79.99 or £6 a month on contract, Carphone Warehouse
Technical stuff: 5in display, 480 x 854 pixels, 8MP rear camera, 5MP front
camera.

THIS is a great-value phone, especially from Carphone Warehouse.

The brackets at the end of the name indicate the screen size - 4in, 6in and 7in
display models are also available.

Resolution here is lower than rivals but it's still bright and attractive.

It has exclusive Polaroid filters for photos, while the front camera, unusually,
has a flash so selfies in low light are doable.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2016 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              566 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 18, 2014 Tuesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on February 18 titled as "Tree
detection form aerial imagery"

LENGTH: 196  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,655,070, on
February 18, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Tree detection form
aerial imagery"

Inventors:  Yang; Lin (Birmingham, AL), Wu; Xiaqing (San Mateo, CA), Praun; Emil
(Union City, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods and systems for detecting trees in aerial imagery are provided. A
method for detecting trees in aerial imagery may include training a pixel-level
classifier to assign a tree or non-tree label to each pixel in an aerial image.
The method may further include segmenting tree and non-tree regions of the
labeled pixels. The method may also include locating individual tree crowns in
the segmented tree regions using one or more tree templates. A system for
detecting trees in aerial imagery may include a trainer, a segmenter and a tree
locator."

The patent was filed on July 15, 2010 Application no. 12/836,849

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              567 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Cairns Eye (Australia)

                           October 29, 2016 Saturday
                               CairnsEye Edition

SMART OPERATORS

BYLINE: WORDS//JENNIFER DUDLEY-NICHOLSON

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 457  words


HERE ARE SOME SHARP AND SASSY PHONES THAT WILL CATCH YOUR ATTENTION

1. X POWER LG For a mid-range phone, this handset has serious staying power. The
sub-$350 LG X Power offers a 5.3-inch screen with high-definition resolution, a
13-megapixel main camera and a plastic body that, while it won't win any style
awards, is quietly formal. Its surprising, standout feature is its battery that
weighs in at 4100mAh, making it more powerful (in terms of electricity) than
most flagship smartphones. There are trade-offs. Its screen is slightly muddy,
it only has 16GB built-in storage, and its quad-core chip is on the slower side.
Those looking for a reliable caller or a mobile games machine should appreciate
its inclusions.

$349/lg.com.au

2. PIXEL XL GOOGLE This is the Android Samsung refugees have been looking for.
Google calls Pixel its "first phone," but it is more advanced than typical debut
hardware. The 5.5-inch Pixel XL is a sophisticated metal and glass handset with
a reliable rear fingerprint sensor and an advanced camera. Its 12-megapixel
shooter will let you lock focus, change white balance and exposure quickly, and
features unusual settings like HDR+ Auto, and Lens Blur. This phone's software
is the real star, though, with a built-in voice assistant smarter than Siri,
hidden app shortcuts, gestures and a smart app drawer. It lacks water-resistance
and expandable storage, but this is a genuine Note7 alternative.

$1269/store.google.com

3. XPERIA XZ SONY Of all the new phones vying for your attention, this is the
speediest shooter. Sony's newest flagship is an update to the X Performance, and
its hero feature is a 23-megapixel camera that comes with laser autofocus and an
infra-red sensor. It's a powerful mix made better by the addition of 4K video
capture, five-axis stabilisation, and a start time of just 0.6 of a second. This
handset is water-resistant and its side-mounted fingerprint scanner makes sense,
though quite similar to previous models, photos can be over-sharpened, and wi-fi
connection is not as robust as some.

$999 /sonymobile.com/au

4. MOTO Z LENOVO While other firms gave up, Lenovo has harnessed magnets to
create something customisable. The 5.5-inch smartphone is super slender, at
5.1mm, and boasts a fingerprint reader, 13-megapixel camera, Quad HD screen,
64GB and expandable storage, and water resistance. But some of these features
can be bolstered with magnetic accessories, or Moto Mods, that clip securely to
its back. They include a Hasselblad camera with 10x optical zoom, a JBL speaker,
and a projector. This phone's lack of a headphone jack may throw some off, and
its battery is not big for its size, but its price, quality, and those Mods make
a compelling package.$999/harveynorman.com.au

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Cairns Eye


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              568 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday

Google adds 20 languages to instant virtual translation. How?;
The search engine giant announced that it can now instantly translate 27
languages, "breaking down language barriers."

BYLINE: Shontee Pant Staff writer

SECTION: Technology

LENGTH: 497 words


On Wednesday, Google announced that users can now instantly translate printed
text into a total of 27 languages.

The search engine giant added 20 languages to their instant virtual translation
app, a big leap from the original seven languages (English, French, German,
Italian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish) people could use to instantly identify
words in a foreign language. The updates to Google Translate will reach Android
and iPhone devices in the next couple of days, according to a Google blog post.

Additionally, if a user takes a photo of the text through camera mode, Google
can translate the text into an additional 10 languages, for a total of 37.

Google's secret to recognizing this vast array of languages is hidden in deep
neural networks, the same networks that create hallucinative images and eerie
art. By teaming up with Quest Visual, Google was "able to work with some of the
top researchers in deep learning," according to Google's research blog.

The images undergo a step-by-step process, which begins when the app finds
letters in the image through identifying blocks of pixels with similar colors
next to each other. If the blocks form a continuous line, then the app believes
the pixels are most likely part of a word.

But in real life, handwritten letters aren't perfect clean lines of
unadulterated pixels. Oftentimes letters are sloppily written, slightly smudged,
and have traces of dirt or food around them. In order to have the app still
recognize imperfect letters, the Google team created "all kinds of fake 'dirt'
to convincingly mimic the noisiness of the real world," according to Google's
blog post.

After the program has found the letters, it then looks up approximate
definitions to find the correct word, but also to account for mistakes that the
program might have made earlier in the process. For instance, a handwritten "s"
could have been interpreted as a "5" in the translation process, but the program
would still ultimately translate the mistaken "5uper" as "super."

But not everyone has a data processing center with the capabilities of Google.
In fact, most of the time the phones and laptops we use run far below that
computing power. To counter that issue, Google had to develop a small neural net
to limit the information density that the computer processor handles.

This recent advance marks an innovative application of neural networks to a
commonly used and practical application.

"Sometimes new technology can seem very abstract, and it's not always obvious
what the applications for things like convolutional neural nets could be," notes
the Google research blog. "We think breaking down language barriers is one great
use."

And Google promises that there more barriers to be broken:  "More than half of
the content on the Internet is in English, but only around 20% of the world's
population speaks English. Today's updates knock down a few more language
barriers, helping you communicate better and get the information you need."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              569 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                October 16, 2016

TECH TIT BITS: Google Pixel smartphones listed on Flipkart ahead of preorder

LENGTH: 85  words


Since its launch, Google's pixel smartphones have grabbed a lot of attention. As
everyone waited excitedly for the Nexus successors to be unveiled, the company
on October 4th announced the Pixel duo at an overwhelming price point, which
turned out to be almost double that of a Nexus. Google Pixel 32GB black color
variant will go the cheapest at Rs 57,000. The smartphone has a 5-inch display,
world's top end Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 chipset and also, supposedly, the best
camera a smartphone could ever have.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              570 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Google targets the mobile future with laptop aimed at shaking Apple's core

BYLINE: Matt Warman

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 556 words


The eyes of all those interested in technology turn to Barcelona next week - the
annual Mobile World Congress usually sees each major manufacturer unveil its top
products for the coming year. And in an age where the mobile phone and tablet is
of growing importance, the show ought to be bigger than ever.

In fact, however, it's likely to be smaller. In the weeks running up to MWC,
PayPal announced that it would use mobile phones so small shops and businesses
could take credit card payments  Google announced its first laptop, the £1,049
Chromebook Pixel  HTC announced its flagship phone, the One  and Sony, although
big news is expected in Spain, announced its flagship phone in Las Vegas in
January. Major brands now realise they get far more attention if they eschew the
big shows in favour of their own events.

And yet MWC, dominated by Google, will set the tone for an industry that is
maturing: in previous years, the search giant had a stand so huge it even
featured a helter-skelter to get from top to bottom, and offered a permanent
stream of smoothies and ice creams. This year, the company is so dominant in
mobile phones it's not even bothering with a stand at all. It's key to everybody
else's displays, at no expense to itself.

Samsung, the market-leading juggernaut, is also so big it's not even holding a
press conference. Just as Apple used to sit like a mute elephant in the room, so
Samsung sits now. The key problem facing all the brands, however, is
differentiation: when so many products run Google software, why bother with one
brand over another? Hence Sony's new phone presages a strategy that will see it
try to focus on premium - and incidentally gorgeous - products, while Google is
emphasising that its machine is for a generation that, via various devices, does
everything online.

The Chromebook Pixel is, Google claims, the computer "for what's next". The
American version will come with either Wi-Fi, like the UK version, or
alternatively also with 4G. This means it is always online and it's always
connected at a speed that feels like home broadband.

What's troubling for users, however, is that this is a computer that is totally
reliant on the internet - even though it costs more than the best computers, it
cannot run Microsoft Office or iTunes or Photoshop, or any of the software most
people rely on. It does run any website and there is a growing number of apps
for Chrome, which means users can even edit video. But without a web connection,
the Chromebook is a beautifully designed laptop with an amazing screen and
limited use.

It's that, however, which makes it "the laptop for what's next". Google is
betting that computers will increasingly rely on the internet, because the web
is ultimately more powerful than any individual machine. If you really want to
edit video, it's easier and cheaper to do it online, if you've got the
connectivity and the tools are all "in the cloud".

Email used to live on your hard drive after you'd downloaded it, now it all
lives online - Google reckons everything will go the same way and be accessed by
a slew of mobile screens.

It is probably correct: Barcelona's range of gadgets with a connection to the
cloud is clearly the future, and it's approaching faster than many think. But
whether it will arrive in time for the Pixel remains to be seen.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The future now? Google's Chromebook Pixel relies on the internet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              571 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      December 21, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

CES 2016: 3D Image Sensor Chips REAL3 Of Infineon Bring Virtual Reality To The
Smartphone

LENGTH: 949  words


Monday, December 21, 2015: In the future, mobile devices will be able to quickly
and realistically detect their surroundings in three dimensions (3D). When they
do, it will be thanks to the 3D image sensor chips from Infineon Technologies AG
(FSE: IFX / OTCQX: IFNNY) and pmdtechnologies gmbh. REAL3 will enable extremely
realistic virtual and augmented reality game experiences that involve the
interaction of the gamer's own hands and his living environment within the game
via head-mounted devices. Other image sensor chip applications include the
spatial measurement of rooms and objects, indoor navigation and the
implementation of special photo effects.

Infineon and pmd will be showcasing the latest 3D image sensor chip of the REAL3
family at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 2016 in Las Vegas. Compared to the
previous version, the optical sensitivity as well as the power consumption of
the new 3D image sensors has been improved. Moreover, the built-in electronics
take up little space. The chips make it possible for cell phones to operate
mini-camera systems that can measure 3D depth data.

Using microlenses for high sensitivity

The camera's range and measurement accuracy depend on two factors: on the
intensity of the emitted and reflected infrared light, and to a significant
extent on the pixel sensitivity of the 3D image sensor chip. The optical pixel
sensitivity of the new 3D image sensor chips are now double that of the previous
version. This means that their measurement quality is just as good, while at the
same time working with only half of the emitted light output. Thus,
manufacturers of camera systems for mobile devices can not only provide the
infrared lighting more cost-effectively, but the camera's system power
consumption is almost halved.

The improved optical pixel sensitivity is the result of applying one microlens
to each of the pixels of the 3D image sensor chip. Consequently most of the
incident light is directed to a pixel's sensitive surface, so virtually no light
energy is lost to the inactive areas anymore.

Optimized form factor: half the sensor size

The 3D image sensor chips to be showcased at the CES were specifically designed
for mobile devices, where most applications only need a resolution of 38,000
pixels. The previous 100,000-pixel matrix was accordingly scaled down, and other
functional blocks, such as the analog/digital converter for the chip area and
performance range were optimized. Thus, the system costs are lower: the sensor
chip area is almost halved, and, because of the lower resolution, smaller and
less expensive optical lenses can be used.

New 3D image sensor chips with 19,000; 38,000 and 100,000 pixels

The three new REAL3 3D image sensor chips are all equipped with microlenses and
have almost the same level of optical performance and functionality. They differ
only in their resolutions: the IRS1125C works with 352 x 288 pixels, the
IRS1645C with 224 x 172 pixels and the IRS1615C with 160 x 120 pixels. In this
respect, the IRS1645C and IRS1615C are produced on half the chip area of the
IRS1125C.

Google's "Project Tango" using Infineon's IRS1645C 3D image sensor chip

The IRS1645C is particularly suitable for use in mobile devices. Infineon and
pmdtechnologies are joint partners in Google's "Project Tango". With "Tango",
cell phones and tablets are equipped with a special optical sensor system for 3D
perception, which includes a 3D camera with Infineon's IRS1645C 3D image sensor
chip. Applications are augmented reality, indoor navigation and
three-dimensional measurement. The complete 3D camera for Google "Tango" -
consisting of IRS1645C and an active infrared laser illumination - is housed in
an area of approximately 10 mm x 20 mm. With a range up to 4 meters (13 feet), a
measuring accuracy of 1 percent of the distance and a frame rate of 5 fps
(frames per second), the 3D camera subsystem consumes less than 300 mW in active
mode.

Time-of-Flight Principle (ToF)

The 3D image sensor chips operate with infrared light and use the time-of-flight
(ToF) measuring principle: For each of its pixels, the 3D image sensor chip
measures the time the infrared light takes to travel from the camera to the
object and back again. At the same time, each of the pixels also detects the
brightness value of the objects.

The IRS1125C will be available in volume as of first quarter of 2016. The start
of production for the smaller IRS1645C and IRS1615C is planned for the second
quarter of 2016. All three types are exclusively delivered as a bare die to
allow maximum design flexibility while minimizing system costs.

About the cooperation between Infineon and pmdtechnologies

Infineon co-developed the REAL3 3D image sensor chip with pmdtechnologies gmbh
from Siegen, Germany. Both companies are providing the technical support for
customers jointly. pmdtechnologies' contribution to the new chip family is the
ToF pixel matrix. Infineon contributes all functional blocks for the
system-on-chip (SoC) integration and developed the manufacturing process. The 3D
image sensor chips are produced in Infineon's Dresden plant with a CMOS process
optimized for ToF using microlens technology.

Infineon and pmdtechnologies at the CES 2016

At the Consumer Electronics Show 2016 in Las Vegas (January 6-9, 2016), Infineon
and pmd will be presenting the performance of the 3D image sensors in
demonstrations and concept designs for cell phone and head-mounted device
applications. Queries on meeting alignment at events@pmdtec.com

Further technical information on the Infineon 3D image sensor chips is available
at www.infineon.com/3d-imaging. Information about prototype cameras and the pmd
technology is available at www.pmdtec.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              572 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              QWeekend (Brisbane)

                           October 29, 2016 Saturday
                                QWeekend Edition

TECHNOLOGY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 364 words


TOP APP

UBEREATS Free, Google Android/Apple iOS Be warned: installing this app may prove
to be a dangerous game. UberEATS recently launched ina host of Australian
cities, including Brisbane, and there are many temptations within its app.
Available cuisine ranges from sushi to burgers, cakes to pizzas, and some of its
top names include Ginga, Jocelyn's Provisions, and Ze Pickle. All feature
extensive menus of food that can be delivered to your door, and each order is
tracked on a map within the app, much in the manner of a regular Uber booking,
so you can tell when the driver is in your street and outside your door.

TOP GADGET GOOGLE PIXEL XL $1269-$1419, store.google.com Google's first phone is
undeniably beautiful, and that beauty extends beneath the surface. Manufactured
by HTC, the Pixel XL's aluminium and glass exterior is seriously refined, with a
distinguishing fingerprint sensor and glass panel on the top third of its back,
curved corners, and flat edges. Its 12.3-megapixel camera also impresses, with a
smart High Dynamic Range feature and reliably even exposure. But software is
still the star of this device. Its artificially intelligent PA Google Assistant
is built into its home button, ready to deliver quizzes or factoids from the
internet; Google Now is available with one swipe; and additions such as extra
app shortcuts, and quick swipes to reveal notifications, make for a thoroughly
enjoyable user experience.

TOP ACCESSORY NIKKOR AF-S 105MM F1.4 LENS $3285, nikon.com.auCapturing a
striking portrait is never easy but this lens can seriously improve your
chances. Nikon's 105mm creation is the only lens in its class to deliver a
large, f1.4 aperture, making it a handy addition in night photography and suited
to creative lighting. It's also capable of sharp focus on an incredibly small
area (an eye, for example), and speedily, given that f1.4 aperture. The lens
itself is made from three extra low dispersion elements to minimise fringing, it
features a Nano Crystal coating to reduce ghosting, and it also produces
pleasingly minimal distortion. Enthusiasts might find its $3000 price tagand
760g weight burdensome, butit's well worth the investment.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              573 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Nex big thing;
IRISH SUN TESTS GOOGLE'S NEW TABLET

BYLINE: DAN JONES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 356 words


GOOGLE'S bargain tablet to rival the iPad was revealed last night - and the
Irish Sun got a chance to try it out.

The 7in Nexus 7 will cost '200 when it launches here, compared to the
top-selling Apple device which is priced from '479.

But at this unbelievably low price, have Google cut corners? While the screen is
smaller and less detailed than the iPad, its size makes it easier to hold. The
camera won't produce award-winning snaps but it is fine for a video chat.

Previously, cheap tablets were sluggish and unresponsive - this isn't. It is
fast for web browsing, easy to set up emails and perfect for Facebook and RTE
Player.

It is also easy to read eBooks, listen to music and play games.

Content is linked to Google Play - their version of Apple's iTunes and App Store
- which stores everything in the "cloud", so you can get at it whenever you
want.

The Nexus 7 also has Jelly Bean, the latest version of Android.

So how have Google managed to do all this at a third of the price? It is mainly
because they don't need to make money from the device - they just want more
people to use their Android system.

Battle Tablets are the fastest growing market for computer devices. Google want
to catch Apple, and Microsoft are releasing their Surface gizmo too.

Patrick Goss, editor of techradar.

com, said: "It's going to be a fascinating battle. The arrival of Google's Nexus
tablet at a bargain price should shake up the market."

irishsun@the-sun.ie GOOGLE NEXUS 7 PRICE: '200 to '250 PLATFORM: Android 4.1 -
Jelly Bean SCREEN: 7in (1280 x 800 pixels) PROCESSER: 1.3 Ghz quad-core Tegra 3
CAMERA: 1.2MP TOP FEATURES: Flash player; it's compact BEST FOR: Anyone on a
budget OUT: Mid-July MICROSOFT SURFACE PRICE: '560, expected PLATFORM: Windows
SCREEN: 10.6in (1366 x 768 pixels) PROCESSOR: Quadcore CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES:
Fold out cover acts as kickstand and keyboard BEST FOR: Small businesses OUT:
October APPLE iPAD PRICE: '479 to '799 PLATFORM: iOS 5.1 SCREEN: 9.7in (2048 x
1536 pixels) PROCESSOR: 1Ghz dual-core A5X CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES: Siri voice
control, clever iCloud back-up, most apps BEST FOR: Gadget fans with big budget
OUT: Now

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              574 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Techtree.com

                     November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Google's Daydream View Will Hit The Stores On 10th Of November

BYLINE: Chandrakant 'CK' Isi

LENGTH: 229  words


Google virtual reality headset is all set for a global release.

Announced a few weeks ago, Google's Daydream View VR headset is releasing
globally on 10th of November. It will be available via Google Store and at
retailers across the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, and
Australia. The Daydream View is priced at $79, which roughly translates to Rs
5000.

Showcased alongside the Pixel smartphones, Google's VR (Virtual Reality) headset
is made of lightweight fabric to provide you comfort in long VR sessions.
Currently, the new Pixel phones are compatible with the Daydream View. However,
you can expect expect the search-giant to soon release a detailed list of
handsets that play nice with its VR headset. What separates it from most Android
VR products is its wireless controller. Apart from basic navigation controls, it
also comes with motion sensor that can be used for gaming. For instance,
third-party developers can implement it in games such as tennis and golf.

The VR boasts of companion apps such as the YouTube VR. It features a library of
YouTube videos meant specifically for the virtual reality experience. Another
interesting app Street View, will let you visit over 70 countries and experience
150 tours of the world's popular places. To keep the action junkies busy, the
Daydream VR will offer explosive games such as the Gunjack 2: End of Shift.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              575 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     November 8, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 6 Review: A beast that is over priced

LENGTH: 1030  words


Google revealed the India price of Motorola-made Nexus 6 Smartphone which will
be selling for INR 44,000 for 32GB storage variant and INR 49,000 for 64GB
variant on Google Play store in India.

The Nexus 6 has been placed in the premium category Smartphone, which might have
disappointed many of those awaiting the phone to launch in India. Now the
question is whether the phone brings specifications good enough to justify its
price? Here we take a look at what other trusted reviewer have to say about the
main six features of the phone, that might give it an edge over others in this
price range:

Design:

The Nexus 6 is a giant smartphone which takes design cues from Motorola's Moto
X2 (second generation) version. The similarity in the design might not be up to
the expectations for many but it does not necessarily mean that the phone looks
bad or has a substandard design and form factor. It features metal RIM around
the sides and gets a circular flash ring along with a dimpled Motorola logo on
the rear panel. The Verge writes that "the Moto X is a very nicely made phone,
so the more cues the Nexus 6 takes from it, the better."

Motorola's design "gives it a sturdy BendGate-free aluminum metal frame and
gently curved back," Techradar comments about the phone while also taking on
Apple Iphone 6's bending issue.

Display:

This phone sports an almost 6-inch QHD display which accommodates 1440x2560
pixels at a pixel density of 493 pixels per inch. It comes with Corning Gorilla
Glass 3 protection and offers 16:9 aspect ratio. The display resolution matches
the 1440x2560 pixels display resolution of Samsung Galaxy Note 4 which debuted
in India a few weeks back for a whopping INR 58,300, and the LG G3 which was
launched in India in the middle of this year for price starting at INR 47,990.

"The 5.9-inch display beats out even the gargantuan Note 4, but its body holds
it well. The bezels are thin, specifically the bottom one, which is barely a
strip of black along the bottom and makes capacitive touch buttons look
positively stone-age. It even makes the Nexus 5 look like it could stand to lose
some weight around the edges," Gizomo has mentioned in its hands-on of Nexus 6.

In fact, the bigger display also puts the phone against the Iphone 6 Plus, which
flaunts a 5.5-inch display. Despite being bigger and marginally thicker than
iPhone 6 Plus, the Nexus 6 manages to impress with its display design.  "One
thing Google did better than Apple is to avoid wasted space by avoiding an extra
tall bezel, especially at the top of the phone," Forbes has commented about the
phone. With such high resolution and pixel density, the display should be a
delight for viewer.

Processor:

The heart of the phone is pumped by 2.7GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 quad-core
processor which incorporates Adreno 420 GPU. This Snapdragon processor is
expected to deliver smooth performance. Forbes has mentioned that the processor
"helps contribute to the snappy response time." To which, Gizmodo adds that its
performance is top notch. The phone is also believed to offer impressive low
level graphics performance.

The processor is paired with 3GB of RAM to enhance the device's performance and
has  been launched in 32Gb and 64GB storage options, which is a lot for a
smartphone, however could have be even better with microSD card support.

Camera:

The newest Nexus smartphone adorns a 13-megapixel primary snapper with optical
image stablisation, f/2.0 lens and is capable of shooting videos at 4K
resolution. As far its performance is concerned, Forbes found its picture
quality "quite good as smartphone cameras go."  For those who feel that the
Nexus 6's camera is similar to that of the Moto X second generation, Techradar
has cleared that "It (Nexus 6) has a better Sony IMX214 sensor with a wider
f/2.0 aperture and optical image stabilization," which (we think) should work
better than Moto X second generation!

Engadget mentioned in its hands-on that "The Nexus 6 doesn't suck at taking
photos. Considering the luck the Nexus family has had with cameras, you should
be very, very excited."

Gizmodo tested the camera and said, "It (Nexus 6's camera) seems like a shoo-in
for "best Nexus camera yet", which is great news for a line of fantastic phones
that have always suffered pretty atrocious cameras. It's fast, and the low-light
performance seems decent." However, that is not the final review of camera's
performance and Gizmodo added that "It's hard to say whether it will be a
standout, but even just "good enough" is a step up from the Nexus cameras of
yore."

The phone also gets a 2-megapixel front-facing camera with 720p video recording
capabilities.

Android 5.0 Lollipop:

The Nexus 6 is powered by Android 5.0 Lollipop, which brings a new design and
improved UI that promises a playful and colorful look, as well as better user
experience. "It's just incredibly smooth - firing up apps as quickly as my
fingers could manage wasn't enough to throw Lollipop for a loop, and every
transition we happened upon was downright buttery," Engadget mentioned.

"Basic appearances aside, a series of slick new transitions and animations all
throughout the system help make it feel more polished and cohesive than ever,"
ComputerWorld added.

Front-mounted Speakers:

The Motorola Nexus 6 comes with front-mounted speakers placed on top and bottom
of the phone. Those who love music, "the sound quality from the Nexus 6
front-mounted stereo speakers is excellent," Forbes mentioned. "The speakers are
at the top and bottom of the phone, which means they're left and right with as
much separation as possible when the phone is held in landscape position. With
the volume cranked all the way up, I could hear it well from anywhere in an
average-sized living room without significant distortion. It's one of the few
phones I would consider listening to without headphones," it added.

Conclusion

The Nexus 6 does make for a powerful option in terms of specifications and
features. "Its tremendous display, premium specs and debut of Android 5.0
Lollipop make one of the best phablets to date," Techradar concluded. Engadget
seconds that, "Long story short, the Nexus 6 makes a hell of a first
impression."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              576 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Nex big thing;
WE TEST GOOGLE'S NEW TABLET

BYLINE: DAN JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 357 words


GOOGLE'S bargain tablet to rival the iPad was revealed last night - and The
Scottish Sun was given a chance to try it out.

The 7in Nexus 7 will cost £159 when it launches in the UK, compared to the
top-selling Apple device which is priced from £399.

But at this unbelievably low price, have Google cut corners? While the screen is
smaller and less detailed than the iPad, its size makes it easier to hold.

The camera won't produce award-winning snaps but it is fine for a video chat.
Previously, cheap tablets were sluggish and unresponsive - this isn't.

It is fast for web browsing, easy to set up emails and perfect for Twitter,
Facebook and iPlayer.

It is also easy to read eBooks, listen to music and play games.

Content is linked to Google Play - their version of Apple's iTunes and App Store
- which stores everything in the "cloud", so you can get at it whenever you
want.

The Nexus 7 also has Jelly Bean, the latest version of Android. So how have
Google managed to do all this at a third of the price? It is mainly because they
don't need to make money from the device - they just want more people to use
their Android system.

Tablets are the fastest growing market for computer devices. Google want to
catch Apple, and Microsoft are releasing their Surface gizmo too.

Patrick Goss, editor of techradar.

com, said: "It's going to be a fascinating battle.

"The arrival of Google's Nexus tablet at a bargain price should shake up the
market."

daniel.jones@the-sun.co.uk GOOGLE NEXUS 7 PRICE: £159 to £199 PLATFORM: Android
4.1 - Jelly Bean SCREEN: 7in (1280 x 800 pixels) PROCESSER: 1.3 Ghz quad-core
Tegra 3 CAMERA: 1.2MP TOP FEATURES: Flash player; it's compact BEST FOR: Anyone
on a budget OUT: Mid-July PRICE: £450, expected PLATFORM: Windows RT SCREEN:
10.6in (1366 x 768 pixels) PROCESSOR: Quadcore CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES: Fold out
cover acts as kickstand and keyboard BEST FOR: Small businesses OUT: October
APPLE iPAD PRICE: £399 to £659 PLATFORM: iOS 5.1 SCREEN: 9.7in (2048 x 1536
pixels) PROCESSOR: 1Ghz dual-core A5X CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES: Siri voice control,
clever iCloud back-up, most apps BEST FOR: Gadget fans with big budget OUT: Now

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              577 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      November 3, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Nexus 7 (2013) WiFi LTE To Cost Rs 25,999 In India

LENGTH: 204  words


Pricing for the other variants is not known yet.

Sunday, November 03, 2013: Google India has released the official pricing for
the Asus made Nexus 7 tablet in the country. According to the Google Play Store,
the 32 GB LTE version of the Nexus 7 will be priced at Rs 25,999. As reported
yesterday, the Nexus 5 smartphone and the Nexus 7 tablet are expected to be
coming to India on 12 November. The Nexus 5 smartphone will also bring the
Android KitKat operating system, which is the newest version of the Android OS,
to India.

The version listed on the Google Play Store is the WiFi + 3G/LTE version of the
Nexus 7 tablet. The pricing for the other variants of the Nexus 7 tablet though
are not known yet. This comes a few days after Asus country head Peter Chang
revealed that the tablet will be coming to India soon.

The new Nexus 7 (2013) tablet has a 17.7-cm (7-inch) screen and is powered by
the 1.5 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 processor. The screen offers a resolution of
1,920 x 1,200 pixel and the device also has 2 GB of RAM. In addition, there is a
5 mega pixel rear canera and a 1.2 mega pixel front camera, which can be used
for voice calls etc. The device runs on a 3,950 mAh battery and has wireless
charging support.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              578 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                       May 10, 2016 Tuesday 09:57 AM EST

What SWAG will Google I/O 2016 attendees take home?

BYLINE: Steven Max Patterson

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 809  words


Click for image

Next week, Google will show its love for independent software developers by
giving them an exclusive first-look at new technologies and early and free
access to new hardware at the ninth annual Google I/O conference.

Here are a couple of educated guesses at free hardware, which developers call
SWAG (something we all get), attendees will take home.

Early access hardware giveaways

The past is a good predictor of the future. Looking back at earlier I/O shows,
Google wanted to give their loyal developers a head start developing for
strategic new platforms and bestowed upon them the newest hardware.Steven Max
Patterson

All of the strategic platforms above still exist except for the Nexus Q. Android
market share has grown from less than 40 percent at the time of Google I/O in
2012 to more than 80 percent worldwide.

Android Wear, which debuted in 2014, has become a solid wearable platform that
IDC predicts will hold 40 percent market share by 2020.

AndroidTV hasn't dominated home media centers, but Chromecast is the most
popular television streaming device.

As of January 2016, more than 5 million virtual reality (VR) Cardboard viewers
have shipped.

Chromebook growth has not been as breathtaking as Android, but it has grown
steadily, reaching a little more than 2 percent of the PC market.

A look forward will help find a gap in Google's strategic platforms that could
predict what hardware Google will give away.

SWAG Prediction 1: A Pixel tablet and detachable keyboard running Android N with
split screen, floating windows and a mouse-and perhaps a stylus and Google Fi

Notebooks, tablets and smartphones are merging into a single mobile device form
factor. In the face of year-over-year declines in PC and tablet shipments, IDC
predicts the detachable keyboard category will grow by 78 percent this year and
at a CGR of 15 percent during the next five years as devices consolidate.

Google has a gap in this category. The Microsoft Surface Pro product line proved
the detachable tablet case for people tied to the Microsoft Outlook, Office and
SharePoint ecosystem, offering a new Metro user interface (UI) that includes a
touch screen and stylus. Apple's equivalent is the iPad Pro. Android and
Chromebook devices have a gap in filling the same role as a windowed platform
within the Google ecosystem. But with some of the new features of Android N, the
gap could be closed.

Android has supported keyboards, mice and styluses since at least Release 4.0
Jellybean. Android N supports split screen that divides the screen between two
apps. With a little persistence using root access and a change to permission,
free floating and resizable windows can be exposed in Android N.

Attendees might get a Pixel C, Google's top-build-quality, ultra-mobile 9-in.
tablet with a detachable magnet keyboard. It ships right now with Android
Marshmallow but can be updated with an Android N image easily downloaded and
installed like a standard over-the-air (OTA) update.

It could be something more than a Pixel C with a windowing version of Android N
that has the one more feature needed to replace a notebook and perhaps a
smartphone, too-a 4G connection. The giveaway might be a Pixel C-like device
with 4G network support that includes a free three-, six- or 12-month
subscription to Google's virtual mobile network, Google Fi, proving that a
single device can serve almost all mobile use cases.

SWAG Prediction 2: A refined lower-cost, phone-sized Project Tango device to
accelerate (augmented reality) AR applications and perhaps Project Tango support
with Google Cardboard

It is not the right time for Google to introduce an entirely new VR and AR
product without producing more noise and less clarity because the developer
community is fully consumed with early VR shipments from Oculus and HTC. The
challenge for Google right now is remaining relevant in a VR tsunami. A
lower-cost Project Tango device with better power efficiency than the early
prototypes could help the company do that.

Google arrived early in the AR world, with Project Tango introduced almost two
years ago. The Project Tango Tablet uses infrared and RGB cameras in conjunction
with position data from the gyroscope and accelerometer to determine 3D relative
position. It creates a point map that accurately represents 3D space. A Tango
device could map a room or whole floor in a building into a 3D map.

A Project Tango device could also be combined with a Cardboard or Samsung Gear
VR-like headset to serve as an affordable AR demonstration and developer kit.
Both Lenovo and Asus have announced phone-sized Project Tango devices that would
also fit nicely into a headset form factor.

AR apps could be built to replace a tape measure or simulate decorating an
existing room with virtual furniture in a merged rendering of the virtual and
real on the Tango Project device.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 International Data Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              579 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Nex big thing;
THE SUN TESTS GOOGLE'S NEW TABLET

BYLINE: DAN JONES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 359 words


GOOGLE'S bargain tablet to rival the iPad was revealed last night - and The Sun
was given a chance to try it out.

The 7in Nexus 7 will cost £159 when it launches in the UK, compared to the
top-selling Apple device which is priced from £399.

But at this unbelievably low price, have Google cut corners? While the screen is
smaller and less detailed than the iPad, its size makes it easier to hold. The
camera won't produce award-winning snaps but it is fine for a video chat.

Previously, cheap tablets were sluggish and unresponsive - this isn't. It is
fast for web browsing, easy to set up emails and perfect for Twitter, Facebook
and iPlayer. It is also easy to read eBooks, listen to music and play games.

Content is linked to Google Play - their version of Apple's iTunes and App Store
- which stores everything in the "cloud", so you can get at it whenever you
want.

The Nexus 7 also has Jelly Bean, the latest version of Android.

So how have Google managed to do all this at a third of the price? It is mainly
because they don't need to make money from the device - they just want more
people to use their Android system.

Battle Tablets are the fastest growing market for computer devices. Google want
to catch Apple, and Microsoft are releasing their Surface gizmo too.

Patrick Goss, editor of techradar.

com, said: "It's going to be a fascinating battle. The arrival of Google's Nexus
tablet at a bargain price should shake up the market."

daniel.jones@the-sun.co.uk GOOGLE NEXUS 7 PRICE: £159 to £199 PLATFORM: Android
4.1 - Jelly Bean SCREEN: 7in (1280 x 800 pixels) PROCESSER: 1.3 Ghz quad-core
Tegra 3 CAMERA: 1.2MP TOP FEATURES: Flash player; it's compact BEST FOR: Anyone
on a budget OUT: Mid-July MICROSOFT SURFACE PRICE: £450, expected PLATFORM:
Windows SCREEN: 10.6in (1366 x 768 pixels) PROCESSOR: Quadcore CAMERA: 5MP
FEATURES: Fold out cover acts as kickstand and keyboard BEST FOR: Small
businesses OUT: October APPLE iPAD PRICE: £399 to £659 PLATFORM: iOS 5.1 SCREEN:
9.7in (2048 x 1536 pixels) PROCESSOR: 1Ghz dual-core A5X CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES:
Siri voice control, clever iCloud back-up, most apps BEST FOR: Gadget fans with
big budget OUT: Now

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              580 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                            October 10, 2016 Monday

Google gets aggressive with new phones, other gadgets

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 905 words


SAN FRANCISCO * Google ratcheted up its rivalry with Apple and Amazon by
unveiling new smartphones, an Internet-connected speaker that channels a digital
assistant, and other gadgets the company hopes to make indispensable.

The devices announced Tuesday are part of Google's bold move to design and sell
its own hardware, instead of just supplying Android and other software for other
companies to make products. Google's previous attempts at hardware have had
limited distribution and included such high-profile flops as its
Internet-connected Glass headgear.

This time around, Google is betting that it can design software and hardware to
work seamlessly with each other. That's an art Apple mastered over the past 15
years as it turned out finely crafted iPods, iPhones, iPads and Macs.

Borrowing another page from Apple's book, Google is backing its expanded product
lineup with the biggest marketing campaign in its 18-year history. The company
isn't disclosing how much it will spend, but made it clear the ads touting
products "Made by Google" will be ubiquitous during the next few months.

"They have done some advertising in the past, but it's never been with this kind
of 'let us take care of everything for you' way," Gartner analyst Brian Blau
said. "This is more like Apple's way of doing things."

Gadgets on parade

Google executives showed off a series of gadgets in rapid succession in San
Francisco on Tuesday.

The new Pixel phones, starting at $650, are aimed squarely at Apple's iPhone and
could also siphon sales from the biggest manufacturer of Android-powered phones,
Samsung.

Android now powers more than 80 per cent of the smartphones sold around the
world. But Samsung has increasingly been adding more of its own software,
including its own mobile wallet, on its phones.

Analysts warned that Google's increased emphasis on its own branded devices runs
the risk of alienating Samsung, as well as LG and other longtime partners that
make Android gadgets. Google, though, emphasized it still plans to work with
other manufacturers, even as it tries to become a bigger player in hardware.

Meanwhile, Google's new Home speaker represents a counterpunch to Amazon's Echo,
a similar device that has become a big hit since its release about 15 months
ago. Google Home will cost $129, undercutting Echo by $50.

Google also announced a virtual-reality headset called Daydream View, a new
Wi-Fi router and an update to the company's Chromecast device for streaming
video.

The phone

Available in two sizes, the Pixel phones replace Google's previous foray into
smartphones with a Nexus brand introduced six years ago. Google never hailed
Nexus as its own phone, but instead positioned it as an example of how it
believed the Android system worked best.

In promoting the Pixels, Google highlighted a camera it says trumps the latest
iPhone, a long-lasting battery and a dedicated headphone jack - a staple that
Apple eliminated from the iPhones released last month. And while past Google
phones primarily relied on sales through Google's online Play store, the Pixel
will also be sold by Verizon in the U.S.

Analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights &; Strategy said in an email that
Google was smart to emphasize the performance of the new smartphone cameras, as
"consumers care about this a lot." But he said other features in the new phones
didn't seem that much different from what Samsung and Apple have offered in
their latest devices.

Smart assistant

The phones and speaker will serve as a showcase for Google's digital helper,
Google Assistant. The helper will respond to spoken questions such as "How do
you remove wine stains out of the carpet?" and commands to control the volume of
the television and other home appliances with internet connections.

Google Assistant escalates the company's battle against Apple, which offers a
virtual helping hand through Siri, and Amazon, whose Alexa concierge resides in
Echo and other devices.

Google believes its assistant will be more knowledgeable, more personable and
more versatile than the competition. Its confidence stems from the more than 70
billion facts that it has stockpiled in a database that it calls a "knowledge
graph," as well as the ability of its dominant search engine to quickly scan the
web to retrieve a specific piece of information.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai boasts that the assistant will draw upon the company's
advances in artificial intelligence to deliver "a personal Google for each and
every user." The artificial intelligence programming is designed to learn more
about the person using it with each interaction, according to Google.

That's one reason why Google eventually wants the assistant on more devices,
though the company currently doesn't have plans to build directly into Android
the way Siri is automatically included in Apple's mobile software. Instead,
Google will allow other device makers to include the assistant in their products
if they want, beginning early next year.

"Search has been Google's golden ticket for the past 20 years of the internet,
and now they are hoping artificial intelligence will become the next golden
ticket," Blau said.

Still, while Google showed its new Assistant performing a variety of impressive
tasks, Moorhead cautioned that similar services such as Siri and Microsoft's
Cortana haven't fulfilled their early promises to ingrain themselves into
people's lives. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Telegraph Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              581 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday
                               HeraldSun Edition

Smart operators

BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SECTION: SWITCHEDON; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 473  words


GADGETS & GAMES THIS WEEK: SMARTPHONES Here are some sharp and sassy phones that
will catch your attention, writes Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

PIXEL XL GOOGLE **** 1/2 This is the Android Samsung refugees have been looking
for. Google calls Pixel its "first phone", but it is more advanced than typical
debut hardware. The 5.5-inch Pixel XL is a sophisticated metal and glass handset
with a reliable rear fingerprint sensor and an advanced camera. Its 12-megapixel
shooter will let you lock focus, change white balance and exposure quickly, and
features unusual settings like HDR+ Auto, and Lens Blur. This phone's software
is the real star, though, with a built-in voice assistant smarter than Siri,
hidden app shortcuts, gestures, and a smart app drawer. It lacks
water-resistance and expandable storage, but this is a genuine Note7
alternative. $1269 / store.google.com

MOTO Z LENOVO **** While other firms gave up, Lenovo has harnessed magnets to
create something customisable. The 5.5-inch smartphone is super slender, at
5.1mm, and boasts a fingerprint reader, 13-megapixel camera, Quad HD screen,
64GB and expandable storage, and water resistance. But some of these features
can be bolstered with magnetic accessories, or Moto Mods, that clip securely to
its back. They include a Hasselblad camera with 10x optical zoom, a JBL speaker,
and a projector. This phone's lack of a headphone jack may throw off some, and
its battery is not big for its size, but its price, quality, and those Mods make
a compelling package.

$999 / harveynorman.com.au

XPERIA XZ SONY **** Of all the new phones vying for your attention, this is the
speediest shooter. Sony's newest flagship is an update to the X Performance, and
its hero feature is a 23-megapixel camera that comes with laser autofocus and an
infra-red sensor. It's a powerful mix made better by the addition of 4K video
capture, five-axis stabilisation, and a start time of just 0.6 of a second. This
handset is water-resistant, and its side-mounted fingerprint scanner makes
sense, though quite similar to previous models, photos can be over-sharpened,
and wi-fi connection is not as robust as some.

$999 / sonymobile.com/au

X POWER LG *** For a mid-range phone, this handset has serious staying power.
The sub-$350 LG X Power offers a 5.3-inch screen with high-definition
resolution, a 13-megapixel main camera, and a plastic body that, while it won't
win any style awards, is quietly formal. Its surprising, standout feature is its
battery that weighs in at 4100mAh, making it more powerful (in terms of
electricity) than most flagship smartphones. There are trade-offs. Its screen is
slightly muddy, it only has 16GB built-in storage, and its quad-core chip is on
the slower side. Those looking for a reliable caller or a mobile games machine
should appreciate its inclusions.$349 / lg.com.au

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald Sun


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              582 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Google 'virtual reality phone';
world news

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 67 words


GOOGLE will today launch its Pixel smartphone which will be at the hub of new
virtual reality and smart home devices.

The handset will slip into a headset and transport users into a new world, which
might be the flight deck of a spaceship or the audience for a Rihanna concert.

Google is due to unveil the Pixel, right, at an event in the US. It is thought
there will be a 5in Pixel and a 5.5in Pixel XL.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2016 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              583 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

Google unveils new smartphone Unveils: Company boasts better camera, a headphone
jack and digital assistant

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NATION_; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Google ratcheted up its rivalry with Apple and Amazon by
unveiling new smartphones, an internet-connected speaker that channels a digital
assistant, and other gadgets the company hopes to make indispensable.

The devices announced Tuesday are part of Google's bold move to design and sell
its own hardware, instead of just supplying Android and other software for other
companies to make products. Google's previous attempts at hardware have had
limited distribution and included such high-profile flops as its
internet-connected Glass headgear.

This time around, Google is betting that it can design software and hardware to
work seamlessly with each other. That's an art Apple mastered over the past 15
years as it turned out finely crafted iPods, iPhones, iPads and Macs.

Borrowing another page from Apple's book, Google is backing its expanded product
lineup with the biggest marketing campaign in its 18-year history. The company
isn't disclosing how much it will spend, but made it clear the ads touting
products "Made by Google" will be ubiquitous during the next few months.

"They have done some advertising in the past, but it's never been with this kind
of 'let us take care of everything for you' way," Gartner analyst Brian Blau
said. "This is more like Apple's way of doing things."

Gadgets on parade

Google executives showed off a series of gadgets in rapid succession in San
Francisco on Tuesday.

The new Pixel phones, starting at $650,

are aimed squarely at Apple's iPhone and could also siphon sales from the
biggest manufacturer of Android-powered phones, Samsung.

Android now powers more than 80 percent of the smartphones sold around the
world. But Samsung has increasingly been adding more of its own software,
including its own mobile wallet, on its phones.

Analysts warned that Google's increased emphasis on its own branded devices runs
the risk of alienating Samsung, as well as LG and other longtime partners that
make Android gadgets. Google, though, emphasized it still plans to work with
other manufacturers, even as it tries to become a bigger player in hardware.

Meanwhile, Google's new Home speaker represents a counterpunch to Amazon's Echo,
a similar device that has become a big hit since its release about 15 months
ago. Google Home will cost $129, undercutting Echo by $50.

Google also announced a virtual-reality headset called Daydream View, a new
Wi-Fi router and an update to the company's Chromecast device for streaming
video.

The phone

Available in two sizes, the Pixel phones replace Google's previous foray into
smartphones with a Nexus brand introduced six years ago. Google never hailed
Nexus as its own phone, but instead positioned it as an example of how it
believed the Android system worked best.

In promoting the Pixels, Google highlighted a camera it says trumps the latest
iPhone, a long-lasting battery and a dedicated headphone jack -- a staple that
Apple eliminated from the iPhones released last month. And while past Google
phones primarily relied on sales through Google's online Play store, the Pixel
will also be sold by Verizon in the U.S.

Analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy said in an email that
Google was smart to emphasize the performance of the new smartphone cameras, as
"consumers care about this a lot." But he said other features in the new phones
didn't seem that much different from what Samsung and Apple have offered in
their latest devices.

Smart assistant

The phones and speaker will serve as a showcase for Google's digital helper,
Google Assistant. The helper will respond to spoken questions such as "How do
you remove wine stains out of the carpet?" and commands to control the volume of
the television and other home appliances with internet connections.

Google Assistant escalates the company's battle against Apple, which offers a
virtual helping hand through Siri, and Amazon, whose Alexa concierge resides in
Echo and other devices.

Google believes its assistant will be more knowledgeable, more personable and
more versatile than the competition. Its confidence stems from the more than 70
billion facts that it has stockpiled in a database that it calls a "knowledge
graph," as well as the ability of its dominant search engine to quickly scan the
web to retrieve a specific piece of information.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai boasts that the assistant will draw upon the company's
advances in artificial intelligence to deliver "a personal Google for each and
every user." The artificial intelligence programming is designed to learn more
about the person using it with each interaction, according to Google.

That's one reason why Google eventually wants the assistant on more devices,
though the company currently doesn't have plans to build directly into Android
the way Siri is automatically included in Apple's mobile software. Instead,
Google will allow other device makers to include the assistant in their products
if they want, beginning early next year.

"Search has been Google's golden ticket for the past 20 years of the internet,
and now they are hoping artificial intelligence will become the next golden
ticket," Blau said.

Still, while Google showed its new Assistant performing a variety of impressive
tasks, Moorhead cautioned that similar services such as Siri and Microsoft's
Cortana haven't fulfilled their early promises to ingrain themselves into
people's lives.

AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed from New York.

Follow Michael Liedtke at https://twitter.com/liedtkesfc

Follow Brandon Bailey at https://twitter.com/BrandonBailey

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Eds: Trims, adds link. With AP Photos.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              584 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

Google gets aggressive with new phones, other gadgets

LENGTH: 930 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 5 -- Google ratcheted up its rivalry with Apple and Amazon
by unveiling new smartphones, an internet-connected speaker that channels a
digital assistant, and other gadgets the company hopes to make indispensable.

The devices announced Tuesday are part of Google's bold move to design and sell
its own hardware, instead of just supplying Android and other software for other
companies to make products. Google's previous attempts at hardware have had
limited distribution and included such high-profile flops as its
internet-connected Glass headgear.

This time around, Google is betting that it can design software and hardware to
work seamlessly with each other. That's an art Apple mastered over the past 15
years as it turned out finely crafted iPods, iPhones, iPads and Macs.

Borrowing another page from Apple's book, Google is backing its expanded product
lineup with the biggest marketing campaign in its 18-year history. The company
isn't disclosing how much it will spend, but made it clear the ads touting
products "Made by Google" will be ubiquitous during the next few months.

"They have done some advertising in the past, but it's never been with this kind
of 'let us take care of everything for you' way," Gartner analyst Brian Blau
said. "This is more like Apple's way of doing things."

GADGETS ON PARADE

Google executives showed off a series of gadgets in rapid succession in San
Francisco on Tuesday.

The new Pixel phones, starting at $650, are aimed squarely at Apple's iPhone and
could also siphon sales from the biggest manufacturer of Android-powered phones,
Samsung.

Android now powers more than 80 percent of the smartphones sold around the
world. But Samsung has increasingly been adding more of its own software,
including its own mobile wallet, on its phones.

Analysts warned that Google's increased emphasis on its own branded devices runs
the risk of alienating Samsung, as well as LG and other longtime partners that
make Android gadgets. Google, though, emphasized it still plans to work with
other manufacturers, even as it tries to become a bigger player in hardware.

Meanwhile, Google's new Home speaker represents a counterpunch to Amazon's Echo,
a similar device that has become a big hit since its release about 15 months
ago. Google Home will cost $129, undercutting Echo by $50.

Google also announced a virtual-reality headset called Daydream View, a new
Wi-Fi router and an update to the company's Chromecast device for streaming
video.

THE PHONE

Available in two sizes, the Pixel phones replace Google's previous foray into
smartphones with a Nexus brand introduced six years ago. Google never hailed
Nexus as its own phone, but instead positioned it as an example of how it
believed the Android system worked best.

In promoting the Pixels, Google highlighted a camera it says trumps the latest
iPhone, a long-lasting battery and a dedicated headphone jack - a staple that
Apple eliminated from the iPhones released last month. And while past Google
phones primarily relied on sales through Google's online Play store, the Pixel
will also be sold by Verizon in the U.S.

Analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy said in an email that
Google was smart to emphasize the performance of the new smartphone cameras, as
"consumers care about this a lot." But he said other features in the new phones
didn't seem that much different from what Samsung and Apple have offered in
their latest devices.

SMART ASSISTANT

The phones and speaker will serve as a showcase for Google's digital helper,
Google Assistant. The helper will respond to spoken questions such as "How do
you remove wine stains out of the carpet?" and commands to control the volume of
the television and other home appliances with internet connections.

Google Assistant escalates the company's battle against Apple, which offers a
virtual helping hand through Siri, and Amazon, whose Alexa concierge resides in
Echo and other devices.

Google believes its assistant will be more knowledgeable, more personable and
more versatile than the competition. Its confidence stems from the more than 70
billion facts that it has stockpiled in a database that it calls a "knowledge
graph," as well as the ability of its dominant search engine to quickly scan the
web to retrieve a specific piece of information.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai boasts that the assistant will draw upon the company's
advances in artificial intelligence to deliver "a personal Google for each and
every user." The artificial intelligence programming is designed to learn more
about the person using it with each interaction, according to Google.

That's one reason why Google eventually wants the assistant on more devices,
though the company currently doesn't have plans to build directly into Android
the way Siri is automatically included in Apple's mobile software. Instead,
Google will allow other device makers to include the assistant in their products
if they want, beginning early next year.

"Search has been Google's golden ticket for the past 20 years of the internet,
and now they are hoping artificial intelligence will become the next golden
ticket," Blau said.

Still, while Google showed its new Assistant performing a variety of impressive
tasks, Moorhead cautioned that similar services such as Siri and Microsoft's
Cortana haven't fulfilled their early promises to ingrain themselves into
people's lives.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              585 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Nwx big thing;
WE TEST GOOGLE'S NEW TABLET

BYLINE: DAN JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 364 words


GOOGLE'S bargain tablet to rival the iPad was revealed last night - and The
Scottish Sun was given a chance to try it out.

The 7in Nexus 7 will cost £159 when it launches in the UK, compared to the
top-selling Apple device which is priced from £399.

But at this unbelievably low price, have Google cut corners? While the screen is
smaller and less detailed than the iPad, its size makes it easier to hold.

The camera won't produce award-winning snaps but it is fine for a video chat.
Previously, cheap tablets were sluggish and unresponsive - this isn't.

It is fast for web browsing, easy to set up emails and perfect for Twitter,
Facebook and iPlayer.

It is also easy to read eBooks, listen to music and play games.

Content is linked to Google Play - their version of Apple's iTunes and App Store
- which stores everything in the "cloud", so you can get at it whenever you
want.

The Nexus 7 also has Jelly Bean, the latest version of Android. So how have
Google managed to do all this at a third of the price? It is mainly because they
don't need to make money from the device - they just want more people to use
their Android system.

Tablets are the fastest growing market for computer devices. Google want to
catch Apple, and Microsoft are releasing their Surface gizmo too.

Patrick Goss, editor of techradar.

com, said: "It's going to be a fascinating battle.

"The arrival of Google's Nexus tablet at a bargain price should shake up the
market."

daniel.jones@the-sun.co.uk HOW IT COMPARES TO RIVALS MICROSOFT SURFACE PRICE:
£450, expected PLATFORM: Windows RT SCREEN: 10.6in (1366 x 768 pixels)
PROCESSOR: Quadcore CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES: Fold out cover acts as kickstand and
keyboard BEST FOR: Small businesses OUT: October GOOGLE NEXUS 7 PRICE: £159 to
£199 PLATFORM: Android 4.1 - Jelly Bean SCREEN: 7in (1280 x 800 pixels)
PROCESSER: 1.3 Ghz quad-core Tegra 3 CAMERA: 1.2MP TOP FEATURES: Flash player;
it's compact BEST FOR: Anyone on a budget OUT: Mid-July APPLE iPAD PRICE: £399
to £659 PLATFORM: iOS 5.1 SCREEN: 9.7in (2048 x 1536 pixels) PROCESSOR: 1Ghz
dual-core A5X CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES: Siri voice control, clever iCloud back-up,
most apps BEST FOR: Gadget fans with big budget OUT: Now

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              586 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nex big thing;
THE SUN TESTS GOOGLE'S NEW TABLET

BYLINE: DAN JONES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 362 words


GOOGLE'S bargain tablet to rival the iPad was revealed last night - and The Sun
was given a chance to try it out.

The 7in Nexus 7 will cost £159 when it launches in the UK, compared to the
top-selling Apple device which is priced from £399.

But at this unbelievably low price, have Google cut corners?

While the screen is smaller and less detailed than the iPad, its size makes it
easier to hold. The camera won't produce award-winning snaps but it is fine for
a video chat.

Previously, cheap tablets were sluggish and unresponsive - this isn't. It is
fast for web browsing, easy to set up emails and perfect for Twitter, Facebook
and iPlayer. It is also easy to read eBooks, listen to music and play games.

Content is linked to Google Play - their version of Apple's iTunes and App Store
- which stores everything in the "cloud", so you can get at it whenever you
want.

The Nexus 7 also has Jelly Bean, the latest version of Android.

So how have Google managed to do all this at a third of the price? It is mainly
because they don't need to make money from the device - they just want more
people to use their Android system.

Tablets are the fastest growing market for computer devices. Google want to
catch Apple, and Microsoft are releasing their Surface gizmo too.

Patrick Goss, editor of techradar.com, said: "It's going to be a fascinating
battle. The arrival of Google's Nexus tablet at a bargain price should shake up
the market."

daniel.jones@the-sun.co.uk

HOW IT COMPARES TO RIVALS

GOOGLE NEXUS 7 PRICE: £159 to £199 PLATFORM: Android 4.1 - Jelly Bean SCREEN:
7in (1280 x 800 pixels) PROCESSER: 1.3 Ghz quad-core Tegra 3 CAMERA: 1.2MP TOP
FEATURES: Flash player; it's compact BEST FOR: Anyone on a budget OUT: Mid-July

MICROSOFT SURFACE PRICE: £450, expected PLATFORM: Windows SCREEN: 10.6in (1366 x
768 pixels) PROCESSOR: Quadcore CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES: Fold out cover acts as
kickstand and keyboard BEST FOR: Small businesses OUT: October

APPLE iPAD PRICE: £399 to £659 PLATFORM: iOS 5.1 SCREEN: 9.7in (2048 x 1536
pixels) PROCESSOR: 1Ghz dual-core A5X CAMERA: 5MP FEATURES: Siri voice control,
clever iCloud back-up, most apps BEST FOR: Gadget fans with big budget OUT: Now

Battle

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              587 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Techtree.com

                       October 9, 2016 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Top 10 Consumer Tech Stories Of The Week - Oct 2 to Oct 9

BYLINE: Team TechTree

LENGTH: 996  words


Here's the roundup of the Top 10 Stories of the week...

This week, we witnessed the launch of iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, along with Google
Pixel smartphones and other smartphones. We even came across the expected launch
date of the much awaited Lenovo Phab 2 Pro that comes with Google Tango and uses
AR and VR to sense and map surroundings.

Along with this, we also witnessed Motorola announcing a list of 15 smartphones
that get Android Nougat update, and also, interestingly, a so-called safe Galaxy
Note 7 unit caught on fire.

A lot happens in a week, and this week is no different. Like every week, this
week too, we covered a lot that happened in the tech industry. However, we
cannot compile everything in a single listicle, but we bring you 10 best stories
that we have covered this week.

Airtel Offers The iPhone 7 And iPhone 7 Plus On A 12 Month Contract

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are launching in India today. As you may already
know, the phone's starting price is Rs 60,000, whereas the top model will set
you back for Rs 92,000. Now, that's a lot of money. For those who can't pay such
a big sum upfront, Airtel has come up with a postpaid contract. Under this
scheme, will have to pay Rs 19,990 as down payment and choose one of its
Infinity billing plans for the iPhone 7 (32 GB). The minimum billing period is
12 months.

Read The Full Story Here

Lenovo Phab 2 Pro May Come Out In November

Lenovo finally seems to be all set to launch its new and much awaited
smartphone, Phab 2 Pro in November, after the company silently postponed the
release that was due in September. To refresh your brains, the Lenovo Phab 2 Pro
was announced during the Lenovo Tech World event that was held in June this
year, and the smartphone is the world's first smartphone that supports Google's
'Project Tango' and uses AR and VR to sense and map surroundings.

Read The Full Story Here

15 Motorola Smartphones Soon Get Android Nougat Update

Ever since Google launched Android 7.0 Nougat, many smartphone companies have
been listing out their smartphones compatible with the update. And, its about
time for Motorola to follow the same routine. The company, acquired by Lenovo,
has announced a list of 15 smartphone that are expected to receive the Android
7.0 Nougat update pretty soon.

Read The Full Story Here

The "Safe" Galaxy Note 7 Unit Catches Fire On A Plane

The Galaxy Note 7's battery explosion issue is turning out to be a never-ending
nightmare for Samsung. Just as the Korean company has been busy replacing the
potentially affected devices with the "safe" ones, a Note 7 from the fresh batch
has burst into flames in the US. The incident took place in the Southwest
Airlines flight 994, where a Note 7 began emitting smoke in passenger Brian
Green's trouser pocket. According to him, he dropped the handset on the plane's
floor immediately.

Read The Full Story Here

WhatsApp Allows You To Draw, Write, And Edit On Pictures While Sharing

WhatsApp has recently introduced new camera features on its instant messaging
app on Android platform. However, for iOS devices, the company has announced
that the roll out may start soon. Under the new update, Android users can write
and draw on photos and videos captured on the WhatsApp camera. Also, users can
add in different emojis and make the captured pictures and videos more
interesting than every before.

Read The Full Story Here

Android 7.1 Nougat Developer Preview To Be Out Soon

We have already witnessed that Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones by Google run on
the all new Android 7.1 Nougat operating system, at the recently held
'MadeByGoogle' event. However, Google did not give any details regarding the
roll out of Android 7.1 Nougat to other smartphones. But, it seems, now the
Search Engine giant has confirmed that a developer preview of Android 7.1 Nougat
would be available for Nexus devices and Pixel C.

Read The Full Story Here

Google Pixel Event: Complete Coverage

At its event in San Francisco, Google unveiled interesting hardware. For the
first time, the search-giant introduced phones and other products completely
designed by the in-house teams. Till now, most of its gadgets were made in
collaboration with its hardware partners including Samsung, LG, Huawei, and Asus
to name a few.

Read The Full Story Here

Google Maps Integrates With Calendar To Show Your Events On Map

Google has recently announced a new update for Google Maps for Android app and
the update brings interconnection between Maps and Calendar. Basically, the
update adds a new Upcoming Tab in the Maps app that gives all information
regarding where the user has to go in order to attend the upcoming events.
Adding further on the update features, you can find the new tab inside the Menu,
in 'Your Places' section and the app will show all events that have been fed
inside the Google Calendar app, either manually or via the email.

Read The Full Story Here

Nokia D1C Android Based Handset Renditions Leaked

For those waiting for Nokia's return to the smartphone making business, need not
wait too much longer. Among the recent renditions leaked on Geekbuzz, the
mid-range handset, current called D1C, has been leaked with specifications and
pictures. Amongst some of the common features in the handset, would be Qualcomm
octa-core processor powering the handset clocked at 1.4GHz with Adreno 505 GPU
and 3GB of RAM.

Read The Full Story Here

Moto Z And Moto Z Play Now Available In India

After all the recent reports surfacing online, Lenovo has finally launched two
models in its Moto Z range (Moto Z and Moto Z Play) in India, with price
starting from INR 24,999. Speaking about the technical specifications, the Moto
Z comes with a 5.5 inch Quad HD AMOLED display while being powered by a Qualcomm
Snapdragon 820 processor coupled with 4 GB of RAM and 64 GB of internal storage.
On the camera front, the smartphone comes with a 13 MP f1.8 rear camera and a 5
MP front facing camera. Along with this, the smartphone gets a fingerprint
sensor and a 2,600 mAh battery.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              588 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

GOOGLE MAKES SMARTPHONE STATEMENT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 88 words


Sabrina Ellis, Google's director of product management, talks Tuesday about the
new Google Pixel smartphone during a product event in San Francisco. Replacing
Google's Nexus line, the Pixel is being offered both online and through Verizon,
with phones priced at roughly $650 for a version with a 5-inch screen and $750
for the 5.5-inch version. Google promises a spectacular camera and unlimited
online storage for phones at full resolution. The Pixel is designed to showcase
a digital helper the company calls "Google Assistant."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: STAND ALONE ART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              589 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                            October 10, 2006 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

SHORT CIRCUITS;
TECHKNOW

BYLINE: GR

SECTION: ORBIT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 328 words


Q When I drag digital pictures into an email message, they come in huge and fill
up the screen, making it impossible to see the entire image at once. Can I
adjust the size of photos so they fit in the message window?

A Giant photo syndrome can occur when the resolution of the digital picture
exceeds that of the computer monitor. Although the computer's graphics software
can sometimes correct the situation, this is not always the case.

Digital photographs are made up of pixels - the word is short for "picture
elements" - and a pixel is a single point in an image. Monitor resolution is
also measured in pixels, and most monitors these days use screen resolutions of
800 by 600 pixels; 1024 by 768 pixels; or 1152 by 864 pixels. All of these
resolutions are smaller than a 3-megapixel photo, so when the photo is displayed
at its full size, it exceeds the monitor's screen size.

But both Windows XP and Mac OS X give you the opportunity to shrink photos to
resolutions that fit better on a computer screen, such as 640 pixels by 480
pixels.

In Windows XP, click to select the photos you want to send from My Pictures or
another location on your computer. After you have selected the pictures, click
in the "email selected items" option in the task pane. You can also right-click
with the mouse and select "Send to Mail Recipient" from the pop-up menu.

In the resulting box, click the button next to "Make all my pictures smaller"
and then on the link for "Show more options" to see a selection of resolutions
to use for the picture attachments. Choose one and click OK.

Google's Picasa photo-management program for Windows and Linux (free to download
at http://picasa.google.com) can also shrink photo attachments.

Mac OS X users have an option in the iPhoto program to reduce image sizes for
email. After you select pictures from your iPhoto library, click the email icon
at the bottom of the window; a box will pop up asking if you'd like to shrink
the image for emailing.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              590 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      October 29, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Work On Google Glass 2 Is Underway, Says Google

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee

LENGTH: 220  words


The new version of the wearable Glass will also be provided to the Google Glass
Explorers.

Tuesday, October 29, 2013: Google has reportedly announced that a new updated
version of the much talked about Google Glass is under development within the
company's walls. The device had been rumoured earlier this month, with many
suggesting that Google was already working on a Google Glass 2 wearable device.
The Google Glass has currently been made available to developers in order to
bring apps for the device.

Further, the internet search giant is reportedly going to make the device
available to its Google Glass Explorers, who have been given the first prototype
of the device, for $1,500 apiece. Whether the Explorers will get the updated
device for free or not is not known yet. Glass Explorers though have been told
that they will be given three invites to the program and that they can give
these invites to their friends and family members.

Reports say that the Google Glass 2 supports prescription glasses and has a mono
earbud, which is reportedly going to be a replacement for the bone conduction
speaker, which the current version of the device has. The current device also
has a high resolution display and a 5 mega pixel camera, which can also record
HD videos at 720 pixels. It also has 12 GB of internal storage.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              591 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                    November 13, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Motorola Again Hints At Moto G India Launch

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 214  words


Motorola could follow Google's mode of finding a local partner for distribution
in the country.

Wednesday, November 13, 2013: Motorola has reportedly posted a second hint about
the upcoming Moto G making an appearance in India. The Google owned company has
posted on its official Facebook account, urging Indian customers to watch the
live web cast of the launch today. The post says, "Namaste, India! Register
today for Wednesday's global livestream and be the first to see Moto G."

In addition, company CEO Dennis Woodside is scheduled to visit the country soon.
As indicated by Gizbot, it all points towards the Moto G being launched in India
very soon. Further, the report said that Motorola could follow Google's mode of
selling the device online, while partnering with a local company for
distribution in the country.

The Moto G handset is expected to have an 11.4-cm (4.5-inch) 720 pixel
resolution display along with Corning Gorilla Glass protection. In addition, the
device will be powered by a 1.2 GHz quad core processor and will have a 5 mega
pixel rear camera. It will also have a 1.3 mega pixel front camera. It will
support Bluetooth 4.0 and other connectivity options.

The device could be priced around Rs 16,000 here in the country. It was listed
earlier today on Amazon UK.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              592 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     December 7, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Spotted: Google's Moto G in Indian store at Rs 15990

LENGTH: 304  words


The recently launched Moto G from Motorala's shed has been spotted today in
India. The 8 GB storage variant of this Android 4.3 Jelly Bean OS phone is has
been spotted carrying a price tag of Rs 15990.

This cheap phone will mark the first Motorola phone in India after Google bought
the company in year 2012. The Moto G is 4.5-inch display phone and will come
with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 quad-core processor, 1 GB of RAM. This one has
got a display resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels that come to a display density of
329 pixels per inch (ppi). This display density is quite close the iPhone 5S and
5C's display that is 640 x 1136 pixels on a 4-inch display for a 326 ppi pixel
density.

Moto G Review: Cheaper Nexus 5 with nippy performance, must buy for those who
want a budget phone

Moto G coming to India, what will happen to Nokia, Micromax, Samsung, Lava and
others

Meet 10 octa-core mobile phones to be launched soon

The phone sports a 5 megapixel shooter and 1.3 megapixel front camera. Though
this is not a great camera when compared to the 13 megapixel Indian players are
offering in budget phones, considering the low-cost of this phone, this should
be okay. The phone packs a battery of 2070 mAh that can support you for a whole
day, and runs Android 4.3.

The phone is expected to cost between Rs 11000 to Rs 12000 in Indian market.
Since the phone via eBay India comes from an international seller the cost is a
bit on the higher side. But the post indeed indicate that phone is going to be
available soon in the country. We would advise you to wait till Google formally
launches this phone.

80 percent of the world prefers Android OS, more people buy low-cost phones

Top 21 launches in November and December this year

11 best-selling smartphones in India 2013

14 new budget phones under Rs 8000

7 best smartphones under Rs 5000

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              593 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Electronics For You

                                November 1, 2016

First Look - Estyle: Smartphone from Google

LENGTH: 128  words


The first phone with Google Assistant built in

Price Rs 57,000 for Quite Black, 32GB model

Pixel combines hardware and software made by Google, including all your
favourite Google apps, to bring you a fast, seamless and easy-to-use experience.
It features the highest-rated smartphone camera, with a best-ever 89 DxOMark
Mobile score, a battery that lasts all day and unlimited storage for all your
photos and videos.



Pixel has a 2770mAh battery, aerospace-grade aluminium unibody (glass shade with
2.5D Corning Gorilla Glass 4), 4GB LPDDR4 RAM, Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 2.15GHz +
1.6GHz, 64-bit quad-core processor, 12.3MP rear camera, 8MP front camera, up to
128GB storage, ports including USB Type-C, USB 3.0, 3.5mm headset jack and
single nano-SIM and many more features.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              594 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                            October 25, 2016 Tuesday

BlackBerry launches its 'last' smartphone, android-based DTEK60

LENGTH: 414  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Oct. 25 -- Zee Media Bureau
 In what could be the last smartphone from the Canadian company, BlackBerry Ltd
has launched its third android-based phone, the DTEK60.


 With the BlackBerry DTEK60, the company also plans to take on the likes of
Apple Inc's iPhone 7 and Google's Pixel through its pricing. Hence, it has
priced its device competitively at just USD 499 against iPhone 7's USD 769 and
Google Pixel's USD 649.
 Having lost most its market share to iPhone, Samsung and others, BlackBerry
announced in September that it planned to outsource the development of its
smartphones to focus on its more profitable business of software and managing
mobile devices.
 Hence, it is widely suspected that the Android-based DTEK60 could be the last
phone for which BlackBerry buys components itself, which carries a heavier risk
if it does not sell well.
 "This one is our phone," BlackBerry Chief Operating Officer Marty Beard said in
an interview. "This is fully our responsibility."
 The device, which has a 5.5 inch touchscreen, will be priced at $499. Apple's
iPhone 7 with the same screen size starts at $769, while the equivalent version
of Google's Pixel starts at $649.
 "If you look at feature by feature by feature, and you're looking at dimensions
and weight and the display and the memory and the camera, the battery, it is a
very strong comp to both those devices," Beard said.
 Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry does not have any distribution deals with
telecom companies that typically offer devices along with connections to their
communications networks.
 Instead, it is pitching the phone directly to companies, governments and other
large organizations, as well as selling it on its own websites in the United
States, Canada, and several major European countries.
 "It's not necessarily an anti-carrier strategy," Beard said. "It's more that we
see this as the most efficient and most cost-effective way to get to that
customer base."
 The DTEK60 is based on a reference design from manufacturer TCL Corp, a Chinese
electronics company that makes phones as well as televisions, air conditioners
and other household appliances.
 BlackBerry launched its first Android device, the high-end Priv, in November
last year and followed it with the much cheaper DTEK50 in July.
 The company last month wrote down $137 million of inventory and supply
commitments in the six months to the end of August due to limited demand for
phones launched prior to the DTEK50.
 With Agency Inputs

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              595 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Best tablet (below 9 inches)

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Test; DL AWARDS 2014

LENGTH: 403 words


Apple iPad mini with Retina Display

The design of Apple's smaller tablet remains unchanged from the original. But
the 7.9-inch screen gets a much-needed upgrade to a higher resolution Retina
display. The mini and the larger iPad Air are powered by the same A7 chip.

Other changes include improved Wi-Fi (and 4G connectivity on the LTE model) and
a larger 128GB storage option for those who want the capacity. The mini now runs
on iOS 7 with free iLife and iWork apps.

Google Nexus 7

The latest edition of this Android tablet has a 1,920 x 1,200-pixel screen that
looks bigger than it is for a 7-inch device because the bezel has been slimmed
down. The new model runs on a faster processor than its predecessor and has
twice the RAM plus a rear-facing camera. Internal storage has been doubled to
16GB for the base model. Being from the Nexus family, this tablet gets Android
updates direct from Google, so it is among the few that run the latest Android
4.4 KitKat.

Lenovo Yoga Tablet 8

The smaller of Lenovo's two Yoga tablets, the 8-inch version is more handy than
the 10-inch model. It has the same 1,280 x 800-pixel screen resolution but a
smaller screen, so whatever is displayed looks better.

A kickstand allows it to be positioned in various ways, including upright for
watching videos. Its cylindrical edge provides better grip and is a convenient
housing for a battery rated at more than 18 hours.

LG G Tablet 8.3

With its sharp, full high-definition screen, this tablet has more pixels than
those of competitors such as the Galaxy Note 8, which has 1,280 x 800 pixels.
While the G Tablet ultimately loses out in pixel density to the iPad mini with
Retina display, the difference should be negligible to most users.

This Wi-Fi-only tablet is powered by a current generation Qualcomm Snapdragon
CPU along with 2GB of RAM. It comes with 16GB of internal storage, though a
microSD card allows users to increase it by 64GB.

Samsung Galaxy Note 8 with LTE

With a 1,280 x 800-pixel display, the Samsung Galaxy Note 8 lacks the screen
resolution to match some of its rivals, but it has a secret weapon in the form
of the S Pen stylus. You can easily crop images, scribble and draw on this using
its stylus and the supported Samsung apps.

The hardware, which includes a quad-core processor, is also capable enough to
support multitasking. The Multi Window feature lets the device run two apps
side-by-side at the same time.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              596 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

US Patent granted to GOOGLE TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS LLC (California) on June 02
titled as "High efficiency low complexity interpolation filters"

LENGTH: 227  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 9,049,454, on
June 02, 2015, to GOOGLE TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS LLC (California), titled as "High
efficiency low complexity interpolation filters"

Inventors: Lou; Jian (San Diego, CA), Wang; Limin (San Diego, CA)
Assignee: GOOGLE TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS LLC. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Embodiments for high efficiency low complexity interpolation filters for High
Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC) are disclosed herein, specifically novel
techniques for a video compression system. In order to estimate and compensate
sub-pel displacements, the image signal on these sub-pel positions is generated
by an interpolation process. In HEVC, sub-pel pixel interpolation is performed
using filters. As described herein, the filter may have, for example, eight taps
to determine the sub-pel pixel values for sub-pel pixel positions, such as
half-pel and quarter-pel positions. The taps weight the integer pixels with
coefficient values to generate the sub-pel signals. Different coefficients may
produce different compression performance in signal distortion and noise."

The patent was filed on. January 19, 2012 Application no. 13/354,201

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              597 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday

Google to launch new devices on October 29

BYLINE: Naushad K. Cherrayil, Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 147 words


Google is expected to hold a big event in New York on October 29 to unveil the
Google Nexus 10, LG Nexus 4 and a 32GB version of the Google Nexus 7.

Industry sources said that Google have been circulating a video recorded at one
of their weekly events which details all the devices.

The Google Nexus 10, which is a true rival to Apple's 9.7-inch iPad will be made
by Samsung and have a quad-core processor.

It is expected to run at a resolution of 2560Ã-1600, giving it a 16:10 aspect
ratio and 300 pixels per inch (PPI) . That is far above the iPad's 264 PPI and
will offer truly stunning clarity and multimedia playback.

iPad 3 has a screen resolution of 2048 x 1536 pixels.

The tablet is rumoured to launch on Android 4.2, which is a new version of
Android although it'll still  be referred to as Jelly Bean . The Nexus 10 is
likely to support 3G, unlike the Nexus 7 which only had WiFi.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2012 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              598 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                           November 2, 2016 Wednesday

Google Daydream VR teams up with 'Fantastic Beasts and Where to find them'; to
be launched on November 10;
Google on Tuesday announced that the Daydream View VR headset would go for sales
on the Google Store from November 10. The post Google Daydream VR teams up with
'Fantastic Beasts and Where to find them'; to be launched on November 10
appeared first on ...

BYLINE: FE Online

LENGTH: 330  words


Google on Tuesday announced that the Daydream View VR headset would go for sales
on the Google Store from November 10. Google said that from November 10, the
device would be available in 5 different countries, namely, USA, Canada, United
Kingdom, Germany and Australia. The Daydream View VR will require a phone with
minimum specifications to run the device, like the Google Pixel smartphones.
Google had launched the Daydream along with the Google Pixel smartphones. The
Daydream View VR is a massive upgrade from the pre-historic Cardboard headsets.
Well, at least they were an affordable bunch.

The Daydream View was launched with the motive to compete with the likes of
Oculus Rift and HoloLens, Samsung's Gear VR and even Xiaomi's new VR headset.
Google has plans of dominating the VR market by offering a huge range of VR
related content. The content providers for the Google Daydream View VR headsets
range from various news publications to hi-resolution games to its own Street
View. Among the news publications, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times
and the Guardian are to provide content. The NYT is to provide 3 films in the
Daydream app. Both Youtube and Hulu are to bring their entire collection of
videos, movies and TV shows to a virtual platform. Invasion, an award-winning VR
animated film will also be made available in the Google Play Movies in VR.

Google's Star Chart is also to be made available in the headset, giving viewers
an opportunity to explore cosmic objects; for instance, the moons of Saturn or
the far lands of Pluto. The Street View is also to be made available for the
headset, where viewers would be able to visit 70 different countries over 150
tours. The multi-billion company has also partnered with Warner Bros. for the
promotion of Fantastic Beasts and Where to find Them; a prequel to the Harry
Potter franchise. The Daydream View Headset is to be priced at $79 ib the United
States, which roughly sums up to Rs 5,000 in Indian currency.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              599 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                    September 27, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 6 spotted carrying the Motorola logo

LENGTH: 298  words


The rumoured Google Nexus 6 that is the Motorola Shamu was just spotted lying
alongside the LG's G3 handset. The Shamu clearly seems bigger than the LG G3
which comes with a 5.5 inch display.

According to GSMArena this leak "further credence to rumors that the Shamu is
going to feature a display in the -inch ballpark."

As a matter of fact, we do not believe in the name "Shamu" taped on the back
side, but a look at the back panel does confirm that this is the Shamu. Recently
the back panel of the handset leaked against the Moto X and Moto G sporting a
bigger profile, but similar design.

Look at the back side panel of the Motorola phone. The top side of the back
panel, camera placement and camera lip design clearly resembles the Moto design
that is reflected in the Moto G and Moto X handsets.

"The phone is largely devoid of branding aside from that signature Motorola 'M'
dimple, and appears to have a black soft-touch matte plastic rear cover", says
AndroidPolice who posted the pictures online via Droid-Life.

The next Google could be called Nexus 6 or Nexus X and models or code name that
is making waves around the Internet use the name Moto S or Shamu for the
handset. This will be Google's premium device (this time made by Motorola,
instead of LG who made the Nexus 4 and 5) with a 5.9-inch QHD (25601440 pixels)
display offering a pixel density of 564 pixels per inch. It is expected to run
on a 2.65GHz Snapdragon 805 quad-core processor with Adreno 420 GPU with 3GB of
RAM, which also powers one of the variants of Samsung's Galaxy Note 4.

The handset is expected to sport a fingerprint scanner.

The phone is expected to be announced this month in October. Google could make
an announcement of the phone on thge October 16th alongside Nexus 9 and Android
L and launch it later.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              600 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                           September 25, 2016 Sunday

Look out for Google's new router

LENGTH: 177  words


Cheap and packed with features

Are you looking for a new router? Well, how about one from Google?

According to recent rumors, Google is all set to launch a brand new router on
its launch event on the 4th of October, which is quite odd, as Google already
makes the OnHub router. However, this new router, dubbed Google Wifi, is set to
be much cheaper and will cost just $129, which is cheaper than the $179 for the
OnHub. Apart from the price, the router will also be capable of connecting
multiple access points and turn them into a one giant wireless network.

This network will link different  networks together so they blanket an entire
home in a single super network. Routers like the eero already do this, but a
single eero costs $199 (about £155, AU$265), or $499 (about £385, AU$655) for a
pack of three. Additionally, this router is also rumored to have some smart
features and enhanced range over other routers.

Google is also set to reveal the price of its Google Home hub at $129, a new 4K
Chromecast Ultra, and the Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones next month.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              601 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

Google counters Apple with Nexus phones, new tabletLatest devices will #124be on
sale ahead of the upcoming holiday season

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 720 words


Agencies

SAN FRANCISCO

Google fired back at Apple with a pair of new smartphones, a "convertible"
tablet and other gadgetry ahead of the year-end holiday shopping season.

The California tech giant unveiled on Tuesday two new Nexus smartphones with
enhanced features including fingerprint sensors and improved cameras aimed at
the high end of the market dominated by Apple and Samsung.

The launch of the phones, the Nexus 6P and the Nexus 5X,comes a day after Apple
reported record first-weekend sales of its new iPhones.

Nexus devices, which typically do not sell as much as iPhones or iPads, are a
way for the tech giant to showcase its latest advancements in mobile hardware
and software.

Google said it was partnering with South Korea's LG for its 13.20-centimetre
screen Nexus 5X, and with China's Huawei for its "phablet" sized
14.47-centimetre Nexus 6P.

Both handsets will be sold unlocked, with Google hoping to capitalise on a trend
in the US and other markets away from smartphone subsidies as part of long-term
contracts.

"We care about making sure there are affordable, high quality smartphones for
users around the world," said Sundar Pichai, the Google product chief who is
slated to head the company's largest unit under a reorganisation announced
earlier this year.

The phones, which aim to showcase the Google Android operating system, were
available for ordering in the United States, Britain, Japan and Ireland, with
more countries to be added next week, Google said as it unveiled the phones at a
San Francisco media event.

The Android mobile platform is a key element in Google's strategy to maintain
revenue from online advertising as people switch from Web browser searches to
smartphone apps.

The Nexus 5X starts at $379 (Bt13,780) for US customers and the 6P starts at
$499.

The devices will feature the new Android operating system known as Marshmallow,
which allows for fingerprint sensors for unlocking and other features including
Android Pay.

The fingerprint sensors will help quickly authorise purchases made through
Android Pay, the one-touch payment app on Android devices that competes with
Apple Pay.

The phones are priced below the premium devices from Apple such as the new
iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, and similar offerings from Samsung.

With the Nexus-branded devices, Google is able to control much of the hardware
and software in a manner similar to Apple, which has its own operating system.

"We try to push the next generation of computing forward; to do that we build
hardware," Pichai said of Google making its own branded devices.

Google makes Android mobile software available free to device makers, but makes
its Nexus line to showcase capabilities of the operating system. The Pixel C is
the first tablet built ground-up by Google and is seen as an alternative to the
iPad Pro unveiled this month and Microsoft's Surface.

The "C" in the name stands for "convertible" because it features an optional
keyboard that doubles as a cover and connects magnetically for laptop-computer
style use.

"We think the Pixel C tablet and keyboard experience really unlocks ways to play
and be productive across one device," Google's Andrew Bowers said while showing
off the new hardware.

Pixel C tablet will be available in time for the year-end holidays at a starting
price of $499, with the keyboard priced at $149, Google said.

Google unveiled an upgraded version of its popular Chromecast device that plugs
into television screens to stream content wirelessly from the Internet, with
smartphones or tablets serving as controls.

The company also introduced Chromecast Audio, a pendant sized device designed to
plug into stereo speakers for streaming music, #124podcasts, YouTube or other
audio content through home sound systems.

"Now you have a simple way to amplify your experience to the biggest devices in
the home," said Rishi Chandra of the Chromecast team.

Chandra announced that the mobile app of music-streaming service Spotify will
work with Chromecast Audio, which avoids Bluetooth connectivity hiccups.

Chromecast Audio promised to provide a low-cost way for people to outfit homes
with Internet "smart" stereo systems, according to Gartner analyst Brian Blau.

"It is an interesting play on having your music anywhere you want," Blau said.

Both new Chromecast devices kept the $35 price of the earlier version.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              602 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Electronics For You

                                 March 1, 2014

Looking to Buy a Low-Cost Laptop? Chromebook could be a Perfect Choice

BYLINE: Diksha Gupta

LENGTH: 968  words


Forget about the regular PCs and laptops, even the MacBooks could not survive
the Chromebook onslaught. Such is the magic of these Google machines. Like
Android, Chromebooks have plenty of options. One finds some really interesting
choices in the range of Chromebooks. Although these Google laptops have recently
ventured into the Indian market, they seem to have already made their mark in
the international market

Chromebooks are low cost laptops that offer a rather refreshing and enjoyable
experience. Google is promoting its Chromebooks as "a new type of computer with
everything built-in. For everyone. Starting $199." Chromebooks are definitely
the latest breed of laptops and are here to stay. These low-cost laptops were
first announced in 2010 and started emerging in 2011 as the web-centric
alternatives to the traditional laptops.



What is a Chromebook

Google defines Chromebooks as "a new type of computer designed to help you get
things done faster and easier. They run Chrome OS, an operating system that has
multiple layers of security, cloud storage and the most popular Google products
built-in." Chrome OS has the Linux kernel as its base and the Google Chrome Web
browser serves as the interface which allows users to access files and run
Chrome Web apps.

Chromebooks can be used best only when connected to the Internet, unlike the
traditional laptops. And you do not have to work on traditional software if you
are a Chromebook user. For instance, for anything to be done on Microsoft
office, Chromebook users resort to Google Docs and save them in Google Drive.

It is not that you cannot work on a Chromebook offline, you just need to pick
the right apps for that. Google highlights the apps that can be used offline
from the Chrome Web Store itself.

Advantages of buying a Chromebook

Chromebooks are for those looking for a basic, trendy computer, while saving on
their credit card bills. There are many advantages of buying a Chromebook.

Number one and really the most important one is its cost effectiveness.
Chromebooks are super cheap as compared to a Windows laptop. They are available
for as low as Rs 22,999. At this price, you can find a Windows laptop but surely
of a very low configuration as compared to the svelte MacBook Air like
Chromebook. Of course, do not even think of getting a MacBook Air at this price.


Second biggest advantage of getting a Chromebook is that you can start working
on it almost instantly. You just need to turn it on, log onto your Google
account, get on with your bookmarks and extensions and get going with your
Chromebook. You cannot get the same pleasure even on your iPad and Nexus 7,
because both the devices will run the mobile version of Chrome and you will not
be able to access your extensions there.

Chromebooks can be switched on in less than 10 seconds. These are full-fledged
laptops, with proper keyboards and built-in video chat cameras. They can support
many USB devices. Some of the Chromebooks also have an HDMI port along with a
Secure Digital memory card for expandable storage facility. Also, other users
can comfortably use your Chromebook without peeping into your account, yet
signing into their separate accounts.

Another advantage that Chromebooks bring along is their regular software
updates. Chromebooks update themselves regularly. Google states that the
multi-layer security it has rendered to Chrome OS almost eliminates the need of
an additional anti-virus, which is a cost-saving area.

Disadvantages of buying a Chromebook

Users of Chromebooks need to be very well planned for using their device
smoothly on the go. If you are boarding a flight for a long journey, you can use
your Chromebook even without a Wi-Fi connection provided you store the files in
Google Drive beforehand and enable the offline mode of the drive too. You also
have to perform an offline sync before boarding the flight. Alternately, you can
use an SD card to store all your data and use it with your Chromebook while you
are travelling.

For all those working on a specialised software or technology, Chromebooks are
surely not for them. Like a heavy photo shop user cannot resort to a Chromebook.
Yes, there are many image-editing apps in the Chrome web apps collection, but it
can eventually be a frustrating experience for someone looking for extensive
usage of the editing technology.

Factors to look for while buying a Chromebook:

Cost. Since Chromebooks are cost friendly and affordable, you can look for a
variety of models available in the basic range. But you can buy an 'allaround'
Chromebook experience at a higher cost (US$ 1300) with Chromebook Pixel.
Chromebook Pixel has the Chrome OS at its best and sports a high-end hardware.
With its luxurious design and 4.3-million-pixel touch enabled display,
Chromebook Pixel is surely a user's delight.

Design and build quality. Almost all the Chromebooks offer the same kind of
features, barring the design and build quality. Some companies offering
Chromebooks have worked extensively on coming up with a sleek and minimalist
design. HP Chromebook 11 is one such example of a sleek device. The build
quality is also something that you should pay much stress on.

Performance levels. If you are looking for high-level performance, go for a
powerful variant of the device. Of course, you cannot match the power levels of
Chromebook Pixel at a reasonable price, but there are some high-end models
available for you to explore.

Chromebooks with 4GB RAM and new-age chipsets (such as Has well based ones) are
available in the market, which offer better performance than the entry-level
systems. The entrylevel Chromebooks provide very basic computing needs. However,
the power Chromebooks could be a bit bulky and heavy, as compared to their sleek
siblings, but who minds if they are truly worth the money.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              603 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                October 16, 2016

e-pundit: Google Pixel, new binoculars and more

BYLINE: Frederick Noronha

LENGTH: 759  words


Wildlife, binocs play a role

Journalist Rituparna Sengupta recently shared this news about plans by Ricoh
India and WWF-India to bring "nature closer to wildlife enthusiasts" by sharing
their Pentax Papilio 8.521 WF binoculars.

Tokyo-headquartered Ricoh India says it wants to "enhance wildlife viewing in
finest detail without disturbing its natural habitat", and so is launching an
exclusive edition of co-branded Pentax Papilio 8.521 WF binoculars.



These binoculars come equipped with fully multi-coated optics and aspherical
lenses for edge-to-edge clarity and sharpness, a unibody design and extreme
close focusing capability. This all makes it ideal for nature trails, wildlife
viewing and travel, as they are equipped with close focus of just 50cm.

"It is a first of its kind endeavor by an imaging company in India to support
biodiversity conservation," says the promo. This joint endeavour is an extension
of Project Nature Watch, an ongoing CSR collaboration between the two
organizations.

The RICOH MP Pentax Papilio 8.521 WF comes at a MRP of Rs. 10,555 and is
available on: WWF-India web store:
http://shop.wwfindia.org/binoculars-papilio-ii-8-521-wf-from-ricoh-pentax.html
and Ricoh sellers networks

http://www.wwfindia.org

Google Pixel: Camera, Assistant and more

The first phone developed by Google, which has decided to let go of the Nexus
line and third party manufacturers. Socialmaharaja.com highlights that Google's
powerful Assistant comes built-in, and praises the Allo app.

Google Pixel is also VR and Day dream ready. It might also have the "best-ever
camera". Google also provides unlimited cloud storage for pictures and videos in
full resolution. Besides, the chance of fast charge (get an extra power for
seven hours with a 15 minute charge). The price in India? Rs 50-55k.

http://bit.ly/GooglePixel22

Chromebooks, laptops

What to buy? Chromebook or budget laptop? That's a regular dilemma for anyone
wanting access to computing on the move.

Check out this article titled Why a Chromebook isn't the same thing as a budget
laptop on cnet.com. It goes on to add: They may look the same, but a laptop and
a Chromebook are more different than you might expect.

In short the differences are: the operating system (Chromebook runs on the
Google Chrome OS), the apps it runs and the way it runs apps, how much it costs
(Chromebooks start at $200 equivalent), build quality, how much storage it
supplies (a speedy SSD but not lots of room), how it handles your printer
(you'll have to route print jobs over Google Cloud Print).

Incidentally, as far as Google Chrome - the web browser developed by Google goes
- it is now reached Chrome 54. Google Chrome is also the main component of
Chrome OS, where it serves a platform for running web apps.

As of September 2016, StatCounter estimates that Google Chrome has a 62%
worldwide usage share of web browsers as a desktop browser, Wikipedia informs.

http://bit.ly/chromebook22

New brands

New mobile brand phones in India: Zenfone 3 Laser from ASUS. Huawei's Honor 8,
Honor 8 Smart and Honor Holly 3.

The ASUS ZenFone first came in 2014 (first generation) and it features the Intel
Atom processors on Android. It also features the Asus Zen UI which is a user
interface from Asus. The Honor 8 is a flagship smartphone of Huawei's smartphone
brand Honor. It has an eight-core HiSilicon Kirin 950 processor, a Mali-T880 MP4
GPU, and a 3000mAh (typical) battery. Its 'Smart' version comes with an
aluminium alloy frame and more (Rs 19,999). Holly 3 is to be the first Huawei
smartphone under a 'make in India' branding, Rs 9,999.

Cellular signals-based navigation for driverless cars soon

A team of US researchers has developed a reliable and accurate navigation system
that exploits existing environmental signals such as cellular and Wi-Fi rather
than the Global Positioning System (GPS). The technology can be used as a
stand-alone alternative to GPS or complement current GPS-based systems to enable
highly reliable, consistent and tamper-proof navigation.

The technology could also be used to develop navigation systems that meet the
stringent requirements of fully autonomous vehicles, such as driverless cars and
unmanned drones, said the team from University of California, Riverside.  "Our
goal is to get autonomous vehicles operate with no human-in-the loop for
prolonged periods of time, performing missions such as search, rescue,
surveillance, mapping, farming, firefighting, package delivery and
transportation," said Zak Kassas, assistant professor of electrical and computer
engineering, reports IANS.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              604 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            April 14, 2016 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Technology

BYLINE: Adrian Weckler

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 358 words


DJI Phantom 4 Price: (EURO)1,599 from www.Apple.com or www.DJI.com Within an
hour of taking it out of the box, I was flying it above Mayo.

The 4K video footage was stunning (you can see some of it on www.Independent.ie
- google 'Phantom 4 Erris Mayo'). The Phantom 4 uses your phone or tablet as a
guidance screen, showing you a live stream. The physical controller has two
joysticks and a number of buttons for and dials for things like camera control.
The Phantom 4 records in 4K resolution by default, although you can switch down
to 'full' HD (1080p). It can also film at 120 frames per second for slow motion.
The drone comes with a 16GB microSD memory card. Remember, drones like this must
be registered with the Irish Aviation Authority.

Google Pixel C Price: from (EURO)509 (keyboard extra) 'Pro' tablets are all the
rage. Google's latest device, the Pixel C, tries to get into the game with a
fairly powerful processor, nice design lines, a good screen and a slick keyboard
((EURO)169 extra). The 10-inch machine has stereo speakers, 308 pixels per inch
and comes in either 32GB or 64GB. For those whose work or leisure phone is an
Android one, this will be a comfortable and stylish machine for pleasure and
light work. The keyboard, in particular, is impressive. It also uses USB-C to
recharge, which is very fast. On the other hand, it's up against a rejuvenated
iPad line, which is a big task.

Microsoft Hololens Price: (EURO)2,650 I got my hands on the Hololens, the
headset that gives us 'augmented' reality. The difference between it and
'virtual' reality is that while VR encloses you within its artificial world, in
AR you can still see your actual environment with virtual artefacts overlaid
onto it. So I can conjure up a digital object and see it placed on the floor in
front of me, on a table, or floating in mid-air. To a limited extent, I can
control that object using finger gestures in front of my headset. The only
limitation I found was in the field of view, which is restricted compared to a
VR headset. It's still at an early stage of commercial production, so the models
are 'developer edition' products for app creators.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              605 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     February 5, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Buy Google Nexus 5 16GB 'Fiery Red' At Rs 28,999

BYLINE: Saurabh Singh, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 207  words


The device is now available via Google's Play Store.

Wednesday, February 05, 2014: The 'red' Nexus 5 is now available on Google Play
store India. The 16GB version has been priced at Rs 28,999 while the 32GB
variant comes at a price tag of Rs 32,999. It must be noted that search engine
giant Google launched the Nexus 5 on 1 November however it was available in
India only in the third week of November.

The red Nexus 5 is now also available via Google Play in United States, Canada,
UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and Korea. It be
available across Europe by end of February. Further, the device will also be
available in physical retail stores in select markets.

Google Nexus 5 sports a 12.573-cm (4.95-inch) full-HD IPS display with a
resolution of 1080x1920 pixels and a pixel density of 445ppi. It is powered by a
2.26GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor alongside 2GB of RAM and
comes with Corning Gorilla Glass 3. It has an 8-megapixel rear camera with
Optical Image Stabilisation (OIS) and a 1.3-megapixel front facing camera. The
Nexus 5 coming in 16GB and 32GB versions does not support expandable storage.
Connectivity options include Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC and 3G. It runs Android 4.4
KitKat.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              606 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Nex big thing;
THE SUN TESTS GOOGLE'S NEW TABLET

BYLINE: DANIEL JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 352 words


GOOGLE'S bargain tablet to rival the iPad was revealed last night - and The Sun
was given a chance to try it out.

The Nexus 7 will cost £159 when it launches in the UK, compared to the
top-selling Apple device which is priced from £399.

At double the price, the Nexus 7 would be a good deal but at £159 it is likely
to be under more Christmas trees than the iPad.

But have Google cut corners? While the 7in screen is smaller and less detailed
than the iPad, its size makes it easier to hold.

The camera won't produce mind-blowing snaps but it is fine for a video chat.

Previously, cheap tablets were sluggish and unresponsive - this isn't. It is
fast for web browsing, easy to set up emails and perfect for Twitter, Facebook
and iPlayer.

It is also ideal for watching films, reading eBooks, listening to music and
playing games. Content is linked to Google Play - their version of Apple's
iTunes   which stores everything in the "cloud", so you can get at it whenever
you want.

So how have Google managed to do all this at a third of the price?

It is mainly because they don't need to make money from the device - they just
want more people to use their Android system.

Tablets are the fastest growing market for computer devices. Google want to
catch Apple, and Microsoft are releasing their Surface gizmo too.

Patrick Goss, editor of techradar.com, said: "It's going to be a fascinating
battle."

daniel.jones@the-sun.co.uk

HOW IT COMPARES TO RIVALS

GOOGLE NEXUS 7

PRICE: £159 to £199

PLATFORM: Android 4.1 - Jelly Bean

SCREEN: 7in (1280 x 800 pixels)

PROCESSER: 1.3 Ghz quad-core Tegra 3

CAMERA: 1.2MP

TOP FEATURES: Flash player; it's compact

BEST FOR: Anyone on a budget

OUT: Mid-July

MICROSOFT SURFACE

PRICE: £450, expected

PLATFORM: Windows

SCREEN: 10.6in (1366 x 768 pixels)

PROCESSOR: Quadcore

CAMERA: 5MP

TOP FEATURES: Fold out cover acts as kickstand and keyboard

BEST FOR: Small businesses

OUT: October

APPLE iPAD

PRICE: £399 to £659

PLATFORM: iOS 5.1

SCREEN: 9.7in (2048 x 1536 pixels)

PROCESSOR: 1Ghz dual-core A5X

CAMERA: 5MP

TOP FEATURES: Siri voice control; iCloud back-up; most apps

BEST FOR: Gadget fans with big budget

OUT: Now

Battle

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              607 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      The Observer (Gladstone, Queensland)

                           October 22, 2016 Saturday

Still great Android phones on the market

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 182  words


WITH Samsung stopping sales and replacements of its Galaxy Note 7, many buyers
will be left wondering what phone they should be switching to.

Here are finder.com.au's top picks for large screened, premium 2016 smartphones.

1. Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

If you want to stay with Samsung, the Galaxy S7 Edge is a great contender with
the same large, curved display screen as the Note 7 and a very similar overall
performance.

2. Huawei Mate 8

The Mate 8 has some decent features, a large screen along with excellent battery
life and performance. It also has a refined rounded design that's similar to the
Note 7's display.

3. Apple iPhone 7 Plus

So this isn't an Android option, but it's still one you should consider if a
large screen is what you're after. Be warned, not all storage variants of the
iPhone 7 Plus come in cheaper than the Note 7 on either an outright or contract
basis.

4. Google Pixel XL

If you're committed to Android, Google's upcoming Pixel XL might be more to your
tastes. It boasts Google's own in-built "Assistant" and a seriously sharp
camera. Pixel XL will be on sale from October 20.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OGO


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              608 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      Fraser Coast Chronicle (Queensland)

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

Still great Android phones on the market

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 182  words


WITH Samsung stopping sales and replacements of its Galaxy Note 7, many buyers
will be left wondering what phone they should be switching to.

Here are finder.com.au's top picks for large screened, premium 2016 smartphones.

1. Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

If you want to stay with Samsung, the Galaxy S7 Edge is a great contender with
the same large, curved display screen as the Note 7 and a very similar overall
performance.

2. Huawei Mate 8

The Mate 8 has some decent features, a large screen along with excellent battery
life and performance. It also has a refined rounded design that's similar to the
Note 7's display.

3. Apple iPhone 7 Plus

So this isn't an Android option, but it's still one you should consider if a
large screen is what you're after. Be warned, not all storage variants of the
iPhone 7 Plus come in cheaper than the Note 7 on either an outright or contract
basis.

4. Google Pixel XL

If you're committed to Android, Google's upcoming Pixel XL might be more to your
tastes. It boasts Google's own in-built "Assistant" and a seriously sharp
camera. Pixel XL will be on sale from October 20.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FFC


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              609 of 997 DOCUMENTS



          NewsMail and Rural Weekly (Wide Bay, Bundaberg, Queensland)

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

Still great Android phones on the market

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 182  words


WITH Samsung stopping sales and replacements of its Galaxy Note 7, many buyers
will be left wondering what phone they should be switching to.

Here are finder.com.au's top picks for large screened, premium 2016 smartphones.

1. Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

If you want to stay with Samsung, the Galaxy S7 Edge is a great contender with
the same large, curved display screen as the Note 7 and a very similar overall
performance.

2. Huawei Mate 8

The Mate 8 has some decent features, a large screen along with excellent battery
life and performance. It also has a refined rounded design that's similar to the
Note 7's display.

3. Apple iPhone 7 Plus

So this isn't an Android option, but it's still one you should consider if a
large screen is what you're after. Be warned, not all storage variants of the
iPhone 7 Plus come in cheaper than the Note 7 on either an outright or contract
basis.

4. Google Pixel XL

If you're committed to Android, Google's upcoming Pixel XL might be more to your
tastes. It boasts Google's own in-built "Assistant" and a seriously sharp
camera. Pixel XL will be on sale from October 20.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BNM


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              610 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Queensland Times (Ipswich)

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

Still great Android phones on the market

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 182  words


WITH Samsung stopping sales and replacements of its Galaxy Note 7, many buyers
will be left wondering what phone they should be switching to.

Here are finder.com.au's top picks for large screened, premium 2016 smartphones.

1. Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

If you want to stay with Samsung, the Galaxy S7 Edge is a great contender with
the same large, curved display screen as the Note 7 and a very similar overall
performance.

2. Huawei Mate 8

The Mate 8 has some decent features, a large screen along with excellent battery
life and performance. It also has a refined rounded design that's similar to the
Note 7's display.

3. Apple iPhone 7 Plus

So this isn't an Android option, but it's still one you should consider if a
large screen is what you're after. Be warned, not all storage variants of the
iPhone 7 Plus come in cheaper than the Note 7 on either an outright or contract
basis.

4. Google Pixel XL

If you're committed to Android, Google's upcoming Pixel XL might be more to your
tastes. It boasts Google's own in-built "Assistant" and a seriously sharp
camera. Pixel XL will be on sale from October 20.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IQT


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              611 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

Still great Android phones on the market

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 182  words


WITH Samsung stopping sales and replacements of its Galaxy Note 7, many buyers
will be left wondering what phone they should be switching to.

Here are finder.com.au's top picks for large screened, premium 2016 smartphones.

1. Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

If you want to stay with Samsung, the Galaxy S7 Edge is a great contender with
the same large, curved display screen as the Note 7 and a very similar overall
performance.

2. Huawei Mate 8

The Mate 8 has some decent features, a large screen along with excellent battery
life and performance. It also has a refined rounded design that's similar to the
Note 7's display.

3. Apple iPhone 7 Plus

So this isn't an Android option, but it's still one you should consider if a
large screen is what you're after. Be warned, not all storage variants of the
iPhone 7 Plus come in cheaper than the Note 7 on either an outright or contract
basis.

4. Google Pixel XL

If you're committed to Android, Google's upcoming Pixel XL might be more to your
tastes. It boasts Google's own in-built "Assistant" and a seriously sharp
camera. Pixel XL will be on sale from October 20.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              612 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Independent on Saturday (South Africa)

                               September 10, 2016
                                   E1 Edition

Worried about online privacy? That's just the way the cookies crumble

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 507 words


It is not a coincidence that when you have been googling south-east Asia, your
Facebook page is inundated with ads for holidays in Thailand.

Neither is it a sign from the retail gods that you need to buy the pair of shoes
that you've browsed once, when its image keeps popping up on your social media
accounts.

It's not that you've been cyberstalked, but the practice of retargeting - using
your internet browsing habits to track your preferences - is widely used by
companies to send you advertisements of products and services you've googled.

Rohan Isaacs, director at Norton Rose Fulbright said it was all done through the
use of cookies (a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in your web
browser) and tracking pixels (the basic unit of programmable colour on a
computer display).

"Pixels embedded within an advertising slot on a web page can access cookies
previously dropped on to your computer by the advertiser. These cookies give the
advertiser information about previous searches and browsing habits, enabling the
advertiser to target your preferences."

Isaacs said whether this was an invasion of privacy depended on one's point of
view.

"Services which obtain this information about you would argue that you have
consented to it. You aren't forced to use the service after all. Their privacy
policies invariably explain what they do, at least in general terms," he said.

Nathan Desfontaines, cyber security manager at KPMG agrees. "Privacy policies
are loosely explained. Websites tell us that they are using cookies and give us
an option to opt out by disabling cookies. But doing so means some features of a
website may not work."

Desfontaines also agrees that retargeting is not illegal. "But the problem is
that we are not given an option to decide if we want to opt in."

And for that reason, he said, this practice tested ethical borders and had the
potential to embarrass users.

"If a woman thinks she is pregnant, for example, and googles contraceptives or
abortion and then moves away from her desk. Then when these adverts pop up on
her screen everyone can see what she has been browsing," Desfontaines said.

"By using Google to browse the net you have automatically opted to be tracked if
you already use other Google unpaid services such as Gmail, Google Maps and
Google Drive."

"To access many of these services you need to log into a Google account. And as
long as you're logged in, Google knows exactly who you are and mines everything
you are doing within the Google environment for information about you," Isaacs
said.

"They use this information to monetise their services by selling advertisers the
abili-â[#x20ac]¨ty to target you through pixels and cookies... if the product is
free, you're the product."

Both Isaacs and Desfontaines agree retargeting is far from illegal because we
typically grant websites permission to track us and browsing habits on their own
don't generally constitute personal information.

But, if you don't want to be tracked, you can turn cookies off on your browser
setting or switch browsers.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NS


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              613 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on November 12 titled as "Curved
near-to-eye display"

LENGTH: 242  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,582,209 on
November 12, 2013, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Curved near-to-eye
display"

Inventors:  Amirparviz; Babak (Mountain View, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
display apparatus includes an array of microlenses disposed in or on a
substrate. In one embodiment, the apparatus includes scattering centers disposed
in or on the substrate and offset relative to the microlenses. The scattering
centers are positioned substantially at focal points of the microlenses such
that light incident upon a first side the substrate is scattered off of the
scattering centers and collimated by corresponding ones of the microlenses
before emission from the display apparatus. In another embodiment, the apparatus
includes light emitting pixels disposed in or on the substrate and offset
relative to the microlenses. The light emitting pixels are positioned
substantially at focal points of the microlenses such that non-collimated light
emitted from the light emitting pixels is collimated by the microlenses upon
emission from the display apparatus."

The patent was filed on November 3, 2010 Application no. 12/938,644

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              614 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Telecom Tiger

                      October 1, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Nexus 5X and 6P smartphones; key specifications you all want to know

LENGTH: 648  words


Nexus 5X smartphone comes with 5.2-inch full-HD (1080x1920 pixel) display with
Corning Gorilla Glass 3 while Nexus 6P smartphone comes with full-metal, built
out of aluminium, 5.7-inch QHD (1440x2560 pixel) display with Corning Gorilla
Glass 4

Google unveiled the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P smartphones on Tuesday in partnership
with LG and Huawei. And also the new Pixel C tablet was announced and new
Chromecast products, like the second-gen Chromecast dongle, Chromecast audio,
and the Chromecast app as well.

LG Nexus 5X smartphone: -

Nexus 5X smartphone comes with 5.2-inch full-HD (1080x1920 pixel) display with
Corning Gorilla Glass 3. It runs on Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS, powered by a
1.8GHz hexa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 SoC processor with 2GB LPDDR3 RAM.

Nexus 5X smartphone also has a 12.3-megapixel rear camera with 4K and
slow-motion (120fps) video recording, apart from an f/2.0 aperture, a
5-megapixel front camera with HDR+ and a f/2.0 aperture.

It will be available in 16GB inbuilt storage capacity and 32GB as well, which
cannot be expandable through microSD card.

For connectivity options smartphone has Nexus Imprint fingerprint sensor, and
USB Type-C ports, Google's Project Fi, the company's MVNO service. The
fingerprint sensor is claimed to recognise a print in less than 600
milliseconds, Android Sensor Hub. The hub will also power features such as
glance notifications, shown when the user picks up the phone and 2700mAh
battery, with Quick Charge support providing up to 3.8 hours of charge in 10
minutes.

Nexus 5X smartphone will be available in Carbon Black, Quartz White, and Ice
Blue color varaiants.

Huawei Nexus 6P smartphone: -

Nexus 6P smartphone comes with full-metal, built out of aluminium, 5.7-inch QHD
(1440x2560 pixel) display with Corning Gorilla Glass 4. It runs on Android 6.0
Marshmallow OS, powered by a 2GHz octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 v2.1 SoC
processor with 3GB LPDD4 RAM.

Nexus 6P smartphone also has a 12.3-megapixel rear camera with 4K and
slow-motion (240fps) video recording, apart from an f/2.0 aperture, a
8-megapixel front camera with HDR+ and a f/2.4 aperture.

It will be available in 16GB inbuilt storage capacity, 32GB, 64GB and 128GB as
well, which cannot be expandable through microSD card.

Nexus 6P smartphone also has dual front-ported speakers.

For connectivity options smartphone has Nexus Imprint fingerprint sensor, and
USB Type-C ports, Google's Project Fi, the company's MVNO service. The
fingerprint sensor is claimed to recognise a print in less than 600
milliseconds, Android Sensor Hub. The hub will also power features such as
glance notifications, shown when the user picks up the phone and 3450mAh battery
with Quick Charge support providing up to 7 hours of charge in 10 minutes.

Nexus 6P smartphone will be available in Frost White, Aluminium, and Graphite
color varaiants.

Both the smartphone will be available via the Google Store, with the Nexus 5X
priced starting from $379 for the 16GB model, and the Nexus 6P priced starting
from $499 for the 32GB model. Both devices will available on pre-order in
Germany, Ireland, Japan, the UK, and the US from the last Tuesday.

As per the Google online store, the Nexus 5X price in India will start at Rs.
31,900 (for 16GB inbuilt storage variant), while the 32GB inbuilt variant will
be priced at Rs. 35,900.

Nexus 6P price in India will start at Rs. 39,999 (for 32GB inbuil storage
variant), while the 64GB Nexus 6P is priced at Rs. 42,999.

But there's no word yet on the availability of the smartphones in India.

Both the smartphones will ship with a 90-day free subscription to Google Play
Music All Access, and get $50 of Google Play Credit. The new Nexus smartphones
also come with an extended warranty scheme that's valid for 2 years and covers
mechanical breakdown apart from accidental damage. It is priced at $69 and $89
for the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P respectively.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2015 Telecom Tiger, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              615 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Google Pixel vs Apple iPhone: It begins with the battle for the smartphone;
Almost close to a decade ago, at the Macworld Conference and Expo in San
Francisco, Steve Jobs took the mobile handset device world by storm with the
launch of the iPhone, a device that combined three products-- Delivered by
Feed43 service

BYLINE: Kritika Srivastava

LENGTH: 481  words


Almost close to a decade ago, at the Macworld Conference and Expo in San
Francisco, Steve Jobs took the mobile handset device world by storm with the
launch of the iPhone, a device that combined three products...

Almost close to a decade ago, at the Macworld Conference and Expo in San
Francisco, Steve Jobs took the mobile handset device world by storm with the
launch of the iPhone, a device that combined three products - a mobile phone, a
widescreen iPod with touch controls and an internet communications device. That
after various iterations is now the iPhone7 that was launched early this
September.

But, despite accounting for almost 16% - 225 million of the 1.4 billion
smartphones shipped globally - of the worldwide smartphone sales in 2015, tricky
times could be ahead for Apple. It has seen sales of the iPhone falling from
183.16 million devices in the first three quarters of 2015 to166.38 million in
2016. Revenues from iPhone sales too fell from $122.8 billion in 2015 to $ 108.5
in 2016 over the same period.

While that is an internal issue, things could get tricky for Apple with the
launch of the Google Pixel. The reasons are not hard to find. For starters, the
$ 75 billion Google has managed to achieve something that only Apple has till
now done - integrating devices and software to build a powerful ecosystem.
Samsung which developed the OS Tizen has not been able to ensure that it is an
integral part of devices.

The commonalities with Apple are just too many. While the Apple OS - iOS - is a
walled garden, the Google OS - Android is open source. Among the biggest users
of the Android OS is Samsung, the world's single largest smartphone vendor.
Apple also changed the smartphone paradigm by introducing apps through its App
Store. Google has the Play Store which has Android versions of all apps. Also,
since the Android user base is much higher, no app developer can ignore it.
While having many apps is good, it ended up eating real estate on the mobile
device. Apple solved that to a large extent by allowing users to tap into the
iCloud. Google has done just that. It is offering Pixel users unlimited cloud
storage for full-resolution photos and video.

With the world going in for artificial intelligence (AI), iPhone has the
voice-activated Siri, while Google has the Assistant. Very soon, Indian users
will be able to use the Hindi version of the Assistant. While the commonalities
end here, the advantage that Google has is that it can tap into its parent
Alphabet that has multiple projects going. This includes connected cars,
connected homes and Nest. What that means is that over the next 10 years, the
car that drives you - as opposed to you driving the car - will be powered by
software, and be powered by renewable energy.

The stakes are quite high for both. But, it's a battle that could lead to making
life a lot more easier for a lot of people.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              616 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                                October 28, 2016

Q3 Bottom Line: Google A Cash Machine, Amazon A Free Spender

BYLINE: REINHARDT KRAUSE

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 471 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/IT12-googl-102816-iStock.jpg

Amazon.com's (AMZN) free-spending ways are far from over, while Google parent
Alphabet (GOOGL) is a cash-flow machine.

That's the verdict from third-quarter financial results. Alphabet stock closed
0.3% higher at 819.56 on the stock market today, while shares in Amazon fell 5%
after the e-commerce giant late Thursday guided to higher spending on
fulfillment, digital content, cloud computing and India.

Google reported third-quarter EPS and revenue that topped expectations.

Alphabet will step up investments in cloud computing in 2017 as spending on
Pixel smartphones and artificial intelligence software also grows.

But its pullback on Google Fiber, a superfast broadband service, will lower
capital spending on that project.

The bottom line is that analysts expect Google to stay a cash-generating machine
even as it spends on online website YouTube and "Other Bets," such as life
sciences company Verily and smart home company Nest.

"Alphabet reported its strongest quarter ever of free cash flow which came in at
$7.3 billion," Citigroup analyst Mark May said in a report.

Google announced a new $7 billion stock repurchase plan. An earlier $5 billion
buyback ended in the June quarter.

IBD'S TAKE: Amazon and Facebook have been on IBD's Leaderboard of top growth
stocks. Alibaba Holdings and Domino's Pizza are other companies on the
Leaderboard. Facebook reports Q3 earnings on Nov. 2.

Google had $83 billion in cash on its balance sheet as of Sept. 30, up from
$78.4 billion in the June quarter.

Google signaled higher investments in the cloud business -- renting hardware and
software computing resources online to companies -- in 2017, as it takes on
Amazon and Microsoft (MSFT).

Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat, on its earnings call, said she expects Q4
marketing costs to rise following Google's September launch of Pixel-branded
smartphones and a smart home speaker that competes with Amazon's Echo. Porat
said the shift of Google's search business to mobile platforms from desktop will
continue to pressure gross margins.

"Core Google margins are unlikely to significantly expand near-term, in our
view, due in part to revenue mix shift to lower margin sources and to
investments in Google Cloud Platform, the Pixel phone and other growth
initiatives," May said.

Google's Q3 capital spending rose 4.4% from a year earlier to $2.4 billion.

Google said Q3 earnings per share minus items rose 23% to $9.06 from the
year-earlier period. Total revenue shot up 20% to $22.45 billion. Analysts
polled by Thomson Reuters had projected $8.63 EPS and $22.05 billion in sales.

RELATED:

Amazon Q3 Earnings Fall Short; Stock Slumps

This Is What Google Won't Tell You About YouTube's Financials

Alphabet Stock Flat After Google Hardware Launch Has Few Surprises

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              617 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Techtree.com

                     September 27, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

New Google Andromeda OS To Be Teased On October 4

BYLINE: Wrik Sen

LENGTH: 424  words


The new combined OS Andromeda might be announced at the Google event to be held
on October 4, alongside new flagship smartphone devices.

Andromeda, the purported new combined OS of Android and Chrome OS, just might
make a teaser appearance on Google's October 4 event. Though it will be held to
garner attention towards the Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones (running on Android
7.1 Nougat), which is another new branding from Google to replace the Nexus
series, it just could pull of a surprise teaser for the tech world with the
Andromeda OS, especially if Hiroshi Lockheimer, the SVP of Android, Chrome OS
and Play, is to be taken seriously. In a slightly cryptic tweet, he mentioned,
"We announced the 1st version of Android 8 years ago today. I have a feeling 8
years from now we'll be talking about Oct 4, 2016." The speculation for the same
had actually started by a report last year, which said that Google would be
unveiling a new OS, and whose other predictions turned out mostly true.

Like most new creations, the name for the new OS is being kept under wraps, and
is called Andromeda, as a code name. The aim of the OS is being pitched as
Google's effort to bring Android to the laptop and convertible devices, but
would ideally be successful, if they worked like Chrome OS interface. Hence, the
conclusion of assuming Andromeda to be a combo OS of Android and Chrome OS, is
not entirely wishful thinking.

[Representative Image via CultOfMac]

Other sources like 9to5Google, quoting unnamed sources, says that the Andromeda
is currently being tested on the 2 year old Nexus 9 tablet. There have actually
been several mentions of the combined OS on the Android 7.0 Nougat AOSP source
code. With the tests being conducted, SurfaceCompositionTest.java, which is
perhaps a graphics performance measurement tool, mentions that Andromeda would
need a performance score of 8.0 which is double to that of Android's 4.0.

However, while testing on the Nexus 9 tablet, the scores touched 8.8, which
hopefully is above Google's own requirement. Another slightly confusing mention
on the same platform says, "Detect Andromeda devices by having free-form window
management feature," which as it turns out, happens to be Android Nougat 7.0
salient features. However, till the October 4th event gets over, the speculation
on Android forums will continue to generate interest. Till then, Pixel is the
center of Google attention, where it seems they would bring back the 'restart'
option in Android. Would be interesting to see however, in which avatar it
comes.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              618 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                     February 27, 2016 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Google's PlaNet neural-network effort can identify details of photograph from
its pixels

BYLINE: Betty Laseter

LENGTH: 581  words


Google's new intelligent platform PlaNet has the ability to find out the
location at which a particular photograph has been taken. To find out location
of the image, the program just needs to see the image's pixels. The
deep-learning machine can outperform humans to identify location a street scene
or any indoor object from just an image.

The project is being led by Google computer-vision specialist Tobias Weyand, who
has explained as to how the researchers have trained a convolution neural
network with a massive dataset of images sourced from Google+ with geo-tag data
or image metadata.

The new platform uses multiple visual cues, including weather patterns,
vegetation, road markings, and architectural details in order to identify an
exact location in some cases. The system was developed by dividing the world
into a grid of 26,000.

In order to train the network, the search-engine giant, Google has used a
dataset of 126 million images from the web with Exif image metadata and then
split off 91 million images for training and 34 million images for validation. A
test was carried out in order to check how PlaNet has fared against 10
well-trained humans, the researchers found that PlaNet won 28 out of 50 rounds.

"One would expect that these cues, especially street signs, together with world
knowledge and common sense, should give humans an unfair advantage over PlaNet,
which was trained solely on image pixels and geolocations. Yet PlaNet was able
to outperform humans by a considerable", affirmed experts.

In order to improve its geolocation abilities, the researchers have trained the
machine to do sequence location, which is to exploit the way photos are taken in
sequences and the system uses the entire photo albums.

In the training and testing data, the method proved to be even more effective at
geolocation as researchers reported 50% higher performances than the
single-image model.

In a report published by the TechnologyReview, PlaNet trounced the humans.
nevertheless, humans are surprisingly good at this task. To help, they bring to
bear all kinds of knowledge about the world such as the type and language of
signs on display, the types of vegetation, architectural styles, the direction
of traffic, and so on. Humans spend a lifetime picking up these kinds of
geolocation cues.

"In total, PlaNet won 28 of the 50 rounds with a median localization error of
1131.7 km, while the median human localization error was 2320.75 km," say Weyand
and co. "[This] small-scale experiment shows that PlaNet reaches superhuman
performance at the task of geolocating Street View scenes."

A report published in the BusinessInsider said, a pair of Google employees have
built a system called PlaNet that attempts to pinpoint the location of where a
photograph was taken by analysing the pixels it contains.

"We think PlaNet has an advantage over humans because it has seen many more
places than any human can ever visit and has learnt subtle cues of different
scenes that are even hard for a well-travelled human to distinguish,"

"Google's latest product can tell where in the world a picture was taken just by
loooking at it. The program, named PlaNet, uses neural network technology to
analyse images and make educated estimates about where in the world they're
from," according to a news report published by Independent.

Google's researchers 'trained' the program by feeding it over 91 million Street
View pictures from around the world, along with their associated location data.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              619 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Telecom Tiger

                      December 21, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Huawei Google Nexus 6P Special Gold Edition 64 GB smartphone now available in
India for Rs 43999; pre-orders exclusively through Flipkart

LENGTH: 280  words


It runs on Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS. It is powered by a 2GHz octa-core
Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 v2.1 SoC with 3GB of LPDD4 RAM

Huawei has launched its new Nexus 6P Special Edition Gold colour variant in
India for Rs. 43,999. The smartphone is now available pre-order exclusively
through Flipkart, starting from December 21. The special edition smartphone
comes with pre-bundled back cover.

The 64 GB Nexus 6P Special Edition Gold color variant would be available with an
additional 10% Bank offer for 1st 3 days starting from December 21.

Huawei Google Nexus 6P Special Gold Edition 4G smartphone with USB Type-C, Nexus
Imprint fingerprint sensor, metal body, comes with 5.70-inch touchscreen display
with a resolution of 1440 pixels by 2560 pixels at a PPI of 518 pixels per inch
with Corning Gorilla Glass 4.

It runs on Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS. It is powered by a 2GHz octa-core
Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 v2.1 SoC with 3GB of LPDD4 RAM.

Huawei Google Nexus 6P Special Gold Edition 4G smartphone also has
12.3-megapixel rear camera with 4K and slow-motion (240fps) video recording,
apart from an f/2.0 aperture, a 8-megapixel front camera with HDR+ and a f/2.4
aperture. Its inbuilt storage is 64GB which is non expandable through microSD
card.

For connectivity options smartphone has 4G, Wi-Fi, GPS, Bluetooth, NFC and
sensors with 3450mAh battery with Quick Charge support providing up to 7 hours
of charge in 10 minutes and front-facing stereo speakers.

Huawei Google Nexus 6P Special Gold Edition 4G smartphone measures 159.30 x
77.80 x 7.30 and weighs 178.00 grams.

Huawei Google Nexus 6P Special Gold Edition 4G smartphone will be available in
Special Gold Edition colour variant.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2015 Telecom Tiger, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              620 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Business Mirror (Philippines)

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

Google introduces Pixel C tablet, new Nexus phones

LENGTH: 502  words


Google introduced a tablet-laptop hybrid last week, along with two new Nexus
phones and updates to Chromecast that together marked the company's first big
product launch since reorganizing under parent company Alphabet.

Emphasizing a push by the company to build its own in-house hardware, Google CEO
Sundar Pichai announced the new tablet, called Pixel C, that is powered with
Google's Android operating system and is likely to compete with Microsoft's
Surface and Apple's iPad Pro, all of which transform into laptop-like devices
with the addition of a keyboard.

There's no kickstand, said Andrew Bowers, a Google product director, as he
demonstrated how the lightweight keyboard magnetically attaches. I can hold it
by the tablet, I can hold it by the keyboard, I can hold it upside-down.

He said the 10.2-inch-screen device goes on sale in time for the holidays-$499
for the tablet and an additional $149 for the keyboard. The company also
introduced two new phones in its Nexus line, which is now five years old but has
been used as more of a showcase of Google's edgiest technology than a big market
mover.

But that could change, said the Google executives who revealed the 5.2-inch
Nexus 5X (starting at $379), the premium 5.7-inch Nexus 6P (starting at $499 and
made of aeronautical-grade anodized aluminum) and a back-to-back series of new
and updated features in the hotly anticipated but relatively low-key launch
event inside a photography studio near San Francisco's Mission District.

Both phones take advantage of one of Google's strengths-the artificial
intelligence and machine-learning capabilities of its latest version of Android,
named Marshmallow, which launches this week. Both phones are also able to use
Project Fi, Google's new wireless service (starting at $30 a month), and
fingerprint sensing to unlock the phone and use the Android Pay system for
buying items at store payment terminals.

GOOGLE'S NEW PRODUCTS

Android Marshmallow: The latest version of Google's mobile operating system will
be available on new model Nexus phones and eventually other Android-powered
phones. It includes an advanced version of the Google Now personal assistant.

Nexus 5X: Made by South Korea's LG Electronics, the 5.2-inch smartphone starts
at $379. It has a 12-megapixel camera, fingerprint sensor for locking and mobile
payments, a USB Type-C charging port.

Nexus 6P: Made by China's Huawei Technologies, the sleek, premium 5.7-inch
smartphone starts at $499. It has a 12.3-MP camera, fingerprint sensor for
locking and mobile payments, a USB Type-C charging port.

Pixel C: Google's first Android tablet ($499) also transforms into a laptop with
$149 magnetic keyboard attached.

The search giant's answer to Microsoft Surface and Apple's new iPad Pro.

Chromecast Audio: Along with updating its digital media playing Chromecast
plug-in stick, Google's media universe expands with the new Chromecast Audio
circular device-meant to resemble a vinyl record-that allows streaming music to
play from a home audio system.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Business Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              621 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 13, 2015 Monday

Google Inc (California) applies for US Patent titled as "VARIABLE RESOLUTION
SEAMLESS TILEABLE DISPLAY"

LENGTH: 241  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150097837 for US Patent, published on April 09, 2015, by Google Inc
(California), titled as "VARIABLE RESOLUTION SEAMLESS TILEABLE DISPLAY" for the
registration of patent.

Inventors: Jepsen; Mary Lou; (Sausalito, CA) ; Bastani; Behnam; (San Jose, CA)

Assignee:   Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA


According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
tileable display panel includes an illumination layer, a display layer, and a
screen layer. The display layer is disposed between the screen layer and the
lamp layer and includes pixelets separated from each other by spacing regions.
Each of the pixelets is positioned to be illuminated by lamp light from the
illumination layer and to project a magnified image sub-portion onto the
backside of the screen layer such that the magnified image sub-portions
collectively blend together to form a unified image on the screen layer which
covers the spacing regions on the display layer. Each of the pixelets includes
core pixels having a common size and a first separation pitch and peripheral
pixels surrounding the core pixels on two or more sides which provide a higher
image resolution in overlap regions on the screen layer when the magnified image
sub-portions overlap on the screen layer."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              622 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            October 16, 2016 Sunday
                               Statewide Edition

CNET

SECTION: SMARTER LIVING; D; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 485  words


iPad Pro (9.7-inch)

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: The new iPad Pro delivers a fast processor; a bright, antireflective
display; support for Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard accessories; better, louder
speakers and top-notch cameras, in the same exact body as the iPad Air 2.

The bad: A higher price, plus expensive accessories. Less RAM and a slightly
slower processor than the 12.9-inch iPad Pro. iOS still limits overall
flexibility of this iPad.

The cost: $531.85 to $646.80

The bottom line: It's still not a full-fledged laptop killer, but the new
9.7-inch iPad Pro is the best iPad ever made - a near-perfect balance of tablet
power and portability.

Google Pixel C

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: The Google Pixel C has a slim, compact aluminum build that feels
sturdy. Its optional Bluetooth keyboard is equally solid and doubles as the
tablet's cover, and it has a powerful, long-running battery. The tablet runs the
latest version of Android and its performance is lightning fast. The screen is
sharp, bright and colorful, and gaming graphics look stellar.

The bad: It's a bit heavy when attached to the keyboard (which is sold
separately). Big-name apps and games still tend to hit iOS before Android.

The cost: $678.00

The bottom line: The Google Pixel C is the best Android tablet money can buy.

Microsoft Surface Pro 4

CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Very good)

The good: The Surface Pro 4 fits a larger screen with a higher resolution into a
slightly slimmer body than last year's model. The pen and keyboard cover are
also improved, and this is one of the first mobile systems shipping with Intel's
latest processors.

The bad: Microsoft still refuses to include the Type Cover keyboard by default,
forcing a separate purchase. Battery life still isn't enough for a full day.

The cost: $688.36 to $899.00

The bottom line: A host of small refinements cements the Surface Pro 4's
position as the best-in-class Windows tablet - as long as you're prepared to pay
extra for the required keyboard cover accessory.

iPad Pro (12.9 inch)

CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Very good)

The good: The new iPad Pro is the biggest and fastest Apple tablet to date. The
pressure-sensitive Pencil stylus offers superior sketching and drawing, and the
Pro's gorgeous giant screen and quad speakers are ideal for split-screen apps,
multitasking and watching movies.

The bad: At launch, very few apps are currently optimized to take advantage of
the iPad Pro's full potential. Its large size makes it less portable than other
iPads. Once you've paid for the Pencil and keyboard peripherals, the iPad Pro
costs as much as a good laptop, but lacks its flexibility.

The cost: $707.85 to $799.00

The bottom line: The iPad Pro is a dream machine for graphic designers and media
mavens, but this elegant tablet needs more optimized apps and accessories before
it can fully achieve laptop-killer status.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              623 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Pakistan: Archos Releases Low Priced 97 Carbon Android Tablet

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Aug. 3 -- Archos has been making several budget products since quite a
time now and the 97 Carbon is no exception, which is priced at $250 at the time
of announcement.

As evident by the name, 97 Carbon has got a 9.7 inch touchscreen with a
resolution of 1024 x 768 pixels.

Here are the rest of the specs:

9.7 inch IPS technology display with a resolution of 1024 x 768 pixels

1.1 cm thick aluminium body

Weight: 618 grams

Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich

1Ghz single-core ARM Cortex A8 processor with 1Gb RAM

16 Gb internal storage with a microSD card slot

Front and rear facing cameras

USB/HDMI ports

Access to Google Play Store

The tablet also comes pre-loaded with Microsoft's Office Suite Viewer for
viewing MS Office files. At 97 Carbon Tablet's announcement the Archos CEO said:

"We wanted to introduce a new series that not only combines affordability with a
new slim design, but features the best that Google has to offer. With the
Elements series we have done just that. It's the perfect balance of hardware,
software optimization and content through the Google Play ecosystem."

Archos' 97 Carbon competes with the Google Nexus 7 tablet which comes at the
same $250 price tag for the 16Gb flavor while the 8Gb model can be found for as
low as $200.

The Archos tablet's biggest advantage against the Nexus 7 is it's considerably
larger 9.7 inch screen which puts it in the same 10 inch league as the 'premium'
Ipad.

It will become an even better deal than it already is if Archos manages to
update it to Android 4.1 Jelly Bean quickly and the $250 price tag will be
justified even further.

Here's the spec comparison between the Archos 97 Carbon and the Google Nexus 7:

Archos 97 Carbon Google Nexus 7

Weight 618g 340g

Thickness 11.4mm 10.5mm

Operating System Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich Android 4.1 Jelly Bean

Display size 9.7 inch 7 inch

Resolution 1024 x 768 pixels 800 x 1280

Memory 16Gb 8/16Gb

Card slot Yes No

Processor 1Ghz single-core 1.3Ghz Quad-core

RAM 1Gb 1Gb

Rear camera Yes No

Front-facing camera Yes 1.2 mp, 720p HD

Price $250 $200-8Gb/$250-16Gb

The Archos 97 Carbon did managed to beat Nexus 7 in several categories but it
disappoints in the CPU department thanks to its paltry single-core 1Ghz
processor. Still, both of them are quite good tablets especially if we consider
their prices and their features.

We are anticipating that online stores in Pakistan are likely to enlist 97
Carbon tablet on their charts soon Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              624 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            December 12, 2008 Friday

Internet Portals Competing for Digital Map Marketing

BYLINE: By Kim Tong-hyung

LENGTH: 748 words


Staff Reporter

Internet companies are competing to bring the real world to the desktop, but it
bears further watching whether the new digital maps will be a license to print
money.

The country's Internet industry is ruled by the big, green giant NHN, which
controls nearly 80 percent of the search market through Naver (www.naver.com),
and smaller players are now hoping that an early start in map services will help
them gain a foothold.

Naver can perhaps afford to be patient, waiting for the market to grow before
using its dominant presence to pounce on it. However, NHN chief executive Choi
Hwi-young recently told reporters that the company won't be too far behind,
expecting to release its map services in January or February, and as usual,
doesn't expect to settle for second place.

"We are confident that our map services will change the game that is currently
led by Daum, Google and Yahoo," Choi said. Although Choi declined to detail the
specifics of Naver's map service, industry sources say that NHN has already
signed a deal with a Taiwanese company to source satellite imagery.

Naver is already offering "Photo Street," which provides street images of
popular urban areas and allows viewers to directly call selected shops through
the site's Web phone. The portal is expected to blend its street view services
with the Web map once it is launched.

"The resolution of photomaps are undoubtedly important, but we are more
concerned over how to interweave the maps with our existing services and improve
user experience," Choi said.

It's obvious that Korea's leading Internet companies believe that digital maps
and interlaid location-based services will provide significant opportunities for
growth.

Although the portals are racing to roll out maps with crystal-sharp views and
various interactive features, they seem to have different ideas about the best
way to generate money from their products.

Daum (www.daum.net), the No. 2 portal, is desperate to muster a serious
challenge against Naver and is convinced that the quality of its detailed
photographic map sets the industry bar.

The map, which will be introduced by the end of the year, provides a resolution
of 50 centimeters per pixel, better than the Korean version of Google Maps that
range between 50 centimeters to 1 meter per pixel.

The company says it is capable of enhancing picture qualities up to 25
centimeters per pixel, once the government eases its regulations on the
resolution of aerial photography that is current limited to 50 centimeters per
pixel.

Kim Min-oh, who heads Daum's local service team, says the company expects the
map service to generate sales right from the start in 2009.

The company also sees an opportunity to collect licensing revenue as it plans to
sell its virtual maps to government and business clients, such as companies
developing car-navigation devices.

"We are confident that our leadership in quality will allow us to create profit
in other markets," said Kim.

Paran (www.paran.com), which benefits from being a unit of telecommunications
giant KT, said its Web services won't pale against Daum's, as it also boasts a
50-centimeter resolution. However, the company's idea of a business model looks
somewhat different from that of its rival.

Paran isn't planning to sell its map data to other companies, but is looking to
develop it as a platform for advertisements.

Collaborating with online map developer, G-Ad Solution, Paran is looking to
integrate video advertisements to the images of buildings provided in the maps
of Seoul and some other big cities. The company is the only portal that is
providing video in its "street view" services, which provide users panoramic,
ground-level views of a selected area.

Google (www.google.co.kr), which recently released the Korean version of Google
Maps, and Yahoo! Korea (www.yahoo.co.kr), which became the first domestic portal
to offer virtual maps earlier this year, are focused more on providing an open
platform for users to build and enrich digital content.

Like Paran, both Google and Yahoo will allow businesses to list their shops and
other information on the photomaps, as they currently do with their graphic
maps, for free.

The service model is already drawing significant interest, with officials from
more than 300 companies participating in Google's "Google Map Partner Day" event
earlier this week. The portals hope that the significant participation from
businesses will result in driving up traffic, which means more search revenue.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              625 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                          September 30, 2015 Wednesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Release dates and prices for the newest Google devices

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 379 words


During a special event held September 29, Google presented two new smartphones,
a tablet and a second-generation Chromecast key along with a version dedicated
for audio. Here's what you need to know about getting your hands on Google's
latest devices as they roll out to store shelves through the end of 2015.

The new Chromecast

Redesigned both inside and out, the new Chromecast device is round and colorful.
The product still allows users to cast multimedia content on HD television
screens from their favorite device. It's compatible with the most recent Wi-Fi
standards and includes support for video game streaming. The dongle remains
compatible with a number of video applications from YouTube to Netflix.

The new Chromecast key is now available for US $35.

Chromecast Audio

The idea behind Chromecast Audio is to broadcast your music, follow your
favorite podcasts or listen to the radio from a computer, a smartphone or a
tablet through any speaker or hi-fi stereo system. The audio stick is compatible
with the most popular music streaming applications including Spotify, Deezer and
Google Play Music.

Chromecast Audio is available for US $35.

The Nexus 5X

The first smartphone to operate under Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) was created in
collaboration with LG. The 5.2-inch smartphone boasts a fingerprint sensor, a
12.3 megapixel camera and a USB Type-C port. The device is also compatible with
Android Pay, currently available only in the United States.

The Nexus 5X will be available October 2015 starting from US $379.

The Nexus 6P

The aluminum smartphone designed by Huawei is a first for the Nexus range. The
5.7-inch smartphone contains the latest version of the Qualcomm Snapdragon 810
processor and includes nearly all of the same characteristics of the Nexus 5X.

The Nexus 6P will be available in November 2015 starting from US $499.

The Pixel C

Inspired by the Pixel Chromebook (aluminum hardware, USB Type-C port and led
band) the 10.2-inch tablet (2560x1800 pixels) has positioned itself as a
potential rival of the Microsoft Surface range and the latest iPad Pro. A
separate keypad is available for purchase to transform the tablet into a hybrid
device, the classic PC alternative.

The Pixel C tablet will be available before the year-end holidays starting at US
$499.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              626 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on December 2, titled as
"Detection and suppression of flicker in a sequence of images"

LENGTH: 267  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,903,171, on
December 2, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Detection and
suppression of flicker in a sequence of images"

Inventors:  Volcker; Bjorn (Bromma, SE), Kleijn; Willem Bastiaan (Lower Hutt,
NZ)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "The
invention relates to a method, device and computer-program product for detection
of undesired temporal variations (flicker) in a sequence of video frames. In one
embodiment, frame-wise luminance means are compared with a reference level and
the crossing frequency is compared with expected variation frequencies, such as
frequencies associated with an illumination frequency through aliasing. The
crossings count can be refined by introducing a latency zone around the
reference level. In case of a positive detection of an undesired temporal
variation, there is further provided a correction method, device and
computer-program product using cumulated distribution functions. The visual
detriment of flicker-induced saturation of pixels is alleviated either by
brightening non-saturated pixels or by replacing the saturated pixels by
randomly sampled values in accordance with a reference cumulated distribution
function. The invention provides embodiments suitable for real-time processing
of streamed video sequences."

The patent was filed on February 6, 2010 Application no. 13/521,144

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              627 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                          November 20, 2013 Wednesday

Google Nexus 5 with KitKat 4.4 arrives in India, Nexus 7 in line

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: CHENNAI


CHENNAI, Nov. 20 -- After a long wait, Google finally brings Nexus 5 to India.
The device comes with the new Android 4.4 OS. It has some remarkable features,
but nothing that sets it apart.

It comes with a 4.95-inch full-HD IPS display, a resolution of 1080x1920 pixels
and a pixel density of 445ppi. The Google Nexus 5 also sports Corning Gorilla
Glass 3.

The Nexus 5 is powered by a 2.26GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor
along with a 2GB of RAM and a 2300mAh battery.

The 16GB variant is out in the Indian markets and is priced at Rs 29,999. The 32
GB variant will be available either by the end of this month or early December.

However, the Google play store still lists the models, under the 'Coming soon'
category. The exact date is not known yet.

The launch date of Nexus 7, is also yet to be announced.

Also read

Nexus 5 arrives; to hit Indian markets soon

Finding your way through a Nexus 5

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              628 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on January 20 titled as
"Generating a road network based on satellite imagery"

LENGTH: 251  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,938,094, on
January 20, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Generating a road
network based on satellite imagery"

Inventors:  Kehl; Roland (Dubendorf, CH), Heiler; Matthias (Zurich, CH), Bakir;
Gokhan Hasan (Zurich, CH)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
system and method for generating a road network based on satellite imagery.
Plural pixels corresponding to satellite imagery of a region are obtained. For
each of the plural pixels, a probability value corresponding to the probability
that the pixel belongs within the road network is calculated. A grayscale image
is formed based on the calculated probability values. Plural curves are produced
based on the grayscale image, wherein the producing of each curve includes
positioning a shape on the grayscale image so that an average intensity of the
grayscale image covered by the shape exceeds a preset threshold, moving the
shape about the grayscale image while the average intensity is maintained, and
tracking the movement of the shape to produce the curve. A planar-connected
graph is generated by connecting at least portions of the plural curves. The
planar-connected graph corresponds to the road network."

The patent was filed on April 13, 2012 Application no. 13/446,948

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              629 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             April 4, 2013 Thursday

Which is the best tablet for reading?

BYLINE: Jack Schofieldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1119 words

ABSTRACT

Nomad doesn't want an e-reader but he would like to buy a tablet for long hours
of reading, particularly PDF files. Which one would be best?

FULL TEXT

Tablets are becoming popular as e-readers, for books, documents, PDFs etc. I'm
wondering if there is an ideal screen resolution for long hours of reading text.
Will the difference in ppi of the Google Nexus 10 and Apple iPad 4 produce a
different reading experience? In particular, can the lower resolution Atom-based
tablets with detachable keyboards such as the Lenovo ThinkPad 2 (with stylus!)
compete with them for reading PDFs?I'd like to reproduce a paper-based reading
experience, though I don't want an e-reader. I'm not an Apple fan, but I'm
willing to buy an iPad if it offers the best reading experience.Nomad

There is no "best" tablet for all kinds of reading in all kinds of situations,
which can range from sitting out in the midday sun to reading in bed. Also,
people have different responses to different types and sizes of screen,
especially when reading for long periods. For example, I find very bright
screens look really impressive for the first 10 or 15 minutes, but they soon
become tiring, whereas I can comfortably read a dimmer, less-contrasty screen
for longer. Others may find the opposite applies.

In general, I think that e-readers provide the most book-like experience when
reading for longer periods, and the front-lit Amazon Paperwhite Kindle (which I
reviewed in Technophile) is by some distance the best of the bunch. However, I
didn't find it that much better than my Google Nexus 7 for casual reading. Also,
its small monochrome screen is not the best for every type of material. For
example, if I wanted to read an illustrated magazine or a travel book then I'd
prefer a bigger colour screen, like the one on the Apple iPad 4.

When it comes to PDF files, it depends on the content. You can read PDF's that
are mostly text on a Kindle, but PDFs that contain a lot of diagrams or colour
illustrations will look better on a large, colour screen, especially if you need
to jump backwards and forwards. The Kindle is designed for page-by-page reading.

The Kindle Paperwhite e-reader is better than tablets at handling a wide range
of lighting situations. Tablets are hard or sometimes impossible to read in
bright sunlight, and their glossy screens can pick up annoying reflections. The
Paperwhite also wins for being as small and light as a book. Larger tablets are
much more fatiguing to hold for long periods.

Tablet choices

If you'd still prefer a tablet, the Google Nexus 10 (made by Samsung) wins on
its very high resolution display: 2560 x 1600 pixels, or 299 pixels per inch
(ppi). Considered in isolation, this should give the best results when reading
PDF files. Unfortunately, that doesn't necessarily mean you will find the
difference significant at normal viewing distances, as opposed to peering at the
screen from close range. The only way to find out is to try one.

The iPad 4 has a similar resolution - 2048 x 1536 pixels or 264ppi - and comes
at a slightly higher price, but I can't see that it has any advantage over the
Nexus 10 for reading PDF files. It does, of course, have a massively better
supply of tablet apps, if you are happy to buy into the Apple ecosystem. Not
many Android apps do a good job of exploiting 10in screens.

Otherwise, in terms of size, resolution and price, your best choice might be the
Kindle Fire HD. Its 8.9in screen is not that much smaller than an iPad (9.7in),
and it has a resolution of 1920 x 1200 pixels or 254ppi. You lose access to the
Android marketplace, now called Google Play, and the user interface is somewhat
dumbed down, but it's good value for £225.

By all means have a look at a Nexus 10: you may well find you love it. It was
Kate Bevan's choice in her recent Technophile tablet comparison review, which
includes a handy table of tablet specs. If not, you can get both a Kindle
Paperwhite (£109) and an 8.9in Kindle Fire HD for about the same price as a
Nexus 10.

Windows tablets

The main argument for buying a tablet such as the Atom-based Lenovo ThinkPad 2
is that it does double duty as both a touch-screen tablet and a Windows 8 laptop
(or triple duty if you use the active digitising pen). I've not actually seen
the ThinkPad 2, but I have had my hands on similar machines from Acer, Asus,
Dell and Microsoft, and I've also tried other ThinkPads such as the Carbon X1,
so I'm confident it will do the job. Although the resolution is limited to 1366
x 768 pixels (155ppi), this becomes a "retina screen" (you can't see individual
pixels) at a viewing distance of 22in/56cm (see isthisretina.com). Text is very
readable, thanks to Microsoft's ClearType, and you also get access to Windows'
vast collection of good free software.

However, Windows PC screens vary a lot, so it would also be a good idea to try
the ThinkPad 2 if you can. From the Windows8 tablets I've tried, the screen on
the Microsoft Surface RT was exceptionally good for reading, while the screens
on the others were average. If you wouldn't be happy reading PDFs on an ordinary
£350-ish Windows 7 laptop, you won't be happy reading PDFs on one of these.

The drawback with most Windows 8 tablets is the Atom processor: usually the
1.8GHz dual-core Atom Z2670, code-named Cedar Trail. My first thought was that
it's surprisingly nippy for an Atom, compared with the older versions found in
most netbooks. My second thought was that it's still slower than I'd like for
running real Windows programs. This is a somewhat unfair comparison, because you
can't see how badly they'd run on Apple and Android tablets. Still, most people
buying Windows 8 tablets expect them to run full Windows applications, not just
"modern" (Metro-style) apps.

The Atom's advantages are that it's cheap and it provides long battery life.
This makes it competitive with the ARM-based chips used in Android tablets. But
if you don't need something now, it might be worth waiting for the next version,
code-named Bay Trail. This should appear in time for Christmas.

Windows 8 works really well on touch-screen tablets, once you get the hang of
the odd half-dozen swipes. They're obviously not as small as 7in tablets or 6in
e-readers, but they're competitive with larger tablets: the ThinkPad 2, for
example, weighs 585g (1.29lbs), which is less than a Nexus 10 (603g) or iPad 4
(652g). There's still a shortage of good touch-tablet apps in the Windows Store,
but full-strength web access plus the wealth of old Windows software and
peripherals make up for that. In sum, they're pretty good value if you don't
need an iPad. However, if you don't really need a new laptop, the Nexus 10 and
Kindle Fire HD are much cheaper options.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              630 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                    Trak.in

                    September 30, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Google Launches 5 new Devices - Nexus 6P, Nexus 5X, 2nd Gen Chromecast,
Chromecast Audio & Pixel C

BYLINE: Editorial Staff

LENGTH: 838  words


At an event yesterday, Google announced launch of 5 new devices. The premium
Smartphone Nexus 6P, Mid-range phone Nexus 5X, 2nd Gen Chromecast, Chromecast
Audio & a tablet-Laptop combo Pixel C. While the Nexus 6P and 5X phone launch
was very much expected, the three other devices were pleasant surprise for the
audiences worldwide!

Let us look at each of these devices in more detail:

Nexus 6P Smartphone

The Nexus 6P is arguably the most premium and polished smartphone to be launched
by Google. The phone has been developed in partnership with Huawei

The smartphone has a smaller 5.7-inch screen compared to its predecessor, but
features high-resolution WQHD (2560X1440) AMOLED display with 518 ppi color
depth and front-facing stereo speakers - all housed in a contoured aluminum
body. This all-metal design phone comes with newest Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS.

Under the hood Nexus 6P is powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 v2.1, 2.0 GHz
Octa-core 64-bit processor coupled with Adreno 430 GPU. The phone has 3GB of RAM
(Most people were expecting this to be 4GB RAM) and 3,450 mAh battery that
supports fast charging.

With just 7.3mm thickness, Nexus P is also one of the slimmest phones. However,
at 178 grams the all-metal body does bring some additional weight in your hands.
The phone comes in 32GB, 64GB and 128GB variants

The camera on this phone is expected to be the best compared to all previous
Nexus phones. The 6P comes with a 12.3 megapixel rear and 8mp front snapper! The
camera supports IR assisted laser focus and can record 4K and slow motion
videos!

Price:32Gb for $499, 64GB for $549 and 128GB for $649 (In India prices start
from Rs. 39,999 for 32GB)

Availability: While pre-orders in US have already started, it is expected that
Google will extend it other markets like India in coming weeks

Nexus 5X Smartphone

The Nexus 5X is the smaller and cheaper version of 6P with specifications that
are notch below. The phone has been developed in partnership with LG.

The smartphone has a 5.2-inch screen featuring Full HD (1920X1080) LCD display
with 423 ppi color depth and Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection - however,
unlike 6P it has injection molded polycarbonate body. This phone too comes with
newest Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS.

Under the hood Nexus 5X is powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 1.8 GHz hexa-core
64-bit processor coupled with Adreno 418 GPU. The phone has a lower 2GB of RAM
(This should have been be 3GB RAM) and 27,00 mAh battery that supports fast
charging too.

At 7.9mm thickness5X is thicker than 6P, however, it is much lighter at 136
grams due to its poly-carbonate body. The phone comes in 16GBand 32GB variants
only

While all other specifications are notch lower on 5X, the camera remains the
same as in case of 6P!

Price:16Gb for $379, 32GB for $429 (In India prices start from Rs. 31,999 for
16GB)

Availability: While pre-orders in US have already started, it is expected that
Google will extend it other markets like India in coming weeks

The New Chromecast

Chromecast has revamped its shape and form in it's second avatar. It is no more
a USB stick like device. It now has a circular body and comes in bright colors.
Google has said that the new Chromecast will offer higher resolution content and
much faster streaming rates. So, you can see your videos much clearer and
without much of buffering. It casts 1080P full HD videos by default, if
available.

Not only that, the new Chromecast (https://store.google
.com/product/chromecast_2015) connects much faster to the TV through its fast
play feature. The device is improved in all other aspects as well such as
improved content discovery, universal search for apps and boasts of better Wi-Fi
strength

We cannot wait to get our hands on the new Chromecast

Price:$35 in the US

Availability: There is no mention of when it will be available in India or other
countries than in US

Chromecast Audio

Chromecast Audio essentially makes any normal audio speakers wireless on to
which you can cast audio from any mobile device. Just connect Chromecast Audio,
and cast your music onto the speakers.

Chromecast Audio works with iPhone, iPad and Android devices, plus Chromebook,
Mac, and Windows laptops.

Price:$35 in the US

Availability: There is no mention of when it will be available in India or other
countries than in US

Pixel C

A completely new product, Pixel C is Google's first Tablet-cum-laptop offering.
The Pixel C does have some great specifications as well. The device runs on
Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS and has a 10.2-inch display with 2560x1800p
resolution and 500 nits brightness.

Under the hood it has a quad-core Tegra X1 processor with 3GB RAM. As far as the
storage goes, it comes in 32GB and 64GB variants. Surprisingly, the keyboard
does not come with the tablet, and needs to be purchased separately.

In our view given the cost, Pixel C is not something that many buyers would
really buy.

Price:$499 for 32GB, $599 for 64G. $149 for keyboard

Availability: No Official launch date announced as yet, and is expected to be
available this Holiday season

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2015 Trak.in, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              631 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     October 16, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Motorola build Google Nexus 6: Top 6 features and specifications

LENGTH: 518  words


Google finally unveiled the much rumored Nexus 6 Smartphone, in hardware
partnership with Motorola. This is the first Nexus device to come with a massive
5.96-inch display with 2K display resolution, and also gets Android's newest 5.0
Lollipop operating system.

The device is priced at $649 (INR 40,000 approximately) and will be available in
store beginning November, which is in line with the latest report on Forbes. In
that price, the Nexus 6 packs in impressive specifications and here are six such
specifications and features that make it a powerful device.

Design: Speaks the new Moto X's language

The Nexus 6 is a giant Smartphone which takes design cues from Motorola's Nexus
X second generation version. It features a similar metal RIM around the sides as
well as gets a circular flash ring as was seen on the new Moto X. Also, like
other Motorola new Smartphones this one too gets a dimpled Motorola logo.

A giant leap over Galaxy Note 4

This phone sports an almost 6-inch QHD display which accommodates 3840x2160
pixels at a pixel density of 493 pixels per inch, that is the better than the
1440x2560 pixels display resolution based Samsung Galaxy Note 4 which debuted in
India a couple of days back, and the LG G3 which was launched in India in the
middle of this year.

The display gets Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection and offers 16:9 aspect
ratio. With such high resolution and pixel density, the display should be a
delight for viewer.

A powerhouse

The phone is powered by 2.7GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 quad-core processor which
incorporates Adreno 420 GPU, which also powered the LG G3 and Samsung's Galaxy
Note 4. This Snapdragon processor is expected to deliver smooth performance of
the devices as well as impressive low level graphics performance, and result in
good results even with such a high definition display. The processor is paired
with 3GB of RAM to enhance the device's performance and has  been launched in
32Gb and 64GB storage options, which is a lot for a smartphone, however could
have be even better with microSD card support.

Photographer's delight

The newest Nexus smartphone adorns a 13-megapixel rear camera with optical image
stablisation. It comes with f/2.0 lens and is capable of shooting videos at 4K
resolution. The phone also gets a 2-megapixel front facing camera with 720p
video recording capabilities.

Flavoured with the Lollipop

The Nexus 6 is powered by the latest Android 5.0 Lollipop that was launched
along with the Nexus devices. The software is obviously one of the major
attractions of Nexus devices, as these get direct software support from Google.

As far as its software features are concerned the newest OS version comes with a
new design and improved UI that offers a playful and colorful look. The new OS
is designed to be flexible, to work on all Android devices, and can be
customized for the user as the user finds it fit.

Monster with monsterous battery

Nexus 6 packs a 3,220mAh battery and includes what Motorola calls as its Turbo
Charger, which can offer a quick burst of power by giving six hours of battery
life in just a 15-minutes-battery charge!

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              632 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 8, 2015 Tuesday

This may be the agenda for Google CEO Sundar Pichai's India visit

SECTION: TECH NEWS

LENGTH: 291 words


Google CEO Sundar Pichai is scheduled to visit India next week. This will be
Chennai-born Pichai's first visit to India since he took over as CEO of the
restructured Google in August.

While the agenda of Pichai's visit has not been made public, the invites sent by
the company hint at launch of the next version of Google's affordable Android
One smartphones.

"At Google we believe that technology can change people's lives for the better.
Indians are coming online at an astonishing rate with affordable smartphones.
These new users have a completely fresh view on what the Internet has to offer.
Please block your date for an event with Google as we outline our vision for
these users," says the Google press invite which appears to be in tandem with
the company's vision for Android One.

In July Lava, which was phase 2 partner for Google's Android One initiative,
rolled out Pixel V1 in July for over Rs 11,000 almost double the price of the
first handsets launched a year ago.

In the second version Google shifted focus to people who have used smartphones
before with higher device price and better specs of Pixel V1, but it failed to
enthuse consumers and shipments dropped sharply in September and October,
according to data from Cybex Exim.

Android One represents Google's push to lower the prices of smartphones in less
developed parts of the world where computers are considered a luxury. Google
consults with device makers to build cheap phones that can still run the latest
version of its Android software.

Google, Facebook and other internet companies are trying to get more people
online in places in emerging markets so that they can expand their audience and
eventually sell more digital advertising.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              633 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                     October 31, 2015 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

If Google merges Chrome OS and Android it could become a game changing merger

BYLINE: Joseph Garcia

LENGTH: 224  words


Google could merge Chrome OS and Android, according to a report by the Wall
Street Journal. The game changing merger of Google could take place next year,
but it is not certain yet.

Android will familiarize better to PCs. The two of the operating systems will
become a single new operating system by 2017. Google supposedly aims to boast an
early version of it may be next year.

Sundar Pichai was put to responsibility of both Chrome and Android OS back in
2013. If this was the reason to consider, then both the operating systems would
have grow closer earlier, taking into account that the same person has gained
more power as the CEO of Alphabet's Google. Former vice president of engineering
for just Android, Hiroshi Lockheimer, gained helm for Chrome as well, showing
that Google's constant interest in the two platforms rising more consistent.

Earlier, Pixel C used to provide a symbol of the best way to experience Chrome
OS. On the other hand, the latest Pixel device will give a finest Android
experience. Android apps though slowly still are making their approach into
Chrome OS. Similarly, Chrome tabs have been given more important position on
Android devices.

Assumption has prevailed for years, but the report from The Wall Street Journal
comes as news and not as an editorial. Still nothing can be said as long as it
happens in real.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              634 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 24, 2005

Technology: Inside IT: Ask Jack: jack.schofield@guardian.co.uk

SECTION: Guardian Technology Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 822 words


Pixel prices

I have seen a digital camera with 5 megapixels for £250. The next model up, with
8 megapixels, is £400. Is it worth paying £150 for the extra megapixels?

Toby Wood

Jack Schofield replies: Other things being equal, more megapixels will produce a
more detailed picture, but they never are. For example, some pixels are bigger
than others, because the camera's CCD sensor is bigger. Some pixels have a
different shape, and the ones in Fujifilm's Super CCD sensors are octagonal
rather than square. This isn't a bad idea, but it inflates the pixel count
faster than it increases the picture quality. Some pixels are "interpolated"
using software that guesses what a pixel could contain based on the pixels next
to it, so a 3 megapixel sensor can produce a 6 megapixel image. If you go by the
pixel count, check the sensor size, and make sure you are comparing like with
like.

Digital cameras take pictures that fit PC screens. If your screen is set to 1024
x 768, then simple multiplication gives 786,432 pixels or 0.75 megapixels. A 5
megapixel camera will take pictures that are up to 2592 x 1944 pixels, while an
8 megapixel camera will probably take pictures at 3264 x 2448. This is only a
26% improvement from a camera that has 60% more pixels and, in your case, costs
60% more. To get an image that was twice as good as a 5 megapixel camera, you
would need four times as many pixels, i.e. a 20 megapixel camera.

Obviously you don't need many megapixels to fill a screen, but they are
important when printing images. For example, if you want to make a 10 x 8 inch
print, and print at 200 pixels per inch (ppi), then you need 2000 x 1600 pixels,
or 3 megapixels. Printing at a higher resolution of 300ppi, you need 3000 x 2400
pixels or 7 megapixels. Make your own calculation of how many pixels you need
based on the size of the pictures you print and the quality of your printer.

In general, beyond 5 megapixels, the extra pixels are of diminishing value for
most people, and the difference between 5 and 8 is marginal. The benefits could
easily be swamped by other factors, such as the quality of the lens and the
manner in which the CCD image is converted into a JPeg. It is therefore
essential to read reviews at Digital Photography Review (www.dpreview.com) and
perhaps DCP Review (www.dcresource.com) before deciding. However, bear in mind
that any pixels you don't capture when you take the picture are gone for ever.

Getting noticed

How do you get a website "spotted" by search engines? I mean spotted, as opposed
to being high up the list.

Nick Peed

JS: The web is a network of interlinked pages and search engines use robot
"spiders" to crawl it. Any website will be found if it has incoming links. The
more incoming links there are, the sooner a site will be noticed and indexed, so
get people to link to your site. Most search engines also allow you to submit
your site's address or URL: Google's is at www. google.com/addurl/. It is also
beta testing a way to submit sitemaps at www. google.com/webmasters/sitemaps/.
This doesn't guarantee inclusion. If your site is no good, it may be found and
ignored.

Disappearing disk space

I recently bought a new laptop with a 60 gigabyte hard disk. I installed
Microsoft Office (with Outlook, Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint) and the new
Adobe Creative Suite, and have only 2GB left .

Richard Calvert-Smith

JS: A simple way to find out where your space has gone is to run Sean Werkema's
freeware program, SpaceMonger (http:/tinyurl.com/34q8f). Alternatives are listed
at http:/tinyurl.com/bkx8u and http:/tinyurl.com/dhrzq.

On my notebook PC, Windows XP takes up about 2GB for files plus a swap file
(pagefile.sys) and a hibernation file (hiberfil.sys). Microsoft Office takes up
about 300MB and typical Adobe programs about 100MB each. Adobe reckons Creative
Suite 2 Standard needs 7GB. Since a "60GB" drive is really a 57GB drive, that
leaves about 47GB not accounted for.

Backchat

* Raj Panjwani wanted broadband without paying for a BT line. David Dixon points
out that ADSL Guide has a list of wireless broadband providers at
http:/tinyurl.com/8gqc7.

* Chris Dewey asked about buying a digital recorder. Toby Wilson, a training
officer, reports good results with Sanyo ICR-B175 and related devices. "They
record directly into stereo MP3 format at a choice of qualities. You can plug in
an external microphone or use the built-in one. We have had excellent results
using them with pupils on a variety of projects." However, Dewey says he found
digital recorders too expensive, and took the cheaper suggestion proposed by
readers: a portable Hi-MD Sony MiniDisc recorder and an external stereo mic. He
says: "The MD recorder uses its own Atrac format on the discs but this can be
converted to wav format when transferred to computer using a USB cable. The
recording quality is excellent."


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              635 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Rivals eye market left by outgoing Samsung Galaxy Note 7

LENGTH: 505 words


[THE INVESTOR] In the aftermath of Samsung Electronics' decision to discontinue
sales and production of the problem-ridden Galaxy Note 7 globally, attention is
now shifting to which alternative smartphones consumers around the world will be
turning to instead.

Samsung on Tuesday announced that it is "officially ending the sales as well as
production of the smartphone to ensure consumer safety," following multiple
incidents in which the exchanged Note 7 devices fitted with new batteries caught
fire due to overheating.

The South Korean electronics giant also initiated a global refund and exchange
program, including in the US and Korea, in partnership with local carriers and
retail partners. Customers can receive a full refund or exchange their Note 7
devices with any other smartphone.

Models promote LG Electronics` V20 smartphone. LG

As Samsung pulls the Note 7 from the world's biggest markets for premium
smartphones, rival electronics giants Apple, LG Electronics and Google are
expected to score new purchases from some 2.6 million Galaxy Note 7 owners
looking for alternative high-end smartphones.

Apple's newly released iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, LG Electronics' V20 and
Google's new premium Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones are slated to compete for
market share in the absence of Samsung's Galaxy Note 7.

Customers who are familiar with Android-based smartphones are likely to prefer
smartphones from Google and LG, while others who have lost trust in the Samsung
brand are expected to take this opportunity to switch to Apple's iOS-based
iPhone models.

At the same time, some users who remain loyal to Samsung may turn to former
Samsung smartphones -- including the Galaxy Note 5 launched last year or the
smaller-sized Galaxy S7 released earlier this year -- or simply wait for the
release of the Galaxy S8 next year.

Last month, the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7s Plus began sales in more than 30
countries around the world including the US and China. The two new iPhone models
are slated for release on Oct. 21 in Korea.

The iPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch display while its larger-sized sibling iPhone 7
Plus comes with a larger 5.5-inch full HD display. Both devices run on the iOS
10 operating system.

Setting itself apart from previous models, the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus
have removed the earphone sockets, and are instead accompanied by wireless
earphones -- which has driven some customers away from the new iPhones.

Meanwhile, LG Electronics has the 5.7-inch LG V20, co-designed by LG and
Denmark-based luxury stereo brand Bang & Olufsen, boasting high-end audio and
camera features. It runs on the Google Android 7.0 Nougat operating system and
comes with a removable battery. The LG V20 is slated to launch in the US by Oct.
28. The device is already available in Korea.

Google's 5-inch Pixel and 5.5-inch Pixel XL are also strong options favored by
Android enthusiasts. The device is slated for release in the US later this
month. Google has yet to announce a launch date for Korea.

By Sohn Ji-young/The Korea Herald (

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              636 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Techtree.com

                     October 5, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Google Announces Daydream View VR Headset

BYLINE: Chandrakant 'CK' Isi

LENGTH: 165  words


The virtual reality headset comes with a motion controller.

Along with the Pixel smartphones, Google announced the next iteration of its VR
(Virtual Reality) headset. Dubbed as Daydream View, Google's new VR gear is made
of lightweight fabric to provide you comfort in long VR sessions. The company
claims that it worked with clothing designers to finalise the look and feel of
the device.

Currently, the new Pixel phones are compatible with the Daydream View. However,
you can expect expect the search-giant to soon release a detailed list of
handsets that play nice with its VR headset. What separates it from most Android
VR products is its wireless controller. Apart from basic navigation controls, it
also comes with motion sensor that can be used for gaming. For instance,
third-party developers can implement it in games such as tennis and golf.

The Daydream View will be available in slate, snow, and crimson starting
November. It is priced at $69, which roughly translates to Rs 4600.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              637 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Times (South Africa)

                             October 9, 2016 Sunday
                             Business Times Edition

As if Google was not ubiquitous enough already

BYLINE: Arthur Goldstuck

SECTION: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 574  words


As if Google was not ubiquitous enough already ...

IT was arguably Google's biggest device launch yet. Much like Apple on iPhone
launch days, it rolled out the big guns in San Francisco this week, unleashing a
swathe of new devices that would take on not one, not two, not even three, but
four major device categories.

For the iPhone, Google unveiled the Pixel, echoing its rival with two size
options. Instead of a voice-controlled Watch, it debuted Google Home, a "smart
agent" that takes voice instructions and turns them into actions. For Apple TV,
it updated the Chromecast streaming device with the Ultra, which delivers video
in 4K or ultra-high definition.

It rounded out its product set with Daydream View, a low-cost, high-definition
virtual reality viewer, and Google Wi-Fi, an expandable home signal routing
system. That sets it up as a challenger to everyone from Facebook, Samsung, Sony
and HTC on the virtual reality side, and a vast industry of Wi-FI connectors on
the routing side.

The sheer ambitiousness of the range signals Google's arrival as a broad-based
hardware player.

But if the strategy was to come out with guns blazing at the competition, it has
fallen dramatically short. From the competitors' point of view, these are merely
smoke signals emitted as the Google guns misfired.

But it would be a mistake to read the smoke as merely being the result of
misfired guns. It's a classic case of where there's smoke, there's potential for
fire. The devices may not be the best on the market, and they may not reinvent
any of the categories they represent, but they set the scene for Google to catch
fire next time round.

For example, the $69 (about R1000) price tag on Chromecast Ultra is less than
half that of the latest Apple TV. Daydream View costs a little more, at $79,
compared to Samsung's Gear VR equivalent at $99. Google Home costs $130,
compared to the rival Amazon Echo's $180 price tag.

The two Pixel smartphones, coming in at 5-inch and 5.5-inch, appear to compete
with both Apple and Samsung's flagship handsets but at substantially lower
prices.

If that is what it comes down to, similar products at lower prices, Google can
claim to be bringing those products to a broader audience. But then, the likes
of Huawei and Xiaomi are not too shabby in their own roll-outs of high-end
devices at low cost.

More likely, Google is creating platforms that allow it to showcase its software
and services more effectively. A case in point is Google Assistant, a competitor
to Apple's Siri. The Pixel phones will be the first to have Assistant built in,
and it will be integrated with chat interfaces in a way that allows it to make
suggestions for reservations, travel and the like when they come up in
conversation in instant messaging services. What better way for Google to
demonstrate the extent of its capabilities than to build a phone that makes full
use of them?

The opening salvo of devices also allows Google to get a better sense of what
needs improving, what gaps remain in its armoury, and what type of products get
a natural boost from carrying the "Made by Google" label that emerged this week.

So while these will not be the shots that are heard around the world, once the
smoke clears, we are likely to see the beginnings of a powerful new ecosystem in
the consumer electronics market.

oGoldstuck is the founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of
Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @art2gee

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              638 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Yourstory.in

                     October 5, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

What's new in the latest Google Chromecast

BYLINE: Team YS

LENGTH: 293  words


Launched on Tuesday at the Google Pixel event, Chromecast Ultra, boasts of
advanced features like 4K and High Dynamic Range (HDR) support, faster speed and
Wi-Fi improvements.

Google announced the much awaited launch of Pixel, the first 'Made by Google'
phone. The other launches of the day include Daydream - platform for high
quality mobile VR; Google Home - voice-activated speaker powered by Google
Assistant; and Chromecast Ultra - the new Chromecast with 4K and HDR support.

The features of the new Chromecast include:

Deeper colors

Chromecast Ultra supports 4K, HDR and Dolby Vision, and gives a crisper picture
with higher resolution and more vibrant colors. Right now, users can stream 4K
content from Netflix, YouTube and Vudu. Later this year, Google Play Movies & TV
will be rolling out 4K content. Even if a TV isn't 4K-ready, Chromecast Ultra
automatically optimizes TV's picture.

Faster Chromecast, with optional Ethernet port

Chromecast Ultra loads videos 1.8 times faster than other Chromecast devices and
includes major Wi-Fi improvements to support streams from full HD to Ultra HD
without a hitch. For tricky Wi-Fi environments, Google is adding Ethernet
support for a wired connection.

Old features

Users can cast the content from thousands of apps using your phone, tablet or
laptop. They can mirror any content from their Android device or from a browser
tab (using Chrome) to the TV.

Works with Google Home

Google Home, the voice-activated speaker powered by the Google Assistant, can
control smart home devices, including Chromecast. Combined with Chromecast or
Chromecast Ultra, Google Home can control TV - completely hands free.

Google Chromecast Ultra will be available for pre-order in November in US. India
launch hasn't been announced yet.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2016 Yourstory.in, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              639 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           October 15, 2016 Saturday

Google may launch their very own smartwatches

BYLINE: Karrishma Modhy

LENGTH: 204  words


Google's next hardware venture appears to be wrist-borne

After recently releasing their very-own line of smartphones, Google is rumoured
to be launching two Android 2.0 smartwatches early next year.

The rumour comes from serial tipster Evan Blass, who stated that the company is
set to unveil its smartwatches in Q1 2017. Codenamed Angelfish and Swordfish,
these two devices are expected to complement the newly launched Google Pixel and
Pixel XL smartphones.

According to previous leaks, Angelfish will be the larger variant, sporting a
premium design. It will be similar to the Moto 360 and LG's Urbane 2nd Edition
LTE. The design is said to have visible lugs, with a smooth housing shaped to
curve where the watch band meets the body. At over 14mm, it will have GPS, LTE,
and a heart-rate monitor as well.

Swordfish, on the other hand, is smaller and thinner than Angelfish with a body
diameter of 42mm and a thickness of just 10.6mm - 0.8mm. It will be available in
silver, titanium, and rose gold color variants. The watch will also support
Google's interchangeable mode watch bands. Both devices will have Google
assistant, the new Siri competitor, unveiled early this month.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              640 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      November 1, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Comparison: Google Nexus 5 Vs Apple iPhone 5S

LENGTH: 270  words


The best smartphones from Google and Apple are now in the market to compete.
While the Google Nexus 5 runs the latest Android 4.4. KitKat, the iPhone 5S runs
the latest iOS 7 from Apple.

The to boast super-fast performance, good 4G LTE adaptability and great camera
accompanied by camera apps. For Apple fans the iPhone 5S is the dream phone will
an all aluminum body, while  for the Android fans, the Nexus 5 boasts the latest
OS and pure Android OS. LG however still sticks to plastic for the phone.

Here's a quick spec comparison to understand the two phones.


                  Google Nexus 5                Apple iPhone 5S
Display size      4.95 inch                     4 inch
Display type      IPS                           Retina
Display           Corning Gorilla Glass 3       Corning Gorilla GlassOleo
protection                                      phobic coating
Display           1920x1080 pixels (445 ppi)    1136x640-pixels (326 ppi)
resolution
Dimensions        69.17 x 137.84 x 8.59 mm      123.8 x 58.6 x 7.6 mm
Thickness         8.59 mm                       7.6 mm
Weight            130 grams                     112 grams
OS                Android 4.4 KitKat            iOS 7
Processor         2.3 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon   A7 chip with 64-bit
                  800                           architecture
Graphics          450 MHz Adreno 330            M7 motion coprocessor
processor
RAM               2 GB                          1 GB
Internal memory   16 GB, 32 GB                  16 GB, 32 GB, 64 GB
Expandable memory None                          None
Primary camera    8 megapixel                   8 megapixels with 1.5 pixels
Secondary camera  1.3 megapixel                 1.2 megapixels
LED flash         Single flash                  Dual flash
Connectivity      4G, 3G                        4G, 3G
Battery           2300 mAhTalk time up to 17    1560 mAhTalk time up to 10
                  hoursInternet time up to 8.5  hoursInternet time up to 10
                  hours on Wi-Fi                hours on Wi-Fi
Wireless charging Built-in                      None
Other features                                  Fingerprint scanner
Colour options    WhiteBlack                    Space GreyGoldSilver
Price             16 GB- 2899932 GB- 32999      16 GB- Rs 5350032 GB- Rs
                                                62500(as per snapdeal.com)64
                                                GB- not known

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              641 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 16, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facebook Revamps Ads to Compete With Google

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg.
1

LENGTH: 1261 words


Last June, Facebook released a tracking pixel, a snippet of code that allows
advertisers to track customers who come to their websites from Facebook ads. For
Amy Norman, co-chief executive officer of Little Passports, the pixel was a
game-changer.

Ms. Norman, whose San Francisco company sends children a monthly package to
introduce them to geography and history, began testing ads on Facebook to see
which ones brought in more customers. In June, Little Passports spent about
$30,000 on Facebook ads and the company's revenue for the month was about
$130,000. By the end of the year, the company's monthly advertising spending on
Facebook had grown to as much as $150,000 and its revenue for December was
$700,000.

Ms. Norman acknowledged that $150,000 was a huge amount of money to spend on
advertising in a month for a company with annual revenue of just under $2
million, but she said ''we also tripled our customer base in six months.''

The tracking pixel is one of several changes Facebook has made to its
advertising tools in recent months. Advertisers can now specify objectives like
increasing traffic to a website, encouraging more ''likes'' or converting more
sales. They can choose whether their ads appear in Facebook's ''news feed'' or
in a column on the far right of its pages. And they can target demographics they
want to reach more precisely.

Facebook acknowledges it made the changes, at least in part, because while it
has more than 25 million small businesses active on its site, only a million or
so advertise there. By contrast, Google's AdWords program, which shows users ads
related to specific searches they have entered, has become a small-business
staple -- although some small businesses say they have been priced out of the
market.

Jeff Gibbard, president of True Voice Media, an agency in Philadelphia that
devises social media strategies for small and medium-size businesses, said
Facebook was ''clearly trying to position this as an alternative to Google
AdWords, but the difference is that activity on Facebook is very passive.''

''You're being shown ads based on things you put in your profile potentially
years ago,'' he said. ''You aren't actively looking for a product or service.''

CHOOSING AN OBJECTIVE For any business, of course, the objective is to sell
something. Facebook now offers different routes to that objective.

Josh Brown, who owns Far North Kennel in Anchorage with his wife, Theresa
Sheldon, focuses on likes, and Far North now has more than 64,000. ''Most of my
likes are from women that love dogs,'' said Mr. Brown, whose kennel breeds
German shepherd puppies and had revenue of close to $100,000 in 2013. ''When
their friends start thinking about getting a dog, these women say, 'Have you
seen this Facebook page?' That's what drives sales.''

In addition to sales, Mario Brown, owner of Royal Internet Marketing and
co-owner of MobileBizBox, both online marketing companies based in Oceanside,
Calif., focuses on lead generation. When users click on an ad, Mr. Brown said,
they should be sent to a lead-capture page first and then on to the company's
website.

''Get their name and email,'' he said. ''If you capture their information, you
can follow up even if they don't purchase anything this time.''

NEWS FEED OR RIGHT COLUMN? Facebook users spend most of their time in the site's
news feed. That is where you will find promoted posts, ads that look like other
posts, but are labeled ''sponsored.'' Mr. Gibbard of True Voice Media said that
people generally recognized that these posts were ads, but clicked on them
anyway. ''They are in the same stream as other content, so the ads feel more
native,'' he said.

Little Passports has been running an ad for several months that features a photo
of the company's Explorer Kit, with text that encourages readers to subscribe.
Ms. Norman said the ad had attracted more than 1,500 user-generated comments --
comments, she said, that were overwhelmingly positive and lent credibility to an
emerging brand.

The ads that run on the right side of a Facebook page are more recognizable as
paid advertisements. Their click-through rates are generally lower than those
for ads in the news feed, and they are not even shown to mobile users. Mr.
Gibbard calls them ''completely useless.''

But some businesses say the ads can be effective. Paola Bottero, chef and owner
of Paola's, an Italian restaurant on Manhattan's Upper East Side with annual
revenue of more than $5 million, used right-column ads to increase her lunch
business. Ms. Bottero created ads with photos of a summer salad and the outdoor
terrace dining area, and text like ''Paola's Patio now open!'' She targeted
people over 35 living in 10 ZIP codes around Paola's.

Over four weeks, Ms. Bottero spent just $250 to run the ads in the right column
of the targeted Facebook pages, according to Wendy Weinstein Karp of W2K
Consulting in Larchmont, N.Y., which handles marketing for Paola's. Ms. Karp
said the ads reached more than 12,000 people, with 482 visiting the restaurant's
Facebook page through the link. ''That's a 3.966 percent click-through rate,''
she said. ''In digital advertising, the average is closer to 1 percent.''

For a physical business like a restaurant, it can be difficult to determine how
many Facebook visitors actually become customers. But Ms. Bottero said she could
tell when the restaurant, which has 80 seats, was busier than usual. Right after
the campaign, she said, she saw an increase in lunch customers, and many said
they had seen the ad on Facebook.

Josh Brown of Far North Kennel ran an ad with a photo of puppies that asked,
''Do you love puppies?'' He ran it in both the news feed and the right column,
but found the right column more effective.

''The click-through rate is higher for ads in the news feed, but the reach is
smaller,'' he said, ''For that one in the news feed, it was shown to 909 people,
as opposed to being shown to 640,134 for the ad on the right. I'd rather have
0.75 percent of 640,000 people click through than 1.25 percent of 900 people.''

TARGETING USERS Business owners who create ads on Facebook are asked to choose
an audience for their ads, based on characteristics like gender, interests,
location, relationship status, education and even whether the user owns an
Android device or is expecting a child. Ms. Norman, who founded Little Passports
along with Stella Ma, uses a new Facebook tool, Custom Audiences, to try to
reach mothers who, for example, have a specific educational background or read
particular magazines.

Ms. Norman also uses Facebook's Lookalike Audiences tool, which helps her find
potential customers with characteristics similar to those of existing customers.
She uploads an Excel file with customer emails and Facebook looks for
demographic and behavioral trends within that group, then creates a new list
with similar characteristics. Facebook says it protects the privacy of
individual users by ''hashing'' their user IDs so that no personal customer
information is revealed.

Some business owners use targeting to zero in on their markets. When Tiago
Forte's San Francisco start-up, GSD.LAB, began offering a workflow design and
productivity class on Skillshare in October, he guessed that his market would be
young men interested in maximizing their productivity. He ran 16 different ads
in Facebook's news feed over 24 hours, spending a total of $174 for the
campaigns -- and found that women were twice as likely to click on his ads as
men.

''It turns out my market,'' he said, ''is middle-aged women looking for
work/life balance.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/16/business/smallbusiness/with-revamped-advertisi
ng-program-facebook-aims-to-compete-with-google.html

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amy Norman, a co-founder of Little Passports in San Francisco,
said Facebook ads helped build the business's customer base. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              642 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                        March 3, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

HTC Babel Tab Concept With Android, Windows

BYLINE: Aastha RS, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 267  words


The HTC Babel is a tablet concept made by @PhoneDesigner, to integrate Google's
and Microsoft's OSes.

Monday, March 03, 2014: HTC is likely to announce its high-end tablet device
later this year. But speculations over the company's new device are rife as a
tablet concept made by @PhoneDesigner has surfaced. The HTC Babel is supposedly
a dual-boot tablet, which will support both Android and Windows operating
systems.

The HTC Babel tablet concept is likely to let users choose between Windows 8
(64-bit) and Android OS. Its design has a clear HTC feel as it is packed with
large speakers on the front, and an aluminum-made case with a dual-boot.

The concept tab made by @Phone Designer, has a display of 25.4-cm (10-inch) with
a 3:2 aspect ratio, and may have 1920 x 1440 or 2560 x 1920 pixel resolution. It
will further have a "native digitizer", a rear camera and a front-facing camera
to load the device.

However, HTC hasn't had a fair market share in the tablet segment, if rumours
are to believed the company may manufacture a high-end Nexus tablet for Google.
This tablet may be released in the second half of the year.

The HTC Babel concept tablets includes:

* It runs on both Microsoft's 64-bit Windows and Google's Android OSes,
together.

* It comes with a 25.4-cm display with a 3:2 aspect ratio

* It has 1920 x 1440 pixel resolution or even 2560 x 1920 pixels

* It flaunts metal clad chassis

* It comes with dual-frontal speakers

* It has a rear-facing camera with a single LED Flash

* It has a front facing camera

* It features a native digitizer and stylus, just like the Samsung Galaxy Tab
Pro series

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              643 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 29, 2012 Monday

Nexus faces 'natural' hurdle!

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Oct. 29 -- For tech geeks, this was the most anticipated week after
the recent Apple iPad mini launch. But nature has played spoilsport and thanks
to Hurricane Sandy, Google's media event in New York slated for Monday has been
cancelled. Google, the rumour mills had it, was to launch its Nexus smartphone
and the Nexus 10 tablet. According to the Next Web, an online portal, the 10
inch tablet goes under the name "Codename Manta", runs Google's new Android 4.2
operating system and will offer a 2560x1600 pixel (16:10) resolution or 300
pixels per inch (PPI) compared to the new iPad's 264 PPI.

An improved version of the Nexus 7 was also said to be in the offing and of
course, the Android 4.2 operating system. So, the wait for Google Nexus 10
continues and for users in India, the wait is likely to be much longer. Google
hasn't launched even its smartphone or the Nexus 7 in India. If you are too
eager to lay your hands on these devices, you could head over to Mumbai and grab
one at one of the stores in the black market! A Nexus phone costs about '20,000!
On the other hand, the good news for Apple fans in India is that the much-hyped
iPhone 5, the fastest selling iPhone ever, will come to your nearest stores on
Nov 2.

And the price? It could be around Rs 45,000-50,000! One more thing, Apple store
is now offering its apps in rupees and not dollars. So that's some consolation!
If you are among those interested in Microsoft, the company, after unveiling its
Windows 8, will launch its Windows 8 phone on Monday. So there is something to
look forward to. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian
Express. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              644 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday

Decatur plant's rocket gives Google a boost

BYLINE: Eric Fleischauer, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


Sep. 7--See that white spot on Google Earth? Thanks to Decatur employees of
United Launch Alliance, it could be your poodle.

A Decatur-made Delta II rocket on Saturday launched GeoEye-1, the world's
highest-resolution commercial imaging satellite.

Google has an exclusive contract with GeoEye, stipulating it will not sell its
images to any other mapping Web sites.

The $209 million satellite weighs 4,300 pounds. It will take color images of the
Earth from 425 miles in space while moving at about 16,000 mph.

The satellite is capable of taking images at a resolution of 0.41 meters per
pixel, but U.S. law limits Google to 0.5 meters per pixel.

A 12-story-tall Delta II 7420-10 configuration rocket launched the GeoEye-1 into
a near-polar orbit.

Liftoff was at 1:50 p.m. CDT from Vandenberg Air Force Base on the Central
California coast.

Video on the Web site of Boeing, a partner in ULA, showed the rocket jettisoning
solid rocket motors and then the separation of the first stage.

Google, ULA and Boeing decals were on Stage 1.

The company says the satellite's imaging services will be sold for uses that
could range from environmental mapping to agriculture and defense. One of its
customers is the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, which helped finance
the construction and launch.

ULA employs about 650 workers in Decatur. The plant assembles the Delta II and
Delta IV rockets. It recently began construction of a warehouse for rocket
inventory that will clear space for construction of the Atlas V.

To see more of The Decatur Daily, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.decaturdaily.com Copyright (c) 2008, The Decatur Daily, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080907-DD-Decatur-plant-s-rocket-gives-Google-a-boost-0907

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2008 The Decatur Daily


                              645 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 11, 2015 Monday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Scale Sensitive
Treatment of Features in a Geographic Information System"

LENGTH: 231  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150128089  for US Patent, published on May 07, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "Scale Sensitive Treatment of Features in a Geographic
Information System" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:  Johnson; Kirk; (Boulder, CO) ; Mayster; Yan; (Aurora, CO) ; Tsankov;
Georgi; (Boulder, CO)
Assignee:     Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA
US

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Systems and methods for presenting information in response to a user
interaction with a geographic image at a point of query in a geographic
information system are provided. A user can request information at point of
query in the geographic image. Responsive to the user request, the geographic
information system can search for and obtain information associated with the
request. As part of the logic used to return information responsive to a request
at a point of query, a zone of influence can be defined for one or more features
depicted in the image. The zone of influence can be defined by a pixel threshold
in a pixel space associated with the geographic image. The pixel threshold can
be constant across a plurality of zoom levels of the geographic image."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              646 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Google's new $79 VR headset is here;
System is compatible with just-announced Pixel smartphone

BYLINE: Edward C. Baig, @edbaig, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 491 words


Virtual reality has a new entry-level competitor: a fabric-covered headset from
Google that will compete with the mid-market $99 Samsung VR.

Daydream View is a $79 mobile virtual-reality headset -- with, notably, a VR
motion controller that is normally in the domain of more expensive VR gear --
that will be compatible with Google's just-announced Pixel smartphones and
eventually other Daydream-certified handsets. Google first announced its
Daydream VR platform at its I/O conference last May.

Preorders for Daydream View start later this month, with the product slated to
ship in early November. It will be available in slate gray, crimson or snow
colors.

Daydream promises to go well beyond Google Cardboard, the company's early entry
into VR, and comes at a time of heavy activity in the still-developing alternate
reality universe. Wednesday, Facebook-owned Oculus kicks off its Connect
developer event in San Jose. Sony is poised to bring out its VR offering,
PlayStation VR.

As a mobile offering, think of Daydream View more as a direct competitor of
Samsung Gear VR (which is powered by Oculus), a similar-looking headset that
works with specific high-end Samsung phones. In contrast, PlayStation VR, which
plugs into a PlayStation video game console, Oculus Rift and the HTC Vive system
all cost hundreds more and are tethered by cables to powerful computers.

The View headset is roughly a third lighter than Gear VR, Google says, and
features a stretchy, breathable fabric that is supposed to provide a comfortable
fit, which could encourage longer viewing.

View uses an alignment system of conductive knobs that make contact with the
front of the phone screen to determine which pixels are aligned with which
knobs, which the software then self-corrects as needed, providing, Google
claims, a better optic experience. The headset and phone get in sync wirelessly.

The real difference in this segment of the market is the portable palm-sized
View controller, which allows you to swipe and click through content that you're
watching. The controller provides 3 degrees of freedom and is flexible enough to
be used by apps and games that let you draw, paint or swing it like a baseball
bat or golf club.

While Google is taking ownership of this initial Daydream View headset, it also
is opening up the Daydream specs to other Android hardware partners to modify
and add elements to Daydream and presumably to commercialize their own VR
offering as they see fit.

So what exactly will you be able to watch on Daydream? For starters, YouTube has
developed a VR app built especially for the platform, with VR, 360 and
2D-content available. Through Google Street View, you'll be able to watch 150
virtual tours of such places as the Taj Mahal or Great Barrier Reef. You'll also
be able to take in purchased or rented flicks through the Google Play Store--the
movies will be in 2D but you'll be able to watch in an immersive big-screen-type
VR environment.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Google

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              647 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           September 29, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

Letterbox;
RANDOM ACCESS

SECTION: THE GUIDE; icon; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 217 words


Dead Pixel CPR

Recently my LCD monitor had a permanent blue pixel after booting up the PC.
Being in the centre of the screen, it stood out like the proverbial. It didn't
really bother me at the time as my Samsung monitor had a 12-month "no-dead-pixel
" warranty. Out of curiosity I gave the pixel a gentle flick, and it returned to
its normal colour, and hasn't played up since. Apparently they are known as
"lazy" pixels - pixels that will come good with a little persuasion. Hopefully
knowing about lazy pixels may save some of your readers some grief.

I contacted LG about its dead-pixel policy on its LCD TVs. I Googled LG, but
found no details regarding its dead pixel policy. I rang its customer-care
number and was politely told, "If you wish to find out about LG's dead-pixel
policy I have been advised to tell you to look for it on the internet - I
suggest you Google it." I told the chap I just did that but he kept repeating
the advice. I have never heard of such ludicrous advice.

Paul Boland

Paul wins this week's copy of Microsoft Office Home and Student 2007 software
suite (www.microsoft .com/en/au/default.aspx).

Send us your thoughts in 150 words to iconletters@gmail.com. Include your full
name, address and contact details. If your letter is published, you get the
prize. It's that simple.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              648 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                            June 27, 2012, Wednesday

Google unveils 7-inch tablet, new Android version;
Nexus 7 tablet tightly integrated with Google Play online store

BYLINE: Network World Staff

LENGTH: 588 words


Google today announced its first tablet product, the Nexus 7, fitted with a
powerful quadcore processor and specificallydesigned to work with the expanding
Google Play, the online media and apps site.

MORE FROM GOOGLE I/O 2012: First look -- Google's new Nexus 7 tablet Ask the
magic 8-ball: Google's Nexus Q brings Play to the home Seven Nexus 7 concepts
Unveiled today at the Google I/O conference in San Frncisco, the tablet has a
7-inch diagonal screen, with 1280 x 800 high definition display, with a pixel
density of 216 pixels per inch (compared to Apple's Retina Display on the new
iPad of 264 pixels per inch). It's powered by a four-core Tegra 3 processor,
including a 12-core graphics processing unit.

It's equipped with the Google Chrome web browser, Google Currents, which is a
mobile magazine format for news feed with integrated Google Translate. The
tablet has a front-facing 1.2 megapixel camera, Bluetooth, a micro USB port and
near field communication.

The Nexus 7 is priced at $199, and Google is offering several movies, books and
complimentary magazine subscriptions as a starting package.

It runs the next Android version, Android 4.1, dubbed Jelly Bean. One of Jelly
Bean's key features is Project Butter, a comprehensive effort by Google to boost
Android performance and response time by increasing the frame rate to 60 fps.
The demonstration showed fast, smooth animations, and the tablet's CPU
automatically speeds up when it detects an onscreen touch.

The Android notification system has been revamped. Alerts now expand and shrink
automatically as they appear. You can see a preview of an MMS image, and view it
in full size all inside Android's notification area.

Also part of Jelly Bean is Google Now, with a redesigned user interface for your
mobile searchers. It now features, like Apple's Siri, a very realistic
synthesized voice interface to respond to search requests or remind you of
appointments. But Google Now blends this with a predictive capability: it uses
data about your location, the date, from your contacts and prior searches to
proactively recommend an alternative way home if your usual commuting route is
congested. And the app will verbally update you on new offers or changes as you
walk past restaurants or retails stores.

Jelly Bean will appear first on the Galaxy Nexus, Nexus S and Xoom devices in
mid-July. The SDK is available for developers now as part of preview.

Google also unveiled its first consumer electronics product, called Google Q, a
ball-shaped Android computer that Google calls the first social media streaming
device. Controlled by Android tablets or smartphone, Google Q has
high-definition interfaces to plug directly into speakers and flatscreen TVs.
It's designed specifically to exploit the content available through Google Play,
the online market for Android content and apps, so you can't stream audio or
video from your Android tablet or smarphone, for example.

It has a micro HDMI output, an HDMI cable, optical audio port, Ethernet, and
speaker connections; an integrated 25-watt amplifier, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and NFC.

In a demonstration, one user's Google Play library of music and video is
displayed on a TV screen. It streams an audio track to a set of speakers in a
selected room, in this case the living room. Nexus Q is a "cloud-connected
jukebox" - a group of people can add music tracks from their own Google Play
library to a shared queue, from which it can stream to the living room speakers.
Google Q ships in July, with pre-orders staring today.




LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2012 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              649 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                            June 27, 2012, Wednesday

Google unveils 7-inch tablet, new Android version;
Nexus 7 tablet tightly integrated with Google Play online store

BYLINE: Network World Staff

LENGTH: 588 words


Google today announced its first tablet product, the Nexus 7, fitted with a
powerful quadcore processor and specificallydesigned to work with the expanding
Google Play, the online media and apps site.

MORE FROM GOOGLE I/O 2012: First look -- Google's new Nexus 7 tablet Ask the
magic 8-ball: Google's Nexus Q brings Play to the home Seven Nexus 7 concepts
Unveiled today at the Google I/O conference in San Frncisco, the tablet has a
7-inch diagonal screen, with 1280 x 800 high definition display, with a pixel
density of 216 pixels per inch (compared to Apple's Retina Display on the new
iPad of 264 pixels per inch). It's powered by a four-core Tegra 3 processor,
including a 12-core graphics processing unit.

It's equipped with the Google Chrome web browser, Google Currents, which is a
mobile magazine format for news feed with integrated Google Translate. The
tablet has a front-facing 1.2 megapixel camera, Bluetooth, a micro USB port and
near field communication.

The Nexus 7 is priced at $199, and Google is offering several movies, books and
complimentary magazine subscriptions as a starting package.

It runs the next Android version, Android 4.1, dubbed Jelly Bean. One of Jelly
Bean's key features is Project Butter, a comprehensive effort by Google to boost
Android performance and response time by increasing the frame rate to 60 fps.
The demonstration showed fast, smooth animations, and the tablet's CPU
automatically speeds up when it detects an onscreen touch.

The Android notification system has been revamped. Alerts now expand and shrink
automatically as they appear. You can see a preview of an MMS image, and view it
in full size all inside Android's notification area.

Also part of Jelly Bean is Google Now, with a redesigned user interface for your
mobile searchers. It now features, like Apple's Siri, a very realistic
synthesized voice interface to respond to search requests or remind you of
appointments. But Google Now blends this with a predictive capability: it uses
data about your location, the date, from your contacts and prior searches to
proactively recommend an alternative way home if your usual commuting route is
congested. And the app will verbally update you on new offers or changes as you
walk past restaurants or retails stores.

Jelly Bean will appear first on the Galaxy Nexus, Nexus S and Xoom devices in
mid-July. The SDK is available for developers now as part of preview.

Google also unveiled its first consumer electronics product, called Google Q, a
ball-shaped Android computer that Google calls the first social media streaming
device. Controlled by Android tablets or smartphone, Google Q has
high-definition interfaces to plug directly into speakers and flatscreen TVs.
It's designed specifically to exploit the content available through Google Play,
the online market for Android content and apps, so you can't stream audio or
video from your Android tablet or smarphone, for example.

It has a micro HDMI output, an HDMI cable, optical audio port, Ethernet, and
speaker connections; an integrated 25-watt amplifier, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and NFC.

In a demonstration, one user's Google Play library of music and video is
displayed on a TV screen. It streams an audio track to a set of speakers in a
selected room, in this case the living room. Nexus Q is a "cloud-connected
jukebox" - a group of people can add music tracks from their own Google Play
library to a shared queue, from which it can stream to the living room speakers.
Google Q ships in July, with pre-orders staring today.




LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2012 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              650 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)

                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

Why does Google ignore NZ?

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 353 words


Google announced a range of products this month including an iPhone- killer, but
if you want to buy them in New Zealand you may have a long wait.

The new Pixel smartphones, Google Home device, and its virtual reality headset
were announced a few weeks ago but there's no way for Kiwis to buy them unless
you or someone you know is heading overseas.

When I asked Google when its products would arrive here, I got a vague response
about how they plan to launch in more countries in the future.

Google fans have a right to be disappointed especially as companies such as
Apple and Sony always include New Zealand in the first group of countries to get
devices.

So why does Google ignore New Zealand?

First, we are a small country so we're not a priority for the giant company.
Also, this isn't the first time we've been forgotten. Google's last range of
phones was hard to find here. The Nexus range got great reviews but you had to
do a lot of searching for them as they were rarely promoted.

The main reason for our lack of priority is probably because Google is not a
retailer.

These new phones are the first they've made from start to finish. Previously,
its used companies such as LG and Huawei to manufacture their devices and those
firms also help with marketing and selling the phones.

Apple has run physical retail stores for 12 years (though none are in New
Zealand) and also has hundreds of authorised dealers and an extensive online
store.

Google has to rely on external retailers and setting those up takes a lot of
time, as does putting in place advertising.

It doesn't seem to have a relationship with Spark, Vodafone or 2degrees,
companies which usually heavily promote new phones.

In Australia, Google is using JB HiFi to sell its Pixel phones. Hopefully, for
Kiwi Google fans this means they may soon go on sale here.

However, we have not been completely forgotten by Google. The new Chromecast
Ultra which features 4K streaming is available in the New Zealand Google Store
for pre-order.

But for everything else, I wouldn't hold my breath. Chances are they'll
eventually end up in stores here but without much fanfare.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              651 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)

                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

Why does Google ignore NZ?

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 353 words


Google announced a range of products this month including an iPhone- killer, but
if you want to buy them in New Zealand you may have a long wait.

The new Pixel smartphones, Google Home device, and its virtual reality headset
were announced a few weeks ago but there's no way for Kiwis to buy them unless
you or someone you know is heading overseas.

When I asked Google when its products would arrive here, I got a vague response
about how they plan to launch in more countries in the future.

Google fans have a right to be disappointed especially as companies such as
Apple and Sony always include New Zealand in the first group of countries to get
devices.

So why does Google ignore New Zealand?

First, we are a small country so we're not a priority for the giant company.
Also, this isn't the first time we've been forgotten. Google's last range of
phones was hard to find here. The Nexus range got great reviews but you had to
do a lot of searching for them as they were rarely promoted.

The main reason for our lack of priority is probably because Google is not a
retailer.

These new phones are the first they've made from start to finish. Previously,
its used companies such as LG and Huawei to manufacture their devices and those
firms also help with marketing and selling the phones.

Apple has run physical retail stores for 12 years (though none are in New
Zealand) and also has hundreds of authorised dealers and an extensive online
store.

Google has to rely on external retailers and setting those up takes a lot of
time, as does putting in place advertising.

It doesn't seem to have a relationship with Spark, Vodafone or 2degrees,
companies which usually heavily promote new phones.

In Australia, Google is using JB HiFi to sell its Pixel phones. Hopefully, for
Kiwi Google fans this means they may soon go on sale here.

However, we have not been completely forgotten by Google. The new Chromecast
Ultra which features 4K streaming is available in the New Zealand Google Store
for pre-order.

But for everything else, I wouldn't hold my breath. Chances are they'll
eventually end up in stores here but without much fanfare.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              652 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                              July 8, 2016 Friday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Google could be building its own smartphones and smartwatches, due late 2016

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 330 words


After a first PC (Chromebook Pixel) and a tablet (Pixel C), Google reportedly
has its own smartphones and smartwatches in the pipeline, optimized for use with
the web-search giant's mobile operating systems.

The Telegraph reports that Google could be gearing up to release its own
smartphone by the end of 2016. Until now, Google has relied on its Nexus devices
-- manufactured in collaboration with various tech firms -- as a means of
releasing products that get the best out of the latest version of Android. Now,
the firm apparently wants to go it alone with handsets manufactured in-house and
under its own name, optimized for use with its mobile OS -- starting with
Android Nougat, due Autumn 2016. That said, two new Nexus devices built by HTC
are also scheduled to land in autumn 2016.

What's more, Google could be set to release a new kind of smartphone with a
modular design, after demonstrating an advanced prototype of its Project Ara
handset back in spring. Modular mobiles use interchangeable "blocks" to boost
performances or replace faulty parts. The smartphone could come with six modules
(extra screen, camera, memory, speaker, etc.), with the main display, processor
and RAM all housed in the phone's unmodifiable main block. A developers' kit is
due out in the autumn before commercial release expected in 2017.

A pair of smartwatches in the pipeline

According to the specialist website, Android Police, Google may also be working
on two watches featuring Google Assistant, an even more intelligent version of
Google Now. These would be optimized to run Google's wearables operating system,
Android Wear 2.0.

Google is reportedly working on two models -- one relatively basic, low-cost
watch, and a more high-tech model with more features (4G, GPS, heart-rate
monitor, etc.) and boosted battery life. These are said to go by the codenames
Swordfish and Angelfish.

These products -- if they really exist -- could be unveiled at a specially
dedicated event in the autumn.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              653 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday

Google plans to launch laptop that will run on Andromeda OS

LENGTH: 218  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 27 -- With the 'Made by Google' event to be held on October 4,
Google seems to have new hardware plans for next year. The company plans to
release a laptop, known by an informal nickname "Pixel 3", which will be the
first ever device to run on the software giant's new Android-Chrome OS, called
Andromeda.


 Google-watcher blog Android Police reports that the device, internally known as
"Bison", will be an ultra-thin laptop with a 12.3" display, but Google also
wants it to support a "tablet" mode. The blog also states that Google's planned
pricing is still competitive: Bison is pegged to start at $799. Powering it will
be either an Intel m3 or i5 Core processor with 32 or 128GB of storage and 8 or
16GB of RAM. This seems to suggest there will be two models, says the Android
Police.
 It will feature a fingerprint scanner, two USB-C ports, a 3.5mm jack, a host of
sensors, stylus support (a Wacom pen will be sold separately), stereo speakers,
quad microphones, and a battery that will last around 10 hours. The keyboard
will be backlit, and the glass trackpad will use haptic and force detection
similar to the MacBook.
 The company plans to announce its Pixel smartphones on October 4, and the 'Made
by Google' event could be the first time we get to see Andromeda and how it
functions.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              654 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     October 31, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Nexus 7 (2013) Will Come Within Rs 25,000 In India

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 229  words


Yesterday, Asus' regional head for South Asia had confirmed that the device
would come to India.

Thursday, October 31, 2013: Yesterday we reported before that the Next Nexus
(http://efytimes.com/e1/fullnews.asp?edid=119998) tablet is going to come to the
Indian market. A new report by Gizbot now says that the Nexus 7 (2013) tablet
will be launched around the end of November in the country. Moreover, the device
will reportedly be priced at Rs 20,000 - Rs 25,000, said the report. According
to the report, a senior executive confirmed the information.

The executive though did not specify whether the pricing was for the 16 GB or
the 32 GB variant of the device. The report though mentioned that the device
will be available at both retail outlets and Google's own Google Play store.
Gizbot's source reportedly said, "Asus Nexus 7 (2013) will be sold by physical
channels (Asus owned shops and other retail chains) as well as online route (
Google Play store)." The final call on the availability and release though will
be taken by Google, the report said.

In terms of specifications, the Nexus 7 (2013) version has a 17.7-cm (7-inch)
IPS display, which has a resolution of 1,920 x 1,200 pixels and a pixel density
of 323 ppi. It runs the Android 4.3 Jelly Bean operating system and is powered
by a 1.5 GHz quad core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor. It also has 2 GB of
RAM.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              655 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Using Geographic
Coordinates On A Digital Image Of A Physical Map"

LENGTH: 254  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150154773 for US Patent, published on June 04, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "Using Geographic Coordinates On A Digital Image Of A
Physical Map" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:  Cosenza; Roberto; (Mountain View, CA) ; Zanolin; Luca; (Mountain
View, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Systems and methods are disclosed for using geographic coordinates on a
physical map. The system may include a mobile device having a processor and a
display, where the processor receives a first input that instructs a camera to
capture a digital image of a physical map. The mobile device may then display
the digital image of the physical map. The mobile device may further receive a
second input from a user interface, where the second input identifies a first
location on the digital image of the physical map. The first location may be
associated with an image pixel coordinate, and the mobile device may obtain a
geographic coordinate based on this image pixel coordinate. The mobile device
may then determine a transformation matrix based on the image pixel and
geographic coordinates. Using the determined transformation matrix, the mobile
device may determine further image pixel coordinates based on received
geographic coordinates."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              656 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 BusinessWorld

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

ZTE launches new smartphones

SECTION: Pg. S2/6

LENGTH: 494 words


ZTE CORP. ("ZTE") announced the availability of ZTE Grand Era, the world's
slimmest quad-core smartphone; and Grand X Lte T82, a 4.3" dual- core smartphone
powered by Qualcomm MSM8960 chipset running on Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich.

The Grand Era V985 is ZTE's latest flagship smartphone offering some historical
breakthroughs in handsets such as a PC-class Nvidia Tegra 3 quad-core CPU and
operates on the advanced Android 4.0 platform upgradeable to Android OS Jelly
Bean.

It also has 3-D acceleration capacity, an 8M-pixel BSI AF HD camera and a
4.5-inch HD retina screen at a resolution of 1280x720. With an average thickness
of 8.6mm, it is currently the world's thinnest available quad-core handset in
the market.

The Grand Era also adheres to an expert-class hardware and software safety
protection standard called "Palm Manager," which was independently developed by
ZTE.

The addition of Grand Era to the current line-up of ZTE smartphones is expected
to strengthen the position of ZTE brand as a serious player in the local
mobility business. Early this quarter, MSI-ECS, the exclusive distributor of ZTE
mobile in the Philippines, also announced the Grand Series line-up: Kis V970;
Blade III V889M; and Grand X V970M.

All Grand Series models are dual-sim capable.

Meanwhile, ZTE Grand X V970 (M) has two SIM-card slots and is powered by a Dual
Core 1GHz processor. The device runs on Google Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich.
It has a 4.3-inch QHD (16m colours) display with a 960x540 resolution, 5
megapixel camera, and supports Dolby Sound technology and HD Voice. The device
is 128x67x9.9 mm and weighs 138g.

ZTE Grand X LTE (T82) is powered by a Dual Core 1.5GHz processor. Supported by
Qualcomm MSM8960 chipset and Google Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, it has a
4.3-inch TFT display (16m colours) with a resolution of QHD960x540 pixels, an 8
megapixel HD camera with built-in flash and the ability to record 1080p video
(Full HD).

ZTE Grand Era V985 is a super-slim smartphone powered by a Quad Core 1.5GHz
processor. The handset, with Google Android 4.0 OS Ice Cream Sandwich, has a
4.5" touch screen with HD 720p (1280 x 720 pixels) display, an 8-megapixel HD
camera with an integrated flash, a 1.3 megapixel front facing camera and 1080p
video recording.

ZTE V887 is a dual SIM-card phone, powered by a Dual Core 1HGz processor running
Google Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich. It has a 5.0-inch display (16m colours)
with a resolution of WVGA480x800 pixels, 5 megapixel primary and 0.3-megapixel
front-facing camera. The size of the device is 148x78x10.5 mm, weight 140g.

ZTE V889M is a super slim smartphone with dual SIM-card slots, powered by a Dual
Core 1GHz processor running Google Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich. It has a
4-inch display (16m colours) with a 800x480 resolution and a 5-megapixel camera.

ZTE V790 is a dual SIM-card phone powered by 1HGz processor, supported by
Qualcomm MSM 7225A chipset and runs on Google Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              657 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday

Google likely to launch laptop running new Andromeda OS

LENGTH: 219  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 27 -- With the 'Made by Google' event to be held on October 4,
Google seems to have new hardware plans for next year. The company plans to
release a new laptop, known by an informal nickname "Pixel 3", which will be the
first ever device to run on the software giant's new Android-Chrome OS, called
Andromeda.


 Google-watcher blog Android Police reports that the device, internally known as
"Bison" will be an ultra-thin laptop with a 12.3" display, but Google also wants
it to support a "tablet" mode. The blog also states that Google's planned
pricing is still competitive: Bison is pegged to start at $799. Powering it will
be either an Intel m3 or i5 Core processor with 32 or 128GB of storage and 8 or
16GB of RAM. This seems to suggest there will be two models, says Android
Police.
 It will also feature a fingerprint scanner, two USB-C ports, a 3.5mm jack, a
host of sensors, stylus support (a Wacom pen will be sold separately), stereo
speakers, quad microphones, and a battery that will last around 10 hours. The
keyboard will be backlit, and the glass trackpad will use haptic and force
detection similar to the MacBook.
 The company plans to announce its Pixel smartphones on October 4, and the 'Made
by Google' event could be the first time we get to see Andromeda and how it
functions.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              658 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:52 PM GMT

Google announces Daydream VR headset - and it will be available in early
November;
Virtual reality is going from strength to strength as Google joins the likes of
Oculus Rift, Samsung, HTC and Sony's PlayStation VR

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 237 words


Google has had a virtual reality headset on the market for a few years - but
it's basically a £13 piece of cardboard .

But today the gigantic technology company unveiled a brand new headset called
Daydream VR.

It's more than just a piece of card - instead it's closer to Samsung's Gear VR
headset. But rather than being made out of plastic, it's crafted from fabric
more akin to sportswear.

Google says the Daydream VR is 30% lighter than similar headsets.

Of course, it still requires a smartphone to work and Google is no doubt hoping
you'll pair it up with one of its two new Pixel phones .

The Daydream VR headset comes with a small remote control that works a bit like
the remote sticks for the Nintendo Wii. It tracks motion control and can be used
for navigation and gameplay.

Inside the remote are sensors that respond to the way you move. Google says it's
so precise you can even write with it.

There's going to be quite a few apps that work with the Daydream headset as
well. Google first announced the platform at its I/O developer conference back
in May.

The platform will be optimised to run on a number of Android smartphones -
including those from manufacturers like Samsung, Huawei and HTC.

But Google still pointed out that its new Pixel phones are the first that are
"Daydream ready".

The headset will come in a choice of three colours: Slate, Snow and Crimson.
It's set to launch in early November in the UK for £69.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              659 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:52 PM GMT

Google announces Daydream VR headset - and it will be available in early
November;
Virtual reality is going from strength to strength as Google joins the likes of
Oculus Rift, Samsung, HTC and Sony's PlayStation VR

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 237 words


Google has had a virtual reality headset on the market for a few years - but
it's basically a £13 piece of cardboard .

But today the gigantic technology company unveiled a brand new headset called
Daydream VR.

It's more than just a piece of card - instead it's closer to Samsung's Gear VR
headset. But rather than being made out of plastic, it's crafted from fabric
more akin to sportswear.

Google says the Daydream VR is 30% lighter than similar headsets.

Of course, it still requires a smartphone to work and Google is no doubt hoping
you'll pair it up with one of its two new Pixel phones .

The Daydream VR headset comes with a small remote control that works a bit like
the remote sticks for the Nintendo Wii. It tracks motion control and can be used
for navigation and gameplay.

Inside the remote are sensors that respond to the way you move. Google says it's
so precise you can even write with it.

There's going to be quite a few apps that work with the Daydream headset as
well. Google first announced the platform at its I/O developer conference back
in May.

The platform will be optimised to run on a number of Android smartphones -
including those from manufacturers like Samsung, Huawei and HTC.

But Google still pointed out that its new Pixel phones are the first that are
"Daydream ready".

The headset will come in a choice of three colours: Slate, Snow and Crimson.
It's set to launch in early November in the UK for £69.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              660 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:52 PM GMT

Google announces Daydream VR headset - and it will be available in early
November;
Virtual reality is going from strength to strength as Google joins the likes of
Oculus Rift, Samsung, HTC and Sony's PlayStation VR

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 237 words


Google has had a virtual reality headset on the market for a few years - but
it's basically a £13 piece of cardboard .

But today the gigantic technology company unveiled a brand new headset called
Daydream VR.

It's more than just a piece of card - instead it's closer to Samsung's Gear VR
headset. But rather than being made out of plastic, it's crafted from fabric
more akin to sportswear.

Google says the Daydream VR is 30% lighter than similar headsets.

Of course, it still requires a smartphone to work and Google is no doubt hoping
you'll pair it up with one of its two new Pixel phones .

The Daydream VR headset comes with a small remote control that works a bit like
the remote sticks for the Nintendo Wii. It tracks motion control and can be used
for navigation and gameplay.

Inside the remote are sensors that respond to the way you move. Google says it's
so precise you can even write with it.

There's going to be quite a few apps that work with the Daydream headset as
well. Google first announced the platform at its I/O developer conference back
in May.

The platform will be optimised to run on a number of Android smartphones -
including those from manufacturers like Samsung, Huawei and HTC.

But Google still pointed out that its new Pixel phones are the first that are
"Daydream ready".

The headset will come in a choice of three colours: Slate, Snow and Crimson.
It's set to launch in early November in the UK for £69.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              661 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:52 PM GMT

Google announces Daydream VR headset - and it will be available in early
November;
Virtual reality is going from strength to strength as Google joins the likes of
Oculus Rift, Samsung, HTC and Sony's PlayStation VR

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 236 words


Google has had a virtual reality headset on the market for a few years - but
it's basically a £13 piece of cardboard .

But today the gigantic technology company unveiled a brand new headset called
Daydream VR.

It's more than just a piece of card - instead it's closer to Samsung's Gear VR
headset. But rather than being made out of plastic, it's crafted from fabric
more akin to sportswear.

Google says the Daydream VR is 30% lighter than similar headsets.

Of course, it still requires a smartphone to work and Google is no doubt hoping
you'll pair it up with one of its two new Pixel phones .

The Daydream VR headset comes with a small remote control that works a bit like
the remote sticks for the Nintendo Wii. It tracks motion control and can be used
for navigation and gameplay.

Inside the remote are sensors that respond to the way you move. Google says it's
so precise you can even write with it.

There's going to be quite a few apps that work with the Daydream headset as
well. Google first announced the platform at its I/O developer conference back
in May.

The platform will be optimised to run on a number of Android smartphones -
including those from manufacturers like Samsung, Huawei and HTC.

But Google still pointed out that its new Pixel phones are the first that are
"Daydream ready".

The headset will come in a choice of three colours: Slate, Snow and Crimson.
It's set to launch in early November in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              662 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

Google Inc (California) applies for US Patent titled as "SEAMLESS TILEABLE
DISPLAY WITH PERIPHERAL MAGNIFICATION"

LENGTH: 227  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150138755 for US Patent, published on May 21, 2015, by Google Inc
(California), titled as "SEAMLESS TILEABLE DISPLAY WITH PERIPHERAL
MAGNIFICATION" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:   Bastani; Behnam; (San Jose, CA) ; Jepsen; Mary Lou; (Sausalito, CA)
; Fu; Belle; (Taipei City, TW)

Assignee:   Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
tileable display panel includes a screen layer, a display layer, and an
illumination layer. The display layer includes a plurality of transmissive
pixels to collectively project a unified image onto the backside of the screen
layer. The transmissive pixels disposed within a perimeter region of the display
layer have smaller transmission apertures than the transmissive pixels disposed
within a central region of the display layer. The illumination layer generates
lamp light to illuminate a backside of the display layer. The illumination layer
is coupled to generate the lamp light incident on the backside of the display
layer in the perimeter region with greater divergence than the lamp light
incident on the backside of the display layer in the central region."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              663 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday

Tech Monthly: CHRISTMAS GADGETS: Gift Guide: TABLETS

BYLINE: Jack Schofield

SECTION: OBSERVER TECH MONTHLY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 300 words


Sony Xperia Z 10.1 inch tablet,

£379-£429

Now perhaps the best 10in Android tablet, the stylish and speedy Xperia Z has a
vivid 1920 x 1200 pixel screen. It's very thin (6.9mm) and light (495g), has a
microSD slot, and is water-resistant.

sony.co.uk/product/xperia-tablet-z

Google Nexus 10, £339, £389

The best 10in Google android when launched and at 2560 x 1600 it still has more
pixels than any iPad. A thinner, lighter model is overdue.

google.co.uk/nexus/10/

Apple iPad Air,

£399 to £739

The fifth-generation iPad is by some distance the best yet. It's thin (7.5mm)
and light (469g), really fast, and has a superb 2048 x 1536 pixel screen. It
also has the most - and best - apps and accessories.

store.apple.com/uk

Microsoft Surface Pro 2, £719 - £1,439

It has the latest Intel Core i5 (Haswell) running Windows 8.1. Add a Type
keyboard cover and this ultra-tough tablet works as an Ultrabook. Includes a
Wacom-style pen and Office.

microsoft.com

Asus Transformer Book T100, £349.95

Bargain 10.1 Android tablet, runs Windows 8.1 on a quad-core Intel Atom Z3740
(Bay Trail) processor. Includes Microsoft Office.

asus.com

Asus Transformer TF701T with keyboard dock, £429

A pioneering hybrid that pairs a high-res (2560 x 1600) 10.1in android tablet
with a detachable keyboard that extends the battery life to around 17 hours. Its
USB3 port is a bonus.

asus.com

HP Envy Rove20, £899

Battery-powered Windows 8 tablet with a 20in screen. An all-in-one desktop PC
with Bluetooth keyboard and Wi-Fi.

hp.com

Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 2014 Edition £449

An upgraded version of the android tablet with a 10in 2560 X 1600 pixel screen
that works with a Wacom-style S Pen stylus for writing and drawing on screen.
While it is thinner and lighter and has a decent spec, this tablet is slightly
let down by its plastic finish.

samsung.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              664 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                December 1, 2013

Tech Monthly: CHRISTMAS GADGETS: Gift Guide: TABLETS

BYLINE: Jack Schofield

SECTION: OBSERVER TECH MONTHLY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 304 words


Sony Xperia Z 10.1 inch tablet,

pounds 379-£ 429

Now perhaps the best 10in Android tablet, the stylish and speedy Xperia Z has a
vivid 1920 x 1200 pixel screen. It's very thin (6.9mm) and light (495g), has a
microSD slot, and is water-resistant.

sony.co.uk/product/xperia-tablet-z

Google Nexus 10, £ 339, £ 389

The best 10in Google android when launched and at 2560 x 1600 it still has more
pixels than any iPad. A thinner, lighter model is overdue.

google.co.uk/nexus/10/

Apple iPad Air,

pounds 399 to £ 739

The fifth-generation iPad is by some distance the best yet. It's thin (7.5mm)
and light (469g), really fast, and has a superb 2048 x 1536 pixel screen. It
also has the most - and best - apps and accessories.

store.apple.com/uk

Microsoft Surface Pro 2, £ 719 - £ 1,439

It has the latest Intel Core i5 (Haswell) running Windows 8.1. Add a Type
keyboard cover and this ultra-tough tablet works as an Ultrabook. Includes a
Wacom-style pen and Office.

microsoft.com

Asus Transformer Book T100, £ 349.95

Bargain 10.1 Android tablet, runs Windows 8.1 on a quad-core Intel Atom Z3740
(Bay Trail) processor. Includes Microsoft Office.

asus.com

Asus Transformer TF701T with keyboard dock, £ 429

A pioneering hybrid that pairs a high-res (2560 x 1600) 10.1in android tablet
with a detachable keyboard that extends the battery life to around 17 hours. Its
USB3 port is a bonus.

asus.com

HP Envy Rove20, £ 899

Battery-powered Windows 8 tablet with a 20in screen. An all-in-one desktop PC
with Bluetooth keyboard and Wi-Fi.

hp.com

Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 2014 Edition £ 449

An upgraded version of the android tablet with a 10in 2560 X 1600 pixel screen
that works with a Wacom-style S Pen stylus for writing and drawing on screen.
While it is thinner and lighter and has a decent spec, this tablet is slightly
let down by its plastic finish.

samsung.com


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              665 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 5:52 PM GMT

Google announces Daydream View VR headset - and it will be available in early
November;
Virtual reality is going from strength to strength as Google joins the likes of
Oculus Rift, Samsung, HTC and Sony's PlayStation VR

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 239 words


Google has had a virtual reality headset on the market for a few years - but
it's basically a £13 piece of cardboard .

But today the gigantic technology company unveiled a brand new headset called
Daydream View.

It's more than just a piece of card - instead it's closer to Samsung's Gear VR
headset. But rather than being made out of plastic, it's crafted from fabric
more akin to sportswear.

Google says the Daydream View is 30% lighter than similar headsets.

Of course, it still requires a smartphone to work and Google is no doubt hoping
you'll pair it up with one of its two new Pixel phones .

The Daydream View headset comes with a small remote control that works a bit
like the remote sticks for the Nintendo Wii. It tracks motion control and can be
used for navigation and gameplay.

Inside the remote are sensors that respond to the way you move. Google says it's
so precise you can even write with it.

There's going to be quite a few apps that work with the Daydream View headset as
well.  Google first announced the platform at its I/O developer conference back
in May.

The platform will be optimised to run on a number of Android smartphones -
including those from manufacturers like Samsung, Huawei and HTC.

But Google still pointed out that its new Pixel phones are the first that are
"Daydream ready".

The headset will come in a choice of three colours: Slate, Snow and Crimson.
It's set to launch in early November in the UK for £69.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              666 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday

Google Nexus One vs Apple iPhone 3GS

LENGTH: 148 words


SCREEN SIZE

Google Nexus: 3.7-inch, 800 x 480 pixels resolution

iPhone: 3.5-inch, 480 x 320 pixels resolution

AVAILABLE THIRD-PARTY APPS

GN: About 20,000

iP: More than 100,000

SYNCHING OF FILES

GN: Focuses on synching e-mail, contacts and calendars over-the-air with
Google's servers through Wi-Fi and 3G. No copying of music and media files
between the PC and the smartphone

iP: Offers push-mail as well as synching of e-mail, contacts and calendar with
PC or Mac computers. With iTunes, music and movies can be exchanged between PC
and phone.

MULTI-TASKING

GN: Able to run multiple apps in the background at the same time

iP: Cannot multi-task with third party apps, only with native Apple apps

AVAILABLE MEMORY FOR STORING APPS

GN: 190 MB

iP: Almost the full capacity of the phone

CAMERA

GN: 5-megapixel with LED flash

iP: 3-megapixel, no flash

PROCESSOR SPEED

GN: 1 GHz

iP: 600 MHz

MULTI-TOUCH

GN: No

iP: Yes

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              667 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

Try these for size;
If you would rather keep your precious smartphone tucked away at home, here are
three alternatives to consider for the barracks

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight

LENGTH: 671 words


Sony Xperia Go

Being rough with the Sony Xperia Go is not an issue.

This Android smartphone is sufficiently protected against a watery death - it is
able to survive a swim in fresh water as long as it does not go deeper than 1m
for 30minutes. Dust is also unlikely to enter the phone if its ports are
properly sealed.

If you perspire a lot, have no fear. The 3.5-inch display is equipped with a
feature known as wet finger tracking, which lets you interact with the screen
even if your fingers are coated with sweat or water.

The disappointment here is a low screen resolution of 320 x 480 pixels, making
the phone less likely as an entertainment tool.

But if you can forgive its display density of 165pixels per inch, it still fares
pretty well when you need to read e-mail messages, browse the Web and watch some
low-resolution videos on YouTube.

A dual-core 1GHz processor powers this Android smartphone, so it has sufficient
juice to run apps without visible lag.

While it is preloaded with last year's Google Android 2.3 Gingerbread, the phone
is slated for an Android 4.0 update.

TECH SPECS

Price: $488
Operating system: Google Android 2.3
Processor: Dual-core 1GHz
Display: 3.5-inch LCD; 320 x 480 pixels
Camera: 5 megapixels
Battery: 1,305mAh

Samsung Galaxy Beam

With its 12.5mm thick profile, the Samsung Galaxy Beam feels like a clunky
phone. Good thing the army uniform has deep pockets.

You may even be able to carry along other accessories such as a battery pack or
mini-speaker.

Speaking of batteries, you get two 2,000mAh ones to power the device. They are
relatively slim, so you can slot a second one into a pocket and hook it up when
the first one dries up.

The device does not guzzle energy heavily, so you can probably stretch it for a
day if you go through your Facebook, Twitter and e-mail updates in between
training hours.

Weighing 145g, the Galaxy Beam is also a relatively heavy phone - at least, you
will know if it has slipped out of your pockets while you are running around.

This Android smartphone also comes with a pico projector, which lets you extend
its 4-inch display to a massive 50-inch projection on a blank wall. Pair that
with external speakers for a mini-cinema effect.

TECH SPECS

Price: $648
Operating system: Google Android 2.3
Processor: Dual-core 1GHz
Display: 4-inch LCD; 480 x 800 pixels
Camera: 5 megapixels
Battery: 2,000mAh

Motorola Defy XT

Now, here is a rugged smartphone that will not burn a hole in your pocket.

Similar to the Sony Xperia Go, it has the same IP67 rating that makes it
waterproof up to 1m for 30minutes and is resistant to dust particles.

Likewise, it runs on Android 2.3 Gingerbread, which is nearly two years old.

The edge it has over the Sony smartphone is its display.

At 3.7inches, the Defy XT is slightly larger and has a much better screen
resolution of 480 x 854 pixels. This creates sharper details and finer text when
you are browsing through your e-mail or scanning a website.

If you are concerned with its performance, its single-core 1GHz processor could
be the deal breaker though.

While most basic features, such as Web browsing, messaging and calls, can be
handled, it is not advisable to overload it with multiple apps.

TECH SPECS

Price: $399
Operating system: Google Android 2.3
Processor: Single-core 1GHz
Display: 3.7-inch LCD; 480 x 854 pixels
Camera: 5 megapixels
Battery: 1,700mAh

Pair it with:

X-Mini II Capsule Speaker

Bring along this inexpensive and tiny - yet powerful - speaker to share your
music with everyone.

Created by home-grown brand Xmi, the X-Mini II Capsule speaker is more than
capable of filling up a small room. A larger area - say, your bunk - could prove
to be a challenge for the compact speaker though.

But if your bunk mate also has an X-Mini speaker, you can link both up and
extend the sound across the room.

Link a few more X-Mini speakers and you can create a makeshift cinema with a
decent surround sound system.

TECH SPECS

Price: $49.90
Speaker output: 2.5W
Frequency response: 100Hz to 20kHz
Connectivity: 3.5mm audio jack
Weight: 83g

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              668 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            January 1, 2013 Tuesday

Top upcoming gadgets and concepts of 2013

BYLINE: Hitesh Raj Bhagat & Karan Bajaj

SECTION: HARDWARE

LENGTH: 359 words


Start scrimping to get your hands on these upcoming gadgets and concepts, which
will change the way you call, see, drive and play.

BlackBerry 10

The powerful QNX-inspired operating system (already installed in the Play-Book)
is going to make its way into the handsets by the end of January 2013.

The new OS is completely revamped and features a new, intelligent keyboard,
BlackBerry Hub, and is operated using intuitive swipe gestures. Two devices are
slated for the first phase of the launch: a dual core, 4.5 inch touchscreen
device and a touch+qwerty keypad phone.

4K TVs and projectors

Full high definition (HD) has its limitations--get too large a screen or come
too close and the pixels become apparent. However, 4K resolution fixes this
problem with 3,840x 2,160 pixels, or roughly four times the number of pixels
that full HD offers. While 4K TVs are already available, they are absurdly
expensive and true 4K resolution content is non-existent. Next year will see
wider adoption of the new format with cheaper TVs and more content.

Google Project Glass

Rather than look down at your smartphone or tablet for the information you need,
Google Glass will project what you need to know right into your field of view
through an augmented reality, head-mounted display. For those who wear glasses,
the device can be fitted with prescription lenses.

Samsung Galaxy S4

Samsung's upgradation of the flagship Galaxy smartphone is rumoured to have a
(slightly) flexible and unbreakable 5 inch screen, with a full 1,080p
resolution. It is also expected to have superior performance due to a new quad
core processor, quad core graphics chip, 3 GB RAM, up to 128 GB of inbuilt
storage, and a 13 MP camera with 4K video recording ability.

Smarter connected cars

The growing usage of smartphones could provide more traction to the concept of
the connected car. Such cars will link with your smartphone, play media from any
source (including the Internet) and provide live traffic information, navigation
and other info--all of these via multiple screens and voice commands. The system
may also have automatic braking and numerous cameras.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              669 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

Google rumored to launch two Android Wear 2.0 smartwatches in 2017

BYLINE: dna Web Team

LENGTH: 189  words


After releasing their very-own line of smartphones, Google is rumoured to launch
two Android 2.0 smartwatches early next year.

The rumour comes from serial tipster Evan Blass, who stated that the company is
set to unveil its smartwatches in Q1 2017. Codenamed Angelfish and Swordfish,
these two devices are expected to complement the newly launched Google Pixel and
Pixel XL.

According to previous leaks, Angelfish will be the larger variant, sporting a
premium design. It will be similar to the Moto 360 and LG's Urbane 2nd Edition
LTE. The design is said to have visible lugs, with a smooth housing shape that
curves where the watch band meets the body. At over 14mm, it will have GPS, LTE,
and a heart-rate monitor as well.

Swordfish, on the other hand, is smaller and thinner than Angelfish, with a body
diameter of 42mm and a thickness of just 10.6mm - 0.8mm. It will be available in
silver, titanium, and rose gold color variants. It will support Google's
interchangeable MODE watch bands and will be compatible with MODE bands too.
Both devices will have Google Assistant, the new Siri competitor unveiled early
this month as well.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              670 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           October 15, 2016 Saturday

Google rumored to launch two Android Wear 2.0 smartwatches in 2017

BYLINE: DNA Web Team

LENGTH: 189  words


After releasing their very-own line of smartphones, Google is rumoured to launch
two Android 2.0 smartwatches early next year.

The rumour comes from serial tipster Evan Blass, who stated that the company is
set to unveil its smartwatches in Q1 2017. Codenamed Angelfish and Swordfish,
these two devices are expected to complement the newly launched Google Pixel and
Pixel XL.

According to previous leaks, Angelfish will be the larger variant, sporting a
premium design. It will be similar to the Moto 360 and LG's Urbane 2nd Edition
LTE. The design is said to have visible lugs, with a smooth housing shape that
curves where the watch band meets the body. At over 14mm, it will have GPS, LTE,
and a heart-rate monitor as well.

Swordfish, on the other hand, is smaller and thinner than Angelfish, with a body
diameter of 42mm and a thickness of just 10.6mm - 0.8mm. It will be available in
silver, titanium, and rose gold color variants. It will support Google's
interchangeable MODE watch bands and will be compatible with MODE bands too.
Both devices will have Google Assistant, the new Siri competitor unveiled early
this month as well.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              671 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                            October 10, 2016 Monday

With Andromeda, Google looking beyond Pixel

BYLINE: Ishaan Gera

LENGTH: 880  words


The I/O conference earlier this year was enough to establish the strategic shift
Google would make towards the development of smarter devices. Though the
company's absolute focus was on its new services that would incorporate a
personal artificial intelligent assistant on the lines of Siri called Assistant,
on Tuesday the Mountain View based giant turned towards conceptualising of not
just services but hardware. In making a shift from its traditional approach of
enroping a mobile producer like HTC, Motorola or LG to create a new line of
Nexus phones, Google, much like its competitor Apple, conceptualised, designed
and created a new brand of smartphones called Pixel. It also announced the
launch of home speaker, named Home, powered by Google Assistant to compete with
Amazon's home speaker Echo.

Though it is still recognised as a search engine provider, Google made a shift
towards services beyond search and advertising way back in 2007, when it had
launched its first Android operating system. The company has since then entered
into everything from home automation to virtual and augmented reality systems.
While Android is still the market leader-it has 1.4 billion devices and captures
87.6% of the market as compared to Apple's iOS share 11.9%-the Nexus line of
phones hasn't taken off as expected. But Google expects that to change with
Pixel. The company is offering a better optimised system and higher performance
specs with Pixel, along with features like unlimited storage. Whether the new
gamble from the 'everything company' will bring windfall gains is anybody's
guess, given that Apple has a good hold on the market and Samsung despite, its
recent exploding Note 7 debacle, is expected to come back strong, but the
company will certainly bring a difference once its future plans materialise.

To look at Google's hardware foray without a peek into its future plans for
softwares and services would be a fallacy. Though the company stopped short of
launching its new OS for Google run laptops and desktops, this is what is
expected to define the future of its parent company Alphabet. The much hyped
Andromeda OS, which is expected to take over from Chrome OS is believed to be an
amalgamation of Android and Chrome operating systems. Unlike, Apple which runs
iOS both on tablets and phones, Google had created two different systems Android
for mobile phones and Chrome for Google run-laptops and desktops. But, now the
internet giant is thinking of marrying the two.

So, what is Andromeda?

Google launched Chrome OS for laptops and tablets back in 2011 with a hope to
target users who wanted fast operating systems with as little clutter as
possible. In order to make that happen the company had integrated everything
online. While Chrome had a certain array of apps, one could not download and
install apps like in Android systems. Moreover, a developer had to create
separate systems for both android and chrome in case they wanted to feature on
both. The company at its I/O conference, did try to address this by allowing
Chrome users to download Android apps, but the whole interface is expected to
see a change when Andromeda comes about. In simple terms, Andromeda would bring
Chrome's online functionality to Android so one can rely on apps as well as web
functionality for running the device.

How is it revolutionary?

What Google is trying to pull is a Microsoft. The company is banking on
integration of all devices much like Windows with a one-stop operating system.
Although most reports suggest that Google would run Andromeda on laptops,
personal computers and some tablets, the platform may soon evolve into a single
system for all its devices, including smartphones. The convergence of systems
and their integration would not only benefit the users but also the developers
as now they would have to create device agnostic apps which would be optimised
for all the versions, saving users much hassle on battery and performance. Also,
with the company now producing its own devices like Google Home, OnHub router
and smart IoT systems, one can expect a single OS to control everything from
laptops, tablets to mobile phones. Moreover, with the single OS, Google may
decide to junk all the other devices as now the smartphone can become a desktop
with help of a computer screen, mouse and keyboard or can power a laptop.

Google was rumoured to have been working on an OS called Fuchsia which could run
on a multitude of devices, though it is not clear whether Andromeda is Fuchsia,
but the company has certainly moved closer to that dream. While this may all
sound complex, one thing is for sure that Google would try and make things as
simple as possible, as is evident from its latest array of apps-Allo and Duo.
The company has achieved a convergence in terms of apps as one can now access
most features like setting the alarm, searching over the net and booking a cab
with use of Maps from Allo, what this hardware and software shift indicates is
that it may try to do the same convergence for devices. While this may be a
far-off dream where one can control everything with their glasses or smartwatch
and a smartphone, initiatives from Microsoft and Google towards convergence
suggest that future may not be too far away.

ishaan.gera@expressindia.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              672 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                       May 28, 2014 Wednesday 4:45 PM GMT

Google has a new logo - but it's so subtle, hardly anyone has noticed;
This isn't the first time Google has made tweaks to its classic logo - recently
the firm dropped their signature textural effect after a 16 year run

BYLINE: By Emma Munbodh

SECTION: NEWS,WEIRD NEWS

LENGTH: 170 words


Google made the headlines recentlywith their doodle to mark the
107th birthday of author Rachel Carsonand again to              mark polling day
across the continent, but did you notice their new logo?

Well a few keen Redditors have, and have even taken to the internet to share
their new discovery.

If you can't tell the difference, don't panic, very few of us can.

The subtle logo change saw the "g" shift one pixel to the right, and the "l" one
pixel right and one pixel down.

One user wrote: "The bottom of the 'l' and 'e' did not line up horizontally and
that, my friend, must have driven some design employee crazy."

Another eagle-eyed Google fan picked up on a change in colour, adding that
there's been an increase in the "yellow saturation".

The new look is cleaner and more browser-friendly - so much so, that we can
hardly notice the difference!

This isn't the first time Google has tweaked its logo - they recently dropped
the textural effect that had characterized the brand throughout its 16-year
history.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              673 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     November 16, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Touchscreen Chromebook From Acer May Be Coming Soon

LENGTH: 242  words


This will be the second ever touch screen Chromebook to be launched after the
Google Chromebook Pixel.

Saturday, November 16, 2013: After launching its C720-2484 Chromebook earlier,
Acer is reportedly planning to extend its line of Google Chromebook devices. The
company is reportedly going to launch the second ever touch screen Chromebook
device. The only other device in this segment is the Google Chromebook pixel.
According to reports, Acer's touch screen device was seen on Amazon France and
has the model number C720P-29552G03aii.

The device is reportedly available on pre order right now at a price of 299, but
it should be announced soon by the company. The device will have a 29.4-cm
(11.6-inch) touch screen display and will be powered by a 1.4 GHz Intel Celeron
processor. This could be a Haswell-based processor as well. It is available with
2 GB of RAM and a 32 GB SSD for data storage.

The device seems pretty similar to the C720 Chromebook that Acer already has
doing the rounds in the market. Apart from the touch screen, the only other
difference between the two devices is in the RAM and the SSD storage. While no
official comment has been made by Acer, it is possible that the company will
launch more such devices.

The key specifications of the Acer C720P-29552G03aii are as follow.

* Weight: 1.2 Kg

* Screen Size: 11.6 inches

* Intel Celeron 1.4 GHz dual-core processor

* 2GB of RAM, 32GB SSD

* Wi-Fi 802.11a/b/g/n

* USB 2.0, 3.0 ports, HDMI out

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              674 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             August 19, 2013 Monday

Boot up: NSA infractions, retina iPad mini questions, beauty queen's webcam
shock, and more

BYLINE: Charles Arthurtheguardian.com

LENGTH: 1301 words

ABSTRACT

Charles Arthur: Plus how Twitter upgraded for scale, Googliness and Appliness,
BlackBerry's fundamental failing, and more

FULL TEXT

A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team

NSA broke privacy rules thousands of times per year, audit finds && The
Washington Post

The National Security Agency has broken privacy rules or overstepped its legal
authority thousands of times each year since Congress granted the agency broad
new powers in 2008, according to an internal audit and other top-secret
documents.

Most of the infractions involve unauthorized surveillance of Americans or
foreign intelligence targets in the United States, both of which are restricted
by statute and executive order. They range from significant violations of law to
typographical errors that resulted in unintended interception of U.S. e-mails
and telephone calls.

In case you missed this on Friday. Question is, who watches the watchers?

Google engineer explains why multi-user isn't enabled for phones, offers hope
for future functionality && Android Police

"...it is not at all clear how it should work on a phone, specifically with
respect to SMS and phone calls," writes Dan Morrill, Google Engineer and a
regular on the popular /r/Android subreddit. "Suppose you have device sharing
enabled and then a call comes in. Who gets it? Do you punch through to the
current user? Only the owner gets it? If only the owner can answer, does it ring
for the second user? Is it worse to annoy the current user with a ringing phone
they can't answer, or worse for dad to miss a call from his boss because Junior
was playing Angry Birds?"

(The discussion is on a Reddit AMA.) Pretty clear that phones are more
individual than tablets (where Google has enabled multi-user).

If the new Nexus 7 can have a Retina-like screen, why can't the iPad mini? &&
iMore

Rene Ritchie:

To maintain app compatibility, like the iPad 3 and iPhone 4 before it, Apple
would need to go to @2x (double the horizontal and vertical pixels) to increase
the density

· The iPad mini is 7.87- x 5.3- x 0.28-inches and weighs 0.69 lbs. It currently
uses the aforementioned 4:3 1024x768 (786,432 pixel), 163ppi screen, and gets 10
hours of battery life.· A theoretical iPad mini Retina would need to stick very
close to those same size, weight, and battery life measures, but bump up the
display to a 4:3 2048x1536 (3,145,728 pixel), 326ppi monster.· The Nexus 7
(2013) is 7.87- x 4.49- x 0.34 and weighs 0.64 lbs. It now uses a 16:10
1920x1200 (2,304,000 pixel), 323ppi screen, and gets 9 hours of battery life -
in airplane mode.

So the Nexus 7 is a little thicker (though still light thanks to the plastic
back), but more importantly, has only 3/4 of the amount of pixels an iPad mini
Retina would need, and even then at only a fraction (who knows how much?) of the
battery life. In other words, the Nexus 7 (2013) is thicker, has less pixels,
and less battery life than a theoretical iPad mini Retina.

Engadget's review of the 2013 Nexus 7 confirms that its battery life is shorter
than last year's model. (The battery also has less capacity.)

Newly crowned Miss Teen USA: I was a victim of cybercrime && TODAY.com

About four months ago, [Cassidy] Wolf said she was notified through Facebook
that someone had tried to log into her account from another state. She then
received an anonymous e-mail from a stranger saying he was in possession of
photos of her that were taken in her bedroom via the webcam on her computer
after it was hacked. The person tried to extort her in return for ensuring the
photos were not made public. She cannot divulge all the specific details because
the incident is now under federal investigation.

The FBI has a suspect. Her advice: put a sticker over the computer's webcam when
you're not using it.

Stack && Mugi Yamamoto

My diploma project is a compact inkjet printer, which is placed on top of a
paper pile. When printing, "Stack" slowly moves downwards and swallows the pile
until no paper is left. The paper disappears under the printer and exits on top,
where it creates a new pile.

Thanks to this new way of printing it is possible to remove the paper tray, the
bulkiest element in common printers. This concept allows a very light appearance
and avoids frequent reloading.

New Tweets per second record, and how && Twitter Blog

Raffi Krikorian (@raffi), VP, Platform Engineering, on how Twitter learned to
cope with gigantic demand - which meant dumping Ruby On Rails:

When it came down to it, our Rails servers were only capable of serving 200 -
300 requests / sec / host.

Twitter's usage is always growing rapidly, and doing the math there, it would
take a lot of machines to keep up with the growth curve.

At the time, Twitter had experience deploying fairly large scale JVM-based
services - our search engine was written in Java, and our Streaming Api
infrastructure as well as Flock, our social graph system, was written in Scala.
We were enamoured by the level of performance that the JVM gave us. It wasn't
going to be easy to get our performance, reliability, and efficiency goals out
of the Ruby VM, so we embarked on writing code to be run on the JVM instead. We
estimated that rewriting our codebase could get us & 10x performance
improvement, on the same hardware -- and now, today, we push on the order of 10
- 20K requests / sec / host.

Incidental: successive tweets are no longer incremented by 1. Really fascinating
blogpost about the big and small picture of dealing with huge real-time demand,
and how to retool for it.

The Meanings of Googliness && Jens O. Meiert

In case you missed this last week:

Here's my own interpretation of what it means to be googley. What qualifies me
to give one? Apart from having worked at Google for more than five years, I got
to work with a few extraordinarily googley people who've been at Google for many
more years, some of who paid special attention to teaching their protégés
googliness. In my career at Google I too have then tried to inspire googliness,
mostly by leading by example. Whether I succeeded (my personality can interfere
with my intentions) is on others to judge, but I'll give myself the credit of
working much on it. The idea of googliness made me love Google, and made me love
going to work.

Qualities cited include "doing the right thing", "striving for excellence",
"doing something nice for others, with no strings attached", and more.

Should do better for hiring than The Intern, anyway. Though judging by the
comments..

The Meanings of Appleiness && asymco

Horace Dediu responds:

I think I can get away with replying to the Meaning of Googliness with the
following.

Looks pretty accurate.

BlackBerry - and Nokia's - fundamental failing && stratechery

Ben Thompson recalls December 2009:

Android 2.0 "Eclair" had launched two months previously, and a second app
ecosystem was starting to take root, sealing BlackBerry's fate as a standalone
ecosystem. It wasn't just BlackBerry; Nokia's door to platform independence
closed at the exact same time for the exact same reason: while the history of
software ecosystems is not long, the maximum number of said ecosystems seems to
be about 2, maybe 2.5. This has held true for the desktop, for consoles2, and
now for mobile.

Quite a sobering thought - that three ecosystems, max, is what you get in any
space. See also what he thinks BlackBerry and Nokia should have done.

Apple seems to be beefing up hiring in China && WSJ

Among the more than two hundred openings in China on professional network site
LinkedIn, some of the eye-catching China-based positions include an
environmental affairs program manager, a  security specialist and a store
specialist.

You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard

To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free
Delicious service.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              675 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             July 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Best of the Digital Life blog afr.com/digitallife

SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 641 words


Images said to be the first "glamour shots" of Motorola's Moto X have emerged
from the bowels of the internet, more than a week before the official launch of
the historic phone.

Moto X is the first Android phone said to be designed top-to-toe by Google
employees, so this is a phone that people have been looking out for with a
mixture of fear and excitement.

Will Motorola, purchased by Google in August 2011, become a mobile phone
powerhouse so mighty that even Samsung will have to bend at the knee? Will
Google's Android designers pass some secret-sauce recipes to Motorola designers,
giving them an unfair advantage over other Android licensees? Will the Moto X be
the greatest Android phone ever? We'll find out on August 1, when the phone is
due to be launched in the US.

But if the so-called glamour shots are anything to go by, neither Samsung nor we
have anything to fear/get excited about whatsoever. Laid out like a corpse in
the publicity shots, the Moto X doesn't look half as appealing as it did when
Google chairman Eric Schmidt paraded one around a while ago. Apart from the
curved back and what is doubtlessly a bigger screen, it looks quite a lot like a
Samsung Galaxy S - a design which Samsung abandoned years ago.

And the rumoured specs are nothing to get excited about, either. It's believed
the phone will have a 1.7GHz dual-core processor (ho hum), a 10megapixel rear
camera (ho hum), 2gigabytes of RAM (not bad) and will run Android 4.2.2. If
there's magic in the Moto X, it's not showing up on paper.

But of course, the very thing that competitors might fear about the Moto X -
that Google's Motorola team hasn't built the phone at a full arms-length
distance from Google's Android team - is the very thing that wouldn't show up on
paper. Any paper showing that would have been shredded then incinerated long
ago.

And if the rumours are right, the Moto X will have a neat software trick or two
up its sleeve.

A video on YouTube, since marked "private", showed that the phone would have a
permanently operational voice recognition system, allowing owners to ask
questions or make calls without ever touching the phone. Usually you have to
press something on your phone to get it to listen to you.

The video also showed a notification system called Active Updates, which
provides notifications that are more informative than a mere blinking light, and
a camera that can be launched with a flick of the wrist.

The drum beat of the all-conquering Samsung as it marches inexorably towards
tablet supremacy has picked up tempo. The world's largest consumer electronics
company has just launched its 2013 line-up of Galaxy Tab tablets, and whatever
it may lack in imagination, it makes up for in pricing.

Samsung's 8-inch tablet, known as the Galaxy Tab 3 (8-inch), is the fanciest of
the bunch and costs $349. The 7-inch version is $249, and the 10.1-inch version
is $399.

There's not just a difference in size and price, though. Whereas the 8-inch Tab
3 has a very sharp, 189-pixels-per-inch screen, the 7-inch has a not-so-sharp
149-ppi screen, the same pixel density as the 10.1-inch model. Somewhere between
those two pixel densities is a threshold, where you stop noticing the individual
pixels. So while the screen on the 8-inch Tab 3 looks fantastic, just like the
8-inch Note 2, the screens on the 7-inch and 10.1 models are a little ho-hum.

Samsung's message is clear: the 8-inch version is the one you buy for yourself,
the 7-inch version is the one you buy for your kids (especially the ones you
don't love so much) and the 10.1-inch Tab is for your household.

Alas, Samsung hasn't brought its full arsenal of wizardry out to play with the
Tabs this year. They're more about the price. And at $349, $20 cheaper than an
iPad mini but with a noticeably sharper screen than the mini, the Tab 3 (8-inch)
does look pretty appealing.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              676 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Google rolls out new smart devices

BYLINE: Technology; Stephen Hutcheon

SECTION: A; Pg. A023

LENGTH: 251  words


Google's smart speaker and its new Pixel phone. Photo: AP Google rolls out new
smart devices Technology Stephen Hutcheon On the cusp of what it calls an
"inflection point" in the history of computing, Google has unveiled a conga line
of new devices in its biggest single hardware launch.

The devices -- smartphones, a virtual reality headset, a smart speaker, Wi-Fi
router and an upgraded version of its Chromecast streaming gadget -- were rolled
out at an event in San Francisco for (eventual) worldwide distribution.The
"inflection" was described by Google chief executive Sundar Pichai as the moment
at which advances in machine learning and artificial intelligence have filtered
out of the labs and into real world applications.

"When I look ahead at where computing is headed, it's clear to me that we're
moving from a mobile-first to an AI-first world," Mr Pichai said.

"Our goal is build a personal Google for each and every user," he said.

Australian users will be among the first in the world to get some of the new
gear.

The new Pixel phones, Google flagship Android smartphones, will be available for
order on Google's online store. The phones will also be sold through Telstra and
JB Hi-Fi outlets.

They will comes in two sizes: a 5-inch screen and a phablet-sized 5.5-inch
screen with prices starting at $1079 -- in the same league as the latest iPhones
and top-tier Samsung phones. And they come with 3.5-millimetre headphone jacks.

The author attended the launch in San Francisco as a guest of Google.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2016 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              677 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Best android tablet

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Test; DL AWARDS 2014

LENGTH: 372 words


Asus Transformer Pad TF701

With a high-resolution 2,560 x 1,600 pixel screen, the Asus Transformer Pad is
among the top tablets in terms of pixel density.

Powering this display is Nvidia's strong Tegra 4 chip running at a whopping
1.9GHz with 2GB of RAM.

Besides the top-notch hardware, the Asus Transformer Pad has a keyboard
accessory which extends its already impressive 13-hour battery life by another
four hours.

Attaching the keyboard dock adds a USB 3.0 port and an SD card reader,
transforming it into a laptop.

Google Nexus 7

For Android purists, the Google Nexus 7 is undoubtedly the tablet to get. But
even non-Android users will appreciate the stunning 1,920 x 1,200 pixel display
on this 7-inch tablet. There is a negligible air gap between the LCD and the
protective glass, which reduces reflection.

Equally attractive are the Nexus 7's quad-core processor, dual cameras and
support for wireless charging. The clincher may be its competitive price tag,
starting from $429 for the Wi-Fi model.

LG G Tablet 8.3

LG's G Tablet 8.3 should be on your shortlist if you want a small, handy tablet.
It weighs just 338g, but packs some impressive hardware, including a quad-core
CPU and a 1,920 x 1,200 pixel display.

Then, there are the apps. The Q Pair app lets you get notifications from a
supported LG Android phone when you are using the tablet. Apps can run next to
each other using the QSlide Function feature.

Samsung Note 10.1 2014

The refreshed Samsung Note 10.1 gets a high-resolution 2,560 x 1,600 pixel
screen and a more streamlined design, with a textured back that is easier to
hold. Though it is lighter, it still feels sturdy.

The S Pen stylus remains its chief distinguishing feature. Samsung has improved
the stylus software. The Note is one of a few Android devices that supports app
multitasking in multiple windows side by side.

Sony Xperia Tablet Z

The 10-inch Z slate is so slim and light that it can slip from your hands in a
careless moment. Released early last year, it is still one of the thinnest
tablets in the market. It has a high-resolution 1,920 x 1,200 pixel screen and a
quad-core processor.

Its water-resistance feature is impressive. It can survive being under 1m of
water for up to 30 minutes.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              678 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     October 31, 2012 Wednesday 7:11 AM GMT

Nexus 10: Look out Apple, Google just declared war on the iPad

BYLINE: By Alex Masters

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY & GADGETS

LENGTH: 507 words


The Nexus 10 is Google's answer to Apple's iPad 4, complete with stereo
speakers, front and rear cameras, 1.5 GHz dual-core processor, 2GB Ram and
either 16 or 32GB storage options.

This impressive hardware sits behind a 2560-by-1600 pixel display, boasting the
highest resolution of any tablet on the market with a pixel density of 300 pixel
per inch, far greater than the iPad's 264 ppi equivalent. Apple's 'Retina'
branding doesn't seem all that impressive anymore.

The Nexus 10 is encased in unibody plastic chassis, which Google say is an
essential feature in order to ensure the device is as thin, light and affordable
as possible. The tablet weighs in at just 603 grams, with a mind-boggling
thickness of just 8.9 millimetres.

The only feature currently missing in the Nexus 10 is 3G or 4G LTE connectivity,
meaning you'll need to tether the tablet to a mobile hotspot or internet
connected smartphone whenever a WiFi connection is unavailable. It's possible
Google will add 3G/4G models at some point in the future, like they have with
the Nexus 7, but until then it's WiFi only unfortunately.

The Nexus 10 does however support MIMO WiFi, a new technology that can
theoretically speed up web browsing up to four times faster than traditional
WiFi speeds can deliver. However, this remains to be seen. It seems Google are
more interested in targeting the Nexus 10 towards families, designed for use in
the home, rather than out and about. Referring to it as "the perfect couch or
coffee table companion".

The latest version of Android (4.2) will bring with it the ability to
fast-switch between user accounts, making it possible for several people to
share the same tablet with completely separate logins, all running side-by-side.

Google are pushing their Play store content heavily with the Nexus 10, as they
want users to consume paid digital content on the device, such as apps, movies,
TV shows, books, magazines and music.

For the first time we're seeing an Android tablet that truly competes with
Apple's latest iPad. The Nexus 10 is thinner, lighter, faster and higher
resolution tablet, but it takes more than a few impressive specs to persuade
consumers to part with their well earned money. Google are well aware of the
uphill battle they face against Apple's tablet dominance, which is why they have
priced the Nexus 10 accordingly.

You'll be able to purchase a 16GB Nexus 10 for just £319, direct from Google's
Play store. That's £80 cheaper than Apple's cheapest fourth generation iPad. At
£389 for the 32GB model, the price difference increases even further to £90.

When you combine the Nexus 10's price, power, technology and multi-user support,
Google really have built a tablet that goes toe-to-toe with iPad in almost every
way, and in many cases outshines Apple's offering altogether. It will be
fascinating to see how well the Nexus 10 fares against the iPad this holiday
season.

The Samsung Nexus 10 will be available to purchase on Tuesday November 13 direct
from the Google Play Store.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              679 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                           November 7, 2015 Saturday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

The iPad Pro is in the starting blocks

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 357 words


It was during the keynote speech at the Apple event on September 9, 2015 that
the group unveiled its biggest and most powerful tablet. The iPad Pro is set to
hit retail this month, with reports suggesting it will drop November 11 or 13.
The new tablet will be in direct competition with the brand new Surface Pro 4
and the upcoming Google Pixel C, each of which is regarded as a viable
alternative to a laptop computer.

The iPad Pro has a 12.9 inch screen with a resolution of 2732x2048 pixels. It is
described as the most powerful ever produced by Apple with its new A9X chipset
that can compete with many laptop computers. It will be offered in three metal
finishes (silver, gold and space grey). It will be available in the US from $799
for the Wi-Fi model and from $1079  for the Wi-Fi + cellular model.

This tablet will have a stylus as an add-on option, which is a first for Apple.
The iPad Pro Multi-Touch screen's tactile sub-system has been specifically
designed to operate with this Apple Pencil, which is aimed to be as precise as
possible for all artistic and 3D design purposes. It is compatible with all
apps, including an office suite such as Office. The new "Smart Keyboard" is
connected directly to the tablet, without Bluetooth, and its design is very slim
and resilient.

Hybrid devices midway between a tablet and a PC

With these features, the iPad Pro looks like a credible rival to a laptop. It is
in the same market position as Microsoft with its Surface Pro range.

This new generation Microsoft tablet, with a starting price of $899, is bigger
(12.3 inches) and thinner (8.4mm) than the Surface Pro 3. Its stand-out feature
is its new stylus, which has up to 1024 degrees of pressure sensitivity -- a
first for a touch screen, according to RedmondMag.

And Google recently unveiled a similar tablet, derived from its Chromebook Pixel
, with an aluminum body, a USB Type-C port and an LED battery charge indicator.
This 10.2 inch tablet (2560x1800 pixels) can also be used with a keyboard,
available as an option, making it a high-performance hybrid solution. This Pixel
C tablet is retail for a starting prices of $499 in the US.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              680 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                            July 10, 2013 Wednesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Amazon to offer a tablet with better than iPad resolution: report

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 408 words


Reports suggest that Amazon is set to refresh its entire tablet range with
higher resolution alternatives and that they could be on sale by September.

Amazon's range of Kindle Fire tablets may be some of the only tablets that are
holding their own against the iPad in terms of sales and web use -- but as both
Apple and Google gear up to unveil new, refreshed tablets lines later this year,
Amazon will need to follow suit if it is expected to stay in touch with its
closest rivals.

According to BGR, the company is planning a full range refresh which will bring
resolution levels currently only seen on the full-sized iPad and Google's
Nexus-10 slate to some of its models.

The report claims that Amazon intends to keep a three-model lineup: a Kindle
Fire (7-inch screen); plus 7-inch and 8.9-inch variants of the Kindle Fire HD
tablets.

The entry-level and until now standard-definition model will see its pixel
density increased to a decidedly more HD 1280x800.

The 7-inch Kindle Fire HD will see its resolution upped to 1920x1200, while its
larger, 8.9-inch brother will get a 2560x1600 pixel screen taking it past the
current fourth generation Retina display iPad in terms of pixel numbers and
pixel density.

As well as reworked displays, the new devices are expected to be lighter and
have a more 'chiselled' appearance, a move away from the current trounded corner
look.

Amazon's Kindles are by no means the best tablets on the market and as Ars
Technica points out, the forked version of Android that the devices use as an
operating system is still wanting in terms of responsiveness and smoothness.

However, they remain very popular because of Amazon's competitive pricing and
the number of apps and multimedia content the company offers Kindle users. The
increased resolution will not only help the tablets stay up to date in the eyes
of US and European consumers but will also help them to win a greater market
share in countries that use character-based languages, such as China, Japan and
India.

At a 300 dots per inch resolution, text based on the Roman alphabet would look
smooth, crisp and clear to even those with the keenest of eyesight. However, a
greater pixel density is needed to achieve the same effect for text written in
Mandarin or Hindi.

If the report is to be believed, and BGR's Amazon sources have an excellent
track record, then expect the new devices to debut in September for the same
prices as the tablets they will be replacing.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2013 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              681 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             October 7, 2013 Monday

Nokia Lumia 1020 review: it's a phone, it's a camera - what a camera

BYLINE: Kate Bevantheguardian.com

LENGTH: 2106 words

ABSTRACT

Nokia's claims of a 41-megapixel camera are true: they're all in there, in this
unusual-looking phone. But what about the apps to use those pictures? By Kate
Bevan

FULL TEXT

[Editor's note: some of the pictures in this article are large - around 2MB each
- and may take some time to load, depending on the speed of your connection.]

My first cameraphone was a Sony Ericsson T68i, which added the camera in the
form of a bolt-on attachment to the handset itself . I used that almost exactly
11 years ago, taking it on a birthday-present-to-myself trip to India. I still
have the handset somewhere; sadly, none of the photos has survived.

At the time the camera element seemed both miraculous and pointless. I couldn't
see why anyone would want to take pictures with a phone, given how poor they
were, but I remember applauding the sheer demented genius of joining two
apparently very different bits of hardware to create a Frankenstein's monster of
consumer technology.

Fast forward 11 years, to what is now the state-of-the art cameraphone - the
Nokia Lumia 1020. In the age of instant, always-on social media, adding a camera
to a phone now makes perfect sense: people take and share photographs every
minute of every day thanks to the vast improvement in the camera technology and
much better mobile connectivity.

Nokia first unveiled the technology that now graces the 1020 in its 808 Pureview
in July last year. At the time it was hailed as spectacular, but a dead end, as
it was part of the Finnish company's final Symbian phone.

The good news is that it's still spectacular, even more so now as it's on the
latest handset in the Windows Phone Lumia range. It's not perfect, but it's a
cameraphone that, while it doesn't make my trusty Nikon D80 redundant, does make
me think twice about lugging it along to events.

Apps and all

The subject of apps, or lack thereof, comes up every time the Windows Phone
platform is reviewed, and some big names are indeed still missing: there's no
Instagram (although there are a number of good third-party alternatives and
Hipstamatic's Oggl Pro recently launched). Urban taxi-users will miss Hailo and
Kabbee. However, Dropbox is now on the platform, while Vine, Flipboard and Path
are "coming soon".

I add a small handful of apps - Google Search, Adobe Reader, Kindle, PrimeTube
and Addison Lee - to a Windows Phone handset, but then I'm not a big user of
apps, not least because so much functionality is baked in to the OS. WP comes
with Office, plus 7GB of Skydrive space; and the People hub integrates Facebook,
Twitter and LinkedIn: all three also provide official apps, but there's little
need to fire them up. The most problematic absences are Google's apps: the
ongoing spat between Google and Microsoft over YouTube continues to rumble,
while Gmail users will shortly have to use three protocols (IMAP, CalDAV and
CardDAV) to connect a WP device to their stuff as Google is withdrawing access
via Exchange Active Sync. If you're a big Google user, while you can connect,
it's trickier than on other platforms - and some might well find that a reason
to choose another platform.

Camera: the technology bit

First, here's the technology bit (and here's a PDF from Nokia to explain it).
The heart of the camera is a 41-megapixel (MP) sensor which uses 1.1-micron
back-side-illuminated pixels. What that means is a bigger area to capture light:
it's the same idea as a medium-format camera, which seeks to improve the quality
of images by having a bigger light-collecting device than its smaller
counterpart, the SLR (single lens reflex) camera.

The comparison ends there, though. More and bigger pixels do usually equate to
coarser grain and "noisier" (less precise) images, the processing software means
that this camera oversamples - in other words, it takes information from all the
pixels to produce one 5MP image that is really good.

That 5MP image is the one that's available for sharing, and you can post it from
the app direct to Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn or SkyDrive, or add it to an email
or picture message. You can also send your picture to OneNote, which is part of
the Office suite all Windows Phones bundle.

However, the benefit of those bigger pixels and bigger sensor really become
clear when you look at the 38MP image captured at the same time as the smaller
image. Blow it up, and the detail captured even at full magnification is really
impressive. I was half a mile away from Tower Bridge (according to Google Maps),
when this shot was taken.

Detail at close range on a 38MP image is almost uncomfortably good: blown right
up, you can see my reflection in Rory Cellan-Jones's eye as I take the picture.

While the sensor and the software are very important, nothing is more important
when it comes to good pictures than the lens. Nokia has done its very best here,
using a six-part assembly by Carl Zeiss, which has been a byword for
high-quality lenses since the 19th century. Inevitably, this is an area where
the image quality suffers: it's very difficult to get the best optics out of
such a small assembly. Looked at in detail, images can suffer from purple
fringing and I think the edges are rather soft.

That could reasonably be described as nitpicking: while these images wouldn't
bear too much comparison with an image taken with a full-frame DSLR, or even a
dedicated, good-quality point and shoot, for a cameraphone, they're stunning.

Gyro heaven

The camera is, like its predecessors in the Lumia range, housed in a gyroscope,
which means that the shutter can be open for longer - so you can take good
images in low light. I prefer not to use a flash if possible, and most of the
time you won't need one. Images such as this

shot in auto mode, indoors with tungsten light, are good. The camera struggles a
bit with white balance on auto mode in low light with mixed light sources, as
you might expect

But it does well at duskand in party lighting.

The 1020 has won praise elsewhere for its Xenon flash; I am less convinced by it
- any flash can swamp and flatten a scene, and this is no exception. (Example
without and with flash.)

Camera in use

So much for what the images are like; what's the camera like to use? The 1020
comes with the latest iteration of Nokia's camera software, Nokia Camera Pro -
and that's also now available for other Lumias including the 920 and 925. It's
the default software, and launches when you press the camera button on the
phone.

You can shoot in auto mode, or you can adjust the white balance, ISO, focus,
shutter speed and exposure value, as well as turn the flash on and off, and kill
the focus light - which I always do, as a focus light firing will make your
subjects think the flash has gone off and the photo is taken, so they move and
the shot is ruined.

In auto mode the display tells you that all the settings are in auto. In the top
left corner is the edit icon - tap that when the image is saved and it will be
opened in editing mode.

Next to that, a tiny circular thumbnail of the image is seen: tap that, and
you'll be taken to a screen where you can crop the 38MP image - you can also
change the aspect ratio of your shot here. The framing grid is off by default;
I've turned it on.

In the bottom right corner are two arrows in a circle: tap that, and you'll be
offered a choice of other "lenses", or imaging software, with which to take your
shot. The phone ships with Bing Vision (which scans barcodes and QR codes);
Nokia Cinemagraph (with which you can create animated gifs); Panorama
(self-explanatory); Camera (the point-and-shoot predecessor to the Pro Cam app)
or Nokia Smart Cam.

That gives you another series of options: Motion Focus, which adds blur to
suggest motion; Action Shot, which adds a strobe effect; Remove Moving Objects,
which allows you to get rid of unwanted objects (your ex, perhaps); and Change
Faces, where you can do what it says on the tin. There are other lenses apps in
the Windows Phone store; doubtless more will follow (though no Instagram yet,
filter fans).

If you want to play with the camera settings in Pro Cam, sweep the camera icon
right and the settings screen appears.Sweep one of the settings up and the
preview will show you what the effect will be (like this, or this, or this, for
example).

It's worth experimenting with these settings as you can get some nice effects,
such as motion blur by choosing a slower shutter speed.

Once you're happy with how the shot looks, you can either tap the screen or
press the camera button (which is under your right index finger when holding the
phone in landscape orientation) to fire the shutter. As the camera focuses,
you'll feel the mechanism moving inside the phone, which is a little
disconcerting at first.

One irritation with this device is that the shutter is slow to fire (and indeed,
the camera app is slow to start up). Although setting a fast shutter speed can
freeze action, it won't capture your scene any faster, which means that if you
like to grab moments with quick, spontaneous shots, this probably isn't the
device for you. It's also rather slow to process the image and show you the
result and then take you to the Pro Cam app for editing.

Moving pictures

Video is good, offering a choice of resolutions and frame rates, from 720p/24fps
right up to 1080p/30fps, though of course the higher the quality, the more disk
space you'll eat on the device - and as with previous Lumias, there's no SD
slot. The phone comes in 32GB and 64GB flavours, but for now at least the 64GB
model is an O2 special in the UK. However, it does come with 7GB of space on
SkyDrive, Microsoft's equivalent to Dropbox, which integrates tightly with all
Windows Phone handsets.

Video settings are, as with stills, accessed via the video app rather than the
primary Settings app, and, as with the stills camera, you can adjust settings
manually, though with video you only have access to the focus and white balance
- playing with that particularly can produce some quite startling effects.

Here's one: and another:

Video editing

One piece of good news for Lumia users frustrated by the inability to edit video
on the device itself is that Nokia has now released an app - Nokia Video Trimmer
- which is straightforward to use, though limited in function: all you can do is
trim the beginning and the end. Sharing to Facebook or Skydrive is done via the
video app, but if you want to post your masterpiece to YouTube, you'll need the
Nokia Video Upload app. (Both of these apps are available for earlier Lumias
that have had the Amber OS update.)

It's a phone too

However, as well as being a very good pocket camera, the Lumia 1020 is also a
phone. It is in many ways the same as the Lumia 920, which we reviewed in depth
just under a year ago. The software updates have added some functionality,
including FM radio and the Glance function for when the phone is asleep.

The hardware isn't much different, either: the heart of the 1020 is the same
Qualcomm Snapdragon 1.5GHz processor, though the 1020 gets a boost to 2GB of
RAM.

The specifications for the 1020 show that it is slightly lighter than the 920
(158g against the 920's 185g). Its 1020 camera stands proud of the back, so it
can't lie flat, but it still feels less of a slab than its predecessor (although
the 925 is a much slimmer and lighter phone, weighing in at 139g. For
comparison, the iPhone 5S weighs 112g; HTC One, 130g; Samsung Galaxy S4 130g;
BlackBerry Z10, 137.5g.). The 1020 is made of a matte polycarbonate, which is a
little more subtle than the glossy polycarbonate of the 920 - though the best
looker of the Lumia handsets remains the brushed aluminium of the 925.
Colourwise, you get a choice of radioactive custard-yellow, or a more sober
black or white.

For those planning to use the camera more than casually, consider getting the
camera grip, which makes it feel, well, more like a camera. It adds weight and
bulk, but crucially it also adds an extra battery: snapping away will drain the
battery surprisingly quickly.

If you want to see what the camera is capable of in the hands of professionals,
it's worth looking at the images shot by the legendary photographers David
Bailey and Bruce Weber, who both took a 1020 on to the streets of Harlem, New
York, earlier in the summer; their high-res images can be downloaded and blown
up and are far more impressive than any of my shots.

Pros: stunning high-res images, build quality, additional camera grip

Cons: apps slow to boot, shutter slow to fire, rather long processing time.

More reading: "the question of whether ordinary people will really pay top whack
for a fantastic camera is already answered by the compact camera market"

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              682 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                            November 9, 2012 Friday

Google's Nexus 7 tablet in India for Rs.19,900

LENGTH: 130  words


Google's Nexus 7 tablet will start selling in India from Thursday evening. The
16GB will sell at Rs.19,990. The Rs.19,990 price tag ($370) is way higher than
the ($199) that it sells for in the United States Google Nexus 7 Tablet operates
on Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system. It generates its power from 1.3GHz
NvidiaTegra 3 quad-core CPU and GeForce 12-core GPU. It has 1GB DDR3L RAM.



Nexus 7 is topped with a 7- inch WXGA IPS (In-plane Switching) 10 finger
multi-touchscreen that has a resolution support of 1,280x800 pixels. Output
ports include a micro USB port, 3.5 mm audio jack.

Nexus 7 sports a 1.2 Mega Pixel front camera but does not comes with a back
camera. It comes with Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n and Bluetooth 3.0 technology. Nexus 7
runs on a Li-polymer 4325mAh battery.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              683 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                               GoldCoast Edition

Pixel phone Apple killer?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 100  words


GOOGLE has released a premium phone to take on Apple and Samsung, hoping
consumers will overlook some missing features and be wooed by the lure of a
phone with unlimited storage and a super smart digital assistant.

The Pixel phone costs exactly the same as an iPhone and is the first smartphone
with Google Assistant built in.Google lets you store your photos and videos in
full resolution in the Google cloud for free and a fast-charging feature gives
you an extra seven hours of life with just 15 minutes of charging. Unlike the
Samsung and Apple devices, the Pixel phones have no water resistant rating.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              684 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 9, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

There's a Chrome for every home as laptop makers get the Google bug;
Macs and PCs have a new rival in go-anywhere computers. Sasha Muller takes a
shine to five Chromebooks

BYLINE: Sasha Muller

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 705 words


BEST FOR VALUE

Toshiba Chromebook 2 CB30-B-104 £270

Squint and you might mistake this laptop for a MacBook Air: the off-white
plastic body looks remarkably like brushed aluminium. The Toshiba is a
handsomelooking Chromebook, the 1.35kg chassis is sturdy and Toshiba has
squeezed in all the essentials: the keyboard feels crisp and responsive and the
large, buttonless trackpad works well too. Inside is a 16GB solid-state drive
(SSD) and an Intel Celeron processor with a generous 4GB of Ram, so performance
is sprightly. There is a cheaper B-103 model (£190) but our choice would be this
version with a 1080p 13.3in screen: it delivers pin-sharp images with great
viewing angles and is on a par with those of PCs costing twice as much. The
laptop also supports the latest wi-fi and has a fast USB 3.0 port, an SD card
reader and seven hours of battery life. Verdict Good looks and performance, and
a gorgeous screen.

***** www.toshiba.co.uk

BEST FOR STUDENTS

Dell Chromebook 11 £214

Cast in dull grey and black, Dell's Chromebook 11 is no looker. But what it
lacks in allure it makes up in practicality: the tough, 1.2kg body is bolstered
with rubber edges, making it robust enough for a tough working life. The spec is
also up to scratch: speedy wi-fi capability; an SD card reader to supplement the
16GB of storage; and an easy-to-use keyboard, even if the buttonless trackpad is
a little fiddly. The Dell delivers 7½ hours of battery life, but the 11.6in
display is disappointing - images wash out when you tilt it back. Forgive that
flaw, though, and there's much to love.

Verdict Tough, practical and portable. The display is a letdown, though.

**** www.dell.co.uk

BEST FOR SHOWING OFF

Chromebook Pixel £799

Google's own version of a Chromebook is designed to show off just what the
system can do. None of the plastics used by rivals here: the 1.5kg Pixel is a
metal machine and is peppered with high-end hardware and nifty features. Tap the
lid twice and multicoloured LEDs glow to indicate the remaining battery power,
the superb keyboard has touch-activated backlighting and the glass trackpad is
the best on test. This standard model has a powerful Intel Core i5 processor,
8GB of Ram and a 32GB SSD; a £999 model ups the ante with a Core i7 chip, 16GB
of Ram and a 64GB SSD. Whichever you choose, the Pixel's 12.9in touchscreen is
the match of any on the market: it's bright, and colours are accurate. With 11
hours of battery life and the graphical grunt to show 4K on a compatible TV or
monitor, the Pixel is the ultimate in Chromebook oneupmanship. But the price is
a big turn-off. Verdict Stunning design and an amazing display - at a price.

*** www.store.google.com

BEST FOR CONNECTIONS

HP Chromebook 14 £249

While others in this line-up settle for a monochromatic look, HP's device wraps
an attention-seeking turquoise or green band around the base and lid, and the
keyboard is surrounded by metallic silver. The 14in display brings a weight
penalty - the HP is an unwieldy 1.7kg - but the spacious keyboard layout and big
trackpad are a pleasure to work on. The big difference, however, is the hardware
inside. HP has opted for Nvidia's Tegra K1 processor, and that's no bad thing:
battery life approaches the nine-hour mark, performance is nippy and, like the
Toshiba, it needs no fan, so it's silent. You can also use the HP outside wi-fi
networks: builtin mobile broadband via a pre-installed Sim is good for 250MB a
month for two years, with a 500MB add-on at £6 a month.

Verdict Built-in 3G makes for an always-connected laptop.

**** www.store.hp.com

BEST FOR BUSINESS

Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga 11e Chromebook £330

Lenovo's ThinkPads are popular with business people because of their bulletproof
build. The "Yoga" label refers to the machine's flexibility: the 11.6in
touchscreen folds back through 360 degrees, allowing the Lenovo to transform
from laptop to tablet, or you can make it into a tent shape for watching movies,
say. The quadcore processor powers past most of its rivals, the touchscreen
delivers cracking images and the keyboard is excellent. Unusually, the latest
wi-fi compatibility is accompanied by an old-school Ethernet socket.

Verdict A little pricier than most, but you get what you pay for.

*****lenovo.com/uk/en

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              685 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 6, 2016 Sunday
                               Statewide Edition

CNET

SECTION: SMARTER LIVING; D; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 374  words


Samsung

Galaxy S7 Edge

CNET rating: 5 stars out of 5 (Spectacular)

The good: The Galaxy S7 Edge has a gorgeous larger curved screen and larger
battery than the otherwise identical standard S7. It really is something
special. The extra navigation tools can be useful when used judiciously.

The bad: When you pile on these extra navigation tools, they slow you down
rather than speed you up. It's pricier than other good phones.

The cost: $599.99 (refurbished) to $779.99

The bottom line: The gorgeous Galaxy S7 Edge makes the best Android phone that
much better.

Samsung

Galaxy S7

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: Polished design. Awesome camera. Long battery life. MicroSD storage
slot and water-resistant (again!).

The bad: Annoyingly reflective. Smudge magnet. Plastic-looking selfies even with
no filter. No removable battery, which isn't surprising, but is still a
compromise compared to 2014's S5.

The cost: $479.99 (refurbished) to $679.99

The bottom line: The fast, powerful, beautiful Galaxy S7 phone is 2016's
all-around phone to beat.

OnePlus 3

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: The OnePlus 3's sharp camera, powerful processor and enduring,
quick-charging battery make a knockout combo when you factor in its low price.

The bad: The camera has a distinct bulge. Power users may be disappointed that
the phone doesn't have a swappable battery or expandable storage.

The cost: $399 to $495

The bottom line: At $400, the OnePlus 3 is the best budget Android phone you can
buy, with a premium look and feel, and performance fast enough to go
head-to-head with any high-end handset on the market.

Google Pixel

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: The Google Pixel has a fantastic camera, especially in low light. It's
elegantly designed. Google Assistant takes one of the most natural, human
approaches to answering your voice.

The bad: The phone's display is dim in outdoor sunlight and its camera's Lens
Blur feature is shoddy. It's splash-resistant rather than dunkable, and it's
pricey compared to previous Google Nexus devices.

The cost: $649 to $649.99

The bottom line: If you're wary of Samsung or looking for a worthy iPhone
alternative, the Google Pixel is the high-end Android phone to get.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              686 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 14, 2015 Saturday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on February 10 titled as "Noise
estimation for images"

LENGTH: 199  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,953,877, on
February 10, 2015, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Noise estimation for
images"

Inventors:  Babacan; Sevket Derin (San Francisco, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Implementations relate to estimating noise in images. In some implementations,
a method includes extracting a plurality of sample blocks of pixels from a
received image, where each sample block includes a subset of pixels of the
image. One or more of the sample blocks are examined for texture content based
on whether the sample blocks include one or more edges based on a predetermined
threshold. At least one sample block determined to include texture content is
removed. The method determines one or more average color variances based on the
remaining sample blocks that have not been removed, where noise estimations for
the image are based on the average color variances."

The patent was filed on May 14, 2013 Application no. 13/894,364

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              687 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 22, 2014 Saturday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on November 18 titled as "Center
of motion for encoding motion fields"

LENGTH: 220  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,891,626, on
November 18, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Center of motion for
encoding motion fields"

Inventors: Bankoski; James (Wynantskill, NY), Wilkins; Paul (Cambridge, GB)
Assignee: Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
system and method for encoding and decoding a video is disclosed having a
plurality of frames with spatially correspondent blocks comprised of pixels. The
encoding method includes determining a motion field for a plurality of pixels in
a first frame having a same direction of movement as each other, the motion
field having a center of motion, at least one dimension defining a shape of the
motion field and a motion vector, encoding the motion field into a bitstream,
associating at least one block of the first frame with the motion field and
encoding each block associated with the motion field into the bitstream without
a separate motion vector. Motion fields can be reused across multiple frames,
decreasing the number of bits spent to encode motion vectors."

The patent was filed on April 5, 2011 Application no. 13/080,266

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              688 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            January 10, 2011 Monday

Tech Universe: Monday 10 January

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General

LENGTH: 272 words


I SEE ICE: The IceCube Neutrino Observatory at the South Pole is now complete.
The main IceCube detector contains 5,160 optical sensors on 86 strings embedded
2 Km below the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station. This frozen observatory is
looking for elusive dark matter. Through the ice, darkly. More at and video on .

BODY SEARCH: The latest Google Labs search shows you inside the human body, in
3D. Use Google Chrome or Firefox to view muscles, bones, organs, blood vessels
and nerves, all with labels. Zoom in and out and even mark locations. Bone up
before your next doctor's visit. More at .

FAST TRACK TO STUDY: At the Technische Universitat in Munich there's a very
quick way down to the ground floors: not a lift, not stairs, but a slide. Why
not add some practical fun to studying? More at .

30 PIXEL CAMERA: How do you X-ray lightning? Quickly, and at low res. US
scientists created a 680 Kg 30 pixel camera containing an x-ray detector that
captures 10 million images per second. It caught images of lightning travelling
at 1/6th the speed of light. The X-rays were all in the tip of the lightning
bolt. Yes, that's 30 pixels, not megapixels. Details at .

SICK BREATH: We all know about breathalysers used to test drivers for alcohol,
but now researchers have created a medical breath test. Polymer particles coated
with metal oxide are deposited on microhotplates. Heating burns off the polymer,
leaving a very porous and very sensitive metal-oxide film as the sensor.
Biomarkers in breath change the electrical properties of the sensor. "That'll be
a $100 fine and we recommend a visit to your doctor." More at .

- Miraz Jordan

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              689 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday

Amazon to offer a tablet with better than iPad resolution: report

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, July 13 -- Reports suggest that Amazon is set to refresh its entire
tablet range with higher resolution alternatives and that they could be on sale
by September.

Amazon's range of Kindle Fire tablets may be some of the only tablets that are
holding their own against the iPad in terms of sales

and web use - but as both Apple and Google gear up to unveil new, refreshed
tablets lines later this year, Amazon will need to follow suit if it is expected
to stay in touch with its closest rivals.

According to BGR, the company is planning a full range refresh which will bring
resolution levels currently only seen on the full-sized iPad and Google's
Nexus-10 slate to some of its models.

The report claims that Amazon intends to keep a three-model lineup: a Kindle
Fire (7-inch screen); plus 7-inch and 8.9-inch variants of the Kindle Fire HD
tablets.

The entry-level and until now standard-definition model will see its pixel
density increased to a decidedly more HD 1280x800.

The 7-inch Kindle Fire HD will see its resolution upped to 1920x1200, while its
larger, 8.9-inch brother will get a 2560x1600 pixel screen taking it past the
current fourth generation Retina display iPad in terms of pixel numbers and
pixel density.

As well as reworked displays, the new devices are expected to be lighter and
have a more 'chiselled' appearance, a move away from the current trounded corner
look.

Amazon's Kindles are by no means the best tablets on the market and as Ars
Technica points out, the forked version of Android that the devices use as an
operating system is still wanting in terms of responsiveness and smoothness.

However, they remain very popular because of Amazon's competitive pricing and
the number of apps and multimedia content the company offers Kindle users. The
increased resolution will not only help the tablets stay up to date in the eyes
of US and European consumers but will also help them to win a greater market
share in countries that use character-based languages, such as China, Japan and
India.

At a 300 dots per inch resolution, text based on the Roman alphabet would look
smooth, crisp and clear to even those with the keenest of eyesight. However, a
greater pixel density is needed to achieve the same effect for text written in
Mandarin or Hindi.

If the report is to be believed, and BGR's Amazon sources have an excellent
track record, then expect the new devices to debut in September for the same
prices as the tablets they will be replacing.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              690 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

Reviews: Google LG Nexus 4, Samsung Galaxy Note II

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General

LENGTH: 674 words


Google"s Android has come a long way over the years and has overtaken Apple"s
iOS as the best-selling mobile operating system and app environment in the world
even.

There"s a huge range of Android phones in stores at the moment, ranging from
el-cheapo models that cost $200-$300 to pricey devices that cost well over a
thousand dollars so you"re spoilt for choice.

Two of the more interesting Android phones vying for consumers" attention come
from Google (via LG) and Samsung. How do the Korean-made devices stack up?

Google - LG Nexus 4

If you"re an Android purist, then this is arguably the phone for you. The Google
-LG Nexus 4 provides a pure Android experience with no vendor customised shells
or skins in the way. It"s also a fresh experience, as the Nexus 4 comes with
Android 4.2.1 "Jelly Bean" which for now is the latest and greatest version
there is.

LG built Google a nice, slim device, of high quality with discreet looks a
fantastic high resolution screen with 1,280 by 768 pixels and 332 pixels per
inch density. It"s 4.7 inches diagonally, and the Nexus 4 most definitely isn"t
a phablet, measuring a mere 134 by 69mm and being just 9mm thick.

The Nexus 4 is also fast with a 1.5GHz four-core processor, 2GB RAM and 16GB
storage. You can"t expand the storage however, or swap out the 2,100mAh battery
that lasts well over a day with normal use.

Even though camera offers a decent 8Mpixel resolution and comes with the Photo
Sphere panoramic pictures application which is fun, the actual images aren"t
terribly impressive. They are passable, but there are much better phone cameras
out there from other vendors.

Other than that, the Nexus 4 comes with the usual range of sensors and wireless
connections, including Near Field Communications and Bluetooth, and fast 3G that
supports the new Dual-Channel HSPA+ standard for quick data transfers.

At $799 from 2 Degrees, the Nexus 4 is a very nice, well-priced compact
smartphone that"s well worth checking out for Android buyers for whom mobile
photo quality isn"t a key requirement.

Rating: 4/5

Contact: 2degreesmobile.co.nz

Samsung Galaxy Note II

There"s a comforting feeling of having a Galaxy Note II on you, because no
matter what, you know you"ll have the biggest smartphone on any occasion.

Sizeable hands to operate the device are a plus but the size of the Galaxy Note
II has some definite advantages. The 5.5 inch 1,280 by 720 screen is bright and
great for Internet content, videos and pictures; it"s almost big enough for two
people to watch a film if they don"t mind being very close to each other that
is.

The Galaxy Note II is built to high standards by Samsung, which managed to use
thin plastic for the shell to keep the weight down without making the phone feel
flimsy.

Inside, there is a quick four-core processor, 2GB of RAM driving Android 4.1.1
with a 4.2.x update promised for NZ as well (it"s being rolled out in the US at
the moment). There is 16GB of storage that can be expanded if you pop off the
back cover, where you"ll also find the replaceable battery that has a huge
3,100mAh capacity.

The large battery means the Galaxy Note II lasts a long time - I usually went
two days between charges, and used the phone a lot. All the usual sensors are
included in the Galaxy Note II and it supports fast 3G data with dual-channel
HSPA+ too. If you use 3G for longer periods of time, the phone can get a bit
hot, unfortunately.

Now, the Galaxy Note II has a special feature: a pen. It"s kind of fun and
useful to be able to draw on the screen and to snip graphics free form with the
pen and create handwritten notes. However, I was much happier with the 8Mpixel
camera on the Galaxy Note II that takes sharp pictures with good colours and
contrast.

There"s no doubt that some people will find the Galaxy Note II just too big; I
liked the "phablet" size myself, because it"s like having a tablet that fits
into your pocket.

The Galaxy Note II is available from Telecom and Vodafone at $1,050 to $1,100
but can be had for less in independent stores.

Rating: 4.5/5

Contact: samsung.co.nz

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              691 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Extraction and
Representation of Three-Dimensional (3D) and Bidirectional Reflectance
Distribution Function (BRDF) Parameters from Lighted Image Sequences"

LENGTH: 237  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150172636 for US Patent, published on June 18, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "Extraction and Representation of Three-Dimensional (3D)
and Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function (BRDF) Parameters from
Lighted Image Sequences" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:  Gordon; Ariel; (Haifa, IL) ; Rivlin; Ehud; (Haifa, IL)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods and systems are provided that use images to determine lighting
information for an object. A computing device can receive an image of the
object. For a pixel of the image, the computing device can: apply a first
lighting model to determine a first estimate of a bi-directional lighting
function (BRDF) for the object at the pixel, apply a second lighting model to
determine a second estimate of the BRDF for the object at the pixel, determine a
third estimate of the BRDF based on the first and second estimates, and store
the third estimate of the BRDF in lighting-storage data. The computing device
can provide the lighting-storage data. The BRDF can utilize a number of lighting
parameters, such as a normal vector and albedo, reflectivity, and roughness
values."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              692 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Lava pixel V1 first impressions

BYLINE: Komal Mohan

SECTION: MOBILES

LENGTH: 738 words


NEW DELHI: When Google announced its Android One initiative last year, it was
expected to be a game-changer that would democratize the smartphone market.
However, the programme failed to take off as the likes of Motorola, Xiaomi and
Micromax offered handsets with similar or better features at approximately the
same price.

Now, Google is giving Android One a reboot in the country, with Lava launching
the first of these smartphones. We go hands-on with the new Lava pixel V1
Android One phone, which is priced at Rs 11,349 and exclusively available on
Flipkart, to see where it stands in the ultra-competitive segment...

Design

The first thing you will notice about Lava's first Android One smartphone is the
increase in screen size: while the first-generation Android One models have
4.5-inch displays, the new model sports a much-bigger 5.5-inch screen. The
display of Lava pixel V1 sports HD (720p) resolution, is protected by Asahi
Dragon Trail Glass, and is surrounded by thin bezels.

The build of Lava pixel V1 is predominantly plastic, with only the frame around
the sides, the Volume and Power buttons and the ring around the camera made of
metal. The back panel sports metallic finish, but is actually made of plastic.

Lava pixel V1 features rounded edges that make it easy to handle, while its
metallic frame give it a solid feel. The smartphone comes without any hardware
capacitive keys for navigation. The front panel also features an 8MP camera
along with the usual sensor array and speaker grille.

The metallic keys for volume control and power are located at the right edge and
offer good tactile feedback. The 3.5mm headset and micro-USB port jack sit at
the top.

The metallic-finish plastic back cover sports the Lava logo in the middle and
Android One branding at the bottom. The back also has the protruding 13MP rear
camera on the left corner and the and loudspeaker grille just below the Android
One logo.

The back cover hides two micro-sim slots (one mini-sim and the other micro-sim),
a microSD card and a removable 2,560Ah battery.

Display

The display offers good viewing angles and the colours tend to be on the warmer
side and the white balance is very much off the mark and has a pinkinsh tinge to
it. Though the display panel is quite reflective, Lava pixel V1 manages to
deliver decent sunlight legibility at full brightness. However, we found the
screen to be a little prone to smudges.

Hardware and software

In terms of hardware, Lava pixel V1 smartphone packs a 1.3GHz quad-core Mediatek
MT6582 processor, which was launched in 2013. This is a pretty old chipset
compared to the 2014- and 2015-processors offered by Lenovo, Xiaomi and other
main rivals.

The chipset is backed by 2GB RAM and 32GB of internal storage, of which over
25GB is available to users. For additional storage, users can slip in microSD
cards of up to 32GB capacity.

The new Android One smartphone is powered by a 2,600mAh battery that should last
about one day, though we have not had sufficient time to use the handset in
order to verify this expectation.

At a time when India is at the cusp of 4G proliferation, Lava pixel V1 is
limited to 3G networks. This may be a deal-breaker for many, considering most of
its rivals support India's 4G bands.

Software

Like the Android One phones before it, the new Lava pixel V1 runs on stock
Android 5.1 (Lollipop) software. However, it comes with two pre-loaded apps --
Flipkart and Myntra -- that cannot be uninstalled.

While we did not experience any lag, stutter or heating issues in our brief use,
we'll have a detailed review of the phone's performance very soon.

Camera

Lava pixel V1 comes with a 13MP rear camera and (f2.0 aperture, capable of 1080p
video capture) with LED flash and a 8MP front camera (f2.4 aperture and 4P lens)

In our short time with the phone, we did not observe any shutter lag and found
that the camera takes decent pictures even in low light. We'll have a detailed
look at the camera in our full review.

The competition

At Rs 11,349, Lava pixel V1 rivals Lenovo K3 Note, Asus Zenfone 2 and Xiaomi Mi
4i; the upcoming Moto G (Gen 3) is also expected to cost approximately the same.
We'll have a detailed review of the latest Android One phone soon to find out if
it has the potential to become the undisputed leader of the budget segment and a
better buy than the competition.

Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>

Like TOI Tech on Facebook >>>

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              693 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Samsung phone recall portends Android turf war

LENGTH: 643  words

DATELINE: New York


New York, Oct. 12 -- Samsung Electronics's abandonment of the Galaxy Note 7 due
to safety concerns will likely touch off a turf war among Android smartphone
makers, analysts said, presenting them a rare opportunity to gain share but with
less room for archrival Apple Inc.


 Consumers tend to commit to their choice between Apple's iOS operating system
for smartphones and Google's Android, leaving Samsung's fellow Android
manufacturers such as LG Electronics and Alphabet Inc's Google in prime position
to strike. Both have newly released phones.
 A hardware problem is unlikely to change a customer's preference for software
systems, said analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research.
 "Samsung has the premium end of the smartphone market pretty much sewn up on
the Android side," he said. "This creates a slightly bigger opening."
 Apple sales may go up
 Research firm TrendForce revised up Apple's 2016 smartphone shipment forecasts
by 3 million to 208 million, while slashing Samsung's shipments estimates by 4
million. It also raised forecasts for China's Huawei Technologies, No.3
globally, by 4 million.
 "A substantial portion of consumers' demand will now go to the three major
Chinese brands - Huawei, Vivo and OPPO," it said in a note.
 Nevertheless, in San Francisco, prime Apple territory, some consumers were
switching to the home team, and Apple stock has risen on expectations of a
broader move.
 "Some people might have already been thinking about making the switch and now
here's their chance," said Robin Williams, a sales associate at Sprint store on
Van Ness St in San Francisco, describing some customers moving to Apple.
 Bob O'Donnell of TECHnalysis Research said Apple would benefit, "but I don't
think they are going to get all of it because Apple has a single product."
 Samsung announced the recall of 2.5 million Note 7s in early September
following numerous reports of the phones catching fire. On Tuesday, the South
Korean tech giant that has long dominated the premium market pulled the plug on
the $882 device in what could be one of the costliest product safety failures in
tech history.
 Advantage Google
 The news is a boon for Google, which last week announced a new line of Pixel
smartphones, plunging the company into the hardware market that it has
previously left to manufacturers such as Samsung. Samsung's retreat will prompt
consumers to take a closer look at Google's phones.
 "Samsung's meltdown is a big opportunity for Google to do far better with Pixel
than it has with its previous Nexus devices," said Richard Windsor, analyst at
Edison Investment Research.
 And despite the reputational damage, Samsung will remain competitive for
premium smartphone sales, analysts said. LG's V20 smartphone will not arrive in
the United States until the end of the month. Google's Pixel phones do not ship
until October 20, and will only be available in the United States at Verizon.
 "Google needs to be present at retail and with operators in volume in time to
meet this demand... it needs to accelerate the launch as much as it can," said
Windsor.
 For consumers seeking immediate replacements for the Galaxy Note 7, it may be
easiest to go with another Samsung phone, said O'Donnell at TECHnalysis. "You
can't write off Samsung," he said.
 And Apple may have room to shine, especially before new Android phones arrive.
 At a T-Mobile store in San Francisco, salesperson Omar Arreola said some
Samsung customers were so upset with the company that they switched to the
iPhone 7. "They trust the brand," he said.
 Brian Green, whose Note 7 caught fire on a Southwest Airlines flight last week,
also said he replaced his device with an iPhone. He raced to purchase the Note 7
after its release, but he said he is unlikely to be an early adopter again.
 "Next time I think I'll wait and get it once it's been around the block a few
times," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              694 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Blending 3D Model
Textures By Image Projection"

LENGTH: 217  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150154805 for US Patent, published on June 04, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "Blending 3D Model Textures By Image Projection" for the
registration of patent.

Inventors:  HSU; Stephen Charles; (San Carlos, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "An
example method and system for blending textures of a composite image formed by a
plurality of source images mapped onto a three dimensional model are presented.
The composite image is projected to obtain an unblended projected image having
textures. The textures are blended to obtain a blended projected image. Both the
unblended and the blended projected images are backprojected onto the three
dimensional model. A difference is determined between a pixel of the
backprojected, blended image and a corresponding pixel of the backprojected,
unblended image. The determined difference is then applied to a further
corresponding pixel of the composite image to obtain a modified composite image
representing a blending of the plurality of source images in the composite
image."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              695 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 22, 2014 Saturday

USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc titled as "NOISE ESTIMATION FOR
IMAGES"

LENGTH: 207  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20140341466, published on November 20, 2014, by Google Inc, titled as "NOISE
ESTIMATION FOR IMAGES" for the registration of patent.

Inventors: Babacan; Sevket Derin; (San Francisco, CA)
Assignee: Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA
US

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Implementations relate to estimating noise in images. In some implementations,
a method includes extracting a plurality of sample blocks of pixels from a
received image, where each sample block includes a subset of pixels of the
image. One or more of the sample blocks are examined for texture content based
on whether the sample blocks include one or more edges based on a predetermined
threshold. At least one sample block determined to include texture content is
removed. The method determines one or more average color variances based on the
remaining sample blocks that have not been removed, where noise estimations for
the image are based on the average color variances."

The Patent was filed on May 14, 2013 under application No. 20140341466

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              696 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Electronics Bazaar

                                 August 1, 2016

New Products - Miscellaneous: Smallest 3D Camera in the World Brings Augmented
Reality to Smartphones

LENGTH: 256  words


Lenovo is supposedly the first manufacturer worldwide to bring Tango technology
to a consumer product. Google's technology that allows devices to understand
spatial information is an exclusive feature in the PHAB2 Pro smartphone. Based
on the Time-of-Flight principle, the REAL3 image sensor chip from Infineon
Technologies AG equips the smartphone with a three-dimensional perception of the
surroundings in real-time. Infineon provides the only image sensor chip
worldwide that meets Google's specifications.



The sensor chip was developed in Graz, Austria, a global Infineon competence
centre for advanced semiconductor solutions combining analogue and digital
signal processing with high data rates. It integrates the pixel array, the
control circuitry, ADCs and the digital high-speed interface on a single chip.
The development was made in cooperation with pmdtechnologies, a leading global
provider of the Time-of-Flight (ToF) technology.

This measuring principle involves infrared light. For each of its pixels, the 3D
image sensor chip measures the time the light takes to travel from the camera to
the object and back again. Each pixel detects the brightness value of the
objects. Compared to other technologies, the ToF technology from pmdtechnologies
offers the best spatial resolution and highest robustness, both mechanically and
in relation to background light. Yet, it has the lowest current consumption and
size. Thus, the camera is currently the smallest 3D camera worldwide, company
sources claim.

Contact: www.infineon.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              697 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 14, 2015 Saturday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on February 10 titled as "Noise
estimation for images"

LENGTH: 199  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,953,877, on
February 10, 2015, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Noise estimation for
images"

Inventors:  Babacan; Sevket Derin (San Francisco, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Implementations relate to estimating noise in images. In some implementations,
a method includes extracting a plurality of sample blocks of pixels from a
received image, where each sample block includes a subset of pixels of the
image. One or more of the sample blocks are examined for texture content based
on whether the sample blocks include one or more edges based on a predetermined
threshold. At least one sample block determined to include texture content is
removed. The method determines one or more average color variances based on the
remaining sample blocks that have not been removed, where noise estimations for
the image are based on the average color variances."

The patent was filed on May 14, 2013 Application no. 13/894,364

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              698 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             April 9, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A pixel tells a thousand words;
Google Pixel C Price: from (EURO)509 (keyboard extra) Rating: ??? HHH

SECTION: REVIEW;NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 126 words


'Pro' tablets are all the rage. Apple now has two of them, Samsung is getting
into them and Microsoft has mixed them with laptops pretty successfully.
Google's latest device, the Pixel C, tries to get into the game with a fairly
powerful processor, nice design lines, a good screen and a slick keyboard (which
costs (EURO)169 extra). The 10-inch machine has stereo speakers, 308 pixels per
inch and comes in either 32GB or 64GB variants. For those whose work or leisure
phone is an Android one, this will be a comfortable and stylish machine for
pleasure and light work. The keyboard, in particular, is impressive. It also
uses USB-C to recharge, which is very fast. On the other hand, it's going up
against a rejuvenated iPad line, which is always a big task.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              699 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday

Apple iPhone 7, iPhone 6s, Samsung Galaxy S7, S6 and more: Top deals on premium
smartphones

BYLINE: Varun Sharma

LENGTH: 864  words


Apple iPhone 7, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6, iPhone SE, Samsung Galaxy S7, S7 edge: Best
online deals on the premium smartphones.

The festive season is on, and so are some of the best deals on smartphones this
year. The smartphone market has seen the launch of a few flagship devices like
the Apple iPhone 7 and Google Pixel, and has also seen the demise of another -
Samsung Galaxy Note 7. We went through the top three e-retailer websites in
India (Amazon, Snapdeal and Flipkart) to find you the best deals on flagship
phones - new and old, and the best offers you can get at the moment. We will be
focusing on phones from the three big tech giants - Apple, Samsung and Google.
Of course with the Note 7 out of the way, S7 and S7 edge are the flagships from
Samsung.

Apple iPhone 7, iPhone 6s, 6 deals

Apple last month launched its much awaited iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, and the
devices landed on our shore on October 7. Of course, Apple has priced the
devices at a level that is higher than most other phones; even though it has
launched them at a slightly lower price than last year if you consider the
storage space has doubled.

However, the good news is that the older devices from the company have seen a
price cut after the arrival of the iPhone 7. The iPhone 5S is still retailing
near Rs 20,000, but remember this is a three year old device before you decide
to hit buy.

But if you prefer the small form factor of the 5S - the iPhone SE might be right
up your alley. The best deal on the 16GB variant of the SE is Rs 31,980 on
Amazon, which is also giving the best deal on the 64GB variant at Rs 39,212.

In you don't look too closely, the Apple iPhone 7 looks similar to the previous
two generations from the company. The 2014 launched iPhone 6 (16GB) is retailing
at Rs 36,990 on both Amazon and Flipkart, but the iPhone 6s (16GB) is now priced
at Rs 38,999 on Amazon and makes a much better deal.

Now it gets a little interesting, there is a Rs 8,000 difference between the
64GB version of both phones. The best deal on iPhone 6 (64GB) is Rs 41,999 on
Amazon, whereas the best deal for the iPhone 6s (64GB) is Rs 49,999 on Snapdeal
and Flipkart. In all honesty, 16GB of non-expandable storage on an iPhone is not
a good idea and it is recommended that go for the 64GB version with these
devices.

If however, you are in the market for the larger 5.5-inch version of the phone,
then the iPhone 6 Plus (16GB) will be the cheapest deal for you at Rs 40,145 on
Amazon. The best price of iPhone 6 Plus (64GB) is Rs 48,989 on Amazon, while the
best price of the iPhone 6s Plus (64GB) is Rs 59,999 on Flipkart. It is
important to know that even though the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus look like the 6s,
they are two year old devices. If your budget allows, try to go for the 6s or
the 6s Plus.

If buying older tech is not your style, the iPhone 7 might be a good fit for
you. The base variant of the iPhone 7 (32GB) is listed at Rs 60,000 on Amazon
and Flipkart. The phone currently shows "Coming Soon" on Flipkart even though
its available on Amazon, but remember that Flipkart is the official e-retailer
for Apple in India. Apple iPhone 7 Plus is currently unavailable across all the
three e-retailers, but is listed at Rs 72,000 (32GB) on Flipkart and is tagged
as "Coming Soon". You might have to try your luck online to get this phone.

Best offers on Samsung

If you are an Android fan and even more so a Samsung fan, you are likely upset
with the Galaxy Note 7 being axed for good. However, the Galaxy S7 and S6 are
still great offerings from the company unless you want to wait for the Galaxy S8
that is expected to launch in February.

Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge were launched earlier this year and are still the
best Android flagships. The Galaxy S7 (32GB) is available at Rs 43,400 across
all the three e-retailers, so you can choose any of them as per your liking. The
best deal on the Galaxy S7 Edge (32GB) is Rs 50,100, available on Amazon,
although Snapdeal and Flipkart have it listed at Rs 50,900 which is a slight
hike.

Just like Apple's iPhone 6, Samsung's S6 and S6 Edge are still good devices to
invest in as they will perform well. The best offer on the Galaxy S6 (32GB) is
Rs 33,700 which is available on Snapdeal, although Amazon has it at Rs 33,900.

But if you are looking for the larger S6 edge, then your best bet for the 32GB
is Snapdeal where it is priced at Rs 33,775, although Flipkart also has the
phone at Rs 34,900. The best deal on the 64GB variant will be Rs 40,499 on
Amazon, although Snapdeal also has it available for Rs 40,900. On Flipkart, the
pricing is higher at Rs 50,000.

Google Pixel devices

If you are tired of jumping between Apple and Samsung, Google's new Pixel and
Pixel XL might be something you were waiting for. Google has done away with the
'Nexus' name and the new devices are priced just as steeply as Apple and
Samsung's flagships. The phones launch in India October 13, but are already up
for pre-order on Flipkart.

Google Pixel 32GB is priced at Rs 57,000, while the 128GB variant is priced at
Rs 66,000. Google Pixel XL (32GB) will be available at Rs 67,000 and the 128GB
version will be priced at Rs 76,000. Flipkart is offering Rs 27,000 on exchange.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              700 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                   September 30, 2015 Wednesday 10:59 AM GMT

Google launches its new Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P flagship smartphones;
Next generation Nexus phones lead the roll out of company's Android 6
'Marshmallow', bringing fingerprint scanners and claiming better battery life

BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 635 words


Google has launched two new flagship smartphones, the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P, to
demonstrate what its new version of Android "Marshmallow" can do.

The two new handsets are made by Google's long-term partner LG and smartphone
newcomer Huawei, and push the new features of Marshmallow, including fingerprint
scanners, the new Nexus camera and Google's improved personal assistant Now on
Tap.

Andrei Popescu, an engineering director within Google's Android team, said: "The
Nexus devices are our idea of embodiment of the perfect Android device - a
platform for application developers to show off the new features of Marshmallow
and show what Android can do."

The LG Nexus 5X features a 5.2in 1080p screen with a density of 423 pixels per
inch (ppi), which is protected by last year's Corning's Gorilla Glass 3. The
smartphone features the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 808 hexa-core processor as the
LG G4, 2GB of RAM and the choice of either 16 or 32GB of storage within a
relatively compact frame.

The 16GB Nexus 5X will cost £339 - £379 for 32GB of storage - and replaces the
now two-year-old Nexus 5. It will be available on 16 October in the UK.

The Huawei Nexus 6P is the Chinese manufacturer's first Google Nexus device,
having made Android smartphones for several years under both the Huawei and
Honor brands.

The Nexus 6P features a 5.7in 2K AMOLED screen with a pixel density of 518ppi,
rivalling that of Samsung's Note 5, which is protected by the latest Gorilla
Glass 4, as featured on Samsung's Galaxy S6 range of smartphones. The Huawei
smartphone features the Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 octo-core processor, 3GB of RAM
and a choice of 32, 64 or 128GB of storage in an aluminium unibody shell
available in silver, black and white.

The Nexus 6P will be available from 26 October costing £449 for 32GB of storage,
£499 for 64GB, and £579 for 128GB in the UK.

Both new smartphones share common Google features beyond the software. Both
smartphones feature quick charging and the new USB type-C connector, also used
in Google's Chromebook Pixel, the OnePlus 2 and Apple's new MacBook. They also
both feature Nexus Imprint fingerprint scanners on the back showing off
Marshmallow's now built-in support for fingerprint sensors.

Popescu said: "With baked in fingerprint support in Marshmallow it will allow
application developers to use the fingerprint sensor and not have to try and
support each individual manufacturer's implementation."

Google has also been able to make sure that something as important as a
fingerprint is stored on the trusted zone - a secure area of the system that
cannot simply be accessed by any app, as was the case for some implementations
such as HTC's One Max.

Google's new Sensor Hub motion co-processor and new Nexus Camera are also
available on both smartphones, with an 12.3-megapixel image sensor that promises
to capture more light and take photos faster with laser autofocus.

The new Nexus smartphones will mark the start of the rollout of Google's next
version of Android, which promises to extend battery life, provide more
intelligent assistance features and support more advanced hardware features such
as motion and voice-recognition co-processors.

Marshmallow will also continue Google's "Material Design" aesthetic - a
significant upgrade in design and uniformity across the operating system and
applications that better rivals Apple's iOS running on the company's iPhones.

Popescu said: "Marshmallow is our most polished version of Android to date.
We've really worked hard on making things like the animations super smooth."

Marshmallow will come to some of Google's previous Nexus devices, and to other
Android devices made by other manufacturers in the next year.

· Google Android 5 Lollipop review - faster, prettier and better battery life

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              701 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            November 16, 2008 Sunday

Daum Plans Eye-Catching Map Service

BYLINE: By Kim Tong-hyung

LENGTH: 766 words


Staff Reporter

JEJU - Daum has decided to plug the real world into the Web, but it remains to
be seen whether the ambitious project will allow the company to mount a
meaningful challenge to NHN, the Korean Internet industry's undisputed kingpin.

Daum, the operator of No. 2 Internet portal, Daum (www.daum.net), is about to
release a new service built around a detailed photographic map of Korea,
offering crystal-sharp views of the mountains and seashores, buildings and
roads, and the sushi restaurant you reserved for dinner.

"Look at the view in front of this place," said Kim Min-oh, who heads Daum's
local service team, pointing to a bird's eye view of a seafront restaurant
located in a leisure district in Jeju City.

Kim simply typed in the name of the restaurant into Daum's search box and an
interactive Web map of the surrounding area appeared on the screen.

With a double click, the graphic image is converted into high-resolution aerial
photography, with the restaurant's roof, driveway and the sea becoming
impressively recognizable.

A click on the "street view" tab provides a panoramic, ground-level view of the
neighboring area, taking the user on a virtual walk where it's possible to
rotate 360 degrees for a look around.

"This is clearly the best map of Korea - paper or electronic - ever made," Kim
said, saying that the new map service could be launched as early as late
November.

"Google has been successful with Google Earth and Google Maps and is providing a
street view for Japan and Australia, but in terms of resolution and user
convenience, I think we are offering a better product than them," he said.

Although company officials are reluctant to comment on costs, Daum is believed
to be spending over 20 billion won to develop the new service, collaborating
with SamAh Aerial Survey for the aerial photos and Pix Korea for the
street-level images.

It took a year for Daum to build the database, which covers virtually the entire
country including Seoul and the neighboring Gyeonggi Province areas, the six
metropolitan cities and Jeju Island.

Daum's map will provide a resolution of 50 centimeters per pixel, which is
comparable to the latest version of Google Maps. However, Kim said the company
is already capable of enhancing the quality to 25 centimeters per pixel,
although the Korean law, which sets the limit at 50 centimeters per pixel,
prevents them from doing so.

Daum hopes that its new map service will be enough to revolutionize the entire
platform of its Internet services and win some traffic back from NHN, the
operator of top portal, Naver (www.naver.com).

The competition between the country's two biggest Internet companies has become
as lopsided as a Pyongyang election, with Naver hogging nearly 80 percent of all
search queries, leaving Daum and others to live off table scraps.

Son Kyung-wan, Daum's chief product officer, said there was pressure to deliver
a mind-blowing product that would be hard for Naver to emulate, and thus restore
the company's reputation for innovation.

Son said the map services will be integrated into virtual all of Daum's product
lineup, including e-mail, "Cafe" Web communities, "Tistory" blogs and
real-estate search services.

The availability of the high-resolution images in e-mails and user-generated
content like blogs will bring changes to the daily Web experience and expand
opportunities for new business models, Son said, although Daum now is more
focused on fine-tuning the service than monetizing it.

The map services will also allow the company to find a larger market in mobile
communications, with the use of smart phones and other data-enabled devices
expanding.

Kim Jee-hyun, who heads Daum's mobile task force team, said the company has
already optimized its map services for iPhone, Apple's iconic handset that could
be released through KTF as early as December.

"It was certainly a difficult and expensive service to launch, and sustaining
the quality of the maps through upgrades will certainly require a lot of effort
and money, but this is why it's so crucial to get a head start," said Son, who
says the map service will generate revenue from next year.

"There is no doubt that location-based services will be a key part of the core
competitiveness of Internet companies in the future, especially with the Web now
moving quicker toward mobility," he said.

According to Son, Daum plans to generate about 100 billion won from location
information services by 2012, providing enterprise versions of its virtual maps
to companies in geographical information systems (GIS), location-based services
(LBS) and telematics.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              702 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Artificial intelligence: the lifeblood driving Google's new wave of devices

BYLINE: Marco D'Souza

LENGTH: 828  words


The new Pixel smartphones, Google Home connected device, the updated Chromecast
Ultra and the Google WiFi router are all banking one thing: a user's voice

At the MadeByGoogle event that happened in San Francisco yesterday, Google took
the wraps of a flurry of consumer gear, all aimed solely at surrounding users
with the might of their search prowess.

Search: it's the one thing that has pretty much defined Google. Despite the
universe of other products and services that the company has spawned over their
18 years of existence, that ubiquitous text box beneath the Google logo in the
center of the stark white web page has grown to define the web experience of
billions--an understated yet unmistakable invitation to ask. Which explains why
this concerted move to extend 'search' further into people's pockets, kitchens,
living rooms and pretty much everywhere they live, seems like a natural
progression for the company.

While the company has been known for pretty much re-writing the book on areas
like user interface and user experience--with simplicity and function at the
core--there is immense amount of complexity behind their online experiences and
products.

Take search, for example--it is powered by a globally-distributed infrastructure
of server farms, terabit-speed network connections, and bleeding-edge software
driven by the advanced science of deep neural networks and natural language
processing to interpret raw data in ways that are startlingly human. If you've
received a notification on your Android phone that suggests that you leave
earlier for a flight owing to unexpected traffic en route, you've known the
feeling.

While the new Pixel phones, Google Home, the Chromecast Utra, the Google WiFi
router and Daydream View will undoubtedly stoke fans for months to come, it
isn't really about the hardware. It's about the intelligence that's driving it
all--their cloud-based Google Assistant.

When it debuted at their I/O event in May this year, this service seemed like an
evolution of their ubiquitous 'Ok Google' voice recognition functionality that's
already available on millions of Android phones. But this piece of smart
software appears to be built to do more, to be the vanguard of Google's charge
in to imparting more human-like responses, context and conversation into their
new generation of smart devices.

Google Assistant is going to be baked right into the two new Pixel phones--it is
invoked by simply holding down the home button and asking a question, and the
answer pops up right there. This smart AI service also serves as the foundation
of their new Allo messaging app, designed to leverage their Artificial
Intelligence and search capabilities to offer real-time suggestions and answers
right within a chat environment.

With the new Google Home--a device that resembles a Bluetooth speaker--the aim
is to put voice up front and center of the daily experience. The only way to
communicate with it is by 'waking' it up with an "Ok Google", then asking it
pretty much any type of question. From the innocuous "What's the weather like
today", to being able to follow through with several related queries around the
topic, the device leverages Google Assistant to interpret questions, ferret
information from trusted sources on the Web, and respond to the user using
concise, natural speech.

Consider for a moment the AI at work here: a question like "Play me that song
from Dirty Dancing" would result in an elegant one-line acknowledgement followed
by just one song--the title track--being played. That's almost human-level
intelligence at work: deciphering that Dirty Dancing is a movie without being
explicitly told so, locating all the online sources that host its songs,
determining which of these songs is the most popular, and finally playing just
that one. And all of this happening in near real time.

Multiple such devices can also be deployed across a home, where they communicate
with each other to seamlessly determine which device is nearest to the person
speaking, and having just that one respond with information.

Also announced is a new WiFi router that aims to add a few smarts into the home
wireless setup. With robust WiFi being the foundation of all this connected home
of the near future, this router was shown to communicate with other multiple
Google WiFi routers to automatically modulate strength of the wireless mesh
network to provide the best overall coverage--and bandwidth--to connected
devices.

It is intriguing to consider the possibilities of this new wave of devices,
backed by an ever-learning, always available and continuously evolving AI
engine. Assuming of course that all of this works as advertised. When breaking
through technology frontiers, it's always a question of whether a hot new
capability eventually turns out to be just a gimmick, or something that would
rock a user's world.

Either way, connected AI systems are here, and they're here to stay--this is but
the first of an impending wave.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              703 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

Android One (second-generation) review

BYLINE: Komal Mohan

SECTION: REVIEWS

LENGTH: 1104 words


NEW DELHI: Google is giving Android One a reboot in the country, with Lava
launching the first of these smartphones. With Lava pixel V1, Google hopes to
ace the budget-smartphone category and reinvigorate its Android One initiative.

However, in the road to achieve this goal, it has to compete with the existing
rulers of the category - Lenovo K3 Note and Micromax Yu Yureka.

Does the Lava pixel V1 smartphone achieve what its predecessors failed at? We
try to find out in our review...

Design

In terms of design, the second-generation Android One smartphone has received a
major upgrade compared to its predecessors.

The front is dominated by a 5.5-inch screen with Asahi Dragon Trail Glass
protection and houses an 8MP camera along with the usual sensor array and
speaker grille. The phone does not offer any hardware capacitive keys for
navigation.

The metallic keys for volume control and power are located at the right edge and
offer good tactile feedback. The 3.5mm headset and micro-USB port jack sit at
the top.

The removable back comes with a metallic finish and houses the Lava logo in the
middle, there's some Android One branding at the bottom and loudspeaker grille
is placed just below it. The back also features the 13MP rear camera along with
LED flash light.

Removing the cover reveals the two micro-sim slots (one mini-sim and the other
micro-sim), a microSD card slot and a removable battery.

The phone, although made of plastic, gives a sturdy and durable feel perhaps
because of the metallic frame. However due to the large screen size, it becomes
difficult to handle it with one hand.

Display

The second-generation Android One smartphone features a 5.5-inch HD (720x1280p)
display.

Although the phone has received an upgrade from the FWVGA(480x854p)IPS display
that was seen in the Android One smartphones, it is still not good enough in
today's competitive budget smartphone market.

Many new phones, such as Yu Yureka Plus and Lenevo K3 Note, are now offering a
full-HD display in this price range making this one of the major limitations of
the phone.

The display offers good viewing angles, however, the colour temperature is on
the warmer side and the screen has a pinkish tinge to it. Text and images looked
decent enough but not as sharp as how these look on full-HD displays.

Though the screen is pretty reflective and slightly prone to smudging, the
smartphone manages to deliver decent sunlight legibility at full brightness.

Software

The Lava pixel V1 smartphone comes with stock version of Android Lollipop 5.1.
Just like the previous Android One phones, Google will directly seed software
updates to the phone, which also implies that it will be one of the first
devices to receive a software update when Google turns on the switch.

The software comes with two pre-loaded apps -- Flipkart and Myntra -- that
cannot be uninstalled.

The phone comes with all Google apps. We'd specially like to mention the Google
Photos app here that directly integrates your phone's pictures to your Google
account.

Hardware & performance

In terms of hardware, Lava pixel V1 smartphone packs a 1.3GHz quad-core Mediatek
MT6582 processor backed by 2GB RAM. This chipset is pretty old as it was
launched in 2013. This is a fallout for the Android One smartphone as
competitors such as Lenovo and Xiaomi offer latest chipsets.

Another important feature lacking in this phone is 4G connectivity, which is
available in all major budget smartphones today. As telecom operators are now
moving towards rolling out 4G for their users, the absence of 4G might be a
deal-breaker for some.

The phone offers 32GB of internal storage, of which over 25GB is available to
users. For additional storage, users can install microSD cards of up to 32GB
capacity.

Coming to the performance, we did not notice any major lag while navigating
through the phone's menu, launching apps and switching between them.

The phone offers decent gaming performance. We were able to play games like
Subway Minion Rush and Flow Free without encountering frame drops or freezes or
major heating issues.

The Lava pixel V1 smartphone scored 19,033 in Antutu, 5,321 in Quadrant and 53.8
in Nenamark 2 benchmark tests. We don't endorse benchmark tests and at times
real world performance is very different from benchmark scores.

It offers Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and GPS connectivity options.

The second-generation Android One smartphone offers good call quality and signal
reception and we did not encounter problems while making calls even in areas
where cell signal is relatively weaker. It also offers FM Radio. The phone was
able to lock to GPS without any hiccups.

The sound output through the phone's speaker outlet offered decent sound
quality. We were able to play most popular video and audio file formats on the
phone.

The phone is backed by a 2,600mAh battery and will last you a complete day.

You'll be able to make about 2-3 hours of phone calls, play some casual games
and browse the web in this time period. The phone can play video continuously
for 3-4 hours. Your mileage may vary with a different usage pattern.

Camera

The second-generation Android One smartphone sports an improved 13MP BSI rear
camera (software enhanced 8MP sensor) with f2.0 aperture, LED flash and an 8MP
BSI front-facing camera (software enhanced 5MP sensor) for selfies.

The phone's camera app is pretty basic with no granular settings for camera
attributes.

Most photos we took using the rear camera of the smartphone under direct
sunlight came out pretty well with decent level of detail and colour
reproduction. The camera can also record good quality 1080p videos.

Low-light and indoor images turned out pretty good but were a little noisy and
smudged.

The front camera also shoots good quality selfies and is capable of recording
720p videos which were of decent quality.

Verdict

With Lava pixel V1, Google has attempted to revolutionize the budget smartphone
market again but has not been able to do so.

The phone does offer good design, excellent touch response, smooth performance
and decent camera, however at the same time lacks full-HD screen, 4G
connectivity and the latest processor - features that are already available in
various phones in this budget segment. However, users who value stock Android
and priority updates may find this one to be a good option.

At Rs 11,350 the smartphone fails to compete with Lenovo K3 Note, which is
available at Rs 10,000 and offers better features including display, processor
and camera. YU Yureka Plus also comes with better specifications at a lower
price.

Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>

Like TOI Tech on Facebook >>>

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              704 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           January 2, 2013 Wednesday

Best android tablet

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight; DL AWARDS 2013 NOMINEES

LENGTH: 320 words


Asus Transformer Pad TF300

When it comes to hardware specs, the Asus Transformer Pad TF300 is a real
powerhouse. An 8-megapixel camera, quad-core Nvidia Tegra 3 processor and a
10.1-inch display with a screen resolution of 1,280 x 800 pixels are packed into
this Android tablet. Its keyboard docking station adds more functionality,
including a USB port and an SD card slot, neither of which is common in Android
tablets.

Google Nexus 7

Google's Android Jelly Bean tablet is a versatile device. Its 7-inch display and
screen resolution of 1,280 x 800 pixels make it suitable as a movie viewer,
e-book reader and Web browser. Enhanced search features, such as Google Now,
which can show you the fastest route home or when your next appointment is, set
it apart from other Android tablets.

Motorola Xoom 2

About 10 per cent lighter and 33per cent thinner than its predecessor, the Xoom
2 is a much sleeker and a more appealing Android tablet to behold. It was
introduced with features such as a splash-guard coating to protect it from water
spills and a faster 1.2GHz dual-core processor. Motorola chose to keep the
Android user interface relatively untouched, thus pleasing the Android-loving
crowd.

Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1

Among Android tablets, the Galaxy Note 10.1 creates the most innovative
interactive experience with its S Pen stylus. With a click of a button on the
pen, you can outline and crop a screenshot and send it to your friends by
e-mail.

The S Pen shares the same Air View feature as Samsung's Galaxy Note II LTE,
allowing you to preview images and e-mail messages when the S Pen is hovering
over them.

Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1

Simple and unassuming, it has rounded edges like its predecessor. Where the
Tab210.1 shows the greatest improvement is in its battery life. It lasts twice
as long as the original Tab 10.1.

This Samsung tablet, with its dual-core 1.2GHz processor, delivers a smooth
performance.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              705 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 28, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: Google unveils new logo - prepare to not have your mind blown

LENGTH: 192  words

DATELINE: Washington


Marketing Research Association has issued the following news release:

Google has revamped its logo much to the excitement of a small number of design
geeks, moving the second 'g' a whopping one pixel to the right and taking the
'l' on a wild journey one pixel down and one to the right.
Ads by Google

Made-in-China.com
    China Manufacturers directories help global buyers sourcing easily.
    made-in-china.com
    Life Size Equine Sculptor
    Life Size Horse Sculpture Life & Over Life Size Bronzes
    www.charlielangtonart.com
    Beautiful Paintings
    Paintings from AJ-Kunst.dk for sale Abstract and Figurative Art
    www.aj-kunst.dk

The minuscule change was spotted by eagle-eyed Redditors, with the fact that it
was even picked up on being testament to the brand's power and omnipresence.

The change basically comes down to kerning, with Google adjusting the letters to
improve the logo's readability and decipherability.

Also, the bottoms of the 'l' and 'e' previously didn't line up, which presumably
left some employees in the company's design department weeping at their desks.

For further information please visit: http://www.marketingresearch.org/

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              706 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

GOOGLE'S NEW $79 VR HEADSET IS HERE;
System is compatible with just-announced Pixel smartphone

BYLINE: Edward C. Baig

SECTION: ; Pg. Z5

LENGTH: 552 words


The Daydream View headset has a stretchy, breathable fabric that encourages
longer viewing.

YouTube form, with has VR developed , 360 and a 2- VR D content app built
available especially . for the plat-

NEW YORK Virtual reality has a new entry-level competitor: a fabric-covered
headset from Google that will compete with the mid-market $99 Samsung VR.

Daydream View is a $79 mobile virtual-reality headset - with, notably, a VR
motion controller that is normally in the domain of more expensive VR gear -
that will be compatible with Google's just-announced Pixel smartphones and
eventually other Daydream-certified handsets. Google first announced its
Daydream VR platform at its I/O conference last May.

Preorders for Daydream View start later this month, with the product slated to
ship in early November. It will be available in slate gray, crimson or snow
colors.

Daydream promises to go well beyond Google Cardboard, the company's early entry
into VR, and comes at a time of heavy activity in the still-developing alternate
reality universe. Wednesday, Facebook-owned Oculus kicks off its Connect
developer event in San Jose. Sony is poised to bring out its VR offering,
PlayStation VR.

As a mobile offering, think of Daydream View more as a direct competitor of
Samsung Gear VR (which is powered by Oculus), a similar-looking headset that
works with specific high-end Samsung phones. In contrast, PlayStation VR, which
plugs into a PlayStation video game console, Oculus Rift and the HTC Vive system
all cost hundreds more and are tethered by cables to powerful computers.

The View headset is roughly a third lighter than Gear VR, Google says, and
features a stretchy, breathable fabric that is supposed to provide a comfortable
fit, which could encourage longer viewing.

View uses an alignment system of conductive knobs that make contact with the
front of the phone screen to determine which pixels are aligned with which
knobs, which the software then self-corrects as needed, providing, Google
claims, a better optic experience. The headset and phone get in sync wirelessly.

The real difference in this segment of the market is the portable palm-sized
View controller, which allows you to swipe and click through content that you're
watching. The controller provides 3 degrees of freedom and is flexible enough to
be used by apps and games that let you draw, paint or swing it like a baseball
bat or golf club.

While Google is taking ownership of this initial Daydream View headset, it also
is opening up the Daydream specs to other Android hardware partners to modify
and add elements to Daydream and presumably to commercialize their own VR
offering as they see fit.

So what exactly will you be able to watch on Daydream? For starters, YouTube has
developed a VR app built especially for the platform, with VR, 360 and
2D-content available. Through Google Street View, you'll be able to watch 150
virtual tours of such places as the Taj Mahal or Great Barrier Reef. You'll also
be able to take in purchased or rented flicks through the Google Play Store-the
movies will be in 2D but you'll be able to watch in an immersive big-screen-type
VR environment.

Third-party app contributions will come to Daydream from Electronic Arts, Hulu,
Netflix, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and other content creators.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              707 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Multiplane Panoramas
of Long Scenes"

LENGTH: 240  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150156415 for US Patent, published on June 04, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "Multiplane Panoramas of Long Scenes" for the
registration of patent.

Inventors:  GALLUP; David; (Lynnwood, WA) ; SEITZ; Steven Maxwell; (Seattle, WA)
; AGRAWALA; Maneesh; (Oakland, CA) ; CARROLL; Robert Evan; (Berkeley, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for generating a panoramic image
of a long scene are disclosed. These include, fitting planes to 3D points
associated with input images of portions of the long scene, where respective
planes are fitted to a ground surface, a dominant surface, and at least one of
foreground objects and background objects, and where distances from the 3D
points to the fitted planes are minimized. These also include, selecting, for
respective pixels in the panoramic image, an input image and a fitted plane such
that a distance is minimized from the selected the fitted plane to a surface
corresponding to the pixels and occlusion of the pixels is reduced in the
selected input image, and stitching by projecting the selected input image using
the selected fitted plane into the virtual camera."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              708 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Nottingham Post

                            August 20, 2016 Saturday

Bird's-eye view tracks changes on reserve

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 28-29

LENGTH: 340  words


BESIDES the people arriving back at East Midlands Airport from their summer
holidays, and of course our resident birds, few get to see Attenborough Nature
Reserve from the air. That is however, until we recently commissioned a high
resolution aerial photographic survey of the site.

Although satellite imagery such as Google Earth has been freely available for a
number of years, the maps are often outdated and do not include some of our
recent habitat changes - for instance the current Google Earth map of
Attenborough is around eight years old. The resolution is also quite low and
specific details are difficult to pick out - particularly around the edges of
different habitats.

In order to get better images that will assist with the conservation management
of the Reserve, our aerial photographs were taken using a computer controlled
light aircraft which took over 450 high-res pictures of the site. It flew at a
height of 120m, along a pre-determined linear path, in all covering 627
hectares. The photos were later stitched together using over 5,500 point matches
per image to create one single aerial map. Each pixel on the map represents an
8cm area on the ground. To put that in to perspective, the older Google Earth
images have a resolution of 15 metres per pixel. Even the latest satellite
imagery only has a resolution of 30cm per pixel.

The high resolution images will enable us to better map habitat change over the
coming years, and compare the changes over recent years using existing satellite
imagery. It will also enable us to accurately map the existing habitats,
highlight shallow water areas and monitor scrub and woodland encroachment in our
wild flower meadows over a period of time. Subject to funding, it is hoped that
we can repeat the survey every five-10 years.

If you want to learn more about the management of Attenborough Nature Reserve,
both hi-tech and traditional, why not come along to our Habitat Management Walk
as part of our 50th anniversary Weekend of Wildlife? It will run between 2pm and
4pm today.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An aerial view of Attenborough Nature Reserve.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              709 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

Snapdeal offer on iPhone 7 and 7 Plus: Rs 10,000 discount, no cost EMIs,
pre-orders start in India;
Snapdeal iPhone 7 and 7 Plus offer: Online marketplace Snapdeal has unveiled a
new offer to keep the excitement high on its website during the festive season
in the wake of the just concluded Unbox Diwali sale. The post Snapdeal offer on
iPhone 7 and 7...

BYLINE: FE Online

LENGTH: 399  words


Snapdeal iPhone 7 and 7 Plus offer: Online marketplace Snapdeal has unveiled a
new offer to keep the excitement high on its website during the festive season
in the wake of the just concluded Unbox Diwali sale.

Snapdeal iPhone 7 and 7 Plus offer: Online marketplace Snapdeal has unveiled a
new offer to keep the excitement high on its website during the festive season
in the wake of the just concluded Unbox Diwali sale. The offer spans a number
sensitive points about the price on this premium smartphone that was launched
recently. The interest in the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is intense indeed, but
with the launch of the Google Pixel and Google Pixel XL, which are going to be
available soon, many 'pucca' customers may now be in two minds about buying the
product and instead waiting to check out what Google has launched. Nevertheless,
Apple iPhone is a premium phone and will make for an excellent gift in this
season of giving in India. Just remember, both the phones will hurt your wallet.

Snapdeal has tagged its iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus offer as 'industry best offer'.
So, what is it offering? First of all is an instant Rs 10,000 off for American
Express Card members. The offer has gone live on Snapdeal at 00:00 hours on
October 7, 2016.

Snapdeal Co-founder Rohit Bansal said, "We have entered into a strategic
partnership with American Express and are excited to bring yet another much
sought after and iconic product to our customers with an attractive offer. We
are confident that all avid Apple fans would appreciate this specially curated
offer on iPhone 7."

Snapdeal is allowing potential buyers to club this 'instant discount' on Apple
iPhone 7 and 7 Plus with its on-going exchange offers on smartphones and Zero
Cost EMIs. Do the maths as per the combination that suits you and then see if
the deal is exciting enough. As far as Snapdeal is concerned, this is an
'incredible deal' on the Apple smartphones.

American Express Banking Corp, India Vice President & General Manager - Consumer
& Merchant Services and CEO Manoj Adlakha, on his part, said, "American Express
is recognized for providing premium service and value, which resonates with the
lifestyle and the aspirations of our card members. In line with the commitment,
we have partnered with Snapdeal to introduce a limited period offer on the much
awaited iPhone 7 and 7 Plus to all American Express card members."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              710 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on August 26 titled as "N-patch
image resizing"

LENGTH: 191  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,817,050, on
August 26, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "N-patch image resizing"

Inventors: Friedman; Mark S. (Mountain View, CA), Cleron; Michael A. (Menlo
Park, CA), Hackborn; Dianne K. (Santa Clara, CA)
Assignee: Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "The
subject matter of this specification can be embodied in, among other things, a
method that includes receiving an image having indication pixels that define a
plurality of regions within the image that are used for resizing the image and
determining, based on the indication pixels, two or more of the regions that are
stretchable regions that change size when the image is resized. The method also
includes resizing the image by changing a size of at least one of the determined
stretchable regions."

The patent was filed on. October 26, 2007 Application no. 11/925,259

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com3

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              711 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on March 11 titled as "Fast
randomized multi-scale energy minimization for image processing"

LENGTH: 218  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,670,630, on
March 11, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Fast randomized
multi-scale energy minimization for image processing"

Inventors:  Kwatra; Vivek (Santa Clara, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)


According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "An
image processing module performs efficient image enhancement according to a
multi-scale energy minimization process. One or more input images are
progressively downsampled to generate a pyramid of downsampled images of varying
resolution. Starting with the coarsest downsampled image, a label map is
generated that maps output pixel positions to pixel positions in the downsampled
input images. The label map is then progressively upsampled. At each upsampling
stage, the labels are refined according to an energy function configured to
produce the desired enhancements. Using the multi-scale energy minimization, the
image processing module enhances image via hole-filling and/or
super-resolution."

The patent was filed on December 1, 2011 Application no. 13/308,836

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              712 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                          October 31, 2012, Wednesday

Torvalds on laptops: Make higher-def resolution standard;
Linux czar praises high portable display resolutions, slams misconceptions

BYLINE: Jon Gold

LENGTH: 268 words


The outspoken creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds, called for laptop makers to
follow the tablet world's lead in using thehighest-resolution displays possible
on mobile devices, in a post on Google Plus.

MORE NEXUS 10: First Look: Google's Nexus 10 tablet MORE LINUS: Does OpenStack
need a Linus Torvalds?

"So with even a $399 tablet [the Samsung/Google Nexus 10] doing 2560x1600 pixel
displays, can we please just make that the new standard laptop resolution? Even
at 11"? Please. Stop with the 'retina' crap, just call it 'reasonable
resolution'. The fact that laptops stagnated ten years ago (and even regressed,
in many cases) at around half that in both directions is just sad," he wrote.

Torvalds also hit out at "less-than-gifted tech pundits" who assert that
high-resolution displays mean smaller, more difficult-to-read font sizes.

"And the next technology journalist that asks you whether you want fonts that
small, I'll just hunt down and give an atomic wedgie. I want pixels for
high-quality fonts, and yes, I want my fonts small, but 'high resolution' really
doesn't equate 'small fonts,'" he added, noting also that high-res fonts help
those with poor eyesight read more easily.

Particularly given the references to retina displays, Torvalds' post is easy to
interpret, in part, as a dig at Apple. The Nexus 10 to which Torvalds referred
actually outstrips the latest retina display iPad in terms of pixels-per-inch,
and the new iPad mini has a comparatively low display resolution of 1024x768, in
order to preserve app compatibility.

Email Jon Gold at jgold@nww.com and follow him on Twitter at @NWWJonGold.




LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2012 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              713 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday

New images of the Chromecast Ultra

LENGTH: 170  words


Here is what the new Chromecast Ultra would look like

Google is getting all set for its upcoming event on October 4th, and in addition
to the Pixel and the Pixel XL we might also see a new Chromebook and the
Chromecast Ultra. Her is a sneak peek at the Chromecast Ultra.

Courtesy of leakster Evan Blass, we have images of the new Chromcast Ultra, and
(drumroll please)..it looks just like the earlier one. The only difference we
see, in terms of physical appearance that is, is the removal of the Chrome
branding in favor of Google's increasingly used "G" logo. The device is also set
to support 4K video. It also seems to have a button at the back, which could be
a reset button.

As opposed to normal Chromecasts which cost around $35, the Chromecast Ultra is
set to hit the markets at $70. However, if you dont have a 4K TV, then we
wouldnt suggest getting the upgrade. Fingers crossed, Google might have
something up their sleeves with the Chromecast Ultra, but we will only know on
October 4th.

Source

More in Accessories

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              714 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 12:54 PM GMT

Google denies that it will fold Chrome OS into Android;
Chrome OS and Android head says company is committed to the browser-based
operating system despite greater integration with smartphone sofware

BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 375 words


Google has denied the veracity of a report that states the company will fold its
Chrome OS for laptops and desktop computers into its Android mobile operating.

The Wall Street Journal reported that Google plans to merge the two operating
systems into one single system in 2017, used across smartphones, tablets,
laptops and computers. A later report suggested that Google will make Android
available for computers.

Google's smartphones and tablets run Android, while its Chromebooks run Chrome
OS, a cut-down version of Linux that runs the company's Chrome browser relying
on web apps and a few select Android apps.

Hiroshi Lockheimer, head of Android, Chrome OS and Chromecast at Google said :
"There's a ton of momentum for Chromebooks and we are very committed to Chrome
OS. I just bought two for my kids for schoolwork."


     ·    Google Chromebook Pixel review: beautiful, powerful - but still just
          Chrome


The company has made moves to make the two operating systems more integrated,
providing more desktop Chrome features for the Android version of Google's
Chrome browser, while adding features such as Google Now and support for a
select number of Android apps on Chrome OS.

Google's Chromecast streaming media adapters also run a version of Android,
further blurring the lines between Chrome and Android.

Both systems are based on Linux. It would make sense as the basal level to allow
both systems to share one underlying codebase. It is likely that Google could
create a Chrome OS experience on top of an Android base.

Many have speculated for years that Chrome OS and Android would merge. Google's
launch of an Android tablet, the Pixel C, which has a heavy focus on
productivity with a keyboard accessory that turns it into a laptop analogue also
saw speculation that Google would phase out Chrome OS.

The Chrome OS operating system has found success in schools running on low-cost
but capable laptops for which its apparent immunity to malware and simple setup
and management are suited.

For now, Google says that it is committed to Chrome OS and it is likely Android
and Chrome OS will co-exist with tighter integration between the two for the
foreseeable future.


     ·    Google Android 6.0 Marshmallow review: more polished, greater control
          and longer battery life


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              715 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday
                               Bangalore Edition

Lava Pixel V1

BYLINE: KARAN BAJAJ

SECTION: GADGETS & YOU

LENGTH: 480 words


Android One smartphones launched last year proved to be a good budget option for
users who wanted a pure Android experience and the latest OS updates. Google had
announced that they will be working with more partners for the next set of
devices in Android One.Lava is one of the partners in the program -they have
launched the first dual SIM phablet in Android One series, Lava Pixel V1.

Build quality of the phone is good -it almost feels like a unibody device. The
back panel is removable and while it has a metallic finish, it is made of
plastic. On the right side are the power and volume keys that are placed
ergonomically for ease of access.

If you are impressed with how slim the bezels of the display are from pictures,
you should know this that the actual phone screen is not like this. There is a
thick black border surrounding the display , clearly visible when the display is
turned on -trying to impress with incorrectly rendered photos just seems
deceitful on Lava's part. In addition, the HD resolution (1280 x 720 pixels) on
the 5.5-inch display lacks sharpness. We have seen other devices with 5.5-inch
HD displays (Yureka, Redmi Note, Honor 4x) that are pin-sharp, but in
comparison, the Pixel V1's display is a letdown in overall quality .

Specifications include a 1.3Ghz quad core Mediatek processor, 2GB RAM, 32GB
storage (expandable) and a 2,650mAh battery . Since the

phone belongs to Android One range, it comes with a stock Android user
interface. However, much to our surprise, the performance from the phone is
disappointing. We saw random sluggishness during navigation and switching
between apps took a few seconds.While the phone managed to play a full HD video
(using MX player), there were random frame drops.Even games such as Temple Run 2
and Subway Surfers suffered from the same issue. Lack of 4G connectivity is also
a downside. Battery life was the good part -the phone regularly lasted over a
day with constant data connectivity and mix usage including calls, multimedia, &
social networking. The camera has terrible shutter lag: the phone has to be held
steady for 2 to 3 extra seconds while capturing an image.If you are taking a
photo of a moving object (children, birds, animals) you are sure to miss out on
your shot due to the delay . Image quality is above average -there is visible
noise but its good enough to view onscreen or share on social networks. Front
camera also suffers from capture delay and while the selfies capture soft
details, they are also good enough for sharing.

Lava Pixel V1 is a Google certified Android One smartphone and while you get
better hardware specifications compared to last year's Android One devices,
overall the pixel V1 fails to impress. We think that you can do better (and
spend less) by getting the YU Yureka Plus or Lenovo K3 Note with full HD display
, 4G connectivity and much better performance.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              716 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

Boot up: Windows 8 sales, dreaming robots, Browett's Apple time and more

BYLINE: Charles Arthurguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 757 words

ABSTRACT

Charles Arthur and Josh Halliday: Plus giving tablets but no tuition to
children, Windows Phone 8's third time - lucky?, saying goodbye to the Galaxy
Note 2 and more

FULL TEXT

A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team

Microsoft says apps coming to Windows, consumers upgrade && Bloomberg

Microsoft chief executive officer Steve Ballmer said 4 million Windows 8
upgrades were sold to consumers since the flagship operating system for personal
computers went on sale last week.

In context: usual Windows PC sales are between 80m and 90m per quarter, ie
around 1m every day of the week. How many days has it been since Windows 8 was
launched? Still, Twitter, ESPN, Lego and Disney are working on new versions of
apps for it.

I dreamed about a human being && Fran Simó

How would a robot imagine a human face? "I dreamed about a human being" is like
spying into a robot's brain.

"I dreamed about a human being" is part of a project exploring the use of
artificial intelligence as applied to photography by using online open source
code and data. The project already has a database of 56 million images. We have
freely accessible amazing tools and databases of gigantic images, but have not
yet fully understood what we can do with them or what it means that they are
there.

Intriguing project.

Windows Phone 8: this time for sure? && TIME.com

Normally, the tech industry is a meritocracy: Impressive pieces of work tend to
do well. But if there's one thing we've learned from Windows Phone to date, it's
that impressive products sometimes fail to take off.

With mobile phones, the alchemy of success is particularly complex. An operating
system such as Windows Phone has four constituencies: consumers, developers,
manufacturers and carriers. It's tough for an operating-system company to come
up with something compelling for any one of these groups unless it gets all of
them excited, all at once. And with the iPhone and Android so deeply entrenched
in their own ways, it hasn't been entirely clear whether the market has room for
a strong number three mobile platform.

Not a review, more a walk through some of the new things in Windows Phone 8, and
a musing on its challenges.

John Browett's turbulent six months in charge of Apple Retail && The Next Web

It didn't go well.

Google's Nexus 10 goes for the iPad's jugular | Mobile - CNET News

The Nexus 10, announced today, boasts features such as Android 4.2 (Jelly Bean),
a 2560-by-1600 pixel density 10-inch display and a dual-core ARM Cortex A15
processor, the first tablet from a top-tier vendor to use ARM's latest chip
technology.

The iPad is still ahead on connectivity, though. Google is not currently
offering a version of the Nexus 10 with 3G or 4G/LTE. And, needless to say,
hardware alone does not define a device.

The Google tablet is thinner, lighter, and boasts a higher pixel density (300ppi
v 264ppi).

"Having winning hardware specs is important but only one piece of the total
tablet experience. Android is narrowing the gap but iOS is still leading on the
content and applications race, which is a big component of the end-user's
purchase decision," said Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at IHS-iSuppli.

If you have a display where the pixels aren't visible, does it make any
difference if another display has pixels which are even less visible? (And
wouldn't the key question be how well the icons and other content is designed,
not just the native screen?)

Given tablets but no teachers, Ethiopian children teach themselves && MIT
Technology Review

With 100 million first-grade-aged children worldwide having no access to
schooling, the One Laptop Per Child organization is trying something new in two
remote Ethiopian villages--simply dropping off tablet computers with preloaded
programs and seeing what happens.

The goal: to see if illiterate kids with no previous exposure to written words
can learn how to read all by themselves, by experimenting with the tablet and
its preloaded alphabet-training games, e-books, movies, cartoons, paintings, and
other programs.

Motorola Xooms, since you're asking.

Microsoft Surface with Windows RT review && gdgt

Professionals and amateur reviewers disagree on the merits of the Surface. But
why? (Thanks @mbrit on Twitter for the link.)

Dear Samsung Galaxy Note II: it's not you, it's me && WSJ.com

A video in which Liz Gannes offers her quick review of the SGSN2.

You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link,
either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service;

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              717 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Google is damned if it does, damned if it doesn't as it launches its
smartphones;
Another Angle Shira Ovide

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 809 words


GOOGLE first introduced smartphones of its own design nearly seven years ago,
and hardly anyone has bought one. On Tuesday, it unveiled a revamped lineup,
branded with Google's Pixel name. The company's Android software already runs
the vast majority of smartphones sold in the world, but Google wants to hedge
its bets by having control over every feature and function in a selection of
Android phones.

Google's aims only can pan out if it sells a large number of Pixel phones -
which it won't. And its strategic goal isn't a good enough reason for Google
-branded smartphones to exist at all.

So why do it? Below I outline three potential benefits from Google's own line of
smartphones, and the drawbacks of each: 1) Ensure the use of Google apps:
Android powers about 88pc of the smartphones sold globally, according to data,
but Google is losing control of the sprawl of manufacturers such as Samsung,
Huawei and Oppo. In China and India, local companies sell smartphones with the
Android operating system but with local versions of app stores in place of
Google Play. In China, people carrying Android smartphones may never use Google
search, YouTube, or Google Maps at all - undermining Google's strategy behind
Android.

That's a big risk. If the company's internet options aren't front and centre on
people's phones, they may use Google less, and spend more time on Facebook,
WhatsApp and WeChat. That in turn crimps Google's opportunities to turn consumer
attention into ad sales. A home-grown line of phones has the benefit of ensuring
Google's apps have prominent placement.

But the challenges remain unless Google can sell at least tens of millions of
phones - and it can't because of inherent business conflicts. If Pixels sell in
huge numbers, Google risks annoying essential partners - the companies like
Samsung that make Android phones, plus the legions of mobile phone carriers
likewise needed to push Android.

2) Showcase the best of Android and spur hardware innovation: There is a useful
analogy here between Google and Microsoft. The latter company for decades
designed the operating software for personal computers, and left the design and
selling of PC hardware to partners such as Dell.

That arrangement changed in 2012 when Microsoft started selling its own line of
Surface computers. Microsoft in part was trying to show some fresh ideas for PC
designs, which had grown a bit dull and rote. It was a strategy I didn't
understand at the time, but it has worked. Microsoft and its PC partners now
make some clever personal computers and tablets that are being copied by others
- including Apple.

But unlike the PC business, companies that specialise in smartphones are still
churning out new ideas. Samsung, Huawei and Xiaomi don't need Google to show
them how to do it.

That's on the hardware side. In software, when Google makes its own smartphones
it can ensure they run the best of Android software. Too many Android
smartphones are clogged with clunky software made by the smartphone maker.

Google's own devices will be tidier and easier to use. And with Google's own
phones, the company also can spur hardware makers and suppliers to build more of
the cutting-edge features Google has designed for Android, such as virtual
reality functions and special processors to manage crisp digital photos.

That's a worthy goal. So worthy that Google agreed to buy Motorola Mobility five
years ago, also with the aim of expanding the boundaries of Android smartphones.

The market has changed, but it remains unclear whether Google can convince
hardware partners to follow its lead in smartphone technology.

3) Sell people on the merits of Google's wireless phone service: We deserve new
ideas in mobile phone service, and Google's 18-month-old, low-cost Project Fi
wireless phone technology is among the best. Project Fi is only available on
Google's own line of smartphones.

But Google hasn't pushed its wireless service very hard, and likely still won't,
again because of potential business clashes. Google can't afford to anger the
traditional mobile phone companies like Vodafone that pitch Android smartphones.

Awareness of Project Fi, then, likely won't spread beyond a niche of tech nerds.

To be clear, making smartphones isn't a highrisk gamble for Google. The
company's $70bn annual advertising revenue - a growing share of which is
generated from smartphones - provides a big cushion to absorb any failures.

But Google's strength is a weakness when it comes to its self-designed devices.
Its business empire makes Google simply too conflicted to make good on the
promise of its smartphones. (Bloomberg View)

Unlike the PC  ;  ;  business, companies  ;  ;  that specialise in  ;  ;
smartphones are  ;  ;  still churning out  ;  ;  new ideas. Samsung,  ;  ;
Huawei and Xiaomi  ;  ;  don't need Google  ;  ;  to show them  ;  ;  how to do
it  ;

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              718 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                             March 11, 2016 Friday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Android N revealed earlier than expected, bringing multi-window mode and
improved battery saving

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 305 words


Google has made a beta version of its new mobile operating system, Android N,
available to developers on a handful of devices (the Nexus 5X, 6, 6P, 9, the
Nexus Player and the Pixel C), revealing new features such as a multi-window
mode, a simplified notifications system, new options for managing data use and
enhanced battery saving.

The main innovation in Android N, now unveiled in a beta version for developers,
is a split-screen function for using two applications simultaneously, open side
by side (tablet) or one above the other (smartphone). This mode is even more
eagerly awaited since it already features in third-party interfaces for Google's
OS -- like those made by Samsung and LG -- as well as in competitor platforms
iOS and Windows. Developers are being offered a 25% reduction on the Pixel C in
the US Google Store to take full advantage of the new beta OS.

Other new features include revamped notifications, promising a faster and
easier-to-use system no matter what applications are open. Google also promises
improved battery saving, plus options for limiting data use by reducing the
quality of images and video streams, which could prove handy for users with
limited data packages.

Google is expected to present the latest features of its Android mobile
operating system in detail at the Google I/O conference, held in Mountain View,
California, May 18-20, 2016. By giving developers a first look in March, Google
could start rolling out Android N from this summer on a new line-up of Nexus
devices, before quickly following with updates for Android Marshmallow products.
All that remains now is to find a suitable snack to name the OS. Three years
after teaming up with KitKat, could Google have an Android Nutella in store?

Google I/O runs May 18-20, 2016, in Mountain View, USA. Website: events.google
.com/io2016

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              719 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on January 27 titled as "Dynamic
coefficient reordering"

LENGTH: 240  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,942,290, on
January 27, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Dynamic coefficient
reordering"

Inventors:  Ameres; Eric (Cohoes, NY), Bankoski; James (Los Gatos, CA),
Lavarnway; Scott (Warrensburg, NY), Xu; Yaowu (San Diego, CA), Miller; Dan (New
York, NY), Grange; Adrian (Cambridge, GB), Wilkins; Paul (Cambridge, GB)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
system, apparatus, and method of compressing video data having at least one
frame having at least one block having an array of pixels. The method includes
transforming the pixels of the at least one block into coefficients, creating a
default transmission order of the coefficients, creating an optimal transmission
order of the coefficients, comparing a coefficient position of at least one of
the coefficients in the optimal transmission order with a coefficient position
of the at least one of the coefficients in the default transmission order;
determining an update value based on the comparison, and selectively encoding
position information of the at least one of the coefficients in the optimal
transmission order based on the update value."

The patent was filed on August 30, 2012 Application no. 13/599,315

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              720 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday

Google gains edge over Samsung in race for connected world

LENGTH: 534 words


[THE INVESTOR] Internet giant Google has unveiled a range of new hardware and
software products, including a smartphone, a smart speaker and a virtual reality
headset -- an apparent move to flex its muscles in the hardware sector.

The newly unveiled products, many of which will be in direct competition with
traditional hardware behemoths including Samsung Electronics and Apple, will
likely pose a great risk to the conventional market players and allow Google to
have digital devices closely connected with users -- a dream long chased by many
electronics firms, especially Samsung.

Having rolled out electronic products, including TV and fridges, fitted with
network sensors, Samsung has long been hoping to pry open the door to the truly
connected world.

Google's virtual home assistant Google Home (left) and its Pixel smartphone.
Google

Lacking advanced software solutions that enable the flawless use of connected
devices, however, Samsung has fallen short of achieving its dream so far.

Google's virtual assistant software controlled by human voices --Assistant -- is
expected to play an integral role in helping the internet giant connect devices
and users in a seamless manner.

The artificial intelligence-powered Assistant, which will be integrated into its
hardware products such as virtual home assistant Google Home and Pixel
smartphone, will serve as a brain for basically all its devices and services.

Unlike many of its peers including Apple's Siri and Microsoft's Cortana, which
present answers to requested queries, the Google software solution can better
process the natural language than its rivals and offers search results in
one-sentence answers in a more natural way. Users will be able to web search,
schedule events, set alarms and adjust hardware settings with their voice via
Assistant-embedded Google Home.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai emphasized in his keynote speech at the firm's launch
event in San Francisco on Oct. 4 that the company's ultimate goal is to make
services and products personal to users.

"When I look ahead at where computing is headed, it's clear to me that we're
moving from a mobile-first to an AI-first world," Pichai said.

"Our goal is to build a personal Google for each and every user. Just as we
built a Google for everyone, we want to build each user his or her own Google."

He forecast that the Assistant solution would one day be able to speak to users
with different voices and multiple personalities and even capture user emotions.

In a bid to expand its presence, Google has announced that it would allow third
party developers to have Google Assistant installed on their devices and
services, which will let users see the increasing number of connected devices
down the road.

"As global tech firms Amazon, Microsoft, and Apple are all trying to nurture
their own AI-powered virtual assistant, hardware-oriented firms like Samsung may
feel the pressure not to get left behind in the race for connected technology,"
an industry source said.

Samsung launched its own voice command mobile application S Voice in 2012, but
the software is barely utilized by Samsung smartphone users due to its poor user
interface and natural language recognition.

By Kim Young-won (

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              721 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   Gulf Times

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

Sharp launches latest 4K UHD television

LENGTH: 289  words


local

Sharp has launched its latest flagship 4K UHD TV, which has been integrated with
Android technology.
With the Aquos 4K UHD powered by Android TV, entertainment available on a
smartphone can now be enjoyed on television, providing for a more comfortable
watching experience - on the large screen - with the whole family, according to
a press statement.


Sharp products are represented by Al Muftah Trading & Contracting Co in Qatar.
The TV is equipped with 4K technology with a pixel resolution of 3,840x2,160, or
four times the pixel resolution of a full High-Definition TV, the colour
reproduction is richer and the 4K Master Engine Pro, a resolution converter from
Sharp, helps produce more vivid images, the statement notes.
With its Smart Remote, the dream of "talking" to a television will come true.
Users just need to press the Microphone button on the Smart Remote, and the TV
will follow the instructions given, such as searching information on Google and
videos or movies on YouTube, finding favourite applications on Google Play and
so on. Besides, Google Voice Search is supported by a significant number of
languages with a high degree of accuracy.
The Recommendation feature will automatically appear on the home screen and
display recommended video, music, games and other entertainment that is
personalised based on a user's viewing history. In addition, the TV will satisfy
gamers as a total of four controllers can be connected to it, allowing users to
play interactive games on a large screen.
"The product is targeting tech-savvy, upper middle-class families in their
30-40s. Our strategy is to create products with features that are favourable for
this group, but with a logical price for them," the statement added.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 183


                      Copyright 2016 Gulf Times Newspaper
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              722 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 3 titled as
"Multi-pass encoding"

LENGTH: 158  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,529, on
February 3, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Multi-pass encoding"

Inventors:  Maaninen; Juha-Pekka (Oulu, FI)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "In
accordance with aspects of the disclosure, devices and methods are provided for
receiving uncompressed image data and performing multi-pass encoding of the
uncompressed image data including encoding a frame of the uncompressed image
data in a first pass, storing predictor pixels from the encoded frame in a
memory, and re-encoding the frame of the uncompressed image data in a second
pass using the stored predictor pixels from the first pass."

The patent was filed on October 30, 2012 Application no. 13/663,724

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              723 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 3 titled as
"Multi-pass encoding"

LENGTH: 158  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,529, on
February 3, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Multi-pass encoding"

Inventors:  Maaninen; Juha-Pekka (Oulu, FI)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "In
accordance with aspects of the disclosure, devices and methods are provided for
receiving uncompressed image data and performing multi-pass encoding of the
uncompressed image data including encoding a frame of the uncompressed image
data in a first pass, storing predictor pixels from the encoded frame in a
memory, and re-encoding the frame of the uncompressed image data in a second
pass using the stored predictor pixels from the first pass."

The patent was filed on October 30, 2012 Application no. 13/663,724

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              724 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 03 titled as
"Multi-pass encoding"

LENGTH: 158  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,529, on
February 03, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Multi-pass encoding"

Inventors:  Maaninen; Juha-Pekka (Oulu, FI)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "In
accordance with aspects of the disclosure, devices and methods are provided for
receiving uncompressed image data and performing multi-pass encoding of the
uncompressed image data including encoding a frame of the uncompressed image
data in a first pass, storing predictor pixels from the encoded frame in a
memory, and re-encoding the frame of the uncompressed image data in a second
pass using the stored predictor pixels from the first pass."

The patent was filed on October 30, 2012 Application no. 13/663,724

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              725 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

HTC One S

BYLINE: Seow Tein Hee

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Test

LENGTH: 489 words


TECH SPECSPrice: $948

Operating system: Google Android 4.0

Processor: Dual-core 1.7GHz

Display: 4.3-inch, 540 x 960 pixels

Camera: 8 megapixels

Battery: 1,650mAh

RATING

Features:4

Design:4

Performance:4

Value for money:3

Battery life:3

Overall:4

If I had to say what S stands for in the HTC One S, the answer is pretty simple:
slim.

Compared to its HTC One X and HTC One V siblings, the One S, with its 7.8mm
profile, is a svelte beauty.

Weight-wise, I have no complaints about its 119.5g unibody chassis, made with
high-quality aluminium. The One S is a natural fit in my hands, which can be
attributed to its curved borders.

The same material is used for the power and volume buttons, which are thin
strips at the top and right of the One S respectively. The buttons are easy to
locate with their slight elevation.

Physical buttons aside, the three standard touch-sensitive buttons - back, home
and recent apps - are found below the 4.3-inch display.

HTC took the liberty to change the way you close apps with this Google Android
4.0 feature.

Instead of swiping the apps' thumbnail to the side, an upward swipe will close
the app. While Sense 4.0 is the predominant user interface on the One S, you
will see some hints of Google's Ice Cream Sandwich flavoured operating system on
it, such as Face Unlock, which captures an image of your face and uses it to
lock the phone.

Its imaging performance gets the same thumbs up that was given to its larger One
X sibling.

Photos taken in adequate- and low-light environments came out decent with
minimal noise. Detail levels are above average. And it helps that the One S can
capture up to 99 images with its burst shot mode, with fast autofocusing and
minimal lag between pressing the shutter and having the image captured.

Audio enhancement is provided through Beats Audio, which is now available not
just for the music player. While I was listening to local radio stations with
the TuneIn Internet radio app, I found the bass enhancement too strong for my
liking. Unlike the One X with its generous 4.7-inch display, the One S is
downsized to a 4.3-inch display with a lower screen resolution of 540 x 960
pixels. Though its pixel density sits at approximately 256 pixels per inch,
videos and images are still sharp.

A dual-core 1.7GHz processor is the brains behind the whole operation.

A 720p test video running on the One S had no visible lags for fast action
scenes. The same video was looped repeatedly and pushed its 1,650mAh battery to
the limit for approximately six hours.

Outside of the intensive battery test, the One S survived a barrage of e-mails,
Web-surfing, video playback and voice calls for nearly 20 hours.

The HTC One S has a good balance of performance and design. But without an
option to purchase it without the bundled Beats Audio headset, its steep price
tag might deter interested parties.</p>     teinhee@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HTC One S. -- PHOTO: HTC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              726 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          International New York Times

                            January 17, 2014 Friday

Tracking tool lets Facebook challenge Google for smaller advertisers

BYLINE: EILENE ZIMMERMAN

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 955 words

ABSTRACT

While Facebook has more than 25 million small businesses active on its site,
only a million or so advertise there.

FULL TEXT

Last June, Facebook released a tracking pixel, a snippet of code that allows
advertisers to track customers who come to their websites from Facebook ads. For
Amy Norman, the co-chief executive officer of Little Passports, the pixel was a
game-changer.

Ms. Norman, whose San Francisco company sends children a monthly package to
introduce them to geography and history, began testing ads on Facebook to see
which ones brought in more customers. In June, Little Passports spent about
$30,000 on Facebook ads and the company's revenue for the month was about
$130,000. By the end of the year, the company's monthly advertising spending on
Facebook had grown to as much as $150,000 and its revenue for December was
$700,000.

Ms. Norman conceded that $150,000 was a huge amount of money to spend on
advertising in a month for a company with annual revenue of just under $2
million, but she said ''we also tripled our customer base in six months.''

The tracking pixel is one of several changes that Facebook has made to its
advertising tools in recent months. Advertisers can now specify objectives like
increasing traffic to a website, encouraging more ''likes'' or converting more
sales. They can choose whether their ads appear in Facebook's ''news feed'' or
in a column on the far right of its pages. And they can target demographics they
want to reach more precisely.

Facebook acknowledges it made the changes, at least in part, because while it
has more than 25 million small businesses active on its site, only a million or
so advertise there. By contrast, Google's AdWords program, which shows users ads
related to specific searches they have entered, has become a small-business
staple - although some small businesses say they have been priced out of the
market.

Jeff Gibbard, the president of True Voice Media, an agency in Philadelphia that
devises social media strategies for small and midsize businesses, said Facebook
was ''clearly trying to position this as an alternative to Google AdWords, but
the difference is that activity on Facebook is very passive.''

''You're being shown ads based on things you put in your profile potentially
years ago,'' he said. ''You aren't actively looking for a product or service.''

Josh Brown, who owns Far North Kennel in Anchorage with his wife, Theresa
Sheldon, focuses on likes, and Far North now has more than 64,000. ''Most of my
likes are from women that love dogs,'' said Mr. Brown, whose kennel breeds
German shepherd puppies and had revenue of close to $100,000 in 2013. ''When
their friends start thinking about getting a dog, these women say, 'Have you
seen this Facebook page?' That's what drives sales.''

Facebook users spend most of their time in the site's news feed. That is where
you will find promoted posts, ads that look like other posts, but are labeled
''sponsored.'' Mr. Gibbard of True Voice Media said that people generally
recognized that these posts were ads, but clicked on them anyway. ''They are in
the same stream as other content, so the ads feel more native,'' he said.

The ads that run on the right side of a Facebook page are more recognizable as
paid advertisements. Their click-through rates are generally lower than those
for ads in the news feed, and they are not even shown to mobile users. Mr.
Gibbard calls them ''completely useless.''

But some businesses say the ads can be effective. Paola Bottero, the chef and
owner of Paola's, an Italian restaurant in New York with annual revenue of more
than $5 million, used right-column ads to increase her lunch business. Ms.
Bottero created ads with photos of a summer salad and the outdoor terrace dining
area, and text like ''Paola's Patio now open!'' She targeted people over 35
living in 10 postal codes around Paola's.

Over four weeks, Ms. Bottero spent just $250 to run the ads in the right column
of the targeted Facebook pages, according to Wendy Weinstein Karp of W2K
Marketing Consulting in Larchmont, N.Y., which handles marketing for Paola's.
Ms. Karp said the ads reached more than 12,000 people, with 482 visiting the
restaurant's Facebook page through the link. ''That's a 3.966 percent
click-through rate,'' she said. ''In digital advertising, the average is closer
to 1 percent.''

For a physical business like a restaurant, it can be difficult to determine how
many Facebook visitors actually become customers. But Ms. Bottero said she could
tell when the restaurant, which has 80 seats, was busier than usual. Right after
the campaign, she said, she saw an increase in lunch customers, and many said
they had seen the ad on Facebook.

Business owners who create ads on Facebook are asked to choose an audience for
their ads, based on characteristics like gender, interests, location,
relationship status, education and even whether the user owns an Android device
or is expecting a child. Ms. Norman, who founded Little Passports along with
Stella Ma, uses a new Facebook tool, Custom Audiences, to try to reach mothers
who, for example, have a specific educational background or read particular
magazines.

Some business owners use targeting to zero in on their markets. When Tiago
Forte's San Francisco start-up, GSD.LAB, began offering a work-flow design and
productivity class on Skillshare in October, he guessed that his market would be
young men interested in maximizing their productivity. He ran 16 different ads
in Facebook's news feed over 24 hours, spending a total of $174 for the
campaigns - and found that women were twice as likely to click on his ads as
men.

''It turns out my market,'' he said, ''is middle-aged women looking for
work/life balance.''

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              727 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Electronics For You

                                 June 10, 2016

Bringing Augmented Reality To Your Smart Phone: Updates From Lenovo Tech World
2016

LENGTH: 502  words


Lenovo becomes the first manufacturer worldwide to bring Tango technology to a
consumer product. Google's technology that allows devices to understand spatial
information is an exclusive feature in the PHAB2 Pro smartphone launched at the
Lenovo Tech World 2016. Based on the Time-of-Flight principle, the REAL3 image
sensor chip from Infineon Technologies AG equips the smartphone with a
3-dimensional perception of the surroundings in real-time. Infineon provides the
only image sensor chip worldwide meeting Google's specifications.

"Through the Tango-enabled PHAB2 Pro, we are opening a completely new era in
mobile applications," said Hua Zhang, Vice President, Lenovo Android/Chrome
Computing Business Group. "The REAL3 image sensor chip from Infineon is a key
component for Lenovo's PHAB2 Pro." Its users have instant access to augmented
reality, benefiting from the phone's motion tracking feature which responds to
physical movements, depth perception that measures the distance between objects
and area learning capability which enables the device to recall the data
recorded from previously visited locations.

Augmented Reality for everyone is no longer a dream

"3D machine vision will drive multiple new applications both in the consumer and
the automotive world," said Jochen Hanebeck, President of the Automotive
division at Infineon. "The depth perception and motion tracking today
implemented in Tango devices can also be applied to driver monitoring or gesture
detection inside the car."

The sensor chip was developed at the Infineon competence centre in Graz,
Austria, combining analog and digital signal processing with high data rates. It
integrates the pixel array, the control circuitry, ADCs and the digital
high-speed interface on a single chip. The development was made in co-operation
with pmd technologies.

This measuring principle involves infrared light. For each of its pixels, the 3D
image sensor chip measures the time the light takes to travel from the camera to
the object and back again. Each pixel detects the brightness value of the
objects. Compared to other technologies, the ToF technology from pmd
technologies offers the best spatial resolution and highest robustness both
mechanically and concerning background light. Yet, it has the lowest current
consumption and size. Thus, the camera is currently the smallest 3D-camera
worldwide.

Followers of Google's developer conference, Google I/O, just recently witnessed
Infineon's involvement in Project Soli: Google and Infineon collaborated on a
sensor chip facilitating gesture recognition. The Project Soli works with 60 GHz
radio microwaves, whereas Tango is based on sending and receiving infra-red
light signals. Thus, it stands apart from common 3D imaging methods. These are
either based on a stereo camera requiring a minimum distance for triangulation
and higher computing efforts. Alternatively, 3D images could so far be created
with structured light with a lower object resolution, involving a higher bill of
materials.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              728 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Google launches its first ever tablet

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 151 words


Lots of Android devices may have carried the Nexus brand but the new Pixel C,
unveiled on Tuesday is the first tablet built 'end-to-end' by Google itself.

The last time Google built its own hardware, the resulting device the Chromebook
Pixel was high on quality - it looked like an Apple MacBook Pro - but was
similarly high on price, costing $5000.

The Pixel C takes the Microsoft Surface Pro for inspiration instead and features
a full-sized, hinged yet detachable keyboard that can be used with or instead of
the device's 10.2-inch HD touchscreen display.

Behind the aluminium shell it will be powered by the latest Nvidia Tegra X1
processor and will come with 32GB or 64GB of on board storage.

As for when it will be going on sale, all that Google will say is that it will
be available before the holiday season gets into full swing and that prices will
start at $499 for a 32GB version without the keyboard.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              729 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                          September 30, 2015 Wednesday

Google unveils latest Nexus phones;
Google unveils ...

LENGTH: 398 words



HIGHLIGHT: Google Inc unveiled its new Nexus phones on Tuesday in its latest
attempt to take a bite out of Apple's dominant share of the smartphone market.


Google Inc unveiled its new Nexus phones on Tuesday in its latest attempt to
take a bite out of Apple's dominant share of the smartphone market.

The launch of the phones, the Nexus 6P and the Nexus 5X, comes a day after Apple
Inc reported record first-weekend sales of its new iPhones.

The Nexus 5X 16 GB model will be priced at dollar 379, while the Nexus 6P 32 GB
will cost dollar 499, Google said at an event live-streamed on YouTube.

Apple's 6s and 6s Plus start at dollar 199 and dollar 299, respectively, with a
two-year service-provider contract. Nexus devices, which typically do not sell
as much as iPhones or iPads, are a way for the tech giant to showcase its latest
advancements in mobile hardware and software. Google also unveiled a tablet
built entirely by the company based on its Android operating system. The latest
version of Android, dubbed Marshmallow, will be available to existing Nexus
customers from next week. The Android mobile platform is a key element in
Google's strategy to maintain revenue from online advertising as people switch
from Web browser searches to smartphone apps. The Nexus 5X is made by South
Korea's LG Electronics Inc and the Nexus 6P by China's Huawei Technologies Co
Ltd. Both phones feature Google's new fingerprint sensor, Nexus Imprint, which
is located on the back. The fingerprint sensors will help quickly authorize
purchases made through Android Pay, the one-touch payment app on Android devices
that competes with Apple Pay. The phones are available for pre-order on the
Google Store from a number of countries including the United States, the United
Kingdom, Ireland and Japan. The Pixel C tablet will cost dollar 499 for the 32
GB model and can be bought with a detachable keyboard, which will cost dollar
149. The tablet will be available in time for the holiday season on the Google
Store. The Pixel tablet puts Google in the sights of its biggest competitors,
Apple's iPad Pro and Microsoft Corp's Surface tablets, which also have optional
keyboards. Google also unveiled a redesigned version of its Chromecast device
for streaming Web content to TVs and introduced Chromecast Audio, which plugs
into speakers to stream audio over Wi-Fi. Chromecast Audio, priced at dollar 35,
works with apps including Spotify, Pandora and Google Play Music. Chromecast
competes with the Apple TV set-top box. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              730 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

iPad mini v Nexus 7;
Which is better - the Apple device or the Google one? SHERWIN LOH compares the
two

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Test; Tablets

LENGTH: 410 words


If you stayed up for Apple's iPad mini announcement last Wednesday morning
(Singapore time), the screen-size comparison the company made between its new
7.9-inch tablet and the 7-inch Google Nexus 7 might seem puzzling.

It seemed as if Apple was saying the larger screen size is one of the reasons
its new tablet is superior.

By its own definition, every phone that is larger than Apple's new 4-inch iPhone
5, such as the 4.8-inch Samsung Galaxy S III, has to be superior.

Digital Life takes a closer look at the claims made by Apple's senior
vice-president of worldwide marketing, Mr Phil Schiller.

Price

iPad mini: $448

Nexus 7: $399

Asus is selling the Nexus 7 here at a slightly higher price than in the United
States (where it is US$249, or S$304), which means that in Singapore, the iPad
mini costs only $49 more.

If the comparison is based on price and size, $49 more gets you 0.9inches more
display.

Display

iPad mini: 7.9inches

Nexus 7: 7inches

The 29.6 square inches of space of the iPad mini is bigger than the
21.9squareinches of the Nexus 7, but let us look at the form factor.

The Nexus 7 uses a 16:9 aspect ratio, which is better for watching movies and
videos as they are usually produced in that format.

With the 4:3 ratio of the iPad mini, users will end up with black bars above and
below video clips.

Resolution

iPad mini: 1,024 x 768 pixels

Nexus 7: 1,280 x 800 pixels

Apple's famed retina display is absent and the iPad mini's screen sports 1,024 x
768 pixels, with a pixel per inch density of 163.

The Nexus 7's screen offers 1,280x800 pixels, with a higher pixel density of
216.

This means that while the mini has a bigger screen, the Nexus 7 has a much
sharper one.

Processor

iPad mini: 1GHz dual-core A5

Nexus 7: 1.3GHz Nvidia Tegra 3 quad-core processor chip

The iPad mini uses the 1GHz dual-core A5 - the same one used in the iPad 2,
which was first launched last March.

The Nexus 7 uses the latest Nvidia Tegra 3 quad-core processor chip, running at
1.3GHz.

Cameras

iPad mini: Two (front and rear)

Nexus 7: One (rear)

The mini has a 5-megapixel (MP) rear camera, and a 1.2MP front one.

The Nexus 7 has only a much weaker 1.2MP rear camera.

Wireless

iPad mini: Wi-Fi and 4G LTE

Nexus 7: Wi-Fi only

The Nexus 7 is currently only available in Wi-Fi, whereas the iPad mini offers
both Wi-Fi and 4G LTE.

But note that while local telcos support both 1,800MHz and 2,600MHz LTE bands,
Apple's LTE chip only supports the 1,800MHz frequency.

sherwinl@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              731 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                The Week (Oman)

                                 June 14, 2010

Khimji launches milestones

BYLINE: Our Correspondent

LENGTH: 317 words


Khimji Information and Communication Technology launched the Motorola Milestone
in Oman last week. With software from Google and hardware from Motorola, this is
the latter's first smartphone in the Middle East powered by Android 2.1.


With this new product, Motorola claims there is no compromise between the
Internet, messaging and the multimedia experience. Enabling this is Milestone's
high resolution 3.7" wide screen offering 854 pixel width display. This allows
easy viewing of web pages, displaying the whole page when browsing as most web
pages are 800 pixels wide.
Further enhancing the experience is its keypad, which is fully Arabic supported.
Motorola claims that the Milestone is the thinnest handset with a full QWERTY
slider - 13.7mm - around today.
Taking the media gathering through the Milestone's various features at the
launch, Harout Bedrossian, sales director of mobile devices, Motorola, said, "We
are back after a year of quiet."
This is when the company innovated to come back with a bang. Motorola has
launched eight Android products globally since Q4 2009.
Among the features in the Milestone that make it stand out are a number of
Google mobile applications, including Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail and
YouTube, integrated into the device.
The Milestone comes fitted with GPS maps of the GCC, North African and some
African countries, allowing voice-enabled turn-by-turn navigation. It also has a
5 megapixel camera, 3G and Wi-Fi connectivity, and 8GB memory inbox which is
expandable to 32GB among other things and is priced at RO259.
On purchase, the Milestone comes with a stereo headset, 8GB card with GCC GPS
maps and a multimedia docking station.
Among those present at the launch were Jayanta G Borpujari, GM of Khimji
Information and Communication Technology, and Pankaj Khimji, director of Khimji
Ramdas, who said, "Technology changes faster than I can change my mussar."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1


              Copyright 2010 The Week - Apex Press and Publishing.
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              732 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      October 28, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

White Version Of Nexus 5 Leaked Online

LENGTH: 245  words


Rumours about the Google Nexus 5 have been plaguing the internet for quite some
time now.

Monday, October 28, 2013: A white version of the Google Nexus 5 has been leaked
online by famed Twitter leaker @evleaks. The device is expected to be announced
this week. In addition, there has also been a black version of the device, which
was leaked some time ago. While the black version appeared on the Google Play
Store for a brief period, the new leak by @evleaks is another press render of
the much awaited next offering from the internet search giant.

Rumours about the Google Nexus 5 have been plaguing the internet for quite some
time now. While most have been talking about when the device is expected to be
launched or announced, there have been quite a few leaks about the device's
specifications before this. In recent rumours, it was said that the device will
be announced on 31 October, while there have also been other reports of the new
Nexus smartphone being launched on 1 November.

Rumours about the specifications of the device say that the Google Nexus 5 built
by LG will have a 12.7-cm (5-inch) display and will be powered by a 2.2 GHz
Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 quad core processor. The device will sport the newest
Android 4.4 KitKat OS, which will also be launched with the device. In addition,
it will have an 8 mega pixel rear camera along with a 1.3 mega pixel front
camera. It will be available in 16 GB and 32 GB variants and will have 2 GB of
RAM capacity.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              733 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                            January 3, 2012, Tuesday

iPhone 5 rumor rollup for the week ending Dec. 31;
Q1 release date, round pixels, aluminumation, LTEgate among hottest iPhone 5
scuttlebutt

BYLINE: John Cox

LENGTH: 1596 words


The holiday season brought a stuffed stocking of iPhone 5 rumors to the
iOSsphere, closing out 2011 with a whimper ofjoyful speculation.

Will iPhone 5 bloom in the bleak midwinter? Will round pixels dazzle our eyes?
Can the same material used in beer cans elevate the Next iPhone to the level of
complete redesign? Did you know the iPhone 5 is only waiting on Verizon to get
its LTE act together?

CATCHING UP: iPhone 5 rumor roundup for week ending Dec. 23 LITERARY FUN: If
William Shakespeare wrote an Apple rumor blog You read it here second.

"I think the release of the iPhone 5 will be the pivot around which the rest of
2012 turns in tech." -- Alexis Madrigal, The Atlantic In the depths of winter,
the next iPhone will bloom, according to Alexis Madrigal, a senior editor at The
Atlantic, in a gushing post headlined "Looking ahead at tech in 2012."

Madrigal simply asserts that the Next iPhone "is probably going to come out in
the first quarter of 2012." That would be less than six months since the release
of the Great Disappointment a.k.a. iPhone 4S.

Not everyone is this confident. Stupid Apple Rumors succinctly comments on
Madrigal's post: "Not going to happen and The Atlantic should stick to what it
knows and stay out of the rumor business." An admonition that is probably doomed
to be ignored.

Madrigal's post sets new standards for lack of details and thinness of analysis
in iPhone 5 rumors, even for a year-end prediction piece. For example, he
doesn't so much explain as celebrate the iPhone 5's importance: "It will be a
huge deal," he says.

It will be so huge that all of us will "casually mention it in dinner
conversations" and "strangers will talk about it on the bus," and our heads will
be buzzing as a new ad campaign for it "worm[s] its way into our consciousness
of cool."

"I think the release of the iPhone 5 will be the pivot around which the rest of
2012 turns in tech," Madrigal predicts. It will set "a whole new standard for
communications devices."

Germany-based MacTimes has learned exclusively, "from a reliable source," that
iPhone 5 will have an "innovative display technology ... based on adjoining and
round pixels." The result will be "greater clarity and truer forms, especially
in curves," according to the Google Translate account of the German language
post.

The reliable source was pretty skimpy on details. MacTimes apparently speculated
that Apple's "development partner" might be Toshiba, which demonstrated in May
2011 a 4-inch high-definition display, 1280 by 720 pixels, with a pixel density
of 367 pixels per inch. That compares with Apple's current Retina Display of 960
by 640 pixels, at 326 ppi, created in part by developing pixels just 78
micrometers wide, according to Apple's website. That let Apple pack up to four
times the pixels into the same size screen.

MacTimes admits that there is "still nothing concrete" about its Toshiba
speculation, and offers no additional details about the allegedly innovative
adjoining and round pixels, which it dubs with the made-up name "iShape."

Screens with 1280-by-720-pixel resolution are starting to appear on some
high-end smartphones, most recently the LG Nitro HD, available in the U.S. on
AT&T. According to Engadget's review, though the pixel density is just 329 ppi
compared to 326 for the iPhone 4S, the higher resolution is noticeable. "LG's
chosen to outfit the Nitro HD with a 1280 x 720 AH-IPS panel boasting 329ppi
that bests Apple's Retina display ... and it shows," according to Engadget's
reviewer. "The screen is simply gorgeous, rendering fonts and icons with a
smooth distinction you'll likely take for granted. Colors are vibrant and
accurate, sidestepping the over-saturated pizazz typical of rival Super AMOLED
tech for a more restrained performance."

Another smartphone with 1280-by-720-pixel resolution is the Samsung Galaxy
Nexus, available on Verizon.

With a new pixel design, "Apple wants to push the built-in Super [sic] Galaxy
Nexus HD AMOLED display screen from the throne," according to MacTimes via
Google Translate. "Realistically, one would be dimensioned with 1280x720 pixel
resolution, it could thus [show] 720p quality movies in real play."

From a "close source," whatever that means, Boy Genius Report has learned that
the Next iPhone will have a back plate made of the same material used in beer
cans, and a rubberized bezel or edge.

According to the headline for Jonathan S. Geller's BGR post, this aluminumation
qualifies as a "completely redesigned" iPhone 5, to be launched in the fall of
2012.

The bezel material will marry the glass face to the iPad 2-like back plate and
it will cover a "redesigned antenna system that surrounds the device." This
latter covering will let Apple "build the rear case out of aluminum without
having to use a large plastic insert above the antennas as the company does on
its iPad 2" 3G models, according to Geller.

He's referring to the black plastic cover over the GSM or CDMA antennas at the
top rear of the iPad models configured with 3G connectivity. You can see the
antenna innards in this iFixit teardown of the iPad (see Step 2).

In the current iPhone 4 and 4S, the antennas are built into the flat aluminum
bands that form the phones' exterior sides.

Geller seems to be saying the iPhone 5 antennas will be moved either to the
interior of the phone or at least under the phone's new rubberized "edge."

Despite the fact that Geller cites only one "close source," other tech sites,
like iPhoneFAQ, arbitrarily expanded this to "sources." Much more authoritative.

"A6 CPU For iPhone 5 Looking More Likely, But Probably Not Till Fall 2012," is
the headline for Charles Moore's speculation at The iPhone 5 News Blog.

Moore says he's "been of a mind" that Apple would introduce the quad-core A6
processor first on the iPad and then on later iPhone models. "However, I may
have been mistaken about that," he now admits.

He references a DigiTimes story, which cites the usual anonymous sources among
Apple's supply chain partners to the effect that the next iPad models due in
2012 will use the Apple-designed quad-core A6 processor for the first time.
Currently, iPad 2, and iPhone 4S, use the dual-core A5.

"And if the iPad 3 does indeed turn out to be powered by A6 silicon, it will be
a strong indicator that the iPhone 5 will be likewise equipped," Moore claims.
Yet nowhere in his post does he explain why it would be an indicator.

His assumption seems to be simply that the iPad 2, released in March 2011, first
used the dual-core A5 chip, which was then introduced six months later in the
iPhone 4S, and this sets the "pattern" of Apple's CPU introductions.

A quad-core CPU, a larger, higher-resolution screen, and support for LTE are all
touted as desirable in iPhone 5, if not absolutely essential to stave off the
Android onslaught of phones that currently offer such features.

Yet all three features require more power, which can dramatically reduce battery
life. Apple doesn't like to reduce battery life, even a little.

Like a magician, David Magee at International Business Times pulled this rumor
whole from his hat. Let's call it "LTEgate."

The somewhat confusing and confused opening sentence of the post reads: "Apple's
highly-anticipated iPhone 5 is expected to be released in 2012 with a radical
new design and new features including LTE 4G capability may get delayed due to
problems Verizon is having with its network."

So the iPhone is expected to be released in 2012 but whenever it's released it
will be later than planned because of the Verizon network problems.

Magee bases this speculation on Kevin Fitchard's GigaOM interview with Verizon
Wireless' vice president of network engineering, Mike Haberman, who talked about
the carrier's LTE "growing pains," including a trio of outages and disruptions
during December.

None of those approached the magnitude of last April's software bug in Verizon's
IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS, the replacement for the older signaling
architectures), which crippled LTE service nationwide.

But neither Fitchard nor Haberman ever mention the iPhone, let alone the iPhone
5.

But Magee is able to see beyond the surface, deep into the underlying thinking
of Apple's senior management. He recycles the persistent conviction among many
in the iOSsphere that the true iPhone 5, with LTE support, has been ready for
months. "It's not that Apple didn't have the new iPhone ready," Magee declares.
"It's that the network isn't ready for Apple's new iPhone."

It's never clear where the ready-to-go iPhones are physically located in this
scenario. Perhaps they're stored at Apple's Cupertino headquarters, or maybe in
its massive, new North Carolina data center, visible from space, or they're
moldering on pallets at a Foxconn assembly plant in China. iPhone 5s longing to
be free.

"Verizon is planning to update its IMS software and taking other steps to
minimize outages, but one can't help but believe that Apple has no interest in
releasing its LTE 4G compatible iPhone until the network outage issues are
solved," Magee continues.

"Sure, users would understand it's the network not the iPhone, but Apple also
understands its product would suffer the consequences."

The special beauty of this rumor is that Magee doesn't have to pretend there's
even one source for it. It's just, you know, obvious, once you have insight into
Apple's "interest" and what it "understands."

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.
Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnww Email: john_cox@nww.com Blog RSS feed:
http://www.networkworld.com/community/blog/2989/feed



LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2012 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              734 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday
                                NATIONAL EDITION

New Amazon Kindles Respond To Mayday; Provide Help Via Live Video; E-commerce
leader willing to spend on user support in battle vs. Apple, others

BYLINE: DOUG TSURUOKA

SECTION: INTERNET & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 680 words


Amazon.com geared up for the holidays, unveiling new tablets aimed at rivals
Apple, Google and Samsung and a secret weapon in the form of a live video chat
user-support service.

The e-commerce leader late Tuesday announced its updated Kindle Fire tablet
line, adding three third-generation devices in a challenge to Apple's iPad mini,
Google's Nexus 7 and Samsung's Galaxy tablets. The company made the
announcements via press release, forgoing the media events that it's held for
past Kindle Fire launches.

The Amazon releases were led by two new high-definition-screen tablets: the
Kindle Fire HDX with a 7-inch screen and one with an 8.9-inch screen.

Both devices boast a novel "Mayday Button" that a user presses to connect to an
Amazon tech support staffer via live video chat. The helper can teach users how
to operate the tablet, answer questions and can run the device remotely if
necessary. The user can see the Amazon staff member, but the employee can't see
the user.

"I love it, conceptually. Video chat is long, long overdue and hopefully it will
help with customer satisfaction for the Kindle," Forrester Research e-commerce
analyst Sucharita Mulpuru-Kodali told IBD.

Prices start at $229 for the smaller Kindle Fire HDX and $379 for the larger
device. Apple's 16 gigabyte Wi-Fi iPad mini, with a 7.9-inch display, starts at
$329 and the 16 GB Wi-Fi iPad with 9.7-inch display starts at $499.

Amazon's latest high-def tablets have what the company calls "exceptional" pixel
density, 323 pixels per inch for the 7-inch HDX and 339 pixels per inch for the
other. Both tablets run on a third-generation "Mojito" Fire OS, which is
Amazon's version of Google's open-source Android operating system.

The new HDXs have other improvements over prior Fire HDs, including the ability
to download Amazon Prime instant videos and TV programs directly to the device,
as well as stream content to TV sets. The improved "X-Ray" feature lets users
look up reference details about the content they're viewing.

Lower Cost For Regular Fire HD

Besides the two HDX devices, Amazon rolled out an improved version of its
regular Kindle Fire HD priced at $139, down from $199 for the prior version.

Amazon aims to make live video help on its HDX tablets available 24/7, with a
response time of 15 seconds max. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos reportedly said at a
briefing with reporters late Tuesday in Seattle that the company is training
"thousands" of employees for its Mayday service and will hire more if necessary.
Bezos said Mayday would be ready by Christmas.

It's not clear how Mayday's costs will affect Amazon. The company already
subsidizes its Kindles, counting on the devices to drive sales of books, movies
and other content. Selling at cost, or below, helps Amazon keep prices lower
than the competition.

Amazon has been sacrificing short-term profit for long-term gains in a big
expansion of its product fulfillment centers. Amazon reported a Q2 loss of 2
cents per share. Its cost of sales that quarter rose 18%.

Mulpuru-Kodali points out that Mayday might not help when the problem is such
that users can't access the video help service.

"You often still need to be on the phone with someone when they tell you to
reboot your system, for instance," Mulpuru-Kodali said. "Video chat probably
works better when it's not a hardware challenge but is about content or "where
something is.' "

GVA Research principal David Garrity and other analysts expect Apple to announce
its newest tablets soon.

"It's nice to know that Amazon's still working on their product innovation, but
I think we'll still find ourselves in a situation where Apple's going to come
out with a response sooner rather than later," Garrity said.

Of the new Kindles, he said, "I don't think it's going to make any difference in
the tablet wars vs. Apple and Samsung."

Amazon stock fell a fraction on Wednesday.

Market tracker IDC said in early August that global shipments of Amazon's Kindle
Fire slipped in the second quarter.

For the first time since Kindle Fire's launch in late 2011, the device didn't
rank among IDC's top five tablets.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              735 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Samsung disaster of Note an Apple delight

BYLINE: James Covert

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 332 words


The Samsung Galaxy Note 7 has blown up for good - and Apple and Google are
picking through the wreckage.

Shares of Apple edged higher Tuesday as analysts predicted the iPhone 7 will be
the big beneficiary of Samsung permanently pulling the plug on its troubled Note
7 smartphone.

Likewise, experts said Google's new Pixel phone, priced from $650, could get a
boost from Samsung's woes - although it's tethered to Verizon's network.

"Among the Android alternatives, the Pixel has to be at least worth
considering," said Jonathan Chaplin of New Street Research.

Samsung shares tumbled 8 percent - their biggest one-day slide in eight years -
erasing $17 billion of the South Korean tech giant's market capitalization.

Analysts expect it to lose billions on the giant tech fiasco. After customers
discovered their brand new Note 7's could catch fire, Samsung issued a recall
and redesigned it - only to discover the replacement was also prone to catching
fire.

On Tuesday, Samsung threw in the towel and stopped making the Note 7. Customers
were told to power them down.

Evidence of the iPhone 7's momentum against the damaged Samsung was clear last
month, according to Slice Intelligence, a research firm that tracks online
sales.

In September, Apple's smartphone market share of online sales, thanks to the
recently released iPhone 7 and Samsung's Note 7 problems, leaped to 92.3 percent
- versus 4.2 percent for Samsung, according to Slice.

A month earlier, Apple's market share advantage was 42.2 percent to 33 percent.

Drexel Hamilton analyst Brian White said Samsung's woes could help Apple sell an
additional 8 million iPhones by Dec. 31.

The market's original expectations for Samsung, White said, were that the
company would sell 10 million to 14 million Galaxy Note 7's by the end of this
year - a number now dropping to zero.

jcovert@nypost.com

Smartphone market Share

Apple -- Samsung

Aug. 16: 42% 33%

Sept. 16: 92% 4.3%

Source: Slice Intelligence

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Oh, the humanity! It stands to reason that Samsung CEO Oh-Hyun Kwon
can't bear to watch the corporate flameout of the once-highly touted Galaxy Note
7. [Post pohoto composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              736 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday

On topic: Tech news to know now

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 231 words


Herecs whatcs on the Wednesday menu.

Twitter shareholder sues CEO Jack Dorsey and other executives, accusing them of
concealing facts about the companycs slow user growth. Fortune )

National Intelligence Director James Clapper said Tuesday that it appeared a
cnonstate actorc was behind the attack that disrupted the internet in the U.S.
on Friday. WSJ )

Google Pixel pre-order demand exceeded expectations, delays will go into
November. 9to5Google )

Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg maintains that the social network is a tech company
focused on creating tools, not a media company, at the WSJDLive conference. WSJ
)

Also at the conference: Steve Jurvetson of Draper Fisher Jurvetson, the first
investor in Theranos, says the Wall Street Journalcs coverage of the companycs
troubles has been overkill. CNNMoney )

Google met with Indonesian tax officials Wednesday to negotiate its tax bill,
which could be in the hundreds of millions. Reuters )

Apple is reportedly working on a car operating system in Canada, where the
company reportedly hired a bunch of former BlackBerry auto-software division
employees. Bloomberg )

Rockefeller Foundation report: When a company is failing, female CEOs get blamed
more frequently than men. Huffington Post )

c

Photo:cRick Osterloh, Google senior vice president of hardware, introduces the
new Google Pixel phone on Oct. 4, 2016, in San Francisco. (Eric Risberg/AP)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              737 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Techtree.com

                     October 7, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Android One Devices Reportedly Receiving Marshmallow Update

BYLINE: Phalgunn

LENGTH: 238  words


It's big news time for Android One users in India with Google rolling out
Android Marshmallow 6.0 update over-the-air.

However, though Google has not yet announced anything about this officially, a
few users have posted screenshots on XDA-Developers website.

Speaking about the update being rolled out, it is being said that the devices
receiving the update as of now are Micromax Canvas A1, Karbonn Sparkle V and
Spice Dream Uno.

Surprisingly, there is no information about the latest Android One smartphone
Lava Pixel V1 receiving the Marshmallow update.

We can recall that Lava had announced during the launch of its Android One
smartphone that the Marshmallow updates would be rolled out as and when they are
available. Considering that, we would suggest the Pixel V1 users to stay calm
and wait  for a few days until they receive the update.

However, if you cannot wait for the OTA update to come to your device, you can
also manually download the file (https://developers.google
.com/android/nexus/images?hl=en)for your device and flash it.

Speaking about the update, the Marshmallow update brings new features like
support for fingerprint scanning, Google Now on Tap, Doze mode that is said to
improve battery life, etc.

Finally, other than the Android One devices, Motorola has also announced its
list of devices which will be receiving the update.

Also, the update has also been started to roll out to the Nexus line of
smartphones.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2015 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              738 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                This Day (Lagos)

                               November 17, 2012

Nexus Seven Versus Ipad Mini - the Battle of Seven-Inchers! [analysis]

BYLINE: Ogunleye George

LENGTH: 573 words


Apple's iPad Mini and the Nexus 7 from Google are the two fierce competitors for
the top spot when it comes to 7-inch tablet devices as both are ergonomically
designed with software features and hardware specifications that suits the
current demand for an effective mobile productivity and flexibility.

Apple's foray into the 7-inch tablet market with the launch of the 7.9-inch iPad
Mini steamed the already brittle battle between the mini-pad likes of Amazon's
Kindle, Nook and HTC One X.

Apple's drive to follow Google's trend and venture into the new market simple
reveals that the future points towards mini pad as possible replacement for
smartphones and viable challenge for the tablet market with increasing demand
for portable, powerful and all-in-one device model.

The iPad Mini, in almost every way is packed with specifications that match that
of the iPad 2 thus presenting the device as a very powerful productivity tool.
On the other hand, Google's Nexus 7 is rated the best 7-inch Android-powered
tablet been belled by Google's latest mobile operating system.

7-inch tablet devices are touch-screen devices with a display measuring between
7.0 - 7.9 inches diagonally.

7-inch tablet is just pocketable and easily allows for single hand operations;
whereas the slightly bigger 7.9 inches like Apple's iPad mini pushes the limit
and in-effect may present some difficulties when it comes to single hand
operations and comfort of fitting into pant pockets.

Nexus 7 tend to be easier to hold but the iPad Mini has a bigger screen. This
now comes down to preference and the purpose for which the mini tablet is
required, however, for leisure around the house, the iPad Mini's larger display
offers an idea tool.

But for a more mobile working experience, Nexus 7 presents a better comfort zone
in terms of size and weight.

Apple's latest iOS 6 cores the iPad mini,

the operating system comes with over 200 new features. Apple's ecosystem of
computer devices also makes it easy to synchronize the iPad Mini with other
devices giving room for remote backup of the tablet's memory.

iOS 6 features an enhanced notification center and a more useful Siri. The
replacement of Google Maps with Apple Maps presented an unfinished service which
left lots of Apple devotees frustrated with its location service applications.

Nexus 7 has 4.1(4.2 update now available) Jelly Bean Android OS belle; it
features an integrated notification center and electronic assistant as well as
hundreds of thousands of apps through Google Play. With the project butter
effect the OS tends to improve the VSync; this set the frame rate for the entire
OS at 60 frames-per-second thus improving the perception of speed and
responsiveness by making everything consistent.

Apple's A5 processor which is a dual core 1GHz processor with 512GB of RAM
powers the iPad mini, also available in 16GB, 32GB and 64GB with no memory
expansion slot like microSD card.

The quad-core processing chip NVidia Tegra 2 T30L processor powers Google's
Nexus 7; it features a 1.2GHz ARM Cortex-A9 with 16GB RAM.

Nexus 7's processor out-performs that of iPad Mini but with 8GB of storage that
can be expanded to 16GB.

Apple's mini tablet features the same 1024x768 pixel resolution as the iPad 2
with no Retina Display and 162 pixels per inch (PPI), while Google's Nexus 7
features an impressive 1280x800 pixel resolution and 216 PPI. Both devices
feature light sensors and scratch-resistant glass.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              739 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

ANYONE FOR 10-INCH? THE iPAD'S GOT COMPANY;
Finally Apple has real competition from its two main rivals, Google and
Microsoft. Matt Bingham sizes up the newcomers against the 100m-selling big shot

SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 962 words


Steve Jobs was right when he talked of how we were entering the "post-PC" era.
He was just a bit premature. In 2007 people scoffed at the claim. Five years on,
things look different. Traditional computer sales are dropping as fast as iPad
sales are rising. Last month Apple announced that it had sold its 100 millionth
iPad and was shifting more tablets than any single PC manufacturer was selling
computers.

But for the first time the iPad faces real competition. Last week Google and
Microsoft unveiled 10in tablets: showcases for their latest technology and
software, for sale at or below the price of Apple's bestselling device.

Google's offering is the Nexus 10, the first 10in Android tablet it has put its
name to. Microsoft has the Surface, a 10.6in tablet running Windows 8, the first
version of the world's most popular operating system to be made for
touchscreens. The Surface is on sale now and starts at (EURO)509, the same price
as the entry-level "iPad with Retina Display", as Apple has styled the refreshed
9.7in tablet that was released on Friday. The Nexus 10 goes on sale on November
13, starting at (EURO)398. So who will be left standing in the three-way
shootout? We've had our hands on the tablet trio to bring you our assessment of
the advantages and drawbacks of each. Below you'll find the answer to the
question everyone will be asking: which one deserves space in your Christmas
stocking? GOOGLE/SAMSUNG NEXUS 10 (EURO)398-(EURO)484 Google's 10in device is
only the second tablet to carry Nexus branding, which the company applies to
cutting-edge hardware that best shows off its Android operating system. Made for
Google by Samsung and available in 16GB and 32GB versions, it has a 2,560 x
1,600-pixel screen, which is a higher pixel count than the iPad with Retina
Display.

Like Samsung's Android phones, the Nexus 10 has a slightly creaky plastic
casing. But what is lost in build quality is gained in lightness - it weighs
just 603g, against the aluminium-bodied iPad's 652g, making it noticeably easier
to hold. It runs an updated version of Android's latest Jelly Bean software that
allows multiple log-ins, so different people can use the same device and each
will see their own line-up of apps, email and other settings.

Most impressive is the price. The 16GB Nexus 10 costs (EURO)398, (EURO)110 lower
than the lowest-priced Retina iPad, and is in most respects at least as good a
product. Pricing has proved all-important for 7in Android tablets. The Nexus 7 -
which received a memory boost to 16GB last week - and Amazon's Kindle Fire HD,
also 16GB, cost just (EURO)230 each and are the only non-iPad tablet big sellers
to date. Although figures have not been released, they are, to judge by the
online waiting lists, being snapped up as quickly as they are made.

Verdict Great screen, and the best version of Android yet.

APPLE iPAD WITH RETINA DISPLAY (EURO)509-(EURO)839 Apple has tweaked its
flagship tablet, putting a faster processor and upgraded camera into the "new"
iPad introduced just seven months ago but keeping the 2,048 x 1,536-pixel, 9.7in
display - a once class-leading pixel density now beaten by the Nexus 10's. A
less welcome change is the smaller Lightning connector: to dock this with any
existing accessories you'll have to buy an inelegant adaptor ((EURO)31). Memory
options remain unchanged at 16GB, 32GB and 64GB.

The screen still looks terrific: text appears particularly crisp; video and
photos are bright and colourful. Apple claims its A6X processor renders graphics
at twice the speed of the previous model, making the tablet an ever better games
machine.

Thanks to the aluminium casing it feels a higher-quality product than Google's
tablet, although the Surface matches it for materials. It alone offers mobile
connections on 3G and 4G.

Apple has by far the best-stocked app shop of any tablet maker: 275,000 have
been optimised for the big screen. But its operating system looks staid. Where
Apple icons can do little more than tell you how many emails remain unread or
whether there is a news story available, its rivals' resizeable, interactive app
icons offer at-a-glance previews without you having to open the relevant
software. It's the way forward.

Verdict The apps keep this on top, but the competition has never been closer.

MICROSOFT SURFACE WITH WINDOWS RT (EURO)509-(EURO)700 Microsoft believes it
doesn't have to undercut the iPad. Instead it has produced an extremely
competent 10.6in tablet for similar money: the Surface starts at (EURO)509 with
32GB of storage. There's also a 64GB version. An optional, magnetically attached
"Touch Cover" protects the 1,920 x 1,080-pixel screen and incorporates a
keyboard with flat keys for (EURO)123 or superior, clicky keys for (EURO)136. A
hinged flap at the rear of the tablet allows it to stand at an angle for video
or to act as a laptop with keyboard.

Both the Surface and the Nexus 10 have widescreen displays, unlike the iPad's
4:3 aspect ratio. The Microsoft device feels as fast and fluid to use, and
there's little to choose between the three tablets in terms of performance.

The Surface runs the RT version of the new Windows 8. The operating software is
well written, although veteran Windows users will be thrown by the lack of a
Start button and an apparently Awol desktop. In fact it is in there, hidden
under an array of interactive tiles - each the shop window of a newly written
app. Many apps are installed; others can be added from Marketplace, Microsoft's
equivalent of the App Store. Apps that many users would think essential,
including iPlayer, Facebook and Twitter, are currently absent, although all can
be found through the browser.

Verdict Clever keyboard options and powerful software, but Microsoft's app
cupboard is looking bare.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              740 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday

Pushkin Museum joins the Google Art Project

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 338 words


Moscow 's State Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts is taking part in the Google Art
Project, RIA Novosti reported on Tuesday.

The online art project has expanded from an original 17 galleries in nine
countries, to have gathered more than 30,000 artworks from 150 collections in 40
countries, according to Google.

'Using a combination of various Google technologies and expert information
provided by our museum partners, we have created a unique online art experience.
Users can explore a wide range of artworks at brushstroke level detail, take a
virtual tour of a museum and even build their own collections to share,' the
Internet search giant wrote of the project on its website.

Giga-pixel picture

The Pushkin Museum's contribution to the virtual online collection has been
considerable. Google specialists filmed full-panorama sequences in 20 halls of
the museum - which is fortunate as the halls are all due to be completely
overhauled and reformatted as part of the city's Muzeiny Gorodok program. The
museum's 'Return of the Bucintoro to the Molo on Ascension Day' by Canaletto was
chosen to be photographed in giga-pixel resolution as part of the Google Art
Project.

In good company

The Pushkin Museum is not the only Russian gallery taking part in the online
project. The State Tretyakov Gallery, the Hermitage and the Russian Museum have
also taken part. The Russian  Museum has contributed 50 images of its artworks
from its collection. A panoramic image has been created of Karl Bryullov's 'The
Last Day of Pompeii' and a special video sequence about the museum has also been
shot. This summer, street-level filming of the museum will be taking place.

'  In   the Google Art [Project] will be included significant works of the
Russian Museum, in particular, you will see many of our icons there,' RIA
Novosti quoted Olga Babina, head of the Russian Museum's Virtual Museum project,
as saying last month when it announced its participation in the program.  '
This can be considered   our world premiere.'

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved


                              741 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 6 at INR 44,000 sounds costly, here are top 6 options you can
choose from

LENGTH: 637  words


Google has just announced the price of Google Nexus 6 in the Indian market, as
its lists the handset in the Google Play store. This 6-inch handset has been
priced at INR 44,000 for 32GB model and INR 49,000 for 64GB model.

Does this sound a costly affair? Compared to the price of Nexus 6 last year
which was launched at a price of INR 28,999 for the16 GB model and 32,999 for
the 32GB model the latest Nexus 6 seems to take a premium slot in pricing.

While Android developers would still want to purchase this handset even at high
price as a Smartphone lover do you have similar phones at a lower price range?
Dailybhaskar.com brings you 5 top phones you could buy if you are discouraged by
the prices of Nexus 6.


Quick specs of the Nexus 6 handset are 4K display (3840 x 2160 pixels), Android
5.0 Lollipop operating system, 3 GB RAM, 13 megapixel rear camera with dual led
flash ring, 2 megapixel camera and a battery of 3220 mAh battery.

Moto X 2nd Generation

The 5.2 inch Moto X 2nd Generation too is a great pick. This handset too is
designed by Motorola (who also designed the Nexus 6 this year) and is powered by
2.5 Ghz Quadcore Core Snapdragon 801 processor and 2GB RAM.

The phone sports a 13 megapixel primary camera with a ring-flash for more
balanced light and less shadows (like Nexus 6). And yes, it does runs stock
Android operating system, which would no doubt get updated to Lollipop soon.

The only constrain with the handset could be its 16GB internal storage which is
non-expandable. The handset could be purchased at INR 34,000 today.

Lenovo Vibe Z2 Pro

If quad HD is something that appeals to you, have a look at the Lenovo Vibe Z2
Pro with a huge 6-inch display and 2K display (quad HD display of 2560 x 1440
pixels). This metal-bodied handset is powered by a 2.5GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon
801 processor with 3GB of RAM and also sports a 16 megapixel primary camera with
auto scene detection and optical image stabilization.

This handset costs about INR 33,000 today.

Google Nexus 5

Buying the Google Nexus 5 today is not a bad idea. This uses stock Android
operating system and Google would update the handset with Android Lollipop OS
update very soon (at least before others update their flagships).

This 2.3 GHz Snapdragon 800 processor powered phone with 32GB internal memory is
priced at less than INR 30,000 in few store today.

Oppo OnePlus One

If you haven't looked at the Oppo OnePlus One yet, you need to have a look at
this handset now. This 'flagship killer' (as Oppo calls it is a INR 28,000
handset with 2.5 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor and 3GB RAM. The handset
sports 130-megapixel Sony Exmor IMX214 camera on the back side

Since this handset is yet to be available in the market we would not recommend
this to you. But given the price point and attractive specification sheet, this
would make a good buy.

LG G3

5.5-inch display with a display resolution 2560 x 1440 pixels, 13 megapixel
camera on the back with pretty good camera app, 3000 mAh battery and 2.5 GHz
quad-core Qualcomm MSM8975AC Snapdragon 801 processor coupled with 3GB RAM - the
LG G3 too is not a bad option.

This phone in 32GB memory is available at less than INR 40,000 in India.

Nokia Lumia 1520

The 6-inch full HD Nokia Lumia 1520 is another good option to save some money.
Well, this is not an Android operating system phone and hence is an ideal but
for a big screen lover who is not averse to switching operating system.

This phone comes with 2GB RAM and 2.2GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 quad core
processor sports a 20 megapixel primary camera with dual flash light and comes
at a price less than INR 37,000 today.

Microsoft will start rolling out Windows Phone 8.1 Update 1 plus Lumia Denim
upcoming firmware release for the handset this year. The update would bring 'Hey
Cortona' voice assistant and camera updates to the new phone.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              742 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Google gadgets aimed at rivals

BYLINE: Ky Chow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 736 words


The big screens of the iPhone 6 range might have lured many Android defectors
back into the Apple fold, but Google has launched a counter-offensive it hopes
will bring it up to speed with arch rival Apple.

The new LG Nexus 5X (5.2-inch screen) and Huawei Nexus 6P (5.7-inch screen)
handsets have the rapid fingerprint scanning of the iPhone 6S, which was the
first phone that didn't make you push a power or home button before its security
check.

Unlike the iPhone's home button at the bottom of the phone, the Nexus Imprint
scanner is on the back under the camera, the perfect position for your finger to
be scanned as you're pulling your phone out of your pocket or bag.

Android users also finally join the Apple faithful with a charging cable with an
end that is the same top and bottom, so no more squinting and fumbling to get
the cable into your phone. Google also claims a faster charge time than an
iPhone.

The new Nexus phones also have a crack at a technology that didn't quite pan out
for HTC - using big pixels on its camera sensor for better low-light shots.
While the side-by-side sunset photo comparisons with the iPhone 6S Plus at the
San Francisco launch looked convincing, we're keen to test because we've found
such claims about phone cameras to be a bit optimistic.

While Android's cheap Chromebook laptops have never exactly been captivating,
its new Pixel C convertible tablet is impressive and could tempt many away from
Microsoft's hit Surface Pro range.

By shaving a bit off the sides, the optional keyboard attachment fits the Pixel
C's 10.2-inch screen but manages the same pitch (distance between keys) and
travel (how far the keys squish down) as a normal laptop keyboard, and it felt a
lot more natural typing than the Microsoft Surface Pro's Type Cover. The
keyboard and tablet fit together with powerful magnets, and with no hinges or
bits to line up, as with Asus' Transformer Chi, it's a very fast exercise.

The tablet portion doesn't feel much heavier than an iPad Air, at just 7mm
thick, though there are thinner and lighter Android tablets out there, such as
Sony's Xperia range.

Nexus phones and tablets are always the first to roll out a new Android
operating system and the new devices showcase a few new tricks. Google says it
delivers 30 per cent better battery life with the screen off, and screen
animations have changed a little, but it's the new Now on Tap enhancement to
those Google Now cards that stands out.

If you hold down the home button on any screen, Android will scan the screen and
suggest actions. Read a message that mentions a restaurant, and Now on Tap can
present cards with a review and contact details for the restaurant. It'll save a
few screen presses for sure.

If you like projecting Netflix and YouTube from your Android to your TV and use
your phone as a remote control, the new Chromecast Audio lets you do the same
with audio services such as Spotify, even if you're on an iPhone.

You can even plug the $50 - same as the original Chromecast - device into an old
hi-fi or even just resurrect one of your favourite old speakers. At the launch,
Google's Chromecast product manager Micah Collins also told us multi-room
casting was coming soon, which must surely worry the likes of Sonos.

Shared albums are also coming to Google's photo storage service, which means if
you and a bunch of friends have all taken photos at the same wedding, you can
share them with each other, and even non-Google users can subscribe so they'll
know about any new pictures.

Facebook has similar functionality, but Google Photos offers another typical
creepy but useful touch. Thanks to photo recognition technology, from early
October you'll be able to search and collate photos based on the friends, places
and things in them, without ever having to tag a thing or person.

Punch in "John", "surfing" and "2008" and Google will fetch every photo of your
mate John surfing in 2008.

We also saw a bevy of the latest Android smartwatches from Motorola, Huawei and
Asus. Besides their normal-looking circular faces, Android's wearables also
display a low-energy face that shows the time permanently, so you won't need to
make the pronounced arm lifting motion the Apple Watch needs to simply tell the
time.

The author attended the launch as a guest of Huawei.

Key points

New Android Huawei and LG phones were debuted at a San Francisco event.

Smartwatches operating on the platform also launched.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Top: The latest Android smartwatches from Motorola, Huawei
and Asus. Right: Huawei's Nexus 6P has an all-metal case and is slightly larger
than an iPhone 6 Plus.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              743 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                              May 22, 2016 Sunday
                                Bangalore Mirror

Ashoka edicts: Researchers identify 121 possible sites

BYLINE: Mihika Basu

SECTION: SCI-TECH

LENGTH: 761 words


Ground search may yield high probability of finding new inscriptions

While Ashokan edicts are considered the first decipherable written documents in
India, researchers have now identified 121 possible locations of undiscovered
inscriptions of Ashoka.

The research focuses on the stone inscriptions ascribed to Ashoka. Known as
'edicts', the texts are carved into the living rock and onto shaped stone
pillars, found in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. The inscriptions contain
pronouncements about kingship, administrative duty and religion, with some
sections repeated verbatim from one location to the next. "We have identified
121 possible locations in the Indian subcontinent that conform to the same
criteria where yet undiscovered inscriptions may be found.

The Ashokan edicts are significant as they constitute the first decipherable
written documents in the Indian subcontinent coincident with the development of
urbanism. Their emplacement as an act of royal proclamation throughout such a
large area is interpreted as the evidence for the first substantial unifying
political regime of the subcontinent.

Also, the edicts are the first tangible expression of religious practices
related to Buddhism. As documents of national and international significance,
the Ashokan edicts are also a focal point of heritage management and
preservation," said the authors from the Department of Geography and the Cotsen
Institute of Archaeology and Department of Anthropology, University of
California, Los Angeles. This research had three primary objectives. The team
tested whether or not a "species distribution modelling approach" can be used to
successfully identify known Ashokan edict locations, and identified the
environmental metrics that best explain the distribution of known Ashokan
edicts.

Further, they identified regions and locations with a high probability of yet
undiscovered Ashokan edicts within the Indian subcontinent.

Species distribution modelling programmes, according to the research team,
require two sets of inputs in order to create distribution maps of the targetted
species within landscapes: species locality data from prior research, and
environmental predictors in a GIS format "We used an algorithm to model the
current relationship for known Ashokan edict sites and mapped suitable habitat
on the basis of climate, topography, geology and population.

Utilising Google Earth imagery, we systematically conducted a visual search of
the high-probability grids to identify topographical locations (outcrops) and
geologic (rock type) attributes similar to known Ashokan edict location. One
kilometre pixels with a probability greater than and equal to 75 per cent of
containing edicts were overlaid on Google Earth and systematically searched
along a north-to-south gradient," said the findings, which are being published
in the Current Science journal of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Each pixel was
assigned a unique identification number and classified as high likelihood or low
likelihood. Locations designated as high likelihood were those that looked
similar to known edict locations and generally satisfied two additional
criteria, that is location on raised, lone outcrops, and containing many visible
boulders. After examining each one km pixel visually within Google Earth, 121
pixels were classified as high likelihood and matched known Ashokan edict
attributes.

"Examples include points of interest 1973 and 2024 located on small, isolated
outcroppings that rise higher than the surrounding region, a configuration
similar to the known edict locations of Dhauli, Jaugadh, and Palkigundu.

These locations have various boulder-sized rocks, which would make a suitable
place for inscriptions," revealed the findings. It added, "When distribution
models were run based on the 29 known locations, they were successful in
reliably predicting the distribution of Ashokan edicts in the Indian
subcontinent".

The authors believe that a ground search for edicts in any of these locations
would yield a higher-than-average probability of finding new inscriptions.

"The development of a purpose-specific research project to examine each of the
121 high likelihood areas represents an ideal opportunity for distributed
research projects based in local academic institutions in the subcontinent,
utilising the principles of volunteered geographic information and citizen
science. We, therefore, seek to release information about the location of high
likelihood areas into the public domain for use by in-country scholars and
students," the authors said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              744 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday

Get hooked on to the cutting edge global technology

SECTION: PANACHE

LENGTH: 845 words


Here's a look at the very latest in technology and trends from around the world
that will take your breath away:

Google Chrome Pixel (2015)

While Google did not change the name of the new ChromeBook, they did change
everything else. The laptop has a 12.85-inch touchscreen with a resolution of
2560 x 1700 pixels in an aluminum chassis that weighs only 1.5Kg.

In terms of hardware, you have choice between an Intel Core i5 or i7 processor,
8/16GB RAM as well as 32 or 64GB flash storage. After the latest Apple MacBook,
this is only the second laptop to use USB-c ports.

On each side of the laptop is a USB-c port that can be used for charging or for
connecting additional storage and peripherals. In addition, you get two USB 3.0
ports, an SD card reader and audio/microphone jack. Other features include a
backlit keyboard, etched glass trackpad, 720p HD webcam, WiFi 802.11ac,
Bluetooth 4.0 and a battery life of up to 12 hours. It's priced at US$ 999
onwards and is currently available only in the US.

Vaio Phone

After the split with Sony, Vaio has now chosen to set its sights on the
smartphone market. Their first smartphone, simply called the Vaio Phone, runs
Android 5.0 out of box and is priced at about US$ 420. It features a 5-inch IPS
display with a resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels and weighs 130 grams.

Inside the 7.95mm slim body is a 1.2Ghz quad core Snapdragon 410 processor, 2GB
RAM and 16GB storage (expandable via micro SD cards). Other specifications
include a 2,500mAh battery, 13MP rear camera, 5MP front camera and 4G support.
To start with, the Vaio phone will be available exclusively in Japan from 20th
March 2015 onwards.

The Runcible

Remember the pocket watch? That's where the makers of this unique smartphonelike
device have taken inspiration from. They call it a new category of digital
device for the post-smartphone era.

According to them, it sits somewhere between a smartphone and a wearable (like a
smartwatch). You'll notice that it has a circular display and arounded, organic
shape that fits neatly in the palm. All the typical connectivity options you get
in a smartphone (LTE, Bluetooth, WiFi) are present but it will never take over
your life.

In fact, it distills your digital life and alerts you in subtle ways. For
instance, you can select 12 contacts you wish to speak to -others will go to
voicemail. Activity around your social networks is represented by bubbles
(larger bubbles = more activity). Further details are not available but it
should be available some time this year at a price of US$600 onwards.

JIVR Bike

Tackling urban mobility is no easy task. Currently in the funcing stage on
Kickstarter, the JIVR Bike is a foldable, go-anywhere, chainless, app-enabled,
electric assisted bicycle.

With the batteries and everything included, it weighs just 15kg and folds up in
a few simple actions. It can still be pedaled like a bicycle - the mechanical
drivetrain is hidden inside the frame. Without any human power, the bike can
reach a speed of 32 kmph and travel about 30kms on a single charge (extendable
by pedaling).

The electric motor is a small unit that fits to the front wheel hub, the
batteries are integrated into the frame and there are dual disc brakes to haul
it down from speed. It charges using any 110 to 220 volt outlet in about 90
minutes. As a bonus, it also has a smartphone mount on the handlebar - you can
fire up the JIVR app to view distance traveled, calories burned and for
navigation.

Ampware CrankCase

This mobile phone case that combines age-old dynamo technology with protection.
They're starting with cases for the iPhone 5/5S & 6 but others are in
development. When the device starts running low, you can pull out the crank
handle and start winding it for a battery boost.

The makers say that a minute of cranking will get you about 40 minutes of use
and 5 minutes will net an extra 3 hours. Theoretically, you won't need to plug
the phone in ever again.

As a bonus, it also has a USB port which you can use to charge other gadgets.
You can check out the project on Indiegogo (it's currently in the funding stage,
5% funded at the time of writing).

Autodesk Tinkerplay

When you think of 3D printing, you normally think of industrial applications,
prototyping, architectural scale models, prosthetics and so on. However,
Autodesk, makers of the AutoCAD 3D software have come up with a 3D printing app
for children called Tinkerplay. The app is a result of Autodesk's acquisition of
Modio.

Unlike Modio though, Tinkerplay will be available on iOS, Android and Windows.
The idea is to encourage children to get started with 3D printing sooner. Using
the app, you can easily (and quickly) mash together designs (like toys or action
figures) using the pre-loaded templates and parts. Creating something new is as
simple as using drag-and-drop.

Once you're done with designing your creation, the file can be exported in a
format that is understood by a 3D printer. Oh, and the app is completely free,
so even if you don't have access to a 3D printer, you can still give it a whirl.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              745 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      October 1, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Nexus 5 Full Specs Surface Online Finally

LENGTH: 212  words


Rumours of the Nexus 5 have been abuzz for some time now.

Tuesday, October 01, 2013: After a number of leaks, rumours and sightings on
benchmark tests, the complete specifications of the LG Nexus 5 smartphones have
finally surfaced online. The specs were first published by Myce.com, who
obtained a log file, which matches with the rumoured specifications of the
device. There is no official word though, from either Google or LG and the
release date is not yet known. It is expected to be released in October.

The specifications of the device, as seen in the log file, are as follows,

* 12.7-cm (5-inch) display with 1,920 x 1080 pixel resolution

* 2.3 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 quad core processor

* Adreno 330 GPU

* Android 4.4 KitKat

* 8 mega pixel rear camera with LED flash along with a 1.2 mega pixel front
camera* 2 GB of RAM

* 16 GB of internal storage

* 4G LTE, 3G, dual band Wi-Fi a/b/g/n/ac

* Bluetooth 4.0 and NFC

* 2,300 mAh battery with wireless charging

The sightings in the FCC listings had already shown the presence of the Qualcomm
Snapdragon 800 processor and some of the other specifications, like the 12.7-cm
(5-inch) screen were also known through other rumours. So, it seems like the
only thing left to be known about the LG Google Nexus 5 is the launch date.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              746 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday

Google Inc. (California) applies for US Patent titled as "Method and Apparatus
for Centering Swivel Views"

LENGTH: 245  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150163402 for US Patent, published on June 11, 2015, by Google Inc.
(California), titled as "Method and Apparatus for Centering Swivel Views" for
the registration of patent.

Inventors:  Frueh; Christian; (Mountain View, CA) ; Conley; Ken; (Mountain View,
CA) ; Jain; Sumit; (Santa Clara, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods and an apparatus for centering swivel views are disclosed. An example
method involves a computing device identifying movement of a pixel location of a
3D object within a sequence of images. Each image of the sequence of images may
correspond to a view of the 3D object from a different angular orientation.
Based on the identified movement of the pixel location of the 3D object, the
computing device may estimate movement parameters of at least one function that
describes a location of the 3D object in an individual image. The computing
device may also determine for one or more images of the sequence of images a
respective modification to the image using the estimated parameters of the at
least one function. And the computing device may adjust the pixel location of
the 3D object within the one or more images based on the respective modification
for the image."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              747 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 8, 2013 Friday

US Patent granted to Google Inc on March 05 titled as "Visualizing oblique
images"

LENGTH: 242  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,390,617, on
March 05, 2013, to Google Inc, titled as "Visualizing oblique images"

Inventors:  Reinhardt; Tilman (Woodside, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
method of visualizing images of a target in a 3D modeling system is provided,
according to an embodiment. The method may include mapping and displaying one or
more images, generated from respective viewpoints of the target, on a
visualization frame that encompasses a representation of the target based upon
respective viewpoints of the images. In another embodiment, the method may
include determining relevant pixels in the images and cropping the images based
upon the determination of relevant pixels. According to a further embodiment,
the method may include enabling a user to control the orientation of the
visualization frame to display the images of the target corresponding with a
specific viewpoint. A system for visualizing images of a target in a 3D modeling
system may include a mapping module, a frame controller, a cropping module and
interface storage, according to another embodiment."

The patent was filed on June 4, 2009 Application no. 12/478,545

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              748 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                               February 10, 2013

Four Android tablets worth looking at

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 409 words


These are four of the best Android tablets on the market.

.....

**Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1**

Sitting at the top of the Android tablet pile in the Irish market is Samsung's
Galaxy Note 10.1. Its calling card, other than a slim chassis crammed full of
top-end specs, is a stylus (the "S Pen"). You write with it on the tablet's
screen. The Galaxy Note 10.1 has a wide, bright, sharp screen boasting 1,280 x
800 pixels, a quadcore 1.4Ghz processor and 2GB of Ram and the device has 16GB
of onboard storage. If you're looking for pure power, this is your machine.

**Cost:**EUR 480

.........................

**Prestigio Multipad Prime Duo 7**

Prestigio's Multipad Prime Duo 7 is a very decent machine that sports Android
4.1 and makes a real effort not to look cheap. The tablet's screen is a
decent-quality (if smudgeable) IPS model at a resolution of 1024 x 600 pixels
(the slightly larger iPad mini has 1024 x 768 pixels). It scrolls smoothly
enough. When it comes to power and storage, the Multipad 7 is relatively well
equipped, with a 1.5Ghz dual-core processor, 1GB of Ram and 16GB of flash
memory. This is complemented by a memory card expansion slot up to 32GB. If
you're on a tight budget, this is worth a look.

**Cost:**EUR 150

.........................

**Google Nexus 7**

Google's seven-inch Nexus 7, made by Asus, is arguably the most compelling
Android tablet on the Irish market due to its reasonable price and highly
impressive specifications.

The gadget has a high definition (1,280 x 800) screen, a front-facing camera, a
quad-core, 1.3Ghz processor and 1GB of Ram - roughly the same power as an iPad
2. It also has a microphone, GPS (a high-end feature among tablets) and a
micro-USB port to connect peripheral devices. The Nexus 7 typically comes with
32GB of storage memory, a very generous amount for the price.

**Cost:**EUR 250

.........................

**Sony Xperia S**

If you're looking for something a tad stylish, Sony's upgraded 9.4-inch 16GB
Xperia Tablet S is as close as you can get to a designer Android tablet on the
Irish market. The company has focused a lot of attention on the physical
ergonomics of the gadget. The tablet thus retains its "fold-over" look, designed
to resemble a fold-over magazine. The idea is that it feels more natural to hold
in the hand. Physically, the Tablet S is the same weight and slimness as the
(slightly larger) iPad. It has two cameras, with the rear camera having an
eight-megapixel sensor.

**Cost:**EUR 400

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              749 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

4K wearable camera

BYLINE: Edwin Kee

SECTION: ; 1-2-know; LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 847 words


WHEN we talk about wearable cameras, many think of Google Glass. However, Google
is not the only player in this particular arena, as Panasonic has rolled out
Panasonic HX-A500, the first 4K/30p wearable camera in the world.

It comes equipped with WiFi and NFC support that allows it to hook up to your
smartphone. The camera also delivers incredible image quality and offers
straightforward functionality so that whatever you capture will result in scenes
that would make your viewers feel as though they are in the middle of the action
as well. Sporting a black outer shell, the Panasonic HX-A500 retails at
US$399.99 (about RM1,300). Using its powerful lens, sensor and engine, you are
able to record clean and clear low-noise video. Once connected to a smartphone
or tablet, you can upload recently recorded video to the Internet in a jiffy.
There are also various mounts available to enable easy shooting in different
situations, offering additional user flexibility. You can preserve your memories
in high frame rates across a trio of resolutions: 1920x1080 pixels at 60 fps,
1280x720 pixels at 120 fps and 848x480 pixels at 240 fps.

The Panasonic HX-A500 comes with a 1.5-inch colour LCD display that lets you
check field of view and mode settings at a glance.

www.panasonic.com

Ultimate audio experience

VIZIO has just released its latest 54-inch 5.1 Sound Bar System, touted to be
the ideal complement to the large-sized TV in your living room. Offering a wider
sound stage that allows it to project true, cinematic home theatre audio to
every single seat in the room, you will be able to enjoy an immersive true
surround sound experience.

The sound bar system features include an intuitive LCD display remote that
allows you to make discrete adjustments to the input, enable/disable audio
technologies, make manual adjustments to the left, right or rear speakers as
well as turn on Bluetooth pairing for wireless streaming - all without having to
leave the couch.

The device also delivers 104 dB of room-rocking, crystal-clear sound with less
than one per cent total harmonic distortion. Besides the left and right
channels, this device also features a third centre channel for enhanced dialogue
clarity. A pair of rear satellite speakers and a wireless 8-inch subwoofer
complete the whole picture, delivering an immersive surround sound experience
alongside low frequency response that is as low as 35 Hz for thumping low bass.

There will be a 38-inch model as well to cater to those who have smaller screen
TVs at home. The 54-inch 5.1 Sound Bar System is priced at US$499 (RM1,600).

www.vizio.com

Perfect crime fighter

ARE mobile devices free from the scourge of viruses and malicious software? The
answer is a resounding "No!" and there are different methods to prevent any
untoward incident on your mobile device.

Introducing Umbrella USB, which is touted to be a 100 per cent effective
Firewall for mobile devices. Whenever you plug the Umbrella USB into any USB
port, this device will charge it up while it physically disconnects the
available data connections. Such technology prevents any possibility of data
theft, otherwise known as Juice Jacking.

The Umbrella USB is also capable of completely stopping the automatic
synchronisation, iTunes or Windows drivers. What makes the Umbrella USB even
more appealing is the fact that there is no need for any kind of apps,
downloads, setting changes or charging required, all that you need to do is to
plug it in and it ought to (theoretically speaking) deliver 100 per cent
protection.

Small in size and extremely affordable without the need for any kind of set up,
it is compatible with any mobile device that is charged via USB. At the moment,
the Umbrella USB is a Kickstarter campaign that needs to raise an adequate
amount of funds before it can be realised in the flesh.

www.umbrellausb.com

Sleek mobile game controller

RAZER is back under the spotlight again with the Razer Junglecat gamepad for iOS
devices. This latest release is as slim as it can be to ensure that it will be
able to fit seamlessly in the iPhone's sleek profile without making it look
bulky. This durable slider peripheral comes with a full set of gaming functions,
including AXBY pressure-sensitive buttons, D-pad and bumpers, ensuring that
there is no more need for on screen controls, freeing up valuable screen real
estate along the way.

You can leave the Razer Junglecat gamepad attached to your iPhone as it will not
come in the way of the buttons and ports that are available on the handset
itself. At 20mm thick, the Razer Junglecat resembles a standard protective case
at first glance. Priced at US$99.99 (RM320), it works best with a free
downloadable iOS app, which allows users to remap and define the entirety of its
button functions as well as make minor adjustments to the level of pressure
sensitivity accordingly. You can store up to 20 personalised profiles within the
app itself and can choose a corresponding profile to go along with your
favourite titles.

The Razer Junglecat is compatible with iPhone 5 and iPhone 5s.

www.razerzone.com

( END )

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              750 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday

Does Google have a tablet worth sending into battle with the iPad?

BYLINE: Geoff Openshaw For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 725 words


Over the past few years, phones powered by Google?s Android operating system
have overtaken Apple?s dominant iPhone as the market share leader. This has been
welcome news for Google and its affiliates, but challenges remain, namely in the
tablet space.

Apple?s iPad remains largely untouched as the king of tablets, and minor
skirmishes with Android upstarts have resulted in sluggish sales for Android
tablets while the iPad continues selling at an impressive pace. However, all is
not well in Cupertino, as Apple?s recent Q3 earnings report showed a slide in
iPad sales, and the recently-announced fourth generation iPad and iPad mini have
been met with mixed reviews. Enter Google, which, while having fought a proxy
war with Apple for a number of years, is finally stepping forward with its own
10-inch tablet, dubbed the Nexus 10. ?Nexus? in Google speak means a special
line of devices unencumbered by manufacturer ad-ons, or ?vanilla Android,? as
enthusiasts call it ? which, on paper, boasts hardware specifications better
than the refreshed iPad, and at a cheaper price. Hardware, however, is not the
only story, and only time will tell how the Nexus 10 rates in terms of
real-world use. The main feature of the Nexus 10 that has people taking notice
is its screen. Screen resolution has long been a selling point for Apple, with
its line of ?Retina display? devices that offer clearer picture in a smaller
space, with pixels barely visible to the naked eye. The current iPad has a
resolution of 2048 x 1536 pixels on a 9.7-inch screen, which gives it a pixels
-per-inch (or ppi) density rating of 264. It is a gorgeous screen; there are no
two ways about it. The Nexus 10 has a resolution of 2560 x 1600 on a 10.1-inch
screen, giving it a ppi of 300, which seems to handily put the iPad in a corner.
There are two measurements to consider when making sense of all of this:
resolution and ppi, which, while linked, are dependent on other factors,
particularly screen size. For example, your big, 55-inch LCD or plasma TV at
home maxes out at resolution of 1920 x 1080. It looks great with that 1080p
picture, but if ppi were a selling point for TVs, that TV would have a ppi of
40. Yep, 40. Yes, your tablet has a better screen than your TV. Life is hard. So
why do TV manufacturers get away with this? Because we sit far enough away from
the screen that we don?t perceive the pixel density. Mobile device makers do not
have that luxury, since the devices are usually no more than 12 to 18 inches
from our face. The Nexus 10, therefore, is not the first Android device to beat
an Apple product in terms of screen resolution alone, but it is the first mobile
hardware to offer a better ppi than an Apple product. Only through actual tests
will we see how well the screen truly performs, as issues like viewing angles,
black levels and other metrics will also factor in to the overall usefulness of
it. As for other specifications, the Nexus 10 comes shipped with Android 4.2
(Jelly Bean), a dual-core processor, a 1.9-megapixel front-facing camera (5 mp
rear with LED flash) and stereo speakers, and weighs 603 grams on a device .02
inches thinner than the iPad. The 32GB Nexus 10 costs $499 (16GB for $399). By
comparison, Apple?s 32GB Wi-Fi iPad is $599. Battery life, however, is rated at
nine hours compared to the iPad?s 10, and the Nexus 10 is also WiFi-only, which
means no mobile data unless you tether it to your phone. Also, the Nexus 10 is
just not as svelte as the iPad. Apple knows how to make sexy devices. If Apple
is the siren turning heads at prom, Android devices are the nerdy kids with a
lot to offer, but have difficulty showing it on the outside. Does Google finally
have a tablet worth sending into battle against the iPad? After allowing its
hardware manufacturers to spend a few years lobbing small rocks at the iPad,
Google seems to have finally arrived with a trebuchet and a big, high-resolution
boulder. Plus, ?Retina display? is trademarked. What concise brand name can
Google use to give the Nexus 10 the panache of its Cupertino rival ? ?Mountain
View Magic?? Geoff Openshaw is a graduate of the University of Edinburgh and
works as a social media consultant. He hosts the This Week in Mormons podcast,
which is published weekly at http://thisweekinmormons.com Twitter:
TheShippingLane email: me@geoffopenshaw

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              751 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on October 28 titled as "Systems
and methods for resizing an image"

LENGTH: 227  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,873,887, on
October 28, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Systems and methods
for resizing an image"

Inventors: Datar; Mayur (Cupertino, CA), Liao; Huei-Hung Christopher (Sunnyvale,
CA), Kwatra; Vivek (Santa Clara, CA), Huang; Allen (Mountain View, CA)
Assignee: Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "In
some instances, an image may have dimensions that do not correspond to a slot to
display the image. For example, an image content item may have dimensions that
do not correspond to a content item slot. The image may be resized using seam
carving to add or remove pixels of the image. A saliency map for the image may
be used having saliency scores for each pixel of the image. Evaluation metrics
may be used before, during, and after, seam carving to determine whether salient
content is affected by the seam carving. In some instances, a seam cost
threshold value may be used for adaptive step size during the seam carving. The
resized image may then be outputted, such as for an image content item to be
served with a resource."

The patent was filed on January 24, 2013 Application no. 13/749,564

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              752 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday
                               1 - State Edition

Google Dream could turn bad for Optus

BYLINE: PETER FAMILARI, MELBOURNE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 387  words


OPTUS has taken the wraps off Google's first mobile phone - but the HTC Dream
could turn into a nightmare for the telco.

Experts say the highly anticipated phone, built by Taiwan brand HTC, will not
take sales away from Apple's popular iPhone 3G, despite having some amazing new
features.

What could be even more depressing for Optus are internet reports that the first
version of the HTC Dream (also called the G1) could be outdated by a series 2
Google mobile that could be unveiled in the U.S. as early as May.

Technology expert Alex Zaharov-Reutt said the deadline for all new smart phones
would be June.

``Everyone is trying to go to market before or at the same time Apple announces
its new iPhone model, which has been June for the last two years,'' Mr
Zaharov-Reutt said.

``So I'd expect we'd see Google's updated Dream phone, rumoured to be called the
G2, in Australia in the lead-up to Christmas.''

On paper the HTC Dream boasts an impressive list of features, headed by Google's
Android open-source operating system. But this will mean little to the man in
the street.

Peter Blasina, The Gadget Guy, said: ``The Dream, like the Blackberry, appeals
to Google fans and soccer mums. It's a great little organiser and has all of
Google's internet tools and functionality built into it.

``But the iPhone will remain more of an emotional purchase and more of an
entertainment device that appeals to a market that looks for something cool.''

Stylistically, the new HTC Dream G1 is not as slinky as the iPhone, and its
interface is not as responsive or as friendly. Applications include YouTube,
Google Talk, Gmail and Maps.

The Optus HTC Dream is available on four 24-month plans from $59 a month.

CLASH OF PHONE GIANTS

Apple iPhone 3G

Screen size: 89mm (3.5in)

Resolution: 480x320 pixels

Weight: 133g

Camera: 2.0 megapixels

Standby time: 300 hours

Speaker: Built-in

Memory: 8GB or 16GB

GPS: Yes

WiFi: Yes

Bluetooth: Yes

Touchscreen: Multi-touch

Applications: Mail, Google

Maps, calendar, YouTube

Price: On contract only

Google HTC G1 Dream

Screen Size: 81mm (3.2in)

Resolution: 480x320 pixels

Weight: 158g

Camera: 3.2 megapixels

Standby time: 402 hours

Speaker: Built-in

Memory: 192MB

GPS: Yes

WiFi: Yes

Bluetooth: Yes

Touchscreen: Single-touch

Applications: Google Search,

YouTube, Gmail, Google Talk,

Google Calendar

Price: On contract only

Google HTC G1 Dream

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              753 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday

Launchpad: More power, less weight

BYLINE: Pranay Parab

LENGTH: 442  words


More power, less weight

Apple iPad Air

Price: Rs 35,900

Apple's obsession with sleek and light devices continues with its latest tablet,
dubbed iPad Air. It packs all the great features of its predecessor, including a
high-resolution 9.7-inch Retina display, in a much lighter package at just 469
grams. The new tablet has Apple's A7 processor, twice as fast as the older A6.
Apple promises 10 hours of battery life on the tablet, and the starting price
for the16 GB WiFi is Rs 35,900. Apple also announced the availability of iPad
Mini with Retina display. This tablet ships with the latest A7 processor,
upgraded from the two-year-old A5 on the iPad Mini. It has a display resolution
of 20481536 pixels. The price is Rs 28,900 onwards.

Flagship Android tablet

Google Nexus 7

Price: Rs 20,999

Nexus 7 is now available in retail outlets in India. This year's iteration of
Google's Android tablet features a 7-inch display with a resolution of 19201200
pixels at 323 pixels per inch. Made by Asus, it packs a

1.5-GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor, 2 GB RAM and up to 32 GB
storage. It runs Android 4.3 and weighs 290 grams, lighter than the iPad Mini
with Retina display. Asus says the battery life is 10 hours. The device has a
5-MP rear camera and a 1.2-MP front camera. The 3G model of the tablet (32 GB)
costs Rs 27,999 and the WiFi-only variant (16 GB) costs Rs 20,999.

HD screen

Karbonn Titanium X

Price: Rs 18,490

Karbonn launched Titanium X as part of its premium range of smartphones. It runs
Android 4.2 (Jelly Bean), has a 1.5 GHz quad-core processor with 1 GB RAM and 16
GB storage. The display resolution is 19201080 pixels. This phone supports USB
on-the-go, which means you can plug in pen drives up to 32 GB to watch films
etc. This phone has a 13-MP rear camera and a 5-MP front camera. It comes with a
proximity sensor, accelerometer, magnetic sensor, gyro sensor and an ambient
light sensor. It lets you answer calls by taking the phone to your ear.

Wire-free audio

Creative T4

Price: Rs 29,999

It is a sign of changing times, an increasing number of wireless speakers are
entering the market. While earlier most wireless speakers were portable, there
has been a recent influx of full-size wireless speakers in the market. The
Creative T4 is one such speaker, which supports Bluetooth and near-field
communication (NFC) for wireless playback. This pair costs Rs 29,999. Creative
also introduced two more wireless speakers. At Rs 13,999, users can buy the T30,
which features high bass and a headphone jack to listen without disturbing
others. The Creative T15 is a cheaper alternative for Rs 6,999, but it does not
have NFC connectivity.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              754 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

Blog: The world in Gigapixels

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General

LENGTH: 512 words


If you're interested in great web-based imaging applications like Google Earth
and Google Streetview, check out the beta version of Microsoft's .

Over the weekend I came across Microsoft's technology specialist where he has a
link to a fantastic panorama of Wellington in HD View.

It's well worth a look. You'll need to download a small ActiveX plug-in and
currently it only works in Windows and Internet Explorer.

So, what is HD View all about? Here's a pretty good explanation from Microsoft:
"Recent advances in camera and sensor technology and software for stitching
images together has led to the creation of images containing billions of pixels
(gigapixels).

"These images are often panoramic, that is, they cover very wide fields of view.

Since monitors typically contain only one to two million pixels, it is only
possible to actually see 1/1000th of such image data at once.

"Also, viewing very wide fields of view require unwrapping of an image projected
onto a curved surface (think of a map of the world) which can cause
distortions."

Effectively, HD View lets you zoom around these web-hosted gigapixel photos in a
very user-friendly way. You can pan and tilt and zoom in.

Only the area you have zoomed in on will be retrieved from the web so you only
need the full resolution for the part of the photo you are looking at.

That means you can look at high-resolution photos without having to open the
entire file online or download it. It's early days for HD View but I like what I
see - that panorama of Seattle on the HD View homepage is very nice.

HD View is being made available to people who want to high-resolution images
that are easy to navigate.

A plug-in that will allow you to create HD View photos in Photoshop is in the
works.

I'll be keeping an eye on what people come up with as this is one application I
can see plenty of business and entertainment uses for. Also over the weekend I
logged onto the website from time to time to check out the web-streamed coverage
of the concerts taking place around the world.

It was a stuttery experience, which was disappointing as the Live 8 webcast back
in 2005 which was organised by the same people, worked pretty well.

All sorts of things can effect the experience you receive when viewing webcasts
so I'll hold my judgement on the service. The streaming set a

for a web event so I'm sure a good deal of people had a good experience.

The On Demand replays will no doubt be getting a thrashing over the next few
weeks.

While I was happy to see some of my favourite acts like Dave Matthews Band, the
Smashing Pumpkins and Roger Waters performing at Live Earth, I have to agree
with Aardvark when it comes to the underlying value of holding the massive
event.

There's no way you can say those shows were anywhere near carbon neutral and our
awareness of global warming is already so heightened, the concerts just
threatened to make people even more jaded with the Al Gore's forecefully
delivered message.

This had the air of a celebrity love-in, more so than Live Aid or Live 8 and
Bono and Geldof weren't even in the line-up.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              755 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 25, 2016 Thursday

Here's how to install Android 7.0 Nougat on your device

SECTION: HOW TO

LENGTH: 272 words


NEW DELHI: The latest version of Google's Android operating system -- Nougat --
is here. The search giant announced that it has started rolling out Android 7.0
Nougat OS to Nexus devices, it also mentioned that the process will be
incremental and will take time to reach all Nexus devices. The OS will be
hitting select devices including the Nexus 6, Nexus 5X, Nexus 6P, Nexus 9, Nexus
Player, Pixel C and General Mobile 4G (Android One).The search giant has not
revealed exactly when the OS will be reaching different regions.

However, if you are one of those users who did not risk your Nexus with
developer previews but cannot wait enough to get the final public version
either, then these following steps are for you. Users won't need to root their
Nexus device in this process and can also switch back to the final consumer
version of the OS if required:Head to Google's Android Beta programme website
from the Nexus smartphone or the Pixel tablet. Mind you, the version can only be
installed in those devices that are currently eligible for it.Sign-in with your
Google account connected with the particular device.Hit on 'Your eligible
devices' find your device and hit on 'Enrol device'.After the processes, you
would receive an OTA update, which you can download to enjoy the taste of the
latest Android 7.0 Nougat OS. It is worth adding that if you stay on the Beta
version, you will keep receiving future maintenance releases.Note: The device's
data won't be wiped off while upgrading. However, if you opt out while being in
Beta version, all user data from the device will be wiped off.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              756 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 25, 2016 Thursday

Here's how to install Android 7.0 Nougat on your device

SECTION: HOW TO

LENGTH: 272 words


NEW DELHI: The latest version of Google's Android operating system -- Nougat --
is here. The search giant announced that it has started rolling out Android 7.0
Nougat OS to Nexus devices, it also mentioned that the process will be
incremental and will take time to reach all Nexus devices. The OS will be
hitting select devices including the Nexus 6, Nexus 5X, Nexus 6P, Nexus 9, Nexus
Player, Pixel C and General Mobile 4G (Android One).The search giant has not
revealed exactly when the OS will be reaching different regions.

However, if you are one of those users who did not risk your Nexus with
developer previews but cannot wait enough to get the final public version
either, then these following steps are for you. Users won't need to root their
Nexus device in this process and can also switch back to the final consumer
version of the OS if required:Head to Google's Android Beta programme website
from the Nexus smartphone or the Pixel tablet. Mind you, the version can only be
installed in those devices that are currently eligible for it.Sign-in with your
Google account connected with the particular device.Hit on 'Your eligible
devices' find your device and hit on 'Enrol device'.After the processes, you
would receive an OTA update, which you can download to enjoy the taste of the
latest Android 7.0 Nougat OS. It is worth adding that if you stay on the Beta
version, you will keep receiving future maintenance releases.Note: The device's
data won't be wiped off while upgrading. However, if you opt out while being in
Beta version, all user data from the device will be wiped off.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              757 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday
                               Telegraph Edition

All I want for Christmas

BYLINE: Rod Chester and Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SECTION: SWITCHEDON; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 521  words


Rod Chester and Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson hunt for the best big-ticket gadgets
to put under the Christmas tree

FENIX 3 SAPPHIRE IN ROSE GOLD GARMIN **** Garmin has joined the rush to release
hi-tech gadgetry in rose gold with this running-friendly watch. The Fenix 3
Sapphire offers a fashionable look but it comes with a very large watch face
that won't suit everyone's tastes or wrists. This is a true multi-sport GPS
watch with navigational functions and smart features suited to a range of
sports, from trail running to skiing. $899 / garmin.com.au

HARMONY ELITE LOGITECH **** If you live in a house where remote controls are too
remote, the Logitech Harmony Elite kit can assist. It contains a hub, extra
receiver, and controller with large touchscreen. Together they can control up to
15 devices. Setup is easy - entering a device model into its Android or Apple
app programs the control's buttons - and you can add "activities" such as "Watch
a movie" that can dim smart lights, turn your TV on and prepare your Blu-ray
player simultaneously. The kit turns phones connected to your wi-fi network into
remote controls. It is a big expense, however, for convenience.

$550 / logitech.com

NEXUS 6P GOOGLE **** 1/2 Google calls this its "most premium" phone yet, and
it's no exaggeration. The Nexus 6P, made by Huawei, is far from a mid-range
phone. It has an aluminium body, a Quad HD screen with more pixels than the
latest Apple iPhone (518ppi), a USB-C port and a powerful 2GHz octa-core chip to
run its new Android Marshmallow software. This phone introduces the Nexus
Imprint fingerprint scanner, which works reliably and turns the phone on at the
back, and its 12.3-megapixel rear camera leaps over its predecessor, thanks to
an f2.0 aperture and larger pixels for lowlight performance.

$899-$1099 / play.google.com

ALPHA 7R II SONY **** 1/2 Sony's second full-frame compact camera aimed at pros
is a 42.4-megapixel beast most would be happy to unwrap this Christmas. The
second A7R camera quickens its focus to just 0.3 second thanks to hybrid
autofocus, adds a backlit CMOS sensor for greater light sensitivity, ably
captures 4K video, and has five-axis image stabilisation to reduce motion blur.
Its body is largely unchanged, with a comfortable grip, electronic viewfinder
and tilting screen, and its wi-fi transfer feature is easy to use. On the
downside, given its high resolution it pauses for 0.7 second between shots, only
shoots five photos per second, and it also lacks a touchscreen.

$4499 / sony.com.au

Yoga Tab 3 Pro Lenovo **** This 10.1-inch Android tablet is not only designed
for computer use but movie nights.

Its biggest selling point is a built-in 50-lumen projector hidden on its side
that can bring a movie to life or show off a presentation.

Lenovo's top tablet stands out from the crowd due to a distinctive barrel-shaped
tube on one edge that makes it easy to grip and hides a fold-out stand. It packs
in a QHD display, better-than-average front-facing speakers, and a faux-leather
panel on its rear for a high-quality look. It offers an 18-hour battery life and
a Micro SD card slot.$799 / lenovo.com/au

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              758 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      November 1, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 5 Coming Soon To India At Rs 28,999

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 383  words


At this pricing, the Nexus 5 could very well take over the Indian market in a
flash.

Friday, November 01, 2013: In what is really good news for Indian smartphone
buyers, the Google Nexus 5 is coming soon to India. Google has already put up
the Nexus 5 smartphone on its Google Play page with the official pricing for the
country. The device is available on the Google Play Store for a price of Rs
28,999 for the 16 GB version. The 32 GB version, on the other hand, is available
at Rs 32,999.

The Google Nexus 5 was launched by the company on Thursday (31 October) in 10
countries. The specifications of the device had been leaked many times in the
past month or so. But, to refresh, the Nexus 5 has a 12.7-cm (5-inch) screen and
is powered by the 2.3 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 800. It has 2 GB of RAM and comes
in 16 GB and 32 GB internal storage variants. Google has also added a new 8 mega
pixel HDR camera, which has the optical image stabilisation technology
incorporated into it.

Google's pricing for the device seems to be apt for the Indian market. With the
top of the line processor and the Android 4.4 KitKat OS, the company should find
a huge market in the country. Currently, Indian smartphones providing this kind
of a processor cost more than Rs 40,000, with the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 being at
the top with a price of Rs 49,990. At a price of Rs 32,999, Google is not only
saving the consumer Rs 10,000, but offering all features except the camera.

Moreover, the camera provided by Google in the Nexus 5 is still an 8 mega pixel
camera, which is enough for the average smartphone user's requirements. Come to
think of it, the Nexus 5, though not in the affordable smartphone range, could
be enticing enough for consumers. This makes the phone a veritable competitor
for both high end and affordable range smartphones, which gives it a bigger
market to cater to.

If you're planning to spend about Rs 28,000 for a smartphone, then this phone is
the perfect buy. The processor comes along with the Adreno 330 (450 MHz) GPU,
which gives it compatibility for the best games as well. As long as you're
willing to sacrifice a bit on the camera, you're golden with this phone. Plus,
there are a thousand apps on the Google Play Store, which can help you enhance
the camera experience of your smartphone.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              759 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Sramanamitra.com

                     November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Alphabet Gears Up to Give Amazon's AWS a Tough Fight

LENGTH: 791  words


After capturing the search market, Alphabet (Nasdaq: GOOG) now appears to have
set its eyes on the cloud services market. While rival Amazon may be the market
leader, Alphabet appears to be focused on eating into its market share.

Alphabet's Financials

Alphabet's third quarter adjusted revenues grew 20% over the year to $22.45
billion, ahead of the Street's forecast of $22 billion. On a constant currency
basis, revenues would have recorded a 23% growth over the year. EPS of $9.06 was
also better than analyst estimate of $8.60 for the quarter.

By segment, revenues from advertising grew 18% to $19.82 billion driven by a 23%
growth in revenues from Google's websites. Google's websites revenues came in at
$16.09 billion and revenues from its Member's websites grew 1% to $3.73 billion.
Other revenues grew 39% over the year to $2.43 billion. Google's moonshot
segment, referred to as Other Bets, saw revenues grow 40% over the quarter to
$197 million. The losses in the segment appear to be slowing down. A quarter
ago, Google had reported losses of $980 million in the segment compared with net
losses of $865 million in the reported quarter.

Among operating metrics, aggregate paid clicks grew 33% over the year and 9%
sequentially. Paid clicks grew 42% over the year on Google websites and 1% over
the year on member's websites. Aggregate cost per click fell 11%. It recorded a
13% drop on Google's own sites and a 14% drop on member's websites.

Last month, Alphabet announced plans to buy back more than $7 billion of shares.

Alphabet Improves Cloud Focus

During the last quarter, other revenues for Alphabet grew by 39% over the year
primarily due to the increased adoption of its Cloud business. According to
Gartner, the global cloud services market is estimated to be worth $208.6
billion this year. Amazon is the market leader in the space with 31% share.
Alphabet came in a distant fourth with 4% market share. But Alphabet is working
hard to change that. Earlier this year, Alphabet earned a major victory when
Apple became its customer for the cloud offering.

To improve its cloud services, Alphabet began first through a reorganization to
set up a separate cloud division to support its entire gamut of cloud offerings,
including products for both consumers and enterprise customers. As one of its
first steps, the group is rebranding its cloud-based productivity toolkit to "G
Suite" and also adding machine learning features that will simplify navigation.
It is also investing in infrastructure. Besides spending on undersea cables,
Alphabet is opening eight new data centers around the world to make its services
more accessible.

Some of the recently added features introduced in Google's Cloud capabilities
include an enhanced media conference experience in Google Hangouts that has a
better user interface, instant screen sharing, and support for as many as 50
participants. Google has also integrated it seamlessly with the Calendar.
Alphabet also upgraded Google BigQuery, its fully managed data analytics
warehouse, and made Google Cloud Machine Learning available in beta to help
businesses train quality machine learning models.

Machine learning is proving to be a big advantage for Google Cloud, as it is
able to drive improvements within the enterprise customers. Recently, the
service was leveraged by Ocado, a leading online-only grocery retailer which is
deploying machine learning in its support center organization to categorize and
prioritize customer emails to improve the speed of response.

It will still be a long battle for Alphabet to overtake Amazon's massive lead.
For now though, it appears to be taking the right steps.

Alphabet's Assistant

Additionally, Alphabet continues to enhance and build new offerings focused on
consumer products. Recently it released Google Assistant integrated in its
products like the Pixel, Google Home, and Allo. Google Assistant is a voice
enabled service that allows a user to type or talk with Google in a natural
conversational way to help get things done regardless of the device they are
using. It was first introduced in its smart messaging app Allo. Alphabet allows
you to add Assistant to a group conversation to help users and their friends
decide where to go for dinner. Assistant is also core to the Pixel phone and
Google Home. Within Google Home, Assistant allows users to do basic stuff like
casting a song on a device or turning on lights. Within its Pixel users can use
the Assistant to send a text to a contact or pull up pictures of a subject in
Google Photos.

Alphabet's stock is currently trading at $775.50 with a market capitalization of
$540 billion. It touched a record high of $816.68 last month. It had fallen to a
52-week low of $663.06 in February this year.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2016 Sramanamitra.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              760 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Chennai Online

                         November 16, 2015 6:30 AM EST

Huawei Nexus 6P: The best of all Nexus phones (Mobile Review)

LENGTH: 908  words


Google has recently added two new smartphones to its Nexus family - Huawei Nexus
6P and LG Nexus 5X - amidst rumours of plans to manufacture its own smartphones.
We got our hands on the flagship Huawei Nexus 6P launched in India at Rs.39,999
(32 GB variant) and here is what we think of it:

What is good?

To start off, the phone's design is impressive, to say the least. It has a fresh
look and feel to it. The rear panel of the phone gives it an elegant look with
the aluminium finish, fingerprint sensor and the nexus logo (which is embossed)
on the panel. The phone is relatively thinner than most flagships in the market.
The thicker top part of the phone with a black differentiated part that houses
the camera and the flash also elevates the phone's look.

The display is superb. The 5.7-inch quad-HD display has a 518 pixels per inch
(ppi) density and provides a good viewing experience. The pixel density is
higher than most other devices and so images seem to be sharper.

Google is actually right to claim that this Nexus has the best camera yet. The
rear camera is very fast and accurate, taking it closer to rivals like iPhone 6S
and Galaxy S6 when it comes to shutter speed. Due to the larger 1.55 micron
pixels that let in more light, the camera does well in low-light conditions
although my personal opinion is that other flagships still are better in this
regard. The camera comes with only three other modes including auto -
photosphere, panorama and lens blur.

The Nexus 6P's 2GHz octa-core Snapdragon 810 processor, combined with 3 GB DDR4
RAM, is an industry-grade performer. There are only a handful of situations when
the phone lags. Multi-tasking, changing between games and other functions are
lightning fast on the device. The stock pure Android also helps in this
experience.

Coming to the highlight of the phone, the latest Android operating system (OS)
Marshmallow or Android 6.0. The OS has been modified to make the experience much
faster and better. Quick actions and menus make the phone more intuitive. Google
Now on Tap, an artificial intelligence programme or machine learning programme
uses the raw power of the search engine to show more info about the user's
search input. The feature works with movies, places, people and music bands.

The operating system also offers a 'doze' mode which is instrumental in saving
battery drain. The phone essentially shuts down all app background activity when
it is left untouched for a long time. Another noticeable feature is the app
drawer on the top of the apps menu. The most used apps are reflected on top in
the drawer followed by apps in the alphabetical order. The OS also comes with a
search bar to allow users to look for specific apps.

The phone comes with a 3,450 mAH battery which, in spite of the phone having a
quad-HD display, manages nearly 24 hours. This is again aided by the doze mode.
The phone also supports quick charging, which is also a plus.

Interestingly, the Nexus 6P also comes with a fingerprint scanner which is very
fast and responsive. The OS also allows storage of up to five fingerprints.
Other features on the device include GPS-A with GLONASS, NFC, Wi-Fi, 4G-LTE
support and Bluetooth along with a host of sensors.

What doesn't work for the phone?

The phone has curved and thicker edges. Due to its big screen size, the phone
might not easily fit into all pockets. Also, the screen and the buttons have a
distinct Huawei-made look and feel, which was a little buzz kill. One can in
some way relate to the design of the Honor 7 as the Nexus 6P looks like a
crossover between the two with its rear-sided fingerprint scanner.

The display is a little too reflective for use as it takes up light sources in
front of it, which is sometimes irritating. Then, there are also smudges which
need to be cleaned for use during daylight hours.

Although the camera comes with larger pixels to allow more light, the phone
camera suffers performance in dark conditions. The red eye effect was
immediately seen in pictures although the camera seemed to capture more details
perfectly. There is no professional mode for the camera which is present in
rivals' flagship models. I missed being able to edit the picture on the device
and share it immediately as I would have wanted to.

Gaming on the device for longer durations could be a problem as it heats up a
lot.

We faced a lot of problems with charging the device mainly because the new
Nexuses comes with a Type-C USB at both ends rendering the phone not chargeable
via USB. A user has to invest a minimum of Rs.200 to get a converter to charge
it via PC or a power bank.

Verdict: In our opinion, this is the best Nexus that Google has ever produced,
including all departments like the design, camera, performance and software
(operating system). In comparison to other flagships in the market, the phone
packs a decent punch to unseat a few given its price and performance. Also, if
you are a pure Android experience fan, it can't get better.

Full specifications: Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 2GHz octa-core processor | 3 GB
LPDDR4 RAM | 5.7 inches quad-HD display (518 ppi pixel density) with Corning
Gorilla Glass 4 and oleophobic coating | Storage - 32/64/128 GB | 12-megapixel
rear camera (4608 x 2592 pixels) with laser autofocus and dual-LED (dual tone)
flash with 1.55Am pixel size | 8-megapixel front camera |

Android Marshmallow 6.0 | NFC | Bluetooth Module 4.0 | Wi-Fi | A-GPS and GLONASS
| 3,450 mAH battery | 4G-LTE

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


 Copyright 2015 Chennai Interactive Business Services (P) Ltd., distributed by
                                  Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              761 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 7, 2015 Saturday

USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc titled as "SYSTEMS AND METHODS
FOR RESIZING AN IMAGE"

LENGTH: 237  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150036947, published on February 05, 2015, by Google Inc, titled as "SYSTEMS
AND METHODS FOR RESIZING AN IMAGE" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:   Datar; Mayur; (Cupertino, CA) ; Liao; Huei-Hung Christopher;
(Sunnyvale, CA) ; Kwatra; Vivek; (Santa Clara, CA) ; Huang; Allen; (Mountain
View, CA)

Assignee: Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA
US

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "In
some instances, an image may have dimensions that do not correspond to a slot to
display the image. For example, an image content item may have dimensions that
do not correspond to a content item slot. The image may be resized using seam
carving to add or remove pixels of the image. A saliency map for the image may
be used having saliency scores for each pixel of the image. Evaluation metrics
may be used before, during, and after, seam carving to determine whether salient
content is affected by the seam carving. In some instances, a seam cost
threshold value may be used for adaptive step size during the seam carving. The
resized image may then be outputted, such as for an image content item to be
served with a resource."

The Patent was filed on October 17, 2014 under application No. 20150036947

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              762 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                        April 5, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Androidbook Or Android Apps On Chromebook?

BYLINE: Aadeetya S, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 271  words


The popular mobile platform could have a tough time attracting people to use
Android laptops.

Friday, April 05, 2013: Earlier this week, reports emerged that Google is
working on a Android-powered laptop aka Androidbook that will be introduced in
the market later this year. But in the real world, will Android-running
notebooks succeed among users who are used to operating on the platform on their
small display smartphones (compared to laptop) and tablets? A laptop running
Android, for one, would require a touch-enabled technology, that will not be
available for cheap. Secondly, Android as a platform has succeeded mainly due to
its application (app) ecosystem, which has enabled the mobiling experience to
evolve to a whole new level.

Speaking of Android running big-display devices, we already have docking
products like the ASUS Transformer Pad, that plays the dual-function of tablet
as well as laptop. Tablets were basically seen as the portable, lighter form of
laptops, that make things easy for people on-the-go.

All these point us to the fact that Android running laptop may exist in the
market but its success is not written on stone and Google realises the fact.
But, the search-engine giant on the other hand could try integrating the Android
apps on Chromebooks.

Chrome and Android currently are being headed by Sundar Pichai and the prospect
of utilising Android apps on Chrome-OS running product like Chromebook Pixel,
could have been contemplated. Chromebook Pixel, the touch-screen based laptop
from Google, available with Android apps could be the best way to integrate the
Chrome OS and Android platform.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              763 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   Iran Daily

                            October 8, 2013 Tuesday

Google to Launch Gem Smartwatch

LENGTH: 259  words


Google is all set to launch its smartwatch by the end of October along with the
release of its Android 4.4 Kit Kat.


According to TechRadar, Artem Russakovskii of Android Police wrote on his Google
+ profile: "feel relatively confident about but either don't have visual
evidence or a second confirmation, so I'm going to keep them to G+."
The features and specifications of the wearable device are, however, still under
wraps. If rumors are true, this smartwatch by Google will be the third entrant
in the league of wearable technology after Samsung's Galaxy Gear smartwatch and
Sony Smartwatch Specs.
The Samsung Galaxy Gear Specs comes with a 1.63 inch display with 320 X 320
pixel resolution. It sports a stainless steel body and is available in multiple
strap color options.
The watch comes with a proprietary USB 3.0 charger and supported by 800MHz
Exynos single-core processor. It also features Bluetooth 4.0 LE along with 1.9
megapixel camera, 720p video recording and speaker + 2 mics.
The smartwatch is compatible with new Galaxy devices and previous gen Galaxy
support is expected to come soon. It comes with a price tag of $299.
The Sony Smartwatch Specs comes with a 1.6 inch display with 200 X 176 pixel
resolution. It sports an aluminum body and is available in multiple strap color
options. The device is well-suited with most Android phones and features a micro
USB charging.
The smartwatch, however, falls low when it comes to inbuilt features as it does
not support a camera or video recording. The device comes with a price tag of
USD 262.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1056


                 Copyright 2013 Iran Cultural & Press Institute
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved


                              764 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday

Tech bytes

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Technology; NEWS

LENGTH: 563 words


Gorilla Glass maker launches new paper-thin glass

Glass maker Corning of Gorilla Glass, the tough glass used in many smartphones,
has a new product that is both paper-thin and flexible. It has been dubbed
Willow Glass.

The 100 micron-thick glass, which is about as thin as a sheet of photocopy
paper, will enable smartphone, tablet and notebook makers to produce even
thinner, lighter and more flexible devices, including ones with curved displays
or where the display is wrapped around the product.

Google to warn users of state-sponsored cyber attacks

Google announced a service via its online security blog last Tuesday that it
will automatically prompt users if their Google account has become the target of
state-sponsored phishing or malware attacks.

The warning will be in the form of a red banner above the Google search bar that
reads: 'Warning: we believe state-sponsored attackers may be attempting to
compromise your account or computer.'

Beside the banner, a link will lead users to information on how they can secure
their computers, mobile devices and Google accounts.

Small but laser-sharp LCD panel

LCD display maker Japan Display has announced a super-sharp 2.3-inch LCD panel
with a resolution of

651 pixels per inch (ppi) - double that of the 326ppi retina display of Apple's
iPhone 4 and 4S models, reported the Japanese news portal Tech-On!.

The LCD panel, which is less than half the size of the usual 3.5-inch smartphone
screens, has a 1,280 x 800 pixel display. The characters on the LCD panel will
appear as smooth as printed characters, without the jagged edges.

Google buys Quickoffice

Last Wednesday, Google announced that it is buying mobile productivity start-up
Quickoffice, the online technology blog VentureBeat reported.

The app, which is also called Quickoffice, enables Android, iOS and Symbian
devices to view, edit and synch all kinds of documents including those created
using Microsoft Office.

Quickoffice said its apps are installed on more than 300 million devices in more
than 180 countries. A corporate version lets administrators turn off features
such as Wi-Fi sharing as well as copying and pasting.

DBS uses Instagram to promote regatta Instead of the usual Facebook campaign,
DBS Bank used photo-sharing app Instagram to raise awareness of the DBS Marina
Regatta held last month. The Instagram competition for the two-day inaugural
dragon boat regatta received more than 1,600 photo submissions. AsiaOne's Diva
and YourHealth are No. 1 on Hitwise

Women's lifestyle site Diva (Divaasia.com) and health site YourHealth
(Yourhealth.com.sg) topped Internet monitoring service Experian Hitwise's
ranking for their respective categories last month.

Both sites are part of AsiaOne, a Singapore Press Holdings news and lifestyle
portal featuring content from Singapore and the region.

E-paper without colour filters

Fuji Xerox has shown off a prototype electronic paper (e-paper) that displays
colours without using colour filters, Japanese news portal Tech-On! reported.

Instead of using filters to add colour, the Fuji Xerox e-paper uses colour
particles of red and cyan for the 5-inch, 600 x 800 pixel e-paper.

Without colour filters, the display can be brighter. Fuji Xerox is working on a
full-colour e-paper based on three primary colours.

Compiled by Tan Chong Yaw

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Health site YourHealth, which is part of Singapore Press Holdings'
AsiaOne portal, was ranked top by Internet monitoring service Experian Hitwise
last month. -- PHOTO: WWW.YOURHEALTH.COM.SG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              765 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

Digitise art,culture to attract virtual tourists

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: India


India, April 10 -- The future is on the Net. This is true about art and culture
as the success of the Google Art Project highlights. Since its launch in
February 2011, nearly 150 museums and art galleries, including some of the
prestigious ones like the Tate gallery in London, have been digitised and the
images made available on the Internet. It is now possible to sit at one's home
and virtually tour all those museums and see tens of thousands of art objects
and paintings. The quality of the images can be gauged from the fact that they
have a density of 7 billion pixels, thousands of times more than those taken by
conventional digital cameras. This means that the images are as good as the
real.

The future is on the Net. This is true about art and culture as the success of
the Google Art Project highlights. Since its launch in February 2011, nearly 150
museums and art galleries, including some of the prestigious ones like the Tate
gallery in London, have been digitised and the images made available on the
Internet. It is now possible to sit at one's home and virtually tour all those
museums and see tens of thousands of art objects and paintings. The quality of
the images can be gauged from the fact that they have a density of 7 billion
pixels, thousands of times more than those taken by conventional digital
cameras. This means that the images are as good as the real.

Though the Louvre in Paris, considered the mother of museums, is not among the
150, art lovers can access such classics as Van Gogh's works through their
computers. What's more, the high pixels allow artists to zoom on sections of the
art works and study them in detail. For instance, an artist wanting to know
whether Mona Lisa's hands are really feminine will be able to do so by doing
sectional studies of the world-famous painting once the Louvre, too, joins the
project in the next phase. That last year 8.8 million people visited the Louvre
alone shows the popularity of museums the world over. The entry fees in Indian
museums may be low but in Europe, it is so high that it is beyond the reach of
the average student.

Of course, the virtual cannot be a substitute for the real. In other words, the
project is unlikely to diminish the popularity of museums, while it will allow
billions of people to enjoy art and culture from the comfort of their homes and
offices. This is tantamount to democratising art and culture and this needs to
be encouraged. India, which has a rich cultural heritage, stands to gain if it,
too, makes it possible for virtual visitors to see and study, for instance, the
paintings of Raja Ravi Varma and architectural wonders like the Sun temple at
Konark. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              766 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                           February 17, 2009 Tuesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Google in dreamtime Optus deal chases Apple's monster

BYLINE: Peter Familari, technology reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 410  words


OPTUS has taken the wraps off Google's first mobile phone -- but the ``HTC
Dream'' could turn into a nightmare for the big telco.

Experts say the highly anticipated phone, built by Taiwanese brand HTC, won't
take sales away from Apple's popular iPhone 3G, despite having some amazing new
features.

What could be even more depressing for Optus are internet reports that the first
version of the HTC Dream (also called the G1) could be outdated by a series 2
Google mobile that could be unveiled in the US as early as May.

Technology expert Alex Zaharov-Reutt says the deadline for all new smartphones
will be June.

``Everyone is trying to go to market before or at the same time Apple announces
its new iPhone model, which has been June for the last two years,'' Mr
Zaharov-Reutt said.

``So I'd expect we'd see Google's updated Dream phone, rumoured to be called the
G2, in Australia in the lead-up to Christmas.''

On paper the HTC Dream boasts an impressive list of features, headed by Google's
Android open source operating system. But that will mean little to the man in
the street.

``The Dream, like the Blackberry, appeals to Google fans and soccer mums, ''
says The Gadget Guy, Peter Blasina.

``It's a great little organiser and has all of Google's internet tools and
functionality built into it.

``But the iPhone will remain more of an emotional purchase and remains more of
an entertainment device that appeals to a market that looks for something
cool.''

Stylistically, the new HTC Dream G1 is nowhere near as slinky as the iPhone, and
its user interface is not as responsive or as friendly.

Applications loaded into the HTC Dream include YouTube, Google Talk, Gmail,
Google Search and Google Maps. The HTC Dream is exclusive to Optus and is
available on four, 24-month plans from $59 per month.

heraldsun.com.au

Future tech: Holograms, electronic paper and other cool concepts

Battle of the super phones

iPhone 3G

Screen size: 89mm (3.5in)

Resolution: 480x320 pixels

Weight: 133g

Camera: 2.0MP

Standby Time: 300 hours

Speaker: built-in

Memory: 8GB or 16GB

GPS: yes

WiFi: yes

Bluetooth; yes

Touchscreen: Multi-touch

Applications: mail, Google Maps, Calendar, YouTube

Price: On contract only

HTC G1 Dream

Screen Size: XXmm (3.2in)

Resolution: 320x480 pixels

Weight: 158g

Camera: 3.2MP

Standby Time: 402 hours

Speaker: built-in

Memory: 192MB

GPS: yes

WiFi: yes

Bluetooth: yes

Touchscreen: single-touch

Applications: Google Search, YouTube, Gmail, Google Talk, Google Calendar

Price: On contract only

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              767 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                           February 17, 2009 Tuesday
                               2 - SECOND Edition

Google in dreamtime Optus deal chases Apple's monster

BYLINE: Peter Familari, technology reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 410  words


OPTUS has taken the wraps off Google's first mobile phone -- but the ``HTC
Dream'' could turn into a nightmare for the big telco.

Experts say the highly anticipated phone, built by Taiwanese brand HTC, won't
take sales away from Apple's popular iPhone 3G, despite having some amazing new
features.

What could be even more depressing for Optus are internet reports that the first
version of the HTC Dream (also called the G1) could be outdated by a series 2
Google mobile that could be unveiled in the US as early as May.

Technology expert Alex Zaharov-Reutt says the deadline for all new smartphones
will be June.

``Everyone is trying to go to market before or at the same time Apple announces
its new iPhone model, which has been June for the last two years,'' Mr
Zaharov-Reutt said.

``So I'd expect we'd see Google's updated Dream phone, rumoured to be called the
G2, in Australia in the lead-up to Christmas.''

On paper the HTC Dream boasts an impressive list of features, headed by Google's
Android open source operating system. But that will mean little to the man in
the street.

``The Dream, like the Blackberry, appeals to Google fans and soccer mums, ''
says The Gadget Guy, Peter Blasina.

``It's a great little organiser and has all of Google's internet tools and
functionality built into it.

``But the iPhone will remain more of an emotional purchase and remains more of
an entertainment device that appeals to a market that looks for something
cool.''

Stylistically, the new HTC Dream G1 is nowhere near as slinky as the iPhone, and
its user interface is not as responsive or as friendly.

Applications loaded into the HTC Dream include YouTube, Google Talk, Gmail,
Google Search and Google Maps. The HTC Dream is exclusive to Optus and is
available on four, 24-month plans from $59 per month.

heraldsun.com.au

Future tech: Holograms, electronic paper and other cool concepts

Battle of the super phones

iPhone 3G

Screen size: 89mm (3.5in)

Resolution: 480x320 pixels

Weight: 133g

Camera: 2.0MP

Standby Time: 300 hours

Speaker: built-in

Memory: 8GB or 16GB

GPS: yes

WiFi: yes

Bluetooth; yes

Touchscreen: Multi-touch

Applications: mail, Google Maps, Calendar, YouTube

Price: On contract only

HTC G1 Dream

Screen Size: 58mm (3.2in)

Resolution: 320x480 pixels

Weight: 158g

Camera: 3.2MP

Standby Time: 402 hours

Speaker: built-in

Memory: 192MB

GPS: yes

WiFi: yes

Bluetooth: yes

Touchscreen: single-touch

Applications: Google Search, YouTube, Gmail, Google Talk, Google Calendar

Price: On contract only

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              768 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 3 titled as "Methods,
systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

LENGTH: 213  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,512, on
February 3, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Methods, systems, and
media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

Inventors:  Zuczek; Pawel (Wroclaw, PL)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods, systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion
are provided. More particularly, the hierarchical expansion can include a merge
expansion and/or a refine expansion. In some embodiments, a method for image
processing, comprising: receiving a plurality of images, wherein each of the
plurality of images has one of a plurality of resolutions; for a first image
from the plurality of images that has a first resolution, determining a first
set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the first image; and for a second
image from the plurality of images that has a second resolution, generating a
second set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the second image based on
the first set of labels."

The patent was filed on March 15, 2013 Application no. 13/833,654

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              769 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 3 titled as "Methods,
systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

LENGTH: 213  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,512, on
February 3, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Methods, systems, and
media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

Inventors:  Zuczek; Pawel (Wroclaw, PL)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods, systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion
are provided. More particularly, the hierarchical expansion can include a merge
expansion and/or a refine expansion. In some embodiments, a method for image
processing, comprising: receiving a plurality of images, wherein each of the
plurality of images has one of a plurality of resolutions; for a first image
from the plurality of images that has a first resolution, determining a first
set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the first image; and for a second
image from the plurality of images that has a second resolution, generating a
second set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the second image based on
the first set of labels."

The patent was filed on March 15, 2013 Application no. 13/833,654

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              770 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 03 titled as "Methods,
systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

LENGTH: 213  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,512, on
February 03, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Methods, systems, and
media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

Inventors:  Zuczek; Pawel (Wroclaw, PL)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods, systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion
are provided. More particularly, the hierarchical expansion can include a merge
expansion and/or a refine expansion. In some embodiments, a method for image
processing, comprising: receiving a plurality of images, wherein each of the
plurality of images has one of a plurality of resolutions; for a first image
from the plurality of images that has a first resolution, determining a first
set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the first image; and for a second
image from the plurality of images that has a second resolution, generating a
second set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the second image based on
the first set of labels."

The patent was filed on March 15, 2013 Application no. 13/833,654

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              771 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

USPTO Published Patent application of GOOGLE INC titled as "Transform-Domain
Intra Prediction"

LENGTH: 226  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20140044166, published on February 13, 2014, by GOOGLE INC, titled as
"Transform-Domain Intra Prediction" for the registration of patent.

Inventors:  Xu; Yaowu; (Sunnyvale, CA) ; Gu; Qunshan; (Hayward, CA)
Assignee:  GOOGLE INC.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
method for encoding a frame having a plurality of blocks in a video stream using
transform-domain intra prediction is disclosed. The method includes generating,
using a two-dimensional transform, a set of transform coefficients for a current
block; generating, using a one-dimensional transform, a set of transform
coefficients for previously coded pixel values in the frame; determining, using
the set of transform coefficients for the previously coded pixel values, a set
of transform coefficients for a prediction block; determining a residual based
on the difference between the set of transform coefficients for the current
block and the set of coefficients for the prediction block; and encoding the
residual."

The Patent was filed on August 10, 2012 under application No. 20140044166

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              772 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2013 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Touch Screens Come to Walls

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 694 words


REDMOND, Wash. -- There are technology companies that won't say anything about
the futuristic inventions they're tinkering with in their labs -- Apple, for
instance.

Then there are the companies that won't stop talking about them. Think Google
and its driverless cars and Google Glass.

Microsoft is firmly in the latter camp. The company says it has the largest
research organization of its kind and is a prolific publisher of academic-style
papers, which it shares openly. For years it has operated a home of the future
in a building on its campus where it invites visitors for a glimpse of how
technology could reshape kitchens, living rooms and bedrooms years from now.

Earlier this week, it held an annual event for a small group of journalists
inside its home of the future, recently remodeled to include more examples of
what workplaces of the future might look like. One technology Microsoft returned
to again and again in its demonstrations was jumbo-size touchscreens, which are
based on designs by Perceptive Pixel, a company Microsoft acquired last year.
Perceptive Pixel's screens, which look like the offspring of an iPad and a
television set, are most familiar to people who have watched election night
coverage on networks like CNN, where on-air commentators have for years
manipulated electoral maps using the technology.

Microsoft believes the technology will have a big impact on offices, where they
will replace whiteboards, allow for more immersive video conferences and
transform the way presentations are delivered. Microsoft showed one research
project that used the displays in which a presenter could revamp charts and bar
graphs on the fly with different data by using a stylus to sketch little codes
on the screen.

''It changes the way meetings work,'' said Rick Rashid, Microsoft's chief
research officer.

The company is using the technology widely in-house now, a process known in the
tech industry as ''dogfooding.'' Its chief executive, Steve Ballmer, has a giant
touch-screen in his office, as do a number of other senior executives. Some
meeting spaces at Microsoft are being redesigned to be more open so they can
accommodate the giant screens, which can be bigger than 80 inches.

''It won't be unreasonable to think of all walls being touch-enabled,'' said
Kurt Delbene, president of the Office division at Microsoft, who said Microsoft
would bring the cost of the devices down ''substantially'' from the tens of
thousands of dollars that bigger ones cost today.

Microsoft talks a lot more than Apple does about projects like giant
touchscreens partly because it thinks it can spark wider interest and investment
in categories that will come back to benefit the company, as a major provider of
software and services for computers. Apple, in contrast, says almost nothing
about the technologies it is working on until shortly before they can be
purchased as products in a store, the better to maximize sales.

It's also worth mentioning that Microsoft far outspends Apple on research and
development, devoting nearly $10 billion, or close to 13 percent of revenue, in
its most recent fiscal year (the vast majority of this figure stems from
development costs, rather than pure research). Last year Apple spent $3.4
billion, or 2 percent of its revenue, on research and development.

Apple appears to have gotten a lot more out of a far smaller investment than
Microsoft has. But whatever their research investments, it's tough to overstate
how Apple has out-executed Microsoft over the past five years in creating
compelling mobile products like tablets and smartphones. Microsoft was in both
categories long before its rival, but fumbled its leads there.

Mr. Rashid said Microsoft's hefty investments in research, especially basic
technology research that may not yield products for years or ever, are essential
for its future. He said the technology industry was littered with companies that
didn't invest enough in long-term research, only to run into trouble when
technology trends shifted.

''It gives you the ability to survive if things go wrong,'' he said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/03/06/microsoft-is-talking-about-the-future-a
-lot/

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Havir of Microsoft using one of the giant touch-screen
displays that are increasingly common at the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S.
WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              773 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                                 March 31, 2010

Are iPad killers lurking?;
iPad advent recharges 'Google Pad,' other rumors

BYLINE: John Cox

LENGTH: 498 words


The pending release of Apple's iPad tablet is creating another Internet paroxysm
of speculation, frenzied minutia, andrecycled rumors. The latest of which is the
rebirth of interest in the "Google Pad."

iPad Apps: A Sneak Peek According to the blog at Dean Whitney Interactive,
"Rumors are spreading about Google's plans to compete with the Apple iPad with
their own tablet device."

But these rumors are at least two months old. Search for +"GooglePad" yields
about 4,400 results on Google, while +"Google Pad" yields 261,000 hits. And they
started when Google itself, on Feb. 2, posted concept illustration of what a
possible touch tablet computer running Google's Chrome OS might look like. The
illustrations and the original post are still online. And of course there's the
Google Pad concept video.  Without citing or linking to any sources, the Dean
Whitney blogpost says the new batch of rumors "confirms earlier reports that
suggested the device would launch on or around April 5. The update also confirms
that the phone will be sold directly by Google via the web" with T-Mobile as the
carrier. That would be news, if anyone else was speculating or rumoring, let
alone reporting, it.

On one of the other hands, TechCrunch's John Briggs doesn't expect a Google
-branded product anytime soon. "Here's another ball out of left field: what if
Google came out with a slate running their own official version of Chrome OS,"
he wrote earlier in March. "A GooglePad, then, would blow everyone's minds and
essentially make this a two-horse race. It's a fascinating idea but I wouldn't
expect Google to move on this for at least a year."

In May and June he expects a flock of "Chinese knock-offs" of the iPad, with
Dell's Android-based Mini5 tablet and an unnamed HP product appearing later in
the summer of this year.

It's not like there aren't any Google tablets or pads already announced, or even
released. Engadget has a whole list of recently announced pad computers, all
running the Google Android operating system, developed originally for
smartphones (the iPad runs the iPhone software). There have been at least five
since 10 March.

The most recent is Archos Home Tablet. Another is the WePad (underlining,
apparently, the contrast with "iPad") from Germany's Neofonie, which touts an
11.6-inch display with 1366 x 768 pixels, compared with the iPad's 9.7-inch
display with 1024 x 768 pixels.

The unreleased iPad is even being used to chart a new course for floundering
Palm. PC World's Tony Bradley argues Palm should learn from Apple, take its
innovative webOS software and load it into a new Palm tablet, almost inevitably
to be called the Palm Pad. "Palm could abandon the smartphone market altogether,
or use a successful tablet device to rebuild brand recognition and customer
loyalty that might bolster the smartphone side of the business," Bradley writes.

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network
World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwBlog RSS feed.




LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2010 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              774 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     November 28, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Moto X To Be Available For $349 On Cyber Monday!

LENGTH: 233  words


The Moto X, Moto Maker and even the Developer Edition of the device will be
available at this starting price.

Thursday, November 28, 2013: Black Friday is approaching and so is Cyber Monday
(2 December). Google owned makers of the Moto X smartphone, Motorola, has
reportedly announced that it will make the device available for just $349 of
contract for the 16 GB variant. The 32 GB variant, on the other hand, will be
available for $400. According to reports, the customisable device and even its
Moto Maker and the Developer Edition will be available to consumers at a
discount of $150 for Cyber Monday.

In a post on Google+, Motorola wrote, "Thinking about Cyber Monday already?
We'll be offering a $150 discount on any off-contract Moto X, including Moto
Maker and Dev Edition. Supplies will be limited." With limited supplies though,
consumers would have to make a real rush in order to purchase the device on this
special one time only occasion.

If you need a reminder for the specifications of the Moto X smartphone, it has a
11.9-cm (4.7-inch) AMOLED 720 pixel display and runs the Android 4.2.2 Jelly
Bean operating system out of the box. An update to the Android 4.4 KitKat OS has
been started already though. The device is powered by a 2,200 mAh battery and
has a 10 mega pixel rear camera along with a 2 mega pixel front camera. It is
powered by the Motorola X8 processor and has 2 GB of RAM.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              775 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                      November 27, 2015 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Here's All You Should Know About Huawei Mate 8

BYLINE: Matt Hensley

LENGTH: 264  words


As expected, Chinese telecommunications equipment company Huawei has launched
its latest phablet, Huawei Mate 8. The new 6-inch smartphone, which is called
Huawei's most advanced flagship smartphone, has been launched on US
Thanksgiving. In China, the phablet will go on sale in the first three months of
next year.

The upfront of Huawei Mate 8 is a LCD screen of six inches with a high
definition resolution of 1080p. It means users will have 367 pixels per inch.
That would be enough for a user, but it could not be compared with Samsung's
5.7-inch Galaxy Note 5 which gives 518 pixels per inch.

Pixels per inch could be the first thing that may prevent Huawei from doing
wonders in mobile market. Even some old phones, such as Google Nexus 6 and
Nokia's Lumia 1520, have the ability to beat pixel count of Huawei's newest
phone.

Leaving pixels aside, software of Huawei Mate 8 is up to date. It provides
latest version of android operating system, 6.0 Marshmallow. Adding to that, the
company has inserted Huawei Emotion 4.0 skin in its latest gadget.

The phablet features an octa-core HiSilicon Kirin 950 processor, which consists
of four 2.3GHz Cortex A72 chips. The phone has 3GB of RAM. Users can save huge
amount of data in 32GB or 64GB storage. For selfie lover, there is an
8-megapixel Sony job with f/2.4 aperture. The rear camera is of 16-megapixel,
which makes it a perfect smartphone to click pictures.

The phone's battery is of 4,000mAh powerhouse, which is necessary for a
slab-like 6-inch LCD screen. Another great thing about the phone is that it
supports quick charging too.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              776 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             August 26, 2016 Friday

Here's how to install Android 7.0 Nougat on your device

SECTION: PANACHE

LENGTH: 273 words


NEW DELHI: The latest version of Google's Android operating system -- Nougat --
is here. The search giant announced that it has started rolling out Android 7.0
Nougat OS to Nexus devices, it also mentioned that the process will be
incremental and will take time to reach all Nexus devices. The OS will be
hitting select devices including the Nexus 6, Nexus 5X, Nexus 6P, Nexus 9, Nexus
Player, Pixel C and General Mobile 4G (Android One).

The search giant has not revealed exactly when the OS will be reaching different
regions. However, if you are one of those users who did not risk your Nexus with
developer previews but cannot wait enough to get the final public version
either, then these following steps are for you. Users won't need to root their
Nexus device in this process and can also switch back to the final consumer
version of the OS if required:

- Head to Google's Android Beta programme website from the Nexus smartphone or
the Pixel tablet. Mind you, the version can only be installed in those devices
that are currently eligible for it.

- Sign-in with your Google account connected with the particular device.

- Hit on 'Your eligible devices' find your device and hit on 'Enrol device'.

After the processes, you would receive an OTA update, which you can download to
enjoy the taste of the latest Android 7.0 Nougat OS. It is worth adding that if
you stay on the Beta version, you will keep receiving future maintenance
releases.

Note: The device's data won't be wiped off while upgrading. However, if you opt
out while being in Beta version, all user data from the device will be wiped
off.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              777 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             August 26, 2016 Friday

Here's how to install Android 7.0 Nougat on your device

SECTION: PANACHE

LENGTH: 273 words


NEW DELHI: The latest version of Google's Android operating system -- Nougat --
is here. The search giant announced that it has started rolling out Android 7.0
Nougat OS to Nexus devices, it also mentioned that the process will be
incremental and will take time to reach all Nexus devices. The OS will be
hitting select devices including the Nexus 6, Nexus 5X, Nexus 6P, Nexus 9, Nexus
Player, Pixel C and General Mobile 4G (Android One).

The search giant has not revealed exactly when the OS will be reaching different
regions. However, if you are one of those users who did not risk your Nexus with
developer previews but cannot wait enough to get the final public version
either, then these following steps are for you. Users won't need to root their
Nexus device in this process and can also switch back to the final consumer
version of the OS if required:

- Head to Google's Android Beta programme website from the Nexus smartphone or
the Pixel tablet. Mind you, the version can only be installed in those devices
that are currently eligible for it.

- Sign-in with your Google account connected with the particular device.

- Hit on 'Your eligible devices' find your device and hit on 'Enrol device'.

After the processes, you would receive an OTA update, which you can download to
enjoy the taste of the latest Android 7.0 Nougat OS. It is worth adding that if
you stay on the Beta version, you will keep receiving future maintenance
releases.

Note: The device's data won't be wiped off while upgrading. However, if you opt
out while being in Beta version, all user data from the device will be wiped
off.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              778 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     September 27, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

LG Google Nexus 5 To Be At Par With iPhone 5S

LENGTH: 225  words


Benchmark tests revealed that the Nexus 5 bested most other Android rivals.

Friday, September 27, 2013: The Nexus 4 smartphone from Google may have been a
pretty affordable device, but the Nexus 5 is going to be an absolute beast of a
device. According to benchmark test results from GFXBench, reported by Phone
Arena, the next generation of the Nexus is going to be right up there with
high-end smartphones in the market. Google and LG seem to be putting out the
best specs as the new Nexus is beating most of the other rivals in performance
and graphics.

In fact, Google's Nexus 5, which is being developed by LG, came out to be at par
with Apple's new iPhone 5S. In a recent report, the iPhone 5S had beaten all its
Android rivals in performance tests. The only area where the Nexus 5 may be
behind the iPhone 5S is the display and that is because it has a considerably
larger 12.7-cm (5-inch) display as compared to the Apple iPhone 5S.

Internet rumours suggest that the Nexus 5 device will be launched in October. It
is said that the device will be powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor
along with 3 GB of RAM. The 12.7-cm (5-inch) screen on the device will offer
1080 pixel resolutions. The device will also be capable of 70band LTE radio and
will have a 13 mega pixel rear camera. It will run on the Android 4.4 KitKat
operating system.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              779 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 8, 2016 Thursday

LG V20, the world's first smartphone with Android 7.0 Nougat, launched

SECTION: MOBILES

LENGTH: 332 words


NEW DELHI: South Korean technology giant LG has launched its latest smartphone
in the 'V series' at an event in San Francisco. The smartphone is the world's
first to come with Google Android's latest version Nougat out of the box. It is
also the first smartphone to use Google's In Apps feature that helps users find
content from built-in apps including contacts, emails, text messages and photos
and user-installed apps.The smartphone features a 5.7-inch QHD display with
144-x2560 pixel resolution and a 2.1-inch second display with 160 x 1040 pixel
resolution.

The company says that second screen offers enhanced visibility with double the
brightness and 50% larger font size compared to the V10. It runs a quad-core
Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor. The smartphone comes with a lightweight
aluminium body and offers 4GB RAM and 64GB internal storage. The users can
expand the storage up to 2TB by installing a microSD card.Coming to the camera,
the LG V20 sports a 16MP rear camera with dual LED flash, 75-degree lens, f/1.8
aperture, OIS and Hybrid Auto Focus (HAF) integrating three AF mechanisms --
Laser Detection AF, Phase Detection AF (PDAF) and Contrast AF -- for both videos
and photos along with a 8MP rear camera with f/2.4 aperture and 135-degree lens
for capturing wide shots. There is also a 5MP front-facing wide angle lens
camera for better selfies.The device also offers Hi-Fi Video Recording and uses
Low Cut Filter (LCF) that removes unwanted background noise and Limiter (LMT)
and sets recording distance. It comes equipped with a fingerprint sensor and
offers 4G, LTE, 3G, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, NFC and USB Type C as connectivity
options. The smartphone has B&O audio for better music experience and is backed
by a 3200 mAh battery with Quick Charge support.LG V20 will come in Titan,
Silver and Pink colour options had will go on sale from this month in Korea. The
company has not yet revealed any details about the device's pricing.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              780 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     October 31, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 5 May Be Unveiled Today!

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 242  words


The latest Nexus device will reportedly run on latest Android, that is Android
4.4 version.

Thursday, October 31, 2013: The Google Nexus 5 smartphone will reportedly be
announced at 8AM PST today. According to a report by Geeky Gadgets, the device
is expected to be made official today, with shipping starting from 1 November.
Further, the website also said that the LG made Nexus 5 smartphones could be
available from the Google Play Store later in the day.

The report also talked about a new cloud storage feature in the new Android 4.4
KitKat OS. The KitKat OS will also be unveiled whenever the Nexus 5 smartphone
is unveiled. Further, the report said that it had seen a number of leaked
pictures of the device yesterday and it has also started arriving on various
carriers and retailers. The pictures were reportedly seen on Twitter, Google+
and other social networking media.

The photos posted on the social networking websites, according to Geeky Gadgets,
came from people who appeared to be working with mobile retailers and carriers.
Many of these people apparently hailed from the United Kingdom.

The Google Nexus 5 smartphone is expected to sport a 12.7-cm (5-inch) FHD
display along with the Android 4.4 KitKat operating system. It will be powered
by the 2.3 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor along with 2 GB of RAM and
16/32 GB internal storage. The device will also have an 8 mega pixel rear camera
along with a 1.3 mega pixel front camera.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              781 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                              July 1, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Best of the blog - afr.com/blogs/digitallife

SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 615 words


Samsung and LG have joined the Google smartwatch brigade.

At its annual developer conference in San Francisco last week, Google showed off
a Samsung smartwatch, known as the Gear Live, and an LG smartwatch, known as the
G Watch, both of which are already available to buy on Google's online store in
the US.

LG said its watch will be available in 12 countries starting from June 25, and
then an additional 27 countries including Australia, "soon after".

Just how soon is soon, we will have to wait to see, although the signs are that
it actually will be very soon indeed. On Google's Australian store, the LG G
Watch (pictured) is listed as costing $249, with a "leave warehouse" date of
July 4.

Samsung's Gear Live, meanwhile, is listed with a price of $250, with no shipment
date other than "coming soon".

The smartwatches run Google's recently announced Android Wear operating system,
which works hand in glove with its just-announced Android L operating system,
the biggest upgrade that Google has ever given to Android, redesigning its look
and feel so that it will be possible to design apps that work consistently
across Android phones and tablets, across PCs, TVs and, yes, even smartwatches.

Both the Samsung and the LG watches will have a rectangular screen, similar to
the screen Samsung already uses on its Gear 2 line of smartwatches. Motorola's
previously announced Moto 360, the first Android Wear smartwatch to sport a
round screen, will be available later this year, Google said.

Google demonstrated the LG and Motorola watches using voice commands and showing
notifications coming from Android phones.

Users will be able to install apps on the new smartwatches simply by installing
apps on their Android phone. If a Wear-enabled app detects that the phone is
paired to a Wear watch, it will automatically install itself on the watch, too.

Google execs showed off Google Maps running on an Android phone, but sending its
turn-by-turn navigation messages to a Wear watch.

LG said its G Watch will have a 1.65-inch (4.2-centimetre), 280x280 pixel
display, and will weigh 63 grams. By comparison, Samsung's existing Gear 2 watch
has a 1.63-inch, 320x320 pixel display and weighs 68 grams.

A teardown of the new iPod touch Apple announced last week has revealed what
many suspected: Apple appears to be losing interest in the venerable media
player, the same way the market as a whole is.

Apple announced the new, low-cost version of the iPod touch last week. It's got
16Gb of storage and sports a 5-megapixel iSight camera, and costs only $249.

The higher-capacity versions of the iPod touch came down in price too, such that
the 32Gb model is now just $299, down from $329, and the 64Gb is now just $349,
down from $439.

The price cut is in response to a long decline in iPod sales, as the world moves
onto smartphones. iPod sales have dropped by roughly 50 per cent since 2008.

The folks at iFixit purchased one of the new iPod touch players, pulled it
apart, and found that Apple had made no changes to the already very old
technology, other than reducing its memory capacity.

Here's what iFixit concluded about the new device, after peeking inside: "We
delved inside Apple's 'refreshed' device and found the same components we'd seen
in Touches of yesteryear ..."

I don't know what they were expecting to find. The same chips as in a current
generation iPhone?

The thing about the iPod touch is that it's devolved into a device you buy for
kids, so they get to use apps and do some WiFi-based messaging without racking
up a huge phone bill. It's a cheap and cheerful device, and in a sense, the less
power it's got, the better. Kids, just like the rest of us, need something to
look forward to.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              782 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

Flipkart iPhone 7 offer: CEO Binny Bansal turns delivery executive in big
'surprise'; who will get first smartphone, debut at 7 PM;
Apple iPhone 7 is all set to hit India and the ecommerce major Flipkart has put
in place a doorstep delivery strategy to push sales and spring a few surprises
too - personalised by CEO Binny Bansal too! The post Flipkart iPhone 7 offer:
CEO Binny Bansa...

BYLINE: FE Online

LENGTH: 368  words


Apple iPhone 7 is all set to hit India and the ecommerce major Flipkart has put
in place a doorstep delivery strategy to push sales and spring a few surprises
too - personalised by CEO Binny Bansal too!

Apple iPhone 7 is all set to hit India and the ecommerce major Flipkart has put
in place a doorstep delivery strategy to push sales and spring a few surprises
too - personalised by CEO Binny Bansal too! The iPhone 7 is one of the most
talked about smartphones in recent weeks and its India entry is keenly awaited,
not just by the Apple fans but rest of the smartphone-toting community which
wants to see how good the phone is as well as how it will stand vis a vis the
recently unveiled Google Pixel and Google Pixel XL. Flipkart, whose Big Billion
Days Diwali sale ended on October 5, saw its mobile phone category jump to the
top of its charts in terms of popularity and demand and is it is now eyeing the
iPhone 7 to retain the eyeballs as much as possible. The iPhone 7 is a premium
phone and its sales will be keenly watched by all.

According to Flipkart, the iPhone 7 will make its India debut at 7 PM on October
7, 2016 and the eretailer is ready to make the deliveries right at customers'
doorsteps 7 PM onwards today. The iPhone 7 will be available at Apple stores
across India, but unlike previous launches, this time it is unlikely to lead to
big queues forming there as the hype generated till now is not overwhelming.

Giving an inkling into the sales figures, Flipkart said thousands of customers
across India have already pre-ordered the iPhone 7. These buyers will get
delivery of their smartphone via Ekart, Flipkart's supply chain arm, which has
massed its delivery executives, to make sure they get their hands on their
phones right from 7 PM today. In fact, the ecommerce major says its executives
have fanned out across key cities to spring a surprise on some lucky customers
exactly when the clock strikes 7.

In a very personalised strategy brought to bear today, Flipkart CEO Binny Bansal
will turn into a delivery executives who will deliver the Apple iPhone 7 today
starting at 7 PM in Bangalore. The mystery is about who will be the first lucky
customer to get the first smartphone today?

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              783 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 August 2, 2005

London's finest landmarks... as seen from afar

BYLINE: MARK PRIGG

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 223 words


IT can give you a bird's eye view of the gardens at Buckingham Palace and look
into tourist cruisers on the Thames. Google claims its new mapping site shows
the entire world in detail - as these images from it prove.

The pictures, taken from a satellite 450km above the earth and planes flying at
low altitude over major cities, are claimed to be the most detailed posted on
the internet.

"Areas are covered at different resolutions," said a Google spokesman.

"The resolution varies from 1km per pixel, where a single pixel in the image
covers an area of 1km, to 15cm per pixel.

"At the lowest resolution, large geographic features such as mountains and lakes
are visible, and at the highest resolution detailed features of the earth such
as buildings and cars can be seen."

Visitors to maps.google.com enter a postcode or type in the name of the landmark
they want to see. The site can even show drivers a route with satellite
photographs revealing exactly where to go. New pictures are taken every 18
months to keep the site up to date.

In future, the images could be used to help plan your summer holiday.

Several travel websites are working on how to incorporate satellite pictures so
that people booking a foreign hotel can check beforehand whether it really is
just a stone's throw from the beach.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BUCKINGHAM PALACE, LEFT, WITH ITS VAST GARDENS. ABOVE, TRAFFIC IS
ALMOST VISIBLE ON ALBERT BRIDGE.; BELOW, THE DERELICT INTERIOR OF BATTERSEA
POWER STATION ZOOM WITH A VIEW HIGH CHURCH; THE VAST DOME OF ST PAUL'S THAT
DOMINATES THE SKYLINE WHEN VIEWED FROM THE GROUND IS EQUALLY IMPRESSIVE FROM THE
HEAVENS; DIVE IN BROCKWELL PARK LIDO, ALSO KNOWN AS THE EVIAN LIDO AFTER A
SPONSORSHIP DEAL, GIVES A DIZZYING SENSE OF BLUE FROM ABOVE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              784 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 August 2, 2005

Zooming right in to your neighbourhood

BYLINE: MARK PRIGG

SECTION: LSE_04; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 288 words



IT can give you a bird's eye view of the gardens at Buckingham Palace, and look
into tourist cruisers on the Thames.

Experts even say it could let you see if the hotel you're about to book really
is a stone's throw from the beach.

These are some of the stunning images on Google's new mapping site, which claims
to be able to show the entire world in unprecedented detail.

The pictures, taken from a spacecraft 450km above the earth and planes flying at
low altitude over major cities, are the most detailed ever put on the internet.

"Areas are covered at different resolutions," said a Google spokesperson.

"The resolution varies from 1km per pixel, where a single pixel in the image
covers an area of 1km, to 6 inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, large
geographic features such as mountains and lakes are visible, and at the highest
resolution, detailed features of the earth such as buildings and cars are
visible."

Visitors to the site at maps.google.co.uk can enter a postcode, or simply type
the name of the landmark they want.

The system can even superimpose street names onto the satellite image, and show
a detailed route map using satellite photos to show exactly where you need to
go.

Pictures are retaken every 18 months to keep the system up to date.

Experts say the images could even lead to new way to plan holidays.

Several travel web sites are working on including the satellite images into
their web sites, so holidaymakers can click to see if their hotel really is a
stone's throw from the beach.

Take a goggle-eyed look at these famous London landmarks...

Three of the best: Liz's place, the always changing Battersea landmark and our
ageless dome

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CLOSE-UP: HOW TO GET A BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF ALBERT BRIDGE, WITH THE
CONTROL PANEL BOTTOM RIGHT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              785 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                          September 30, 2015 Wednesday

Google unveils latest Nexus phones, tablet

LENGTH: 391  words

DATELINE: Tirukoshtiyur (TN)


Tirukoshtiyur (TN), Sept. 30 -- Google Inc unveiled its new Nexus phones on
Tuesday in its latest attempt to take a bite out of Apple's dominant share of
the smartphone market.


 The launch of the phones, the Nexus 6P and the Nexus 5X, comes a day after
Apple Inc reported record first-weekend sales of its new iPhones.
 The Nexus 5X 16 GB model will be priced at $379, while the Nexus 6P 32 GB will
cost $499, Google said at an event live-streamed on YouTube.
 Apple's 6s and 6s Plus start at $199 and $299, respectively, with a two-year
service-provider contract.
 Nexus devices, which typically do not sell as much as iPhones or iPads, are a
way for the tech giant to showcase its latest advancements in mobile hardware
and software.
 Google also unveiled a tablet built entirely by the company based on its
Android operating system.
 The latest version of Android, dubbed Marshmallow, will be available to
existing Nexus customers from next week.
 The Android mobile platform is a key element in Google's strategy to maintain
revenue from online advertising as people switch from Web browser searches to
smartphone apps.
 The Nexus 5X is made by South Korea's LG Electronics Inc and the Nexus 6P by
China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd. Both phones feature Google's new fingerprint
sensor, Nexus Imprint, which is located on the back.
 The fingerprint sensors will help quickly authorize purchases made through
Android Pay, the one-touch payment app on Android devices that competes with
Apple Pay.
 The phones are available for pre-order on the Google Store from a number of
countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Japan.
 The Pixel C tablet will cost $499 for the 32 GB model and can be bought with a
detachable keyboard, which will cost $149.
 The tablet will be available in time for the holiday season on the Google
Store.
 The Pixel tablet puts Google in the sights of its biggest competitors, Apple's
iPad Pro and Microsoft Corp's Surface tablets, which also have optional
keyboards.
 Google also unveiled a redesigned version of its Chromecast device for
streaming Web content to TVs and introduced Chromecast Audio, which plugs into
speakers to stream audio over Wi-Fi. Chromecast Audio, priced at $35, works with
apps including Spotify, Pandora and Google Play Music. Chromecast competes with
the Apple TV set-top box.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              786 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Google retires Nexus 7 and 10 to make way for Nexus 9

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 363 words


The arrival of the latest Nexus devices is changing the face of Google's
line-up. On the Play Store, the Nexus 7 and 10 tablets have disappeared just as
the Nexus 9 debuted. The same fate likely awaits the Nexus 5 smartphone on
October 29, when the Nexus 6 becomes available for pre-order.

The latest generation of Nexus tablets is squeezing out the previous one. Now
available for pre-order at prices ranging from $399 (WiFi, 16GB version) to $569
(4G, 32GB), the new Nexus 9 has definitively replaced the Nexus 7 and 10 on the
Play Store.

Created in partnership with Asus and launched in 2012, the Nexus 7 was the very
first tablet in Google's Nexus line. The Nexus 10, introduced in the same year,
was made in collaboration with Samsung. For the time being, the two tablets are
still available through other retailers such as Amazon and Best Buy.

Now the only Nexus tablet in Google's official product catalog, the 9 is a
nine-inch tablet (2,048 x 1,536 pixels) developed in partnership with HTC.
Google is marketing the Nexus 9 with a special keyboard case that attaches using
magnets, transforming the device into a miniature notebook.

In terms of smartphones, the Nexus 6 is due to go up for pre-order on the Play
Store on October 29. Developed with Motorola, the device is a high-end six-inch
phablet with a record screen resolution of 493ppi (1440x2560 pixels) and a
Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 quad-core processor clocked at 2.7GHz. The device comes
in 32GB and 64GB versions and boasts a 13MP camera with optical image
stabilization. Thanks to its high-capacity 3,220mAh battery and Turbo Charger
charging stand, the Nexus 6 can operate for close to six hours after recharging
for just 15 minutes, according to Google.

The Nexus 5 is currently still available on the Play Store, although it could
likely disappear on October 29. Of course, Google might opt instead to diversify
its offer and maintain the five-inch mid-range smartphone alongside its new
premium phablet.

The Nexus 6 and 9 are the first devices with the latest version of the Android
operating system, Lollipop (5.0).

More info on the Nexus 6: www.google.com/nexus/6/
More info on the Nexus 9: www.google.com /nexus/9/

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              787 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                National Edition

Google's goggles; Questions Answers

BYLINE: Matt Hartley, Financial Post

SECTION: FP TECH DESK; Pg. FP12

LENGTH: 1197 words


As a crowd of more than 6,000 developers looked on, a quartet of skydivers
sporting futuristic, Web-enabled glasses jumped from a blimp hovering over San
Francisco and landed on the roof of Google Inc.'s annual I/O conference on
Wednesday.

Inside, the assembled developers were treated to a view of the jump via cameras
in the head-mounted devices, known simply as Project Glass. The stunt was
designed to demonstrate one of the features of Google's glasses project, an
initiative designed to meld the digital and physical worlds.

But Project Glass isn't the only Google project designed to use the Web to give
people a new window on the world, one overlaid with additional information
provided by the Internet. The Google Goggles project was also created to enable
people to use images to search the Web, simply by pointing their phone at an
object.

In a recent interview, Hartmut Neven, Google's director of engineering for
visual search, spoke to FP Tech Desk editor Matt Hartley about some of the
computer vision and augmented reality research going on at Google.

Q How does Google view the research areas of augmented reality and
image-recognition technology?

A Augmented reality, in the narrow sense of the definition, is essentially an
overlay over an image, be it a video image on a mobile phone or a live stream of
images that you see through a head-mounted display, and then present in this
overlay additional information about the world around you. That is the current
standard definition of augmented reality. My view has been that it's a very
fascinating technology but it is hard to find really good use cases where it is
superior over other forms of presenting information.

Q Could you tell me a little bit more about what your team is working on in this
area?

A One example of what we are working on in my group is how advertisers could use
it. We've had a system based on Google Goggles where if [the Goggles] were to,
for example, recognize a print ad in a magazine such as a car ad, and then upon
recognition we would not just link you to the Web page of this advertiser, but a
3D model of a car would pop up on this page and drive around on the page and you
could look at the car from all angles. Invariably there's a wow effect, but then
what kicks in is what we started dubbing the "stiff arm syndrome." It's when you
hold up your phone and look at the car from all angles, at some point after half
a minute or so that gets a little tedious. So the question is, wouldn't it have
been better to just trigger, let's say, a YouTube video showing this car and
then you see this car driving around some nice street that's somewhere not in
front of you, wouldn't it have been a better, more informative way of presenting
the same information?

Q I think a lot of people would agree that augmented reality still feels
somewhat primitive at this point, but would it be fair to say that image
recognition technology is driving a lot of these augmented reality innovations?

A Image recognition technology is at the core in the example we just discussed.
First, you have to recognize the print ad and know what the associated content
is - in this example, the car - and then do the registration of the synthetic 3D
content that you layer over the videos that come through the camera of the
mobile phone. To do this in a proper way so that you have the illusion that the
car is really driving over the page of the magazine, that requires various
disciplines of image recognition.

Q Is it fair to say that this is a technology for which Google sees a future?

A Absolutely. With the caveat that I'm a little bit struggling to see in which
situations it would be a slam dunk application.- If you wear the display on your
head, then you don't have the stiff arm syndrome anymore, so there's no problem.
That's in principle true, but the challenge has become different. In augmented
realities there are two terms: "video seethrough" and "optical see-through."
Video see-through is what we discussed earlier, essentially the car overlayed
over the video that is acquired by the phone. Optical seethrough is a technology
where you have the light, as it comes from the physical world, hitting your eye.
As it's hitting your eye, as it passes through glasses of some sort, additional
information is rendered on those glasses and then ideally gives you the same
effect of this overlayed 3D content that, let's say, is the car. The big
difference here is that in the video, you acquire the video, you take a frame
from the camera, put it in the frame buffer, and then put it in some memory in
the mobile phone, and then I take some content to replace certain pixels in the
frame buffer - the natural pixels with synthetic pixels - that creates the
illusion of this new object being there that is augmented over reality. In
optical see-through, I don't have this opportunity. The light, at the speed of
light, is literally going to hit my retina then get processed by my brain, so if
I want to render information in there, it has to be incredibly fast. I have to
have a separate camera stream that also sees what my eye is seeing as it sees
the print ad, and then very rapidly, it would have to capture the image, analyze
the image, render the new pixels and then display the new pixels, inserting them
into the stream as the light hits your eye. This has to be incredibly fast,
because if it's not, and there's any latency, then the process is delayed. We
have dubbed this the ping pong effect because the delay makes it look like a
ping pong ball bouncing around.

Q It sounds like the optical seethrough technology makes much more sense in
something that you would wear, as opposed to the video overlay technology.

A Exactly, because nobody would want to see the world around him as a video
see-through, so it wouldn't be acceptable to wear. There are some manufacturers
that have such glasses, and essentially you would perceive the world around you
through video, but that is not really acceptable for a longer period of time.

Q It would seem that the optical seethrough technology presents a more
challenging problem for researchers. Would it be fair to say this technology is
further away from practical applications?

A The challenges are much harder. The whole processing pipeline has to be
streamlined in every respect and it starts with the acquisition of a camera
image. If it takes 30 milliseconds to just get the image into the frame buffer
and then I start processing it; you've lost already - it would require an
extremely well-tuned hardware and software processing pipeline and rendering
pipeline.

Q Where are we on the evolutionary curve of image-recognition technology?

A It depends where you look at it from. Of course, the things you haven't
accomplished yet, you never know how long they're going to take. On the other
hand, sometimes I'm amazed how far we've come. Our Google Goggles today has a
database of billions of items, while we still might wonder why isn't it
recognizing this or that item - simply because there are many more items on the
planet than, for example, we have words for - but in a certain respect, we have
made tremendous advancements.

mhartley@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFP, Getty Images; Project Glass is one Google effort designed to use
the Web to give people a new window on the world, one that is overlaid with
additional information provided by the Internet.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              788 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Halifax Daily News (Nova Scotia)

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday

Explore Rome, then Moscow's Red Square: Google Earth provides access to world

SECTION: YOUR TRAVEL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 383  words


Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to the former
Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over to
Pyongyang, North Korea.

And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do so. You can just sit at your
computer and access an amazing new service called Google Earth, software that
puts satellite images of almost every inch of the planet within reach of your
mouse - for free. It's no exaggeration to say it's the ultimate armchair travel
experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "People are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful they
almost don't know what to do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear - or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer
than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In
technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to 15
centimetres per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features like mountains and
lakes are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people
in Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of the technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program
(http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows
users and only in English. Three- dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows
you to "walk" around actual buildings. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around
whatever they see.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              789 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                        June 30, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Nokia, Apple, Google, Microsoft and Aetna

LENGTH: 775  words


New Delhi, June 30 -- Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the
Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest
news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently
featured in the blog include Nokia Corporation (NYSE: NOK-Free Report), Apple
Inc. (Nasdaq: AAPL-Free Report), Google Inc. (Nasdaq: GOOG-Free Report),
Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq: MSFT-Free Report) and Aetna Inc. (NYSE: AET-Free
Report).



Here are highlights from Friday's Analyst Blog:

Nokia to Launch 41 MP Windows Phone

Nokia Corporation (NYSE: NOK-Free Report) expects to launch a Windows-based
smartphone that will possess a 41 mega pixel PureView camera. The launch will
bring to the forefront the innovative camera phone on the Windows platform that
has been rumored for long.

According to media reports, the device has been coded as EOS and has a Xenon
flash, OLED display, polycarbonate body and 32GB of internal memory. The
smartphone is believed to be a fraction bigger than Nokia's flagship Lumia 925
and is expected to be launched on Jul 11, 2013.

Last year, Nokia introduced its first PureView technology integrated phones with
the launch of Nokia 808 PureView. This imaging technology is a combination of
many pixels into one perfect pixel and provides a digital camera like effect.
The smartphone also has a high resolution Carl Zeiss lens and was one of the
last devices to run on Nokia's Symbian operating system (OS).

The Finnish handset manufacturer states that the new smartphone will allow its
users to zoom in three times better than its predecessor without losing any
resolution.

In the last couple of years, Nokia has fallen behind in the smartphone
leadership race, which has been mainly dominated by Apple Inc.'s (Nasdaq:
AAPL-Free Report) iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy range, which runs on Google Inc.'s
(Nasdaq: GOOG-Free Report) Android platform. Nevertheless, the company's
decision to join forces with Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq: MSFT-Free Report) is
finally paying off as the latest range of Lumia has performed better than its
predecessors.

Although Nokia has taken a long time to incorporate the PureView technology into
the Windows phone operating platform, we believe that the launch timing is
perfect for Nokia as demand for its Windows-based phones are currently picking
up. However, it will take time for the smartphone to gain wide acceptance as
such a high resolution camera technology has not been tested in a major OS yet.

Nokia currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).

Aetna Upgraded to Outperform

On Jun 21, 2013, we upgraded our recommendation on the shares of Aetna Inc.
(NYSE: AET-Free Report) to Outperform from Neutral as we gain increased
confidence about the company's operations.

Aetna has been performing strongly over the past several quarters and we expect
the company to continue performing well going forward, backed by the growth in
Medicaid and Medicare network segments, fast-growing health services segment,
and an expanding provider network.

Why Upgrade?

Aetna's execution over the last few years has been excellent. While performance
has been strong across the board, a stand-out area is the organic and
acquisition-fueled growth.

Aetna has made huge investment in technology upgradation as well as acquisition.


Aetna recently concluded the acquisition of Coventry. The acquisition enhances
the company's Medicaid footprint, gives it more credibility, and positions the
company better for the enormous Medicaid RFP, expansion and dual growth
opportunities.

It has also made a number of acquisitions in its Commercial business over the
past 2-3 years.

Additionally, Aetna is aggressively forming Accountable Care Organizations to
generate incremental revenues.

We also have a growing optimism for international growth opportunities at Aetna.
The company is actively entering foreign markets. It is targeting Asian markets
like India and China both of which present huge potential for growth.

Today, Zacks is promoting its ''Buy'' stock recommendations. Get #1Stock of the
Day pick for free.

About Zacks Equity Research

Zacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis
to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.

Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks.
Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to
developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations
and target prices are six-month time horizons.

Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest
analysis from Zacks Equity Research.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              790 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                       May 16, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Infibeam Soon To Launch The Android Jelly Bean Smartphone LG Google Nexus 4

LENGTH: 338  words


Thursday, May 16, 2013: LG Google Nexus 4 the flagship mobile from Google is now
on pre-order on Infibeam for INR 25, 990/-. It is said to have the latest
version of Google Now. The most awaited Smartphone from LG will hit Infibeam
Mobile store on 31st May 2013. This new phone from the Internet giant will be
launched with 16GB internal memory as of now.

Experience the HD television like display on your very own LG Google Nexus 4's
4.7 inch TFT LCD Screen that comes with the Zero Gap technology. It has been
made very exclusively displaying bigger and brighter images not straining your
eyes. With the Corning Gorilla Glass 2 your phone is safe from scratches. This
phone delivers a True HD IPS Plus 1280x780 pixels resolution.

Experience great performance and speed with this Android 4.2 Jelly Bean Plus
based phone that is powered by a Krait Quad-Core 1.5 GHz with the Qualcomm
APQ8064 chipset that enhances the functions and helps in smooth running of the
apps.

This Smartphones is said to have great Google Maps, Google Play that has more
than 700000 Apps and Games, Music on Google Play. Now you make the very boring
life interesting and fun while travelling or staying in an area that is away
from the modern life style. Have everything searched with the right and most
updated information.

It is an NFC and Wi-Fi enabled phone that connects you easily to your virtual
world. Transferring files gets easy with the Bluetooth and USB. Capture great
moments in any direction and any light with its 8MP camera. It allows you to
take superb and high quality 360 panorama photographs, capturing every minute
detail. This phone keeps you on for longer hours as it is powered by a 2100mAh
Li-Polymer Battery. Pre-order this Smartphone now from Infibeam.com

http://www.infibeam.com/Mobiles/i-LG-Nexus-4-Google
-Smartphone/P-E-M-LG-E965.html

Key Features

* 4.7 inch TFT LCD Screen

* True HD IPS Plus 1280x780 pixels

* Android 4.2 Jelly Bean

* Krait Quad-Core 1.5 GHz

* NFC and Wi-Fi enabled

* 2100mAh Li-Polymer Battery

* 16GB internal memory

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              791 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                              June 12, 2015 Friday

Xolo Chromebook review: Can't replace Windows

BYLINE: Karan Bajaj

SECTION: PANACHE

LENGTH: 360 words


Rating: ***

Price: Rs 12,999

Specifications: 11.6-inch IPS touchscreen (1366 x 768 pixels), 1.8Ghz quad core
Rockchip processor, 2GB RAM, 16GB storage, 4,200mAh battery, WiFi, Bluetooth,
dual USB 2.0 ports, HDMI, 1MP camera, Chrome OS, 1.5kg

NEW DELHI: One of the primary ideas behind the Google Chromebook is to deliver
functionality at a low cost. However, the launch of hybrid devices by Microsoft
(in association with various partners, in the sub Rs 20,000 bracket) has made
Google step up their game. They're taking the competition on by partnering with
even more budget brands: the Xolo Chromebook is amongst the first in the budget
segment.

For the price, you get an 11.6inch display with a resolution of 1366 x 768
pixels. While the display is bright and sharp, viewing angles are not up to the
mark. The device has a matte black finish on the exterior and around the display
that makes it look great. The tapered design also adds to the style. We liked
the large chiclet-style keyboard and the large trackpad.

In terms of ports, you get 2 x USB 2.0 ports, full size HDMI & microSD slot
Coming to performance, as long as you have a decent Inter net connection, the
Chromebook works great. The quad core processor with 2GB RAM keeps things
running smoothly. The device has 16GB internal storage which we think is far too
less for most users. Although Chrome OS works great for document editing ,
browsing and multimedia use, the available app selection for other functions is
limited (we're obviously comparing with a Windows computer, since the prices are
at par now).

Camera on the Xolo Chromebook suffers from excessive noise \xAD you can use it
for occasional video calls but make sure there is ample light for better photos.
The loudspeaker output is good enough for personal listening only -headphone
output is better and louder. We were able to eke out 7 to 8 hours from the
device depending on use: should be more than enough for most users.

Overall, the Xolo Chromebook has its share of pros and cons, but it can't
replace a Windows laptop yet. If you can spend a little bit more, consider the
Micromax Canvas Laptab.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              792 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     December 5, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Xolo Play Tegra Note Tablet Comes To India

LENGTH: 193  words


The device is in direct competition with the Google Nexus 7 tablet.

Thursday, December 05, 2013: The Xolo Play Tegra Note tablet is available on
e-commerce portal, Flipkart. The device has been listed at a price tag of Rs
18,990 by the retailer. No official launch has been made by Xolo yet though and
the company hasn't given an official word either. Being listed on Flipkart
though shows that the official launch for the device could also be around the
corner.

The Tegra Note tablet by Xolo was expected in the country around this time only.
The device is powered by a 1.8 GHz nVidia Tegra 4 processor along with a 17.7-cm
(7-inch) 1280 x 800 pixel display and 16 GB of internal storage, which can be
extended using a micro-SD card slot. It also has a 5 mega pixel rear camera and
a VGA front camera. The device runs the Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean operating
system and has 1 GB of RAM.

The device is in direct competition with the Nexus 7 by Google, which was
officially released in India today. The Nexus 7 is priced at Rs 20,999 in the
country, which is about Rs 2,000 above the Xolo tablet. Unlike the Xolo tablet
though, the Nexus 7 does not support a stylus.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              793 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

Google launches Nexus 10

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM


THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, Nov. 2 -- Google is marveling its technology day-by-day and
latest in the Google's line up is Nexus 10, a 10 inch tablet that the tech
analysts expect to have the potential to affect largely in the iPad sales. The
Nexus 10 which has been made in partnership with the South Korean electronic
giant, Samsung Electronics Co will be run on Google's Android.

The features of the Google and Samsung Nexus 10 is that it will have the highest
pixel density compared to any tablet on the market. It will have a 2,560x1,600
pixel density which will place the tablet at the top and putting behind Apple
iPad's 9.7 inch display. Nexus 10 tablet is unique for watching movies or
reading magazines.

The company claims that the new tablet has the highest resolution available on
the planet.

Also another advantage is the longer battery life. Nexus 10 comes with a
powerful battery that stays upto nine hours of video playback and more than 500
hours of standby time. The front facing speakers of the tablet makes it all the
more appealing for watching movies as the sound produced is lot more clearer.

But what makes Nexus 10 unique is that it's the first truly shareable tablet.
With Android 4.2, one can add multiple users and switch between them instantly
right from the lockscreen.

The Google, Samsung Nexus 10 also features micro USB and micro HDMI ports, a
clear advantage over Apple's iPad 4, which has neither these. The dimension of
the tab is 10.4 x 6.9 x 0.35 inches weighing only 1.33 lbs. It uses 1.7 Ghz
Samsung processor, 2GB RAM which is larger than the iPad's 1GB and same as
Microsoft Surface RT.

The back camera of the Nexus 10 is 5MP photo/1080p video, with LED flash while
the front one is 1.9MP photo/720p video. Though the back camera and video
quality is same as Apple iPad, Nexus has LED flash and the front camera is
better than iPad's 1.2 MP.

The one drawback that the techies find in the Google and Samsung's 10-inch
tablet is that Google lags behind Apple in building strong collection of
tablet-oriented apps. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New
Indian Express. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              794 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       May 28, 2015 Thursday 7:03 AM GMT

The return of virtual reality: 'this is as big an opportunity as the internet';

Twenty years ago the man who pioneered commercial VR saw his market shrink to
zero. Now he's excited again - and so are Microsoft, Google and Facebook ...

BYLINE: Charles Arthur

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1863 words


Dr Jonathan Waldern is standing in a meeting room in Silicon Valley, wearing a
lab coat and grinning from ear to ear. "There will be people crying in this,
people falling in love, people falling over. For all sorts of reasons, this
strikes at the core of being a human being. It's so compelling ... this is as
big an opportunity as the internet."

He's talking about virtual reality (VR), the immersive systems that cover your
eyes (and ideally ears) and fool your brain into thinking you're somewhere, or
even someone, else. Waldern, 54, is a veteran of the business: in the 90s, his
company Virtuality was a pioneer in commercial VR, offering an arcade game
experience in which a bulky headset transformed the room into a prehistoric
scene in which pterodactyls swooped over and around you, and you tried to shoot
them with your gun.

The last time I saw Waldern was in the UK, more than 20 years ago. Virtuality,
which he had brought to the London stock market, was in talks with Atari to
bring its ambitious Jaguar headset to consumers. But the deal fell apart, and
then so did Virtuality. The market for VR shrank to zero almost overnight; its
speed and completeness foreshadowed the dot-com boom and bust of 2000-2001.

But, just as the dot-coms evolved and returned like mammals emerging from a
meteor strike, VR has come back too. And that's what Waldern, who now runs a
Silicon Valley company called Digilens, is excited about. He sees the field
enjoying a resurgence, its long hibernation is over. And survivors like him are
emerging to capitalise on the new boom.

"It's a very small community [in VR] around here," Waldern continues, referring
to the west coast. (Though it transpires that when he says "small", he means "in
the thousands, but geographically close".) "The cost of development in this
realm is so high that very few corporations would take it on. Only the big three
- Microsoft, Google, Facebook. Apple is the fourth, but isn't so prominent."

Does that mean Apple is looking at VR too? "I couldn't possibly comment," says
Waldern, and grins. (Apple filed a patent in September 2008 for putting an
iPhone into a headset, and another in 2014, but there's been little other sign
of activity on that front from the company.)

Even if it isn't, the presence of the other three big companies in this space
shows how hot VR has suddenly become. Oculus Rift, bought by Facebook for $2bn
in March 2014, has been the poster child for the new face of this technology;
the company now aims to launch a headset for consumers in 2016. It will have
challengers though. Sony is working on Project Morpheus, which has the same aim,
and HTC has built Vive, unveiled at Mobile World Congress in March, which will
work with the Valve system for downloadable games. Samsung has its own Gear VR,
developed with Oculus. Even Google's Cardboard, a DIY system which you literally
fold together from a cardboard template before sticking your smartphone into a
slot a few inches from your eyes, has had around 1.2m downloads since Google
introduced it at its I/O developer conference in May 2014.

Meanwhile the parallel development of "augmented reality" (where objects and
data are overlaid on to the scene you see in front of you) is growing quickly,
too, with Microsoft's Hololens the most promising offering to date, along with
Google-funded Magic Leap. (Google Glass, which is undergoing a rethink, is like
a subset of AR.)

But it's VR that has everyone excited. In March 2014, Chris Dixon, a partner at
the increasingly influential venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz,
observed that using an early version of Oculus Rift the year before was one of
"a handful of technology demos in my life that made me feel like I was glimpsing
into the future" - and his list ran back as far as the Apple II computer from
the 70s.

VR, he noted, "has long been a staple of science fiction" (of which Star Trek:
the Next Generation's "holodeck" was only the most recent) but hardware was now
cheap enough, and engineers keen enough to explore a new frontier, that it could
finally deliver on the science fiction promise. (Dixon's team cashed out on
Facebook's acquisition of Oculus Rift.)

In the 90s, VR certainly felt like SF. Waldern's company relied on top-end
Silicon Graphics systems with six-figure price tags. There's a video of him from
1994 at W Industries, showing how pixellated the experience was. "Our system
used some of the very first Sony LCDs, with 300 by 200 pixels," Waldern recalls.
"Today you get 1,080p [1,080 horizontal lines] minimum, and by the launch next
year you'll probably have 4K by 4K. And the computational power is
transformational - we were working on about a megaflop, and each machine cost
about $70,000, which is a massive barrier to adoption. Now with an Nvidia GPU
you're talking about a teraflop."

VR is a complex real-time computing problem. Ideally, the fictional scene should
show no individual pixels, fill your field of view - which in normally sighted
people covers 180 degrees - and change without any lag, no matter how quickly
you move your head. That means the system has to be able to calculate what the
scene will look like at any point, and incorporate the movement of your head,
reported from the helmet, into its computation, and update the screens quickly
enough to give the sensation of realistic movement.

Measurement of head movement is done using accelerometers and gyroscopes; the
screens can now offer millions of pixels just inches from your eyes; computing
power aims to cut lag and latency. The latter can quickly induce nausea if the
scene isn't redrawn quickly enough as the body's balance system disagrees with
what the eyes tell it they're seeing; that was a key problem with early VR
systems.

But those are being overcome, thanks to the rapid growth of the smartphone
industry. That has made accelerometers and gyroscopic chips cheap, plentiful and
fast, while also pushing the quality of displays to a level where you can't
distinguish pixels even in screens a few inches from your eyes. That though
requires graphics processors that can handle huge numbers of floating point
operations per second (flops) - but, as Waldern says, that's available.

Among those eagerly exploiting that space is Professor Bob Stone, chair of
interactive multimedia systems at the University of Birmingham, and another
British veteran of the 1990s boom and bust. After another 20-year gap, I caught
up with him as he travelled from a location where he had been using a drone to
create a 3D "point cloud" of a church and archaeological dig in Wiltshire; in
just five minutes of flight it captured enough data to create a realistic 3D
model that one could "fly" through at leisure.

When we spoke, Stone initially seemed unimpressed by Oculus's offering,
suggesting that "it's not much different from the headsets of the late 1990s".
He cited "pixel bleed" (where the pixels don't appear sharp) and limits on the
field of view. "We're using Oculus Rift development kit 2 [the latest version]
in defence projects, because it's the best of a bad bunch," he said. Why bad?
Stone feels that if you have to wear something, "you aren't really experiencing
total immersion"; he thinks ideally VR should simply feel like life. "More than
20 years on, shouldn't we be further ahead than this?" he asks.

But later he emails, relenting on his apparent negativity: "VR has been my
career for over 28 years now, and I genuinely believe in what VR can deliver
when the technologies are applied appropriately and with the needs of the end
users and end organisations well and truly in mind. As I said, it seems that
every seven years we see the same old issues and hype coming through (these days
via the web, YouTube, etc) that people out there seem to believe without
question!"

The original bust in VR came when first-generation products were crushed by the
weight of expectations. So what led to the renaissance of VR - and why has it
taken so long?

Waldern reckons a key reason is that games, which were the main consumer-facing
use for VR, shifted to a different set of genres. "There are periodic cycles in
the games industry, for technologies and genres. People want change from time to
time." After a couple of decades of 2D and pseudo-3D offerings (think of
Nintendo's games, and Quake and Doom), gamers are ready for an "immersive"
experience, he argues.

Digilens's work involves building optical waveguides, so that projected images
can fill or overlay the field of vision. Most of the uses on the company site
involve business, rather than consumer, application, but Waldern sees all sorts
of potential. "Why do you think Microsoft bought Minecraft?" he asks. "Hololens
is perfect for it."

Related: Touchy subject: a breakthrough for gaming and virtual reality

Stone agrees: "One thing that saved VR was that while we were running around
talking about headsets and gloves, the gaming community was coming up
underneath, and came up with software and hardware in the quest for the best
quality games. That drove down the cost of computing with graphics, and also
made available a number of toolkits for games-quality virtual worlds that people
could sympathise with." Games drove costs down: "Things that in the late 1990s
cost six-figure sums you can now do on an £800 laptop."

Brian Blau, research director at analysis company Gartner, forecast in March -
before Oculus's announcement of a tentative release date - that there would be
2m VR headsets sold in 2016, rising to 8m in 2018; in all he thinks there could
be 25m in use within a few years.

That doesn't sound quite like the gigantic opportunity that Waldern described.
But VR is seeing a growing number of uses in commercial spaces, where the
ability to train people, or give them a new perspective, is valuable.

Related: Virtual reality offers NBA and NFL fans a more immersive experience

But it's not the military, or even games, which might be the most effective
users of VR. One can imagine scores of scenarios where it would be
transformative. Planning your next holiday? Why not "visit" the alternatives
first, via a headset? Games, exploration, psychiatry and many other fields could
all be revolutionised. "Sex, of course," says Stone. "We've seen some crazy
devices coming out of Japan." He points to healthcare, education and training as
other fields that are most likely to take it up quickly.

Facebook's purchase of Oculus, though, suggests that it sees the capability to
transform how we interact with friends - which is what Waldern is thinking of
when he talks about it potentially being bigger than the internet.

"Even back at the start, the biggest kick we got was when we used ISDN lines
between Berlin and London, and we linked players up in a game. It was amazing:
you could meet, play, talk with people. Now, games have been doing that
virtually for a while. But when you can feel you're really meeting someone,
right there, as a jolly alien or Robin Hood ..." He stretches for the words.
"Immersivity is the main thing. This has many years to run, and we have to get
to where we are totally convinced - but we're looking at something which has
transformational capability for society."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              795 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Nexian Chromebook Launches 'Back To School' Offer On Amazon.in

LENGTH: 376  words


Tuesday, June 30, 2015: Nexian has launched an exclusive "Back to School" offer
for students on its revolutionary Chromebook priced at Rs, 12,999 available
exclusively on Amazon.in. As a part of this exclusive offer, consumers will get
a complimentary Strontium 64GB SD Card worth Rs.2,229 by using the promo code
and complimentary access to 100 GB cloud storage on Google Drive for upto 2
years from the date of purchase. Additionally, consumers can also avail a
buyback offer worth Rs.10,000/- off on their purchase in exchange for an old
laptop and a discount of Rs. 400/- on the purchase of a Chromecast HDMI
Streaming Media Player along with the Nexian Chromebook.

Fast and easy to use, the Nexian Chromebook is exclusively designed for students
offering them seamless access to all their music, movies and data stored on the
Google Drive. With the Chromebook, they can access all these files from anywhere
with an internet connection. Its sleek and stylish design makes it an ideal
choice for school and college students and its innovative carry handle makes it
easy to carry around.

The Nexian Air Chromebook sports a 11.6-inch TFT display with a 1366 x 768 pixel
resolution and runs on Google's popular Chrome OS. It is powered by a 1.8GHz
Cortex A17 Quad core processor coupled with a 2GB RAM. On the storage front, the
Nexian Air Chromebook offers a built in storage of 16GB (upto 9.6 GB available
for storage), expandable using a SD card. The device also includes two USB 2.0
ports, an HDMI port, a 1 MP (1280 x 720) pixels web camera and Bluetooth 4.0
along with a power packed 4,200mAh battery offering uninterrupted media viewing
experience. Popular Google apps are already preloaded on the device and
frequently used apps such as Google Docs and Gmail are also available in an
Offline mode for added convenience. Google Docs is also compatible to MS Word,
MS Excel and PowerPoint for ease of use of MS Office/Windows user.

The Chromebook is a perfect laptop for school and college going students as it
offers a great combination of superior technology at a pocket friendly price.
Combined with this special "Back to School" offer, students will find the
Chromebook as a smart investment offering a wholesome computing and multimedia
experience.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              796 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                       June 30, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Nexian Chromebook Launches 'Back To School' Offer On Amazon.in

LENGTH: 376  words


Tuesday, June 30, 2015: Nexian has launched an exclusive "Back to School" offer
for students on its revolutionary Chromebook priced at Rs, 12,999 available
exclusively on Amazon.in. As a part of this exclusive offer, consumers will get
a complimentary Strontium 64GB SD Card worth Rs.2,229 by using the promo code
and complimentary access to 100 GB cloud storage on Google Drive for upto 2
years from the date of purchase. Additionally, consumers can also avail a
buyback offer worth Rs.10,000/- off on their purchase in exchange for an old
laptop and a discount of Rs. 400/- on the purchase of a Chromecast HDMI
Streaming Media Player along with the Nexian Chromebook.

Fast and easy to use, the Nexian Chromebook is exclusively designed for students
offering them seamless access to all their music, movies and data stored on the
Google Drive. With the Chromebook, they can access all these files from anywhere
with an internet connection. Its sleek and stylish design makes it an ideal
choice for school and college students and its innovative carry handle makes it
easy to carry around.

The Nexian Air Chromebook sports a 11.6-inch TFT display with a 1366 x 768 pixel
resolution and runs on Google's popular Chrome OS. It is powered by a 1.8GHz
Cortex A17 Quad core processor coupled with a 2GB RAM. On the storage front, the
Nexian Air Chromebook offers a built in storage of 16GB (upto 9.6 GB available
for storage), expandable using a SD card. The device also includes two USB 2.0
ports, an HDMI port, a 1 MP (1280 x 720) pixels web camera and Bluetooth 4.0
along with a power packed 4,200mAh battery offering uninterrupted media viewing
experience. Popular Google apps are already preloaded on the device and
frequently used apps such as Google Docs and Gmail are also available in an
Offline mode for added convenience. Google Docs is also compatible to MS Word,
MS Excel and PowerPoint for ease of use of MS Office/Windows user.

The Chromebook is a perfect laptop for school and college going students as it
offers a great combination of superior technology at a pocket friendly price.
Combined with this special "Back to School" offer, students will find the
Chromebook as a smart investment offering a wholesome computing and multimedia
experience.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              797 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 508 words


It's not exactly a store, but the Google "showroom" that opened Thursday in New
York is the internet giant's first real-world shop and a step onto terrain where
rival Apple has excelled.

The success of the temporary storefront Google opened in the trendy Soho
neighborhood could help the California-based company decide whether to follow
Apple's lead and operate its own brick-and-mortar retail operation.

The New York pop-up shop will be open through the end of this year, and let
people get their hands on new Google devices such as Pixel smartphones which
began shipping Thursday in a direct challenge to Apple's latest iPhones.

"This is not even a testing ground, just an extension of the launch," Google
spokeswoman Chrissy Persico said at the showroom opening event.

"We want people to come in and experience the products."

Google early this month took on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push
into hardware, launching the in-house designed Pixel smartphone and a slew of
other devices showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.

By producing both the phone hardware and its Android software, Google is making
a more direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.

The pop-up shop also displayed Google's freshly unveiled Daydream View virtual
reality headset, a modular wi-fi system, and a Home virtual assistant that will
challenge the Amazon Echo device.

Nothing is sold at the Google shop, but the staff directs potential customers to
the company's online store or telephone operators who can take orders for
products.

- 'Big battle' -

A wall in the shop is decorated with an artful arrangement of blue, red, yellow
and green blocks, arranged to display the internet company's trademark colors.

Only 30 or so visitors ventured into the pop-up store for its opening morning, a
lean showing in comparison to mobs typically drawn to new Apple stores.

Apple has a shop in Soho, too, and many more across the country and around the
world.

As differences on the hardware side of premium smartphones have faded,
competitors have increasingly stressed "experiences" such as smoothly accessing
content or services.

"I am interested in technology, so I just hang out in stores," Columbia
University student Ravi Lakshmanan told AFP in the Google shop. "There is going
to be a big battle of platforms and it's going to be interesting to watch."

Another visitor, Ike McLaughlin, said he has flip-flopped between the rivals but
is on Google's side for now because he felt Apple was "playing it safe, when
Google is taking risks and making a push in artificial intelligence."

McLaughlin's verdict echoes the concerns of analysts that Apple has not
delivered a market-shaking new product since the death of visionary co-founder
Steve Jobs in 2011.

But even if its market capitalization has fallen below peaks hit in 2015, Apple
remains the world's most valuable company based on its share price.

For the financial year ending September 2015, Apple posted a net profit of $53
billion, double the figure posted in the last year of the reign of Steve Jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              798 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Best of the Digital Life blog - afr.com/blogs/digitallife

SECTION: INFORMATION; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 640 words


iPads so slim, Apple CEO Tim Cook has to ask if we can even see them. iMacs with
pixels so small, we couldn't see them if we tried. What more could we want?

Well, there were a few things that actually were invisible at Apple's gadget
extravaganza in California in the early hours of Friday. Not visible was the
long, long-expected iPad Pro, the big version of the iPad predicted to appear as
an alternative to the MacBook Air for low-power users. That doesn't look like it
will make the 2014 showing pundits were expecting.

And not visible, too, were any new MacBook Airs with high-resolution screens,
for which high-powered users of the MacBook have been clamouring for quite some
time.

Not quite as visible as expected was Apple Pay, an in-store payments system that
will allow iPhone and (now) iPad owners to use their devices like a
payWave/PayPass credit card.

That was expected to launch last week, but it won't launch until this week in
the United States, and who knows when in Australia?

But there was plenty to get excited about, including those super-slim iPad Air 2
tablets that will be available for pre-order from October 18, for delivery some
time next week. Just 6.1mm thin, the iPad Air 2 is slimmer than a Sony Xperia Z2
Tablet (6.4mm), not to mention a Samsung Galaxy Tab S (6.6mm), hitherto the
slimmest mainstream tablets around.

As expected, the iPad Air 2 and the new iPad mini 3 will come with Touch ID, the
fingerprint scanner built into the home button that users can swipe to unlock
their iPad or to make Apple Pay payments. If you thought people taking photos
with their iPads was bad enough, just wait until they start whipping out their
iPads in the checkout queue ahead of you and fumbling around trying to get the
NFC chips in the iPad to align with the NFC chips in the payments terminal.
Apple promises it's using a new form of NFC for Apple Pay that won't be so hard
to align with a reader, and for everyone's sake, let's hope that's true.

The new iPads won't be cheap, mind you: prices start at $619 for the 16GB,
Wi-Fi-only model and range up to $1019 for the 128GB, WiFi + wireless broadband
model.

Meanwhile, the new 27" 5K iMacs will cost $2999 for a model that comes with a
3.5GHz quad-core Intel Core i5 processor, an 1TB Fusion Drive and an AMD Radeon
R9 M290X graphics processor. 5K, in case you were wondering, is a screen with an
eye-watering 5120 x 2880 pixels. That's four times the resolution of the regular
27-inch iMac

Google has taken the wraps off its long-awaited new Nexus tablet, revealing it
will be called the Nexus 9 due to its 8.9-inch screen, and that it will be the
first to run Google's exciting new version of Android, "Lollipop". (So much for
it being called "Lamington", as we were hoping.)

The tablet will be made by HTC, and will have a screen with a resolution of 2048
x 1536 pixels, the same pixel dimensions as the 7.9-inch screen on an iPad mini
Retina.

Meanwhile, Google also revealed the Nexus 6, its latest phone, which will be
made by its former manufacturing arm, Motorola (recently sold to Lenovo). The
Nexus 6 will run Android 5.0, aka Lollipop, and will have a huge, 5.96-inch,
1440 x 2560 pixel display, making it more like a Samsung Galaxy Note than a
Galaxy S.

While the Nexus 9 tablet may not have a screen as sharp as an iPad mini Retina
(its bigger size gives it a sharpness of 288 pixels per inch (ppi), compared to
326 ppi for the mini), the tablet will have plenty of power to burn. It will
operate a 64-bit NVIDIA Tegra K1 processor running at 2.3 GHz, and will sport a
6700mAh battery.

The Nexus 9, which was available for pre-order from October 17, will come with
16 or 32 GB of memory, depending on how much you want to spend. Australian
pricing is $479 for the 16 GB model with Wi-Fi only, $589 for the 32 GB
WiFi-only model, and $719 for 32GB with WiFi and 4G.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              799 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                         May 9, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Smartphone Review: Moto X

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 651  words


The Moto X is a reminder of Motorola's legacy in the smartphone market and why
this company ones defined mobile phones.

Friday, May 09, 2014: If Motorola's plan is to take over the budget and
mid-range smartphone then it has done everything right till now. While the Moto
E is expected to arrive on 13 May, with a price tag below Rs 10,000, I talk
today about Motorola's most expensive device in the market, the Moto X.

First of all, a sweeping declaration - this is the best Android experience you
will get below Rs 30,000. The Moto X is the company's flagship device priced at
an affordable Rs 23,999 and it is everything that you want in your smartphone.
Like the Moto G (http://efytimes.com/e1/fullnews.asp?edid=132203), this one is
also available exclusively on Flipkart.

Design

While the Moto X showcases a simplistic design, it still has a lot to offer.
Firstly, Motorola has two wood finish devices to offer in this and it also comes
in Red, White, Turquoise and Royal Blue colours with the polycarbonate finish.
The Moto X is light and thin enough to fit right into the hand and pocket. It
doesn't look humoungous like many other flagship devices, but the smaller size
of the device makes it just that much easier to handle.

Motorola's statement is very simple, you don't need a above 5-inch device to
make something look good. This is not just a good looking device, it is built
ergonomically too.

Features

The Moto X is not a device that can be judged by its display and all the usual
stuff. This device is loaded with features that set it apart from virtually any
other smartphone in the market. I'll start with what I like the most, the
touchless controls.

You remember how I was raving about the 'Ok Google' feature on the Nexus 5
(http://efytimes.com/e1/fullnews.asp?edid=126377)? Well, this is better. You can
train the Moto X to recognise your voice and then operate the voice through
voice commands alone without even needing to unlock the device. So, saying 'Ok
Google Now Call XYZ', will call whoever you want to call and so on. It's
something that no other phone can offer at the moment.

Next up is the Active Display feature of the Moto X. This feature lights up only
those pixels on your screen, which are needed in order to display an image. This
allows you to view notifications without needing to turn on the backlight of the
device. The pixel light up, which saves battery and makes for a useful new
feature on the device.

The Moto X also includes the Motorola Connect feature, which lets you control
the device from your desktop Google Chrome browser. In addition, the Migrate and
Assist features seen in the Moto G are also part of this device.

Performance

This phone is a testament to the fact that more cores doesn't mean better
performance. The Moto X is powered by a 1.7 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro dual
core processor. Dissapointed? Well, the device gives an AnTuTu benchmark score
of about 22,800, which is very close to the octa-core Micromax Canvas Knight
23,050. I tried running the game Asphalt 8 on this phone and sure enough, it
performs much better than any device with a dual core processor. It's a gentle
reminder of the rich legacy that Motorola has in the mobile phone market.

Camera

The 10 mega pixel camera on the back shoots good pictures, but fails in
low-light conditions. Also, the Moto X shoots 1080 pixel videos, only those
though. There is no way to change the resolution of the videos that you shoot.

Verdict

It's sad that the Moto X hasn't created waves in the Indian market the way the
Moto G did. Like the G, the Moto X also provides absolute value for money and
beats competitors in the same price segment. This is a device that comes from
the company that built the first mobile phone and Motorola has given it a lot of
thought.

The Moto X is a comfortably priced device that brings you a lot of high-end and
exclusive features. It is a very good device to buy.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              800 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     November 5, 2015 Thursday 11:52 AM GMT

The return of virtual reality: 'this is as big an opportunity as the internet';

Twenty years ago the man who pioneered commercial VR saw his market shrink to
zero. Now he's excited again - and so are Microsoft, Google and Facebook ...

BYLINE: Charles Arthur

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1866 words


Dr Jonathan Waldern is standing in a meeting room in Silicon Valley, wearing a
lab coat and grinning from ear to ear. "There will be people crying in this,
people falling in love, people falling over. For all sorts of reasons, this
strikes at the core of being a human being. It's so compelling ... this is as
big an opportunity as the internet."

He's talking about virtual reality (VR), the immersive systems that cover your
eyes (and ideally ears) and fool your brain into thinking you're somewhere, or
even someone, else. Waldern, 54, is a veteran of the business: in the 90s, his
company Virtuality was a pioneer in commercial VR, offering an arcade game
experience in which a bulky headset transformed the room into a prehistoric
scene in which pterodactyls swooped over and around you, and you tried to shoot
them with your gun.

The last time I saw Waldern was in the UK, more than 20 years ago. Virtuality,
which he had brought to the London stock market, was in talks with Atari to
bring its ambitious Jaguar headset to consumers. But the deal fell apart, and
then so did Virtuality. The market for VR shrank to zero almost overnight; its
speed and completeness foreshadowed the dot-com boom and bust of 2000-2001.

But, just as the dot-coms evolved and returned like mammals emerging from a
meteor strike, VR has come back too. And that's what Waldern, who now runs a
Silicon Valley company called Digilens, is excited about. He sees the field
enjoying a resurgence, its long hibernation is over. And survivors like him are
emerging to capitalise on the new boom.

"It's a very small community [in VR] around here," Waldern continues, referring
to the west coast. (Though it transpires that when he says "small", he means "in
the thousands, but geographically close".) "The cost of development in this
realm is so high that very few corporations would take it on. Only the big three
- Microsoft, Google, Facebook. Apple is the fourth, but isn't so prominent."

Does that mean Apple is looking at VR too? "I couldn't possibly comment," says
Waldern, and grins. (Apple  filed a patent in September 2008 for putting an
iPhone into a headset, and  another in 2014, but there's been little other sign
of activity on that front from the company.)

Even if it isn't, the presence of the other three big companies in this space
shows how hot VR has suddenly become. Oculus Rift,  bought by Facebook for $2bn
in March 2014, has been the poster child for the new face of this technology;
the company now  aims to launch a headset for consumers in 2016. It will have
challengers though. Sony is working on Project Morpheus, which  has the same
aim, and HTC has built  Vive, unveiled at Mobile World Congress in March, which
will work with the Valve system for downloadable games. Samsung has its own Gear
VR, developed with Oculus. Even Google's Cardboard, a DIY system which you
literally fold together from a cardboard template before sticking your
smartphone into a slot a few inches from your eyes, has had around 1.2m
downloads since Google introduced it at its I/O developer conference in May
2014.

Meanwhile the parallel development of "augmented reality" (where objects and
data are overlaid on to the scene you see in front of you) is growing quickly,
too, with Microsoft's Hololens the most promising offering to date, along with
Google-funded Magic Leap. (Google Glass, which is undergoing a rethink, is like
a subset of AR.)

But it's VR that has everyone excited. In March 2014, Chris Dixon, a partner at
the increasingly influential venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz,
observed that using an early version of Oculus Rift the year before was one of
"a handful of technology demos in my life that made me feel like I was glimpsing
into the future" - and his list ran back as far as the Apple II computer from
the 70s.

VR, he noted, "has long been a staple of science fiction" (of which Star Trek:
the Next Generation's "holodeck" was only the most recent) but hardware was now
cheap enough, and engineers keen enough to explore a new frontier, that it could
finally deliver on the science fiction promise. (Dixon's team cashed out on
Facebook's acquisition of Oculus Rift.)

In the 90s, VR certainly felt like SF. Waldern's company relied on top-end
Silicon Graphics systems with six-figure price tags. There's a  video of him
from 1994 at W Industries, showing how pixellated the experience was. "Our
system used some of the very first Sony LCDs, with 300 by 200 pixels," Waldern
recalls. "Today you get 1,080p [1,080 horizontal lines] minimum, and by the
launch next year you'll probably have 4K by 4K. And the computational power is
transformational - we were working on about a megaflop, and each machine cost
about $70,000, which is a massive barrier to adoption. Now with an Nvidia GPU
you're talking about a teraflop."

VR is a complex real-time computing problem. Ideally, the fictional scene should
show no individual pixels, fill your field of view - which in normally sighted
people covers 180 degrees - and change without any lag, no matter how quickly
you move your head. That means the system has to be able to calculate what the
scene will look like at any point, and incorporate the movement of your head,
reported from the helmet, into its computation, and update the screens quickly
enough to give the sensation of realistic movement.

Measurement of head movement is done using accelerometers and gyroscopes; the
screens can now offer millions of pixels just inches from your eyes; computing
power aims to cut lag and latency. The latter can quickly induce nausea if the
scene isn't redrawn quickly enough as the body's balance system disagrees with
what the eyes tell it they're seeing; that was a key problem with early VR
systems.

But those are being overcome, thanks to the rapid growth of the smartphone
industry. That has made accelerometers and gyroscopic chips cheap, plentiful and
fast, while also pushing the quality of displays to a level where you can't
distinguish pixels even in screens a few inches from your eyes. That though
requires graphics processors that can handle huge numbers of floating point
operations per second (flops) - but, as Waldern says, that's available.

Among those eagerly exploiting that space is Professor Bob Stone, chair of
interactive multimedia systems at the University of Birmingham, and another
British veteran of the 1990s boom and bust. After another 20-year gap, I caught
up with him as he travelled from a location where he had been using a drone to
create a 3D "point cloud" of a church and archaeological dig in Wiltshire; in
just five minutes of flight it captured enough data to create a realistic 3D
model that one could "fly" through at leisure.

When we spoke, Stone initially seemed unimpressed by Oculus's offering,
suggesting that "it's not much different from the headsets of the late 1990s".
He cited "pixel bleed" (where the pixels don't appear sharp) and limits on the
field of view. "We're using Oculus Rift development kit 2 [the latest version]
in defence projects, because it's the best of a bad bunch," he said. Why bad?
Stone feels that if you have to wear something, "you aren't really experiencing
total immersion"; he thinks ideally VR should simply feel like life. "More than
20 years on, shouldn't we be further ahead than this?" he asks.

But later he emails, relenting on his apparent negativity: "VR has been my
career for over 28 years now, and I genuinely believe in what VR can deliver
when the technologies are applied appropriately and with the needs of the end
users and end organisations well and truly in mind. As I said, it seems that
every seven years we see the same old issues and hype coming through (these days
via the web, YouTube, etc) that people out there seem to believe without
question!"

The original bust in VR came when first-generation products were crushed by the
weight of expectations. So what led to the renaissance of VR - and why has it
taken so long?

Waldern reckons a key reason is that games, which were the main consumer-facing
use for VR, shifted to a different set of genres. "There are periodic cycles in
the games industry, for technologies and genres. People want change from time to
time." After a couple of decades of 2D and pseudo-3D offerings (think of
Nintendo's games, and Quake and Doom), gamers are ready for an "immersive"
experience, he argues.

Digilens's work involves building optical waveguides, so that projected images
can fill or overlay the field of vision. Most of the uses on the company site
involve business, rather than consumer, application, but Waldern sees all sorts
of potential. "Why do you think Microsoft bought Minecraft?" he asks. "Hololens
is perfect for it."

Related:  Touchy subject: a breakthrough for gaming and virtual reality

Stone agrees: "One thing that saved VR was that while we were running around
talking about headsets and gloves, the gaming community was coming up
underneath, and came up with software and hardware in the quest for the best
quality games. That drove down the cost of computing with graphics, and also
made available a number of toolkits for games-quality virtual worlds that people
could sympathise with." Games drove costs down: "Things that in the late 1990s
cost six-figure sums you can now do on an £800 laptop."

Brian Blau, research director at analysis company Gartner, forecast in March -
before Oculus's announcement of a tentative release date - that there would be
2m VR headsets sold in 2016, rising to 8m in 2018; in all he thinks there could
be 25m in use within a few years.

That doesn't sound quite like the gigantic opportunity that Waldern described.
But VR is seeing a growing number of uses in commercial spaces, where the
ability to train people, or give them a new perspective, is valuable.

Related:  Virtual reality offers NBA and NFL fans a more immersive experience

But it's not the military, or even games, which might be the most effective
users of VR. One can imagine scores of scenarios where it would be
transformative. Planning your next holiday? Why not "visit" the alternatives
first, via a headset? Games, exploration, psychiatry and many other fields could
all be revolutionised. "Sex, of course," says Stone. "We've seen some crazy
devices coming out of Japan." He points to healthcare, education and training as
other fields that are most likely to take it up quickly.

Facebook's purchase of Oculus, though, suggests that it sees the capability to
transform how we interact with friends - which is what Waldern is thinking of
when he talks about it potentially being bigger than the internet.

"Even back at the start, the biggest kick we got was when we used ISDN lines
between Berlin and London, and we linked players up in a game. It was amazing:
you could meet, play, talk with people. Now, games have been doing that
virtually for a while. But when you can feel you're really meeting someone,
right there, as a jolly alien or Robin Hood ..." He stretches for the words.
"Immersivity is the main thing. This has many years to run, and we have to get
to where we are totally convinced - but we're looking at something which has
transformational capability for society."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              801 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 6 Pre-Orders Begins Today In India

BYLINE: Kamya Kandhari, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 287  words


The interested buyers can pre-book their Google Nexus 6 devices via its
exclusive e-commerce partner, Flipkart.

Tuesday, November 18, 2014: Google's Nexus 6 smartphone has gone up for
pre-orders today in India. The exclusive seller, Flipkart
(http://www.flipkart.com/nexus6) has set the device live for all interested
buyers to pre-book their Nexus 6 smartphone. Google had listed the Nexus 6
device on the Google Play store earlier this month, with the price tag of Rs.
44,000 for 32GB variant, whereas 64GB variant was priced at Rs. 49,000.

The smartphone was originally unveiled last month, wherein Motorola noted in a
statement that, "Nexus 6 will come to 28 countries (including India) across
Europe, Asia-Pacific and North America starting later this year and as we head
into Q1."

Notably, Flipkart has also marked the same price on the site for both the
variants. The e-commerce site had listed the device, earlier
(http://www.efytimes.com/e1/fullnews.asp?edid=151775&magid=11) this month with a
'Coming Soon' teaser.

The Motorola made Google Nexus 6 sports 15.14-cm (5.96-inch) QHD (1440x2560
pixels) display at 493ppi. The device is powered by a 2.7GHz quad-core Qualcomm
Snapdragon 805 processor couple with 3GB RAM. The Nexus 6 smartphone packs 13MP
rear camera and 2MP front-facing camera.

The device is running on the latest Android 5.0 Lollipop version, giving it a
complete fresh look. The Nexus 6 smartphone supports massive 3220mAh battery.

Here we have listed the key specs of Nexus 6 Smartphone for quick review

* 15.14-cm (5.96-inch) QHD (1440x2560 pixels) display

* powered by a 2.7GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 processor

* 3GB RAM

* 13MP rear camera

* 2MP front-facing camera

* 32 GB and 64 GB variants

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              802 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                            November 18, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Google Earth lets you see the world from above

BYLINE: Deborah Stokes, CanWest News Service

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. F4

LENGTH: 517  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


TORONTO -- Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to
the former Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over
to Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do
so.

You can just sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called
Google Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every inch of the
planet within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say it
is the ultimate armchair travel experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available
to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available
to pretty much anyone, for free. Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely. People
are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful, they almost don't know what to
do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer
than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In
technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to six
inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features such as mountains and lakes
are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people in
Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is
already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says
Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google. "The same information
is available to anyone who flies above or drives by a piece of property."

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go
to http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows
users and only in English. Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows
you to "walk" around actual buildings.

And sophisticated video technology allows for "fluid, free-form" exploration.
Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around whatever they see.

"You can literally explore a destination before you get there," says Broadhead.

That may take away some of the surprise factor for travellers, but sometimes
that's a good thing.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Associated Press; Fred Wagner pulls up a Google map on his home
computer. Using Google Maps, he can drag the map over any which way and look at
any neighbourhood in the world.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              803 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Circle the globe with Google Earth: Amazing tool lets you visit from home

BYLINE: Deborah Stokes, National Post; CanWest News Service

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. J4

LENGTH: 472  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


TORONTO - Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to
the former Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over
to Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do
so. You can just sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called
Google Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every centimetre of
the planet within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say
it is the ultimate armchair travel experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available
to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available
to pretty much anyone, for free. Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely. People
are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful, they almost don't know what to
do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer
than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In
technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to 10
centimetres per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features such as mountains and
lakes are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people
in Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorists.

"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is
already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says
Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google.

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go
to http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows
users and only in English. Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows
you to "walk" around actual buildings. And sophisticated video technology allows
for "fluid, free-form" exploration. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around
whatever they see.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              804 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                        April 5, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 7 II might run on Snapdragon 800, better than Galaxy S4

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 426  words


While we are still waiting for the Google Nexus 7 tablet in many corners of the
world, Google is reportedly working on another Google Nexus 7 tablet. The second
generation of this tablet might use the next generation processor from Qualcomm.

Sources have told Reuters (http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/04/03/us-google
-nexus-idUSBRE93205L20130403) that Google
(http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/overview?symbol=GOOG.O&lc=int_mb_1001)
will launch a new version of its Nexus 7 tablet July this year. This latest
second generation of tablet will have a higher screen resolution, a thinner
bezel design and adopt Qualcomm's chip. The current model  uses a Nvidia Tegra
3, quad-core processor clocked at a speed of 1.2 GHz.

Seth Weintraub (http://9to5google.com/author/sethweintraub/) of 9to5google
(http://9to5google.com/2013/04/03/second-generation-qualcomm-based-nexus-7-to-de
but-in-july-with-improved-display-says-reuters/) expects a likely change to the
Snapdragon 600 or 800 processor. We would also like go with Seth but, we would
expect a Snapdragon 800
(http://www.qualcomm.com/media/documents/qualcomm-snapdragon-800-product-brief)
quad-core processor which could be clocked at 2.3 GHz and will support amazing
and very sharp display, better than its competitors. Snapdragon 800 is already
out and is expected to come to the LG Optimus G2. On the Optimus G2 the
processor will support 1080 by 1794 pixel screen. (read here
(http://daily.bhaskar.com/article/GAD-lg-to-win-over-galaxy-s4-optimus-g2-will-r
un-on-snapdragon-800-4222165-NOR.html))

Reuters expects a higher resolution display, which would mean better than the
current 1280 by 800 display at 254 pixel per inches. This also makes us believe
that Snapdragon 800 will come to tablet with the second generation Google Nexus
7. Someone was faster than us to expect this and has already updated the
Wikipedia page with Google Nexus 7 inch  2.0 along with the LG Optimus G2 (read
here (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snapdragon_(system_on_chip)#Snapdragon_800)).
This needs to be confirmed yet, and we are waiting to hear more.

Google usually releases its devices at a Developer's program, and one of these
is to be organized in middle of May, which is the Google I/O
(http://www.droid-life.com/tag/googleio/) event. Since this new tablet is not
arriving at this program, which also strengthens the speculations around the use
of Snapdragon 800 processor.

Well, for information, Samsung Galaxy S4 launched with the Snapdragon 600
quad-core and opted for the octa-core Exynos for its other variant.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              805 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Going ga-ga over Google Earth: CYBER TRAVEL: You can explore a destination
before you get there

BYLINE: Deborah Stokes, CanWest News Service

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 515  words


Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to the former
Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over to
Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do so.

You can just sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called
Google Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every inch of the
planet within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say it
is the ultimate armchair travel experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available
to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available
to pretty much anyone, for free.

"Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely.

"People are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful, they almost don't know
what to do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth.

What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer than others, because
different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In technology terms, the
resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to six inches per pixel. At the
lowest resolution, features such as mountains and lakes are visible. At the
highest, you can see cars on the street, even people in Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is
already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says
Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google.

"The same information is available to anyone who flies above or drives by a
piece of property."

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go
to http://earth.

google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows users and only in
English.

Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows you to "walk" around actual
buildings. And sophisticated video technology allows for "fluid, free-form"
exploration. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around whatever they see.

"You can literally explore a destination before you get there," says Broadhead.

That may take away some of the surprise factor for travellers, but sometimes
that's a good thing.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: On the Google Earth website, you can zoom in on a country, a city, a
neighbourhood, a home.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              806 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

FRESH GEAR

BYLINE: JENNIFER DUDLEY-NICHOLSON

SECTION: SWITCHED ON; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 299  words


BLACK BOX

Navman, $199

navman.com.au

GPS gadgets are no longer just getting you to your destination, they are helping
you do it safely. Navman's latest devices track sudden changes in driving
behaviour or car movements and record them. The MiVue358 has a 2.4-inch screen,
HD camera and a three-axis sensor. Users must provide their own memory card.

GO EVERYWHERE

GoPro, $489.99

gopro.com

The biggest name in action cameras now has a new model. The GoPro HERO3: Black
Edition is out this month in a body that is 30 per cent smaller and 25 per cent
lighter than the previous model. The new mountable camera can also capture
12-megapixel photos or full high-definition video and comes with built-in wi-fi
connectivity.

GOOGLE'S NEXT

Google, $349-$399

play.google.com

The next Google smartphone is a powerful beast. Created by LG, the Google Nexus
4 will feature a 4.7-inch screen, Android Jelly Bean 4.2 software running on a
1.5GHz quad-core chip, 2GB RAM and 8GB or 16GB built-in memory. The 8-megapixel
camera can capture panoramic ``Photo Sphere'' images. Out late this month.

FAMILY TABLET

Telstra, $480

telstra.com.au

Telstra has launched its very own tablet -- a 10.1-inch device that undercuts
the equivalent Apple iPad 2 by $89. The 4G Tablet has a 1.5GHz dual-core
processor, Google Android Jelly Bean software and 16GB of storage. It offers two
cameras, nine-hour battery life and can be purchased on a $49 monthly plan with
4GB data.

BIGGEST SCREEN

Sony, $24,999

sony.com.au

There are big screens and then there is this screen. The display on Sony's
Bravia KD-84X9000 TV measures 84 inches (213cm) and features four times the
resolution of current full high-definition sets, offering eight million pixels.
The higher pixel count means viewers can sit as close as 1.5m away. Sony will
also deliver and install.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              807 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

FRESH GEAR

BYLINE: JENNIFER DUDLEY-NICHOLSON

SECTION: SWITCHEDON; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 299  words


BLACK BOX

Navman, $199

navman.com.au

GPS gadgets are no longer just getting you to your destination, they are helping
you do it safely. Navman's latest devices track sudden changes in driving
behaviour or car movements and record them. The MiVue358 has a 2.4-inch screen,
HD camera and a three-axis sensor. Users must provide their own memory card.

GO EVERYWHERE

GoPro, $489.99

gopro.com

The biggest name in action cameras now has a new model. The GoPro HERO3: Black
Edition is out this month in a body that is 30 per cent smaller and 25 per cent
lighter than the previous model. The new mountable camera can also capture
12-megapixel photos or full high-definition video and comes with built-in wi-fi
connectivity.

GOOGLE'S NEXT

Google, $349-$399

play.google.com

The next Google smartphone is a powerful beast. Created by LG, the Google Nexus
4 will feature a 4.7-inch screen, Android Jelly Bean 4.2 software running on a
1.5GHz quad-core chip, 2GB RAM and 8GB or 16GB built-in memory. The 8-megapixel
camera can capture panoramic ``Photo Sphere'' images. Out late this month.

FAMILY TABLET

Telstra, $480

telstra.com.au

Telstra has launched its very own tablet -- a 10.1-inch device that undercuts
the equivalent Apple iPad 2 by $89. The 4G Tablet has a 1.5GHz dual-core
processor, Google Android Jelly Bean software and 16GB of storage. It offers two
cameras, nine-hour battery life and can be purchased on a $49 monthly plan with
4GB data.

BIGGEST SCREEN

Sony, $24,999

sony.com.au

There are big screens and then there is this screen. The display on Sony's
Bravia KD-84X9000 TV measures 84 inches (213cm) and features four times the
resolution of current full high-definition sets, offering eight million pixels.
The higher pixel count means viewers can sit as close as 1.5m away. Sony will
also deliver and install.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              808 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 1, 2004 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Google Service Offers Easy Internet Access

BYLINE: DOUG STANLEY, dstanley@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 514 words


By DOUG STANLEY

dstanley@tampatrib.com

Now you don't need the latest, greatest Web-enabled wireless phone or handheld
device to tap the power of the Internet when you're on the road.

Google's new Short Message Service enables you to get answers from any wireless
phone or device capable of sending a simple text message.

With Google SMS, you can get phone numbers, dictionary definitions, product
prices and much more. You can do math problems, measurement conversions and even
look up basic facts.

Google SMS returns the answers to your queries in plain text, usually within a
minute. It's really pretty handy. The service works with most major wireless
carriers, including AT&T, Cingular, Nextel, Sprint PCS, T-Mobile and Verizon.

For a complete rundown on the service and how to use it, visit www.google
.com/sms.

D-I-Y Icons

If you're the type who likes to personalize every facet of your desktop,
consider do-it-yourself icons. It's fairly quick and easy to do with Windows XP.

Here's how: Click Start, Click Run, type "mspaint" (without the quotes) and
click OK to open the Paint application.

On Paint's Image menu, click Attributes. Enter 32 into both the Width and Height
boxes, click the Pixels radio button and then click OK to create a new,
icon-sized canvas.

From there, add color, type or whatever you like. You can even shrink photos to
32 by 32 pixels and paste them into the Paint document.

When you're done, click the File Menu and Save As, then give the icon a name and
use "ico" for the extension, ala "filename.ico".

Make note of where you've saved the file. To use your new icon, right-click on
any shortcut or folder, select Properties, click the Shortcut tab, click the
Change Icon button and browse to your newly created icon.

AOL Finally Gets It

For years, America Online customers had no choice but to use AOL's clunky e-mail
program.

That finally changed when AOL made its e-mail technology compatible with many
popular third-party e-mail applications applications.

If you're an AOL customer, you now have alternatives for sending and receiving
AOL e-mail, including Eudora, Microsoft Outlook and Outlook Express, and other
e-mail clients that support Internet Message Access Protocol.

The downside is some features of AOL e-mail won't be available if you choose an
alternate e-mail program. For example, you won't be able to check the status of
a sent message or recall an unopened message sent to another AOL member.

For step-by-step instructions on configuring Outlook Express and other e-mail
applications for use with AOL e-mail, visit tinyurl.com/3goak.

Gamers, Stand Proud

PBS presents the story of how a whimsical invention of the 1960s helped spawn
the computer industry as we know it.

Video games have influenced the way children live and play, forever altered the
entertainment industry, and even affected the way wars are fought. See how it
all began and find out what it means for the future, tinyurl.com/5nlfa.

Keyword: Tech. Read past columns by Doug Stanley.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PLUGGED IN BUSINESS & TECHNOLOGY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2004 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune


                              809 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                            October 21, 2016 Friday

Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'

LENGTH: 515  words

DATELINE: New York


New York, Oct. 21 -- It's not exactly a store, but the Google "showroom" that
opened Thursday in New York is the internet giant's first real-world shop and a
step onto terrain where rival Apple has excelled.


 The success of the temporary storefront Google opened in the trendy Soho
neighborhood could help the California-based company decide whether to follow
Apple's lead and operate its own brick-and-mortar retail operation.
 The New York pop-up shop will be open through the end of this year, and let
people get their hands on new Google devices such as Pixel smartphones which
began shipping Thursday in a direct challenge to Apple's latest iPhones.
 "This is not even a testing ground, just an extension of the launch," Google
spokeswoman Chrissy Persico said at the showroom opening event.
 "We want people to come in and experience the products."
 Google early this month took on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push
into hardware, launching the in-house designed Pixel smartphone and a slew of
other devices showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.
 By producing both the phone hardware and its Android software, Google is making
a more direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.
 The pop-up shop also displayed Google's freshly unveiled Daydream View virtual
reality headset, a modular wi-fi system, and a Home virtual assistant that will
challenge the Amazon Echo device.
 Nothing is sold at the Google shop, but the staff directs potential customers
to the company's online store or telephone operators who can take orders for
products.
 - 'Big battle' -
 A wall in the shop is decorated with an artful arrangement of blue, red, yellow
and green blocks, arranged to display the internet company's trademark colors.
 Only 30 or so visitors ventured into the pop-up store for its opening morning,
a lean showing in comparison to mobs typically drawn to new Apple stores.
 Apple has a shop in Soho, too, and many more across the country and around the
world.
 As differences on the hardware side of premium smartphones have faded,
competitors have increasingly stressed "experiences" such as smoothly accessing
content or services.
 "I am interested in technology, so I just hang out in stores," Columbia
University student Ravi Lakshmanan told AFP in the Google shop. "There is going
to be a big battle of platforms and it's going to be interesting to watch."
 Another visitor, Ike McLaughlin, said he has flip-flopped between the rivals
but is on Google's side for now because he felt Apple was "playing it safe, when
Google is taking risks and making a push in artificial intelligence."
 McLaughlin's verdict echoes the concerns of analysts that Apple has not
delivered a market-shaking new product since the death of visionary co-founder
Steve Jobs in 2011.
 But even if its market capitalization has fallen below peaks hit in 2015, Apple
remains the world's most valuable company based on its share price.
 For the financial year ending September 2015, Apple posted a net profit of $53
billion, double the figure posted in the last year of the reign of Steve Jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              810 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                             7 days connect Edition

cutting edge

SECTION: FEATURES; Connect; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 432  words


> an authentic response

Nokia has been named as the most authentic personal technology brand in
Australia after a study was conducted to measure brand value among consumers.
Developed by brand consultancy Principals, together with global research company
Synovate, the study took place over six months among 2400 people who were asked
to rank 70 brands.

The Authentic Brand Index (ABI) measures the brand in seven categories:
heritage, familiarity, personal utility, originality, momentum, sincerity and
declared beliefs.

Nokia was the third highest score among the 70 brands overall but the highest
ranked personal technology brand with Qantas and Cadbury taking out the number
one and two spots overall respectively. The brands which followed Nokia in the
personal technology category were Microsoft, Google, LG, Sony, Apple, Canon,
Motorola and Samsung.

Google was only narrowly beaten by Microsoft. While it scored highly in the
originality and momentum categories, it scored less in the familiarity and
heritage sections.

Apple and Sony were also strong in the sincerity and heritage categories but
their overall score was affected by a perceived lack of momentum by the people
surveyed.

''Authenticity is a powerful concept today, because it speaks of the need to
truly align business promise to delivery,'' says Principals planning director,
Wayde Bull.

''It's about being clear about who you are and what you do best.

''We'd argue that authenticity is the most fundamental achievement in today's
over-traded markets as consumers search for deeper meaning and rapport with the
brands they choose, in practically every product and service category.''


> million pixel baby

Hitachi has released the world's first 106cm (42-inch) true HD plasma panel,
complete with an integrated HD tuner.

The 42PD9600TA features 1080 lines of resolution as well as high pixel density,
which makes it possible to fit more than one million pixels on the screen.

There is also an SD card slot and a USB port on the display to allow users to
display their images directly off the memory card or from the camera. The
improved screen quality can also be utilised to hook up the computer via the RGB
terminal.

Connectivity is another of the Hitachi's strengths, with two HDMI inputs, along
with two component inputs and two AV inputs, which can all be accessed instantly
with a single touch of the remote instead of scrolling through the inputs to
find the right source.

To top it all off the Hitachi plasma panel has a motorised base, which can be
controlled via the remote. The Hitachi 42PD9600TA plasma is priced at $3849.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              811 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                          September 10, 2016 Saturday
                                   E1 Edition

Yes, your browsing habits are being watched

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 442 words


It's no coincidence, when you have been Googling Southeast Asia, to find later
that your Facebook page is populated with ads for holidays in Thailand.

Neither is it a sign from the retail gods that you need to buy THAT pair of
shoes that you've browsed once, when its image keeps popping up on your social
media accounts.

It's not that you've been cyberstalked, but the practice of retargeting - using
your internet browsing habits to track your preferences - is widely used by
companies to send you advertisements of products and services you have Googled.

Rohan Isaacs, director at Norton Rose Fulbright, says it's all done through the
use of cookies (a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in your web
browser) and tracking pixels (the basic unit of programmable colour on a
computer display).

"Pixels embedded within an advertising slot on a web page can access cookies
previously dropped on to your computer by the advertiser. These cookies give the
advertiser information about previous searches and browsing habits, enabling the
advertiser to target your preferences."

Isaacs says whether this is an invasion of privacy depends on one's point of
view.

"Services which obtain this information about you would argue that you have
consented to it. You aren't forced to use the service after all. Their privacy
policies invariably explain what they do, at least in general terms," he says.

Nathan Desfontaines, cyber security manager at KPMG, agrees.

"Privacy policies are loosely explained. Websites tell us that they are using
cookies and give us an option to opt out by disabling cookies. But doing that
means some features of a website may not work."

Desfontaines also agrees that retargeting is not illegal. "But the problem is
that we are not given an option to decide if we want to opt in."

And for that reason, he says, this practice tests ethical borders and has the
potential to embarrass users.

"If a woman thinks she is pregnant, for example, and Googles contraceptives or
abortion and then moves away from her desk, then when these adverts pop up on
her screen everyone can see what she's been browsing," Desfontaines says.

"By using Google to browse the Net you have automatically opted to be tracked if
you already use other Google unpaid services such as Gmail, Google Maps and
Google Drive," he says.

"To access many of these services you need to log into a Google account. And as
long as you're logged in, Google knows exactly who you are and mines everything
you are doing within the Google environment for information about you," Isaacs
says.

But, if you don't want to be tracked, you can turn cookies off on your browser
setting.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              812 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Nokia rolls out XL and Lumia 630

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, June 2 -- Nokia has launched two new smartphones, the Nokia XL and
the Lumia 630, in the Nepali market. Neoteric Nepal and Paramount Electronics
are the authorised distributors of Nokia in Nepal. The XL is the flagship phone
of its X series, the first Android-powered phone, while the Lumia 630 is a
Windows Phone-based smartphone.The XL is powered by a 1 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon
dual core processor and comes with a 5-inch IPS capacitive touchscreen. It
boasts a 5 mega pixel rear and 2 mega pixel front-facing camera. The smartphone
has 768 MB RAM with 4 GB mass memory, 2000 mAh battery and supports 32 GB micro
SD card.

Although the smartphone runs on Android, users do not have access to Google apps
and Google Play Store as it is a customized version of Android. The phone has
Nokia Store from which users can download 1.36 million apps, said the company.
It also has preloaded apps like Fastline, Skydrive and Outlook, among others.
The smartphone is priced at Rs 17,500 in the domestic market. It is available in
a wide range of colour options including bright green, bright red, cyan, yellow,
black and white.

Likewise, the Lumia 630 is powered by a 1.2 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor
and runs on Windows Phone 8.1 operating system. It comes with a 4.5-inch
ClearBack LCD display and 8 GB internal storage which is expandable up to 128
GB. The phone features 512 MB RAM, 5 mega pixel camera and 7 GB free Microsoft
Skydrive storage. According to the company, the Lumia 630 is available in bright
green, orange, cyan, yellow, black and white colours. The company has fixed the
price of the phone at Rs 17,630 in the domestic market.

Speaking at the launching of the smartphones on Friday, Country Manager Radi
Ahmed Chowdhari said that the Nokia would be unveiling more innovative
smartphones with a blend of features to meet the requirements of a growing
market. "After acquiring Nokia, Microsoft is looking for new innovations in
smartphones, and it will

regain its previous portfolio soon," he said. "The XL and the Lumia 630 got a
very good response in Bangladesh and Pakistan, so we are very

hopeful that it will do well in the Nepali market."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              813 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                             April 26, 2011 Tuesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Video time machine lets you zoom in on exact moments in time, space

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 341 words


Not  content to just show people regular old boring static videos and  gigantic
web-based gigapictures, the GigaPan team at Carnegie Mellon  University in
America in collaboration with NASA Ames Intelligent  Robotics Group and Google
have developed a time machine.

The  GigaPan Time Machine takes users on a super-high-res interactive video
experience. A viewing experience that -- like GigaPan's incredible  gigapixel
images -- can be zoomed into, panned around and seen in  extreme detail while
the video keeps on playing.
"The  sophisticated cameras the GigaPan team uses for their photographs  capture
hundreds or even thousands of digital pictures and stitch them  together to form
an interactive panorama," explained Google in an April  22 blog post about the
GigaPan Time Machine.
"With  Time Machine, the cameras capture these image mosaics at regular
intervals to create a video with hundreds of millions or even billions  of
pixels in each frame. The result is a video that viewers have the  ability to
zoom in on while it's playing and see incredible detail,"  said Google.
The technology makes watching the grass grow pretty interesting joked Google.
The  Time Machine has already been used to capture plant growth, a  simulation
of the early universe that is 600 million light years in  width, and human
anatomical datasets in billions of pixels -- all of  which can be viewed in
Chrome 7.0+ or Safari 5.0+ web browsers.
Users are encouraged to create their own Time Machine mashups and gigapixle
scale videos.
At  the bottom of Time Machine videos, users will find a Time Warp editor  that
can be used to build "an animated tour through time and space to  share." Time
Warps can be saved and shared with friends.
GigaPan's Time Machine website and how-to wiki provides detailed information
about the equipment and software needed  to create and stitch together
interactive gigapixel videos.
A video demonstrating the features of the GigaPan Time Machine can be found at
http://youtu.be/Dk9WanUO_gg.
http://timemachine.gigapan.org/wiki/Main_Page

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2011 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              814 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on March 04 titled as "Apparatus
and method for decoding video encoded using a temporal filter"

LENGTH: 267  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,665,952 on
March 04, 2014, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Apparatus and method for
decoding video encoded using a temporal filter"

Inventors:  Grange; Adrian (Cambridgeshire, GB), Wilkins; Paul (Cambridge, GB),
Galligan; Francis William (Clifton Park, NY)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Embodiments of an apparatus and method for decoding an encoded bitstream to
generate a video signal are taught. A decoder receives the bitstream and decodes
a portion thereof to obtain at least a portion of a predictive reference frame.
The reference frame is generated by, for example, selecting a filter set
including a target frame with a block having a plurality of pixels and at least
one adjacent frame, determining a coding mode associated with the block,
determining a block-specific factor derived from the coding mode, determining
weighted averages of pixels in the filter set and using the weighted averages to
generate the predictive reference frame. The decoder also generates a residual
from another portion of the encoded bitstream that represents a portion of a
frame of the plurality of frames and reconstructs the portion of the frame by
adding the residual to the predictive reference frame."

The patent was filed on November 28, 2011 Application no. 13/305,033

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              815 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday

iPhone 5 Vs Galaxy S III: Which is better?

LENGTH: 2064 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 22 -- Apple has finally announced the much-awaited iPhone 5
smartphone with new design and hardware inside than the older iPhones. While
price of this smartphone still remains a mystery, many plan to purchase and
aspire to own the new iPhone 5. But if you have waited so long to own the iPhone
5, just rest and check another giant in the smartphone industry -- the Android
based Samsung Galaxy S III.

Samsung Galaxy S III and Apple iPhone 5 are the two top of the line smartphones
offering different experiences over different mobile operating systems. While
many basic details about the Apple iPhone 5 are still to be clarified, we think
it just fine to compare on existing features to get an overview of about these
two smartphones as competitors.

Do note that since Apple iPhone 5 is yet to be made available in India or even
in the USA, we would be skipping the portions that involve benchmarks and other
missing details of the iPhone 5.

1. Display

Samsung proudly showed the new Galaxy S III on May 3 in London this year. The
Galaxy S III GT-I9300 features a HD Super Amoled display built using the Corning
Gorilla Glass 2 which is lighter, thinner and promises to provide more strength.

Measuring 4.8-inch diagonally, the display by default offers 1280x720 pixel
resolution support and has 302 pixels per inch density. Basically this display
panel is capable of producing the colours as well as white rapidly and do not
require additional backlight for that.

Supporting the HD resolution, this display supports multi-touch, bounces minimal
possible reflection and consumes least possible amount of energy. Currently,
this is the top of the line display technology meant for smartphones used by
Samsung amongst the Google Android based devices.

Apple has made fundamental changes to the display and resolution of the iPhone 5
when compared to its predecessor models. The new iPhone 5 comes with a 4-inch
Retina display which is based on the LCD IPS panel technology and offers
1136x640 pixel resolution natively. In terms of pixel density, the iPhone 5
offers about 326 pixels per inch.

Besides having higher pixel density, the new retina display used in the iPhone 5
will appear more vibrant than the iPhone 4S -- all thanks to the higher pixel
density. Also this is the new in-cell technology that integrates the
touch-detecting sensors inside the retina display panel to make the display as
thin as possible.

For those who prefer slightly bigger display for reading text and watching
movies comfortably, then the Samsung Galaxy S III might be the right one. When
it comes to colour reproduction and saturation, the Samsung Galaxy S III has an
edge over the iPhone 4S. But with the new larger and higher resolution
supporting display, the Apple iPhone 5 might come on top of the Galaxy S III.

Design

Apple iPhone 5 comes with anodised aluminium back panel with glass panels to
pack the phone together. With thinner 7.6 mm form factor, the iPhone 5 weighs
mere 112 grams.

On the other hand, the Galaxy S III is 8.6 mm thick and weighs about 133 grams.

In terms of physical design and demographics, Apple iPhone 5 will appeal to
those who always aspired to own one. Apple has just managed to grip the cake
tighter with the new materials used and making the iPhone lighter and thinner
than ever.

On the other hand, the Galaxy S III offers one of the best designs amidst the
plethora of Google Android based devices.

Hardware

Under the 7.6 mm body, the iPhone 5 packs a new Apple A6 mobile processor that
is claimed to be twice as fast as the Apple A5 mobile processor.

Even for the graphics, Apple has used the same words -- twice as fast as the
Apple A5 mobile processor. The Apple A6 mobile processor bearing iPhone 5, in a
way, becomes the first smartphone to arrive with ARM Cortex A15 MPCore processor
inside.

Inside the Apple A6 is a dual-core ARM Cortex A15 processor clocked at 1.2 GHz
speed to run smoothly. By default, Apple has packed 1 GB RAM inside the iPhone 5
and this will certainly make several power users as well as developers happy.
Reason being, developers will be able to pack more graphics and larger file size
bearing apps due to beefed up resolution.

Also the dual-core A6 processor along with the 1 GB RAM will work harmoniously
to load the apps faster than on previous generation devices.

For best quality graphics, the Apple A6 mobile processor packs PowerVR SGX
6200MP2, a dual-core graphics chip. Well, here is the time to rejoice for the
avid mobile gamers and multimedia fanatics. The new dual-core GPU chip is
actually a powerhouse and support the latest graphics API to deliver crisper
quality graphics without much energy consumption. Basically, this new graphics
chip is technically capable of delivering twice the performance of the graphics
chip used in the Apple iPad 3.

Samsung Galaxy S III houses the company manufactured quad-core 1.4 GHz Exynos 4
Quad 4412 mobile processor. This processor packs four ARM Cortex-A9 mobile cores
and is coupled with 1 GB RAM.

A special edition Galaxy S III with 2 GB RAM for Korea has been announced. This
Samsung smartphone comes with ARM's Mali-400MP4 graphics chip which offers four
graphics cores. Clearly, the power of four CPU cores and four graphic cores
works in the favour of the Galaxy S III.

However, we shall not shy away from the prowess showed by the dual-core Qualcomm
Snapdragon S4 mobile processors that could match up and even out-perform
quad-core Nvidia Tegra 3 mobile processors on certain grounds.

The Apple iPhone 5 and Galaxy S III feature almost common set of features when
it comes to GPS technologies. Both smartphones offer built-in GPS, Assisted GPS
and also support for the GLONASS satellites network mesh maintained by the
Russian government. Both smartphone feature Bluetooth 4.0 but only Samsung
Galaxy S III has the Near Field Communication chip. That clearly sends the
message that Apple is still not ready to step in to the NFC world with its
products.

Samsung Galaxy S III uses the industry standard micro USB port while Apple has
introduced new Lightning connector to charge the 9-pin port of the iPhone 5.
Apple announced support for Wideband Audio most often known as HD Voice for
better audio quality during voice calls.

Camera

Apple has used a new generation 8 megapixel iSight camera that promises great
quality images and also full 1080p HD video recording. The iSight camera is
presumed to comprise of the new generation Backside Illumination technology
based OmniPixel3-HS image sensor. The new 8 megapixel iSight camera is about 25
per cent smaller than the one OmniBSI-2 image sensor used in the iPhone 4S.

The iSight camera of iPhone 5 can click pictures 40 percent faster and
constructed using f/2.4 lens is made from five elements and now includes
Sapphire crystal which makes it thinner and even more durable than glass. The
capabilities of the Apple A6 mobile processor's graphic chip are tapped to
reduce noise and the image sensor promises greater performance even in low-light
environments.

Apple has added new panoramic switch mode that will let the users shoot
beautiful panoramic scenes to up to 28 megapixels.

The full 1080p HD video recording has been improved with better image
stabilisation and face detection of up to 10 faces. Most importantly, Apple has
finally managed implement the capability of shooting still images while
recording video -- a feature that HTC One X loves to flaunt. Even the front
facing camera has been bumped to 1.2 Megapixel and offers capability to capture
720p HD videos.

On the other hand, the Samsung Galaxy S III comes with 8 megapixel camera that
is capable of clicking high quality images with zero shutter lag. Also there is
a burst mode that allows capturing 20 images in 6 seconds and that too at full 8
megapixel resolution. The camera is also capable of recording full 1080p HD
videos with least possible noise.

The Galaxy S III is one of the sharpest image quality offering Android
smartphone in the market at this moment.

Also it has a new Smart-Stay feature that uses the front facing camera to detect
if the user is awake or asleep and accordingly puts the display in sleep mode.

Mobile Operating Systems

Apple will introduce the new iOS 6 software update by default on the Apple
iPhone 5. This new software update brings plethora of features; most notable
among them is the Maps app. Apple has designed and used its cartography for the
new Maps app which also offers realistic 3D views and turn by turn based
navigation.

The much talked about virtual digital assistant, Siri, now brings support for
more languages and is available in more countries. Facebook service has now been
integrated inside the iOS operating system and thereby you can share updates,
images and videos using native options.

Thankfully, Facebook is also working on a Cocoa Touch based native app for the
iOS platform. So Facebook lovers will simply endure the integration along with
the upcoming official Facebook app hopefully. With improved mobile Safari
browser, the iOS devices can look forward to snappier mobile web browsing
experience. Apple has added new Passbook app that offers storing movie tickets,
coupons, passes, loyalty cards, etc.

Samsung Galaxy S III runs the Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich with company's new
Nature UX (user experience) that comes with least possible implementation of its
TouchWiz user interface. Samsung has confirmed to release the latest Android 4.1
Jelly Bean update with significant improvements for Galaxy S III.

The company has also taken competition for voice-driven natural language
processing with the new S-Voice feature that functions almost like the Apple
Siri. Besides, Samsung has added several other improvements such as task manager
and other features in the Android 4.0 ICS update itself. Both smartphone
operating systems have just entered their prime and will be offering the
smartphone experience that everyone dreamt about.

Network and Wireless Connectivity

Samsung Galaxy S III for India comes with high-speed 3G networks support while
for select regions, the company will introduce 4G LTE network supporting models
too. This smartphone has Bluetooth 4.0 for low-power files transfer. For
wireless Internet, Galaxy S III has a Wi-Fi support (802.11 a/b/g/n) and also
Wi-Fi Direct feature along with capability to create mobile hotspot.

Apple will offer the iPhone 5 in GSM and CDMA models separately. Both models
will support Long Term Evolution network (different bands) with the Qualcomm's
new smaller modem chip.

Apple has added dual-band (2.4 GHz and 5 GHz for 802.11n) Wi-Fi network support
for faster download and browsing speeds. Now the company allows FaceTime video
calling over cellular network too.

Battery

When it comes to battery, Samsung has upped the ante by adding a 2100 mAh
battery in the monstrous Galaxy S III. That allows the smartphone to make up for
the quad-core mobile processor and the quad-core graphics chip inside. Besides
the alleged battery drain issues of the Android operating system, the Galaxy S
III promises talk time of about 11.5 hours on 3G Network and over 20 hours on 2G
networks.

Apple iPhone 5 with beefed up hardware and bigger display promises talk time of
8 hours on 3G network as well as LTE network. Meanwhile, users can expect about
10 hours of battery life on Wi-Fi network.

However, Apple does promise 40 hours of music listening and 10 hours of video
playback. When it comes to one of the most important feature of a smartphone --
battery, Samsung takes away the cake.

Can we conclude yet?

Several other parameters are yet to be compared but that comes into light when
both devices are tested side by side. Most important aspect that plays a crucial
role is the price of these smartphones. Apple has introduced iPhone 5 at the
same price (on contract) in the USA and is yet to announce the price of unlocked
models.

Meanwhile, Samsung has just announced a price cut in the USA on its Galaxy S III
model.

The real winner is the smartphone that offers over all best performance, greater
battery life and consistent experience. From the specifications perspective,
Samsung Galaxy S III should welcome its new competitor - Apple iPhone 5 in the
battle ground. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              816 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ANYONE FOR 10-INCH? THE iPAD'S GOT COMPANY;
Finally Apple has real competition from its two main rivals, Google and
Microsoft. Matt Bingham sizes up the newcomers against the 100m-selling big shot

BYLINE: Matt Bingham

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 953 words


Steve Jobs was right when he talked of how we were entering the "post-PC" era.
He was just a bit premature. In 2007 people scoffed at the claim. Five years on,
things look different. Traditional computer sales are dropping as fast as iPad
sales are rising. Last month Apple announced that it had sold its 100 millionth
iPad and was shifting more tablets than any single PC manufacturer was selling
computers.

;But for the first time the iPad faces real competition. Last week Google and
Microsoft unveiled 10in tablets: showcases for their latest technology and
software, for sale at or below the price of Apple's bestselling device.

;Google's offering is the Nexus 10, the first 10in Android tablet it has put its
name to. Microsoft has the Surface, a 10.6in tablet running Windows 8, the first
version of the world's most popular operating system to be made for
touchscreens. The Surface is on sale now and starts at £399, the same price as
the entry-level "iPad with Retina Display", as Apple has styled the refreshed
9.7in tablet that was released on Friday. The Nexus 10 goes on sale on November
13, starting at £319. So who will be left standing in the three-way shootout?

We've had our hands on the tablet trio to bring you our assessment of the
advantages and drawbacks of each. Below you'll find the answer to the question
everyone will be asking: which one deserves space in your Christmas stocking?

GOOGLE/SAMSUNG NEXUS 10 £319-£389

Google's 10in device is only the second tablet to carry Nexus branding, which
the company applies to cutting-edge hardware that best shows off its Android
operating system. Made for Google by Samsung and available in 16GB and 32GB
versions, it has a 2,560 x 1,600-pixel screen, which is a higher pixel count
than the iPad with Retina Display.

;Like Samsung's Android phones, the Nexus 10 has a plastic casing that doesn't
feel premium. But what is lost in build quality is gained in lightness - it
weighs just 603g, against the aluminiumbodied iPad's 652g, making it noticeably
easier to hold. It runs an updated version of Android's latest Jelly Bean
software that allows multiple log-ins, so different people can use the same
device and each will see their own line-up of apps, email and other settings.

;Most impressive is the price. The 16GB Nexus 10 costs £319, £80 less than the
lowest-priced Retina iPad, and is in most respects at least as good a product.
Pricing has proved all-important for 7in Android tablets. The Nexus 7 - which
received a memory boost to 16GB last week - and Amazon's Kindle Fire HD, also
16GB, cost just £159 each and are the only non-iPad tablet big sellers to date.
Although figures have not been released, they are, to judge by the online
waiting lists, being snapped up as quickly as they are made.

;Verdict

Great screen, and the best version of Android yet.

;MICROSOFT SURFACE WITH WINDOWS RT £399-£559

Microsoft believes it doesn't have to undercut the iPad. Instead it has produced
an extremely competent 10.6in tablet for similar money: the Surface starts at
£399 with 32GB of storage. There's also a 64GB version. An optional,
magnetically attached "Touch Cover" protects the 1,920 x 1,080-pixel screen and
incorporates a keyboard with flat keys for £99 or superior, clicky keys for
£109. A hinged flap at the rear of the tablet allows it to stand at an angle for
video or to act as a laptop with keyboard.

;Both the Surface and the Nexus 10 have widescreen displays, unlike the iPad's
4:3 aspect ratio. The Microsoft device feels as fast and fluid to use, and
there's little to choose between the three tablets in terms of performance.

;The Surface runs the RT version of the new Windows 8. The operating software is
well written, although veteran Windows users will be thrown by the lack of a
Start button and an apparently Awol desktop. In fact it is in there, hidden
under an array of interactive tiles - each the shop window of a newly written
app. Many apps are installed; others can be added from Marketplace, Microsoft's
equivalent of the App Store. Apps that many users would think essential,
including iPlayer, Facebook and Twitter, are currently absent, although all can
be found through the browser.

;Verdict

Clever keyboard options and powerful software, but Microsoft's app cupboard is
looking bare.

;APPLE iPAD WITH RETINA DISPLAY £399-£659

Apple has tweaked its flagship tablet, putting a faster processor and upgraded
camera into the "new" iPad introduced just seven months ago but keeping the
2,048 x 1,536-pixel, 9.7in display - a once class-leading pixel density now
beaten by the Nexus 10's. A less welcome change is the smaller Lightning
connector: to dock this with any existing accessories you'll have to buy an
inelegant adaptor (£25). Memory options remain unchanged at 16GB, 32GB and 64GB.

;The screen still looks terrific: text appears particularly crisp; video and
photos are bright and colourful. Apple claims its A6X processor renders graphics
at twice the speed of the previous model, making the tablet an ever better games
machine.

;Thanks to the aluminium casing it feels a higher-quality product than Google's
tablet, although the Surface matches it for materials. It alone offers mobile
connections on 3G and 4G (via EE).

;Apple has by far the best-stocked app shop of any tablet maker: 275,000 have
been optimised for the big screen. But its operating system looks staid. Where
Apple icons can do little more than tell you how many emails remain unread or
whether there is a news story available, its rivals' resizeable, interactive app
icons offer at-a-glance previews without you having to open the relevant
software. It's the way forward.

;Verdict

The apps keep this on top, but the competition has never been closer.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              817 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday
                            All but Toronto Edition

Explore Rome, then Moscow's Red Square: Google Earth provides access to
satellite images

BYLINE: Deborah Stokes, Weekend Post

SECTION: WEEKEND POST: TRAVEL; Inside Travel; Pg. WP11

LENGTH: 515  words


Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to the former
Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over to
Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do so.
You can just sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called
Google Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every inch of the
planet within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say it
is the ultimate armchair travel experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available
to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available
to pretty much anyone, for free. Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely. People
are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful, they almost don't know what to
do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer
than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In
technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to six
inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features such as mountains and lakes
are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people in
Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is
already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says
Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google. "The same information
is available to anyone who flies above or drives by a piece of property."

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go
to http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows
users and only in English. Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows
you to "walk" around actual buildings. And sophisticated video technology allows
for "fluid, free-form" exploration. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around
whatever they see.

"You can literally explore a destination before you get there," says Broadhead.

That may take away some of the surprise factor for travellers, but sometimes
that's a good thing.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White
Photo: Google Earth; The Eiffel Tower dominates the landscape in Paris.; Black &
White
Photo: Google Earth / Cars can be seen driving around the Colosseum in Rome.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column; Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2005 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              818 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            October 10, 2016 Monday

Artificial intelligence

BYLINE: Marco Dalt146souza

LENGTH: 695  words


The lifeblood driving Google's new wave of devices

Search: it's the one thing that has pretty much defined Google. Which explains
why the product launches at their event on 4 October was clearly a concerted
move to extend 'search' further into people's pockets, kitchens, living rooms
and pretty much everywhere they live, seems like a natural progression for the
company.

Google's search is powered by a globally-distributed infrastructure of server
farms, terabit-speed network connections, and bleeding-edge software driven by
the advanced science of deep neural networks and natural language processing to
interpret raw data in ways that are startlingly human (that notification on your
Android phone which gently suggests leaving earlier for a flight owing to
unexpected traffic en route, for example.)

While their new Pixel phones, Google Home, the Chromecast Ultra, the Google WiFi
router and Daydream View will undoubtedly stoke fans for months to come, it
isn't really about the hardware. It's about the intelligence that's driving it
all--their cloud-based Google Assistant.

When it debuted at their I/O event in May this year, this service seemed like an
evolution of their ubiquitous 'Ok Google' voice recognition functionality that's
already available on millions of Android phones. But this piece of smart
software appears to be built to do more, to be the vanguard of Google's charge
in to imparting more human-like responses, context and conversation into their
new generation of smart devices.

Google Assistant is going to be baked right into the two new Pixel phones. This
smart AI service also serves as the foundation of their new Allo messaging app,
designed to leverage their Artificial Intelligence and search capabilities to
offer real-time suggestions and answers right within a chat environment.

With the new Google Home--a device that resembles a Bluetooth speaker--the aim
is to put voice up front and center of the daily experience. The only way to
communicate with it is by 'waking' it up with an "Ok Google", then asking it
pretty much any type of question. From the innocuous "What's the weather like
today", to being able to follow through with several related queries around the
topic, the device leverages Google Assistant to interpret questions, ferret
information from trusted sources on the Web, and respond to the user using
concise, natural speech.

Consider for a moment the AI at work here: a question like "Play me that song
from Dirty Dancing" would result in an elegant one-line acknowledgement followed
by just one song--the title track--being played. That's almost human-level
intelligence at work: deciphering that Dirty Dancing is a movie without being
explicitly told so, locating all the online sources that host its songs,
determining which of these songs is the most popular, and finally playing just
that one. And all of this happening in under a second.

Also announced was a new WiFi router that aims to add a few smarts into the home
wireless setup. With robust WiFi being the foundation of all this connected home
of the near future, this router was shown to communicate with other multiple
Google WiFi routers to automatically modulate strength of the wireless mesh
network to provide the best overall coverage--and bandwidth--to connected
devices.

It is intriguing to consider the possibilities of this new wave of devices,
backed by an ever-learning, always available and continuously evolving AI
engine. Assuming of course that all of this works as advertised. When breaking
through technology frontiers, it's always a question of whether a hArtificial
intelligence

Speech recognition uses advanced deep learning systems to understand the manner
in which each of us speak.

Vision systems, like the face detection box in your camera viewfinder, are
getting better that recognizing real objects.

Using the wealth of online data we generate, AI can now infer 'context' on its
own.ot new capability eventually turns out to be just a gimmick, or something
that would rock a user's world. Either way, connected AI systems are here to
stay--this is but the first of an impending wave.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              819 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     September 4, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Chrome 38 Brings New Responsive Image Element- 'Picture'

LENGTH: 323  words


The Picture element is based on new image tag in HTML 5.1 that helps developers
to design responsive websites more efficiently.

Thursday, September 04, 2014: The pictures and photograph on website, known as
simple images are all static images. But, Google's Chrome 38 is set to change
this old concept with a new responsive element called 'picture'. This would
bring a new responsive design to the website. The responsive design renders and
scales the elements on webpage in appropriate format for the screen size.

Senior Symbolic Software Engineer at Google, Andreas Rossberg said, "The Picture
element will bring elegant solution of responsive images on the website.
Previously, users were shown a duplicate resource of image. Developers can list
multiple images under one picture element, so that browser can pick up
appropriate image according to the screen size, pixel density and other
factors".

The HTML 5.1 has replaced image tag with superset element for image containers.
Google's picture element is based on this technology in W3C HTML 5.1. The HTML
5.1 specification draft says, "The picture element has multiple ing element
resouces. It helps authors to control or hint user's browser about which image
resource to choose. These image resources are of different screen size, pixel
density, viewport size, image format and other factors".

Chrome 38 will come with 64-bit build for Mac OSX. Some Linux distributions
namely, Ubuntu, Fedora, openSUSE, Debian and Red Hat already have a 64-bit beta
channel support but for Mac, this will be the first browser to provide 64-bit
build. Currently, Mac users can run Canary branch of Chrome to get a 64-bit
version of Chrome. Canary branch tends to crash every now and then. It is full
of bugs and issues. This new 64-bit build of Chrome for Mac should bring the
most stable and usable web browser for Mac platform. Chrome 37 64-bit build for
Windows is supposed to release in the same week.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              820 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                              July 15, 2016 Friday

Intex Aqua View: Not a worthy competitor

BYLINE: Karan Bajaj

SECTION: PANACHE

LENGTH: 743 words


NEW DELHI: Virtual Reality (VR) is something that is slowly gaining a lot of
hype. After big brands like Samsung, HTC, Lenovo and LG launched their VR
headsets, Indian brands have followed suit. Karbonn was the first to launch a
budget phone with a VR headset bundle and now Intex has launched their offering
in this space -it's called the Intex Aqua View.

The company includes a Google Cardboard type VR headset in the box -Intex calls
it the Intex Eyelet and says that it is based on version 2.0 of the Google
Cardboard design. It is compatible with any smartphone as long as it has a
gyroscope and accelerometer. It is made of good quality cardboard and feels
sturdy -there is a button on the top right and it worked with a 5.5-inch display
size without any issue. It has a QR code at the bottom for quick setup with the
Cardboard app too.

Some might say that the Karbonn offering is sturdier because it has a rigid
plastic body -the Intex Eyelet appears to be lacking in comparison. We should
also mention that there are various third party VR headsets that can you can buy
at a lower price from various e-commerce portals.

(Image: http://www.intex.in/)

On the phone is a dedicated setting for VR calibration -it is recommended to
calibrate your headset the first time before you start using it for the best
experience. Intex preloads the Google Cardboard as well as the Google Cardboard
camera on the device along with a few photos and videos to use with the VR
headset. You can install various other VR apps and games from the Google Play
store -we tried some of the usuals like Arte 360, Vrse, Rollecoaster as well as
YouTube and they all worked without any issue. However, the 5-inch display with
1280 x 720 pixels' resolution is far from ideal when it comes to VR use. You
will be able to see individual pixels through the lenses. Intex should have
offered at least full HD resolution on the screen for a better VR experience.

Specifications are like what we have seen on a number of devices launched in
this price range.There is a 1Ghz quad-core Mediatek processor, 2GB RAM, 16GB RAM
and a 2,200mAh battery. Since the phone has a nearstock user interface, the
navigation is smooth and there is no sluggishness. The phone had no issues
playing full HD videos as well as basic games like Subway Surfer and Crashing
Season.However, with heavier games like Dead Trigger 2, we noticed frame drops
during gameplay.With a full charge, the phone lasts from 9 am to 4pm.Considering
that using a phone for VR drains battery rather fast (20% consumed in around 10
minutes), one big issue is the lack of fast charging -it takes over 3 hours for
the phone to charge from 0 to 100%.

Camera performance from the Aqua view is a mixed bag. The rear 8MP camera's
daylight images look good on the phone's display but on close inspection, we
could see that they lacked sharpness. Images captured indoors also look fine on
the screen but there is visible noise. The front camera also had similar issues
and often resulted in dark images indoors since it failed to capture enough
light. Video recording is supported in full HD quality and is the saving grace
with above average quality.

(Image: http://www.intex.in/)

There are two more issues with the phone. First is that while it comes with a
front fingerprint scanner, it doesn't work properly -it worked fine 3 out of 10
attempts. We tried setting up different fingers also but the fingerprint failed
to work as expected. Second, there is no USB OTG support on the phone which is
disappointing.

The build quality of the phone is impressive. It looks and feels great in hand
even though it's not a full metal body. The back panel is removable and has a
brushed metal finish with a slight curve for better ergonomics. Up front, the
fingerprint scanner is placed under the screen and looks very similar to what
you get on the iPhone 5 (complete with silver ring). The screen has thick black
bezels on all four sides -that's never nice to look at either.

Overall, the Intex Aqua View has more negatives than positives. If it's only a
VR experience that you want, Intex and Karbonn are the only two that offer a
bundled headset. We would suggest that you buy a third party headset and use it
with a better phone. For instance, you buy the Coolpad Note 3 Plus at the same
price. It offers better hardware and a full HD screen. A third-party VR headset
will cost an additional Rs 1,000 \xAD 2,000.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              821 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Namibian Sun

                            October 24, 2016 Monday

Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'

LENGTH: 549  words


Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'Digital companies compete in
bricks and mortar The global tech company is testing the waters with its first
physical retail operation in the US. It's not exactly a store, but the Google
"showroom" that opened on Thursday in New York is the internet giant's first
real-world shop and a step onto terrain where rival Apple has excelled.



The success of the temporary storefront Google opened in the trendy Soho
neighbourhood could help the California-based company decide whether to follow
Apple's lead and operate its own brick-and-mortar retail operation.

The New York pop-up shop will be open through the end of this year, and let
people get their hands on new Google devices such as Pixel smartphones which
began shipping on Thursday in a direct challenge to Apple's latest iPhones.

"This is not even a testing ground, just an extension of the launch," Google
spokeswoman Chrissy Persico said at the showroom opening event.

"We want people to come in and experience the products."

Google early this month took on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push
into hardware, launching the in-house designed Pixel smartphone and a slew of
other devices showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.

By producing both the phone hardware and its Android software, Google is making
a more direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.

The pop-up shop also displayed Google's freshly unveiled Daydream View virtual
reality headset, a modular wi-fi system, and a Home virtual assistant that will
challenge the Amazon Echo device.

Nothing is sold at the Google shop, but the staff directs potential customers to
the company's online store or telephone operators who can take orders for
products.

'Big battle'

A wall in the shop is decorated with an artful arrangement of blue, red, yellow
and green blocks, arranged to display the internet company's trademark colours.


Only 30 or so visitors ventured into the pop-up store for its opening morning, a
lean showing in comparison to mobs typically drawn to new Apple stores.

Apple has a shop in Soho, too, and many more across the country and around the
world.

As differences on the hardware side of premium smartphones have faded,
competitors have increasingly stressed "experiences" such as smoothly accessing
content or services.

"I am interested in technology, so I just hang out in stores," Columbia
University student Ravi Lakshmanan told AFP in the Google shop. "There is going
to be a big battle of platforms and it's going to be interesting to watch."


Another visitor, Ike McLaughlin, said he has flip-flopped between the rivals but
is on Google's side for now because he felt Apple was "playing it safe, when
Google is taking risks and making a push in artificial intelligence".

McLaughlin's verdict echoes the concerns of analysts that Apple has not
delivered a market-shaking new product since the death of visionary co-founder
Steve Jobs in 2011.

But even if its market capitalisation has fallen below peaks hit in 2015, Apple
remains the world's most valuable company based on its share price.

For the financial year ending September 2015, Apple posted a net profit of US$53
billion (N$742 billion), double the figure posted in the last year of the reign
of Steve Jobs.

NAMPA/AFP

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1808


                              Copyright 2016 NHM.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              822 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Google offers travellers a preview of their destination: Service available only
to Windows users

BYLINE: Deborah Stokes, National Post

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. F12

LENGTH: 517  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


TORONTO -- Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to
the former Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over
to Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do
so. You can just sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called
Google Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every inch of the
planet within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say it
is the ultimate armchair travel experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available
to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available
to pretty much anyone, for free. Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely. People
are stunned when they see this. It's so powerful, they almost don't know what to
do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer
than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In
technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to six
inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features such as mountains and lakes
are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people in
Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is
already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says
Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google. "The same information
is available to anyone who flies above or drives by a piece of property."

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go
to http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows
users and only in English. Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows
you to "walk" around actual buildings. And sophisticated video technology allows
for "fluid, free-form" exploration. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around
whatever they see.

"You can literally explore a destination before you get there," says Broadhead.

That may take away some of the surprise factor for travellers, but sometimes
that's a good thing.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              823 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                               May 1, 2016 Sunday

HP's new Chromebook 13 is thin and versatile;
PERSONAL TECH

BYLINE: Ed Baig

SECTION: ; Pg. Z6

LENGTH: 311 words


The HPChromebook 13 can be docked.

NEW YORK HP unveiled a handsome new Chromebook on Thursday that invites
comparisons with Apple's MacBook Air on thinness and lightness, and Google's own
Pixel tablet as far as a high-end machine based on Google's cloud-based Chrome
operating system.

Several other laptop manufacturers also produce Chromebooks built on the Chrome
OS for computers. Chrome is distinct from the Android OS that Google and its
partners employ on smartphones and tablets.

HP says the new machine is the first Chromebook to run Intel's latest 6th
generation Core M processor and the first

to offer a docking

solution for a

Chromebook based

on the emerging USB-C standard, accomplished through

a $199 compact Docking Station accessory.

During my brief time getting to try it out during at event at Google's Chelsea
Market offices in New York City, I didn't get to crank up the volume, but it
also promises top sound through Bang & Olufsen. Called Chrome-book 13 and
constructed of a brushed anodized aluminum

body, the new computer is

about half an inch

thin and weighs under 3 pounds. The base

unit starts at $499. Of course, with more robust specs, the price of Chromebook
13 can climb north of a grand.

The 13.3-inch display with QHD resolution looks impressive, though there is no
current touchscreen option, something I frequently take advantage of with Pixel.

My brief reaction typing on the Chromebook 13 keyboard was very positive. So was
my reaction to the way it feels.

During Thursday's press event, HP and Google emphasized Chromebook 13's use in
enterprise environments and demonstrated how the docked unit could drive full
"virtualized" (through Citrix) versions of Excel and PowerPoint on one monitor
and an Android version of Ever-note on another, with no visible lag in
performance. But they also plan to sell the computers for home and educational
use.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              824 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                                  July 28 2011

12 lesser-known tricks and hidden features of Google+

BYLINE: Hitesh Raj Bhagat & Karan Bajaj

SECTION: INTERNET

LENGTH: 820 words


You may have started using Google+, but did you know that you could edit photos
in it? Integrate it with other social networks? Or video Chat in HD? Like with
any new service, there are a lot of hidden features and lesser-known tricks in
Google+, just waiting to be explored. ET offers 12 killer tips just as Google+
goes out of beta.

1) If you have commented on a post, but do not want notifications of the
follow-up comments coming to your inbox, there is a simple way out. Go to the
original post and on the right side you will see a drop down arrow. Click on the
arrow and select 'mute conversation'. You can choose to shut off all
notifications from Google+ settings as well.

2) If you do not want others to see the people in your Circles, go to your
profile page and click on 'edit profile'. On the left side, you will see a small
grey disc just above the photographs of your Circle members. Click on the disc
and in the box that opens, you can choose the visibillity of your circle
members.

3) You can setup Google+ to send notifications to your mobile phone as well.
Click on the gear icon on the top right corner and select Google+ settings. On
the page that opens, go to 'delivery preferences' and under your email address
you'll see the option to add a mobile number to receive push notifications.
Enter your phone number and Google will first send you a verification code.
After verification, you will start receiving free notifications on your phone by
sms.

4) By default, video chat in Google+ uses standard definition video, but if your
webcam supports it, you can enable HD video support. First, sign in to chat,
hover the mouse cursor over the chat section on the Google+ page, click on the
small triangle that appears and then click on settings. Here, you'll see a
checkbox to enable HD video chat.

5) There is a built-in basic photo editor in Google+ as well. Select any of the
photos uploaded to your profile and double click on it to edit. It will open the
image in a full page - click on the 'actions' box below the image and here you
can rotate the photos or click on edit to apply a variety of basic effects and
tune-ups.

6) The Circle feature can be used to save various shared links and notes if you
want to read them later. Go to Circles, create a new Circle, name it whatever
you want (like 'Read Later') and do not add anyone in it (Google calls it an
Empty Circle). Now, whatever you want to read later, share it on your Google+
status with only this empty Circle that you have created. It will work as your
online repository for bookmarks, videos and any other thing you want to access
later.

7) To add a faux banner to your Google+ profile page, you will need to do a bit
of photo cropping and resizing using an image editing program. Paste a photo
into a template, 750 pixels wide and 150 pixels high and resize it to fit. Then,
split this image into 5 smaller photos, each with a dimension of 150 x 150
pixels. Go to your profile page, click on 'edit profile' and upload the images
in the order that you want.

8) To share your location with a person or a circle, first click the share
button on the top right of the Google+ page, then click the 'add your location'
button in the text box that pops up. You may have to click 'allow' if a webpage
notification comes up. Once Google+ has determined your location, just add names
to add them to the share list, or add a complete Circle.

9) Using Google Chrome with Google+ gives you a whole host of new things to play
with, thanks to free extensions. For example, an extension called Helper for
Google+ allows you to share your Google+ posts to Twitter, while an extension
called Surplus integrates Google+ right into the browser. With it, you can
post/share though a pop-up or get desktop notifications even if the Google+
webpage is not open.

(##include msid=2459375,type=9 ##)

10) Let's say you want to share a specific post with someone new to Google+ -
the easiest way to do this would be to share a permalink (permanent link). To
get a permalink for a specific post, simply click the time stamp in the post -
and it will open in a new page. Copy this link to share with anyone over email
or chat, even if they don't have a Google+ account.

11) Google+ allows you to post updates in a variety of styles. To post in bold,
add an asterisk at the beginning and end of the word (i.e., * word *). To post
in italics, add an underscore before the word and a plus sign after it (i.e., _
word +). To post with a strikethrough, add a dash before and after the word
(i.e., - word -).

12) To add your various other social networking websites or contacts to your
Google+ profile page, first go to Google+ settings by clicking on the gear icon
in the top right of the page. Then click on 'connected accounts' and add the
accounts here. For instance, to add your Facebook account, type
http://facebook.com/

Your username in the box.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              825 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

12 hidden features of Google+

LENGTH: 873 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, July 30 -- You may have started using Google+, but did you know that
you could edit photos in it? Integrate it with other social networks? Or video
Chat in HD? Like with any new service, there are a lot of hidden features and
lesser-known tricks in Google+, just waiting to be explored.

Here are 12 killer tips just as Google+ goes out of beta.

Avoid comment notifications

If you have commented on a post, but do not want notifications of the follow-up
comments coming to your inbox, there is a simple way out. Go to the original
post and on the right side you will see a drop down arrow. Click on the arrow
and select 'mute conversation'. You can choose to shut off all notifications
from Google+ settings as well.

Hide your circles

If you do not want others to see the people in your Circles, go to your profile
page and click on 'edit profile'. On the left side, you will see a small grey
disc just above the photographs of your Circle members. Click on the disc and in
the box that opens, you can choose the visibillity of your circle members.

Notifications on SMS

You can setup Google+ to send notifications to your mobile phone as well. Click
on the gear icon on the top right corner and select Google+ settings. On the
page that opens, go to 'delivery preferences' and under your email address
you'll see the option to add a mobile number to receive push notifications.

Enter your phone number and Google+ will first send you a verification code.
After verification, you will start receiving free notifications on your phone by
sms.

Video chat in HD

By default, video chat in Google+ uses standard definition video, but if your
webcam supports it, you can enable HD video support. First, sign in to chat,
hover the mouse cursor over the chat section on the Google+ page, click on the
small triangle that appears and then click on settings. Here, you'll see a
checkbox to enable HD video chat.

Photo editor

There is a built-in basic photo editor in Google+ as well. Select any of the
photos uploaded to your profile and double click on it to edit. It will open the
image in a full page - click on the 'actions' box below the image and here you
can rotate the photos or click on edit to apply a variety of basic effects and
tune-ups.

Empty Circle

The Circle feature can be used to save various shared links and notes if you
want to read them later. Go to Circles, create a new Circle, name it whatever
you want (like 'Read Later') and do not add anyone in it (Google calls it an
Empty Circle).

Now, whatever you want to read later, share it on your Google+ status with only
this empty Circle that you have created. It will work as your online repository
for bookmarks, videos and any other thing you want to access later.

Faux banner

To add a faux banner to your Google+ profile page, you will need to do a bit of
photo cropping and resizing using an image editing program. Paste a photo into a
template, 750 pixels wide and 150 pixels high and resize it to fit. Then, split
this image into 5 smaller photos, each with a dimension of 150 x 150 pixels. Go
to your profile page, click on 'edit profile' and upload the images in the order
that you want.

Share location

To share your location with a person or a circle, first click the share button
on the top right of the Google+ page, then click the 'add your location' button
in the text box that pops up. You may have to click 'allow' if a webpage
notification comes up. Once Google+ has determined your location, just add names
to add them to the share list, or add a complete Circle.

Integrate Google+ with Twitter

Using Google Chrome with Google+ gives you a whole host of new things to play
with, thanks to free extensions. For example, an extension called Helper for
Google+ allows you to share your Google+ posts toTwitter, while an extension
called Surplus integrates Google+ right into the browser. With it, you can
post/share though a pop-up or get desktop notifications even if the Google+
webpage is not open.

Sharing with non Google+ users

Let's say you want to share a specific post with someone new to Google+ - the
easiest way to do this would be to share a permalink (permanent link). To get a
permalink for a specific post, simply click the time stamp in the post - and it
will open in a new page. Copy this link to share with anyone over email or chat,
even if they don't have a Google+ account

Style posts

Google+ allows you to post updates in a variety of styles. To post in bold, add
an asterisk at the beginning and end of the word (i.e., * word *). To post in
italics, add an underscore before the word and a plus sign after it (i.e., _
word +). To post with a strikethrough, add a dash before and after the word
(i.e., - word -).

Get Facebook on Google+

To add your various other social networking websites or contacts to your Google+
profile page, first go to Google+ settings by clicking on the gear icon in the
top right of the page. Then click on 'connected accounts' and add the accounts
here. For instance, to add yourFacebook account, type . Your username in the
box. Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              826 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 ENTERTAINMENT

Weekly art websites: pixel art

SECTION: ART, SHOWS & EXHIBITIONS

LENGTH: 388 words


This  week's selection of websites helps you discover amazing works of art
using pixels and shows you where to go to learn how to create your own  pixel
artworks.

Eboy - http://hello.eboy.com/eboy/
Perhaps  one of the most recognizable and well publicized pixel art groups
today,  Eboy (comprised of German artists Kai Vermehr, Steffen Sauerteig and
Svend Smital), has created work for the likes of Adidas, Amazon, Coca-Cola,
DKNY, Google, Microsoft, Nike, and Wired magazine.
Invader - http://www.space-invaders.com/
If  you have ever seen pixelated Space Invader mosaic tiles cemented to a  wall,
it is more than likely the work of the French street artist going  by the alias
"Invader." His recent artworks employ hundreds of Rubik's  Cubes to create
intricate pixelated artworks.
Army of Trolls - http://www.armyoftrolls.co.uk/
Gary  J Lucken is a pixel artist based in the UK whose artwork has been used  by
clients such as the BBC, Disney, Sony, Yahoo and GQ.
Goon Tower - http://www.goontower.com/
Goon Tower is a virtual pixel art tower. Each level has been created by users
from the SomethingAwful.com website.
3D map of Hong Kong - http://hongkong.edushi.com/?l=en
Looking for a different way to explore Hong Kong? This three-dimensional map of
the city has been created using pixels.

Tuukka Savolainen -- http://www.polyfonken.com/
Tuukka   Savolainen aka Polyfonken aka Ghost Monkey is a graphic, games and
concept designer from Finland with some fantastic pixel artworks up his
sleeve.
Pixelstitch - http://www.pixelstitch.net/
Pixelstich  is a collaborative project that fuses cross-stitching with pixel
graphics. Designs pictured on the website have been submitted by  designers,
pixel artists or members of the public.
Pixel Joint - http://www.pixeljoint.com/pixels/new_icons.asp
Pixel  Joint is an art community dedicated to pixel art. Members can submit
artwork to a public gallery or find people to collaborate with in the  forums.
Pixel Art Tutorial - http://www.natomic.com/hosted/marks/mpat/
A website that will show you the tools you need and some general pixel art
skills to help you create your own works of art.
Isometric Pixel Art Tutorial - http://www.biorust.com/tutorials/detail/247/en/
An intensive tutorial that will guide you from the basics of pixel art through
to advanced isometric pixel art techniques.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2010 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              827 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 1, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Screen savers with all features great and small;
Small-form Android tablets offer hardware close to the standards of the iPad
Mini but at much lower prices. Matt Bingham tries out four

BYLINE: Matt Bingham

SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 963 words


BEST FOR VALUE Tesco Hudl2 (EURO)170 The new tablet from the supermarket giant
is terrific value for money. Its specs might not be class-leading but are by no
means shabby, and unlike the plasticky first Hudl, this time round the hardware
is housed in an attractive case with a soft coating for easy handling. The
bright, sharp and colourful 8.3in display is 192200 pixels, working out at 273
pixels per inch (ppi). The 16GB of memory might come under pressure if you take
advantage of the bundled discount for Blinkbox, Tesco's video download and
streaming service, but can be supplemented with a memory card of up to 32GB.
Frankly the only giveaways that this is a budget tablet are the cameras, with
5Mp to the rear and a 1.2Mp on the front, and - if you must use it without
headphones - the sound, which is tinny.

Otherwise the Hudl2 will handle most users' gaming, video and webbrowsing chores
without breaking sweat. If you are a regular Tesco shopper and collect points,
you can get it for a discounted price.

Verdict Looks, feels and in most respects performs like a premiumpriced product.

??? www.tesco.ie BEST FOR BUDGET 4G Vodafone Smart Tab 4G (EURO)199 Opting for
the 4G version of a tablet is normally expensive, but this 8in Android tablet is
very affordable. At the base price you add a free Vodafone Sim and then pay for
data as you use it; alternatively, take out a two-year contract (starting at
(EURO)24.99 a month for 1GB of data) and the tablet comes free. The Smart Tab
runs on the slowest processor here, and other specs are similarly basic: the
1280x800-pixel screen gives 189ppi - meaning you'll notice the pixels when
looking at fine text - and it is less bright compared with others on test.
Memory is just 8GB (although up to 64GB MICROSD cards are supported), and the
cameras are 5Mp at the rear and 2Mp on the front. That said, it feels tough and
well built, while 4G data is fast and effortless to use, assuming you're in a
zone with good signal, such as a city centre. Stray into the sticks and unless
you can find wi-fi, you're down to 3G or slower: fine for email, less so for the
web.

Verdict A mobile data bargain - assuming Vodafone coverage.

{{{{(vodafone.ie BEST FOR BATTERY Lenovo Yoga Tablet 2 (8in) (EURO)259.99 The
Yoga is quirky but practical. The cylinder at the base of the screen contains a
battery big enough to power the tablet for up to 18 hours between recharges;
real-world use suggests more like 12 hours, but it's still double the life of
any other tablet on test. It also houses a kick-stand on a hinge that lets you
prop up the tablet in landscape mode at any angle you like, or hang from a hook
- useful in a kitchen or other messy environment - and a pair of speakers for
decent stereo sound. On the downside, teasing out the stand from its position
flush against the rear case is not easy, and the design is heavy and awkward to
hold. The Yoga 2's 8in display contains 192200 pixels for 283ppi, its cameras
are a rear-facing 8Mp and a 1.6Mp on the front, there's 16GB of memory and it
takes MICROSD cards of up to 64GB. Like all the tablets tested bar the Nexus 9
it comes with "bloatware" - services installed by the maker that you might not
be able to remove. The Yoga 2 is the most weighed down by these largely
unnecessary apps.

Verdict Brilliant battery life and useful upright desktop mode.

??? www.lenovo.com/ie BEST FOR DISPLAY Google Nexus 9 from (EURO)399 Nexus
products are endorsed by Google and are intended as showcases for its latest
Android software and apps. They also used to be great value for money, but this
tablet is nudging Apple-price territory. So is it worth the cost? It is made by
HTC for Google, and you get a lovely 8.9in display with 2048x1536 pixels for a
best-in-test 281ppi, plus it runs the latest version of Android - Lollipop -
which as well as performance tweaks brings a clean new look to the operating
system. The 8Mp rear and 1.6Mp front-facing cameras are the most impressive here
too - but not as good as the iPad's ones, if you must use a tablet to take shots
- while its 2.3GHZ processor is also the most powerful of our four. Among the
optional accessories are a clever case that doubles as a stand, with a corner
that folds back to expose the rear camera, and a magnetic wireless
keyboard/cover. But build quality is disappointing for the price, and there's no
way of expanding the 16GB of memory unless you plump for the 32GB version.

Verdict Looks overpriced in this company. ????? www.google.co.uk/nexus/9 BUYER'S
GUIDE Apple or Android? The iPad Mini was Apple's answer to small Android
tablets such as these, and despite being late to the party in some ways it is
the best. The 7.9in Mini 3 offers an outstanding screen resolution of 326ppi,
has a best-in-class rear camera and runs on a chip designed by Apple for its
mobile devices. It's supported too by the App Store and its 500,000-plus
tablet-optimised apps (there are far fewer for Android tablets). But the Mini 3
starts at (EURO)409 for a 16GB device, and no option to expand it with cheap
memory cards. If you use a tablet for web browsing, watching video, emails and
playing big-name games - most of which have Android versions as good as Apple
ones - then these devices hold their own against the Mini.

KitKat or Lollipop? All here bar the Nexus 9 run Android 4.4 - aka KitKat - the
second mostrecent version of Google's operating system. It's featurepacked,
although anyone used to Apple software will think it a little messy, especially
should you venture into the needlessly complicated settings. Version 5 - aka
Lollipop - brings a minimalist and attractive new look to the software,
particularly if in the main you use Google's own apps, such as Gmail and Chrome,
which have benefited from a similar makeover.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              828 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Take a free trip around the world with Google Earth: See the entire planet at
the click of a mouse

BYLINE: Deborah Stokes, CanWest News Service

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. G9

LENGTH: 514  words


Fasten your seatbelts for a wild ride. Zoom from the White House to the former
Republic Palace in Baghdad. Land in Moscow's Red Square then fly over to
Pyongyang, North Korea. And remarkably, you don't have to leave home to do so.
You can sit at your computer and access an amazing new service called Google
Earth, software that puts satellite images of almost every inch of the planet
within reach of your mouse -- for free. It is no exaggeration to say it is the
ultimate armchair travel experience.

You can zoom in from space to street level to explore cities, landmarks,
buildings, road networks, mountains, lakes, valleys. You can key in the address
of the hotel you'll be staying at on your vacation and check out how long it
will take you to walk to the nearest Starbucks.

Yes, I'm gushing, because Google Earth represents a paradigm shift on the
Internet. And I'm not alone in my praise.

"This reminds me of the first days of e-mail. The idea you could send a message
to France in an instant was so exciting," says Internet consultant and author
Rick Broadhead. "Normally, technology like satellite imagery was only available
to large media organizations or institutions. Now, Google has made it available
to pretty much anyone, for free.

"Is it a huge leap forward? Absolutely. People are stunned when they see this.
It's so powerful, they almost don't know what to do with the information."

The benefits for travellers are clear -- or at least as clear as the resolution
of images on Google Earth. What I'm saying is that some locations are clearer
than others, because different areas are covered at different resolutions. (In
technology terms, the resolution varies from one kilometre per pixel to six
inches per pixel. At the lowest resolution, features such as mountains and lakes
are visible. At the highest, you can see cars on the street, even people in
Tiananmen Square.)

The images are not live. Indeed, some are a year or two old. That's how Google
explains away the scarier aspects of this technology. Some nations, such as
India, Thailand and South Korea, have complained that Google Earth exposes
politically sensitive areas, leaving them vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

"It is important to know that Google Earth is built from information that is
already available from a wide range of both commercial and public sources," says
Eileen Rodriguez, spokeswoman for California-based Google. "The same information
is available to anyone who flies above or drives by a piece of property."

There are all sorts of other bells and whistles on the downloadable program (go
to http://earth.google.com), which at the moment is available only to Windows
users and only in English. Three-dimensional mapping of 38 U.S. cities allows
you to "walk" around actual buildings. And sophisticated video technology allows
for "fluid, free-form" exploration. Users can zoom in, tilt and rotate around
whatever they see.

"You can literally explore a destination before you get there," says Broadhead.

That may take away some of the surprise factor for travellers, but sometimes
that's a good thing.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              829 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on December 30 titled as
"Automatic background identification in video images"

LENGTH: 229  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,923,611, on
December 30, 2014, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Automatic background
identification in video images"

Inventors:  Carpenter; Thor (Snoqualmie, WA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods and systems are provided allowing for background identification in
video images. A computer-implemented image processing method includes:
receiving, using at least one processing circuit, a plurality of image frames of
a video; constructing, using at least one processing circuit, a plurality of
statistical models of the plurality of image frames at a plurality of pixel
granularity levels; constructing, using at least one processing circuit, a
plurality of probabilistic models of an input image frame at a plurality of
channel granularity levels based on the plurality of statistical models; merging
at least some of the plurality of probabilistic models based on a weighted
average to form a single probability image; and determining background pixels,
based on a probability threshold value, from the single probability image."

The patent was filed on November 1, 2013 Application no. 14/070,412

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              830 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            February 3, 2009 Tuesday

Google, Yahoo United in Map Services

BYLINE: By Kim Tong-hyung

LENGTH: 827 words


Staff Reporter

Internet companies are competing to bring the real world to desktops, and usual
suspects Daum (www.daum.net) and Naver (www.naver.com) have emerged once again
as leaders of the pack.

This has global giants Google (www.google.co.kr) and Yahoo (www.yahoo.co.kr)
joining hands in Web maps and local search services as they can ill-afford to
allow their Korean rivals to extend their virtual duopoly into the new market.

Google Korea and Yahoo! Korea announced plans Tuesday to merge their key Web
services over the platforms of their digital maps and other location-based
services, hoping that the enriched applications would drive up traffic on both
sites.

Under the agreement, Google sprinkles video clips from YouTube (kr.youtube.com)
on Yahoo's map (map.yahoo.co.kr), while Yahoo interconnects its local search
service, Gugi (kr.gugi.yahoo.com), with Google's map (www.maps.google.co.kr).

The changes will be made this month and the content sharing will be extended to
the international version of Yahoo's Gugi services (global.gugi.yahoo.co.kr),
the companies said.

Korea has been one of the few rare markets where Google and Yahoo have struggled
to stay relevant, with Naver controlling around 75 percent of the search market
and Daum gobbling up the biggest of table scraps.

The two global giants have been stressing the need for creating an "open
environment" in Web services, obviously to compete with Naver's massive walled
garden, and Google Korea managing director Lee Won-jin said his company's
partnership with Yahoo is an extension of those movements.

"Korean Web portals have a reputation for their closed services, and this has
been hurting innovation in the Korean Internet industry," Lee said.

"The sharing of content between us and Yahoo could mark an important first step
toward an open Web environment in the Korean Internet sector and inspire
innovation," he said.

Google revealed the Korean version of "Google Maps" in November last year, a
free location service based on interactive maps and photo imagery.

The debut of the mapping service had been delayed due to Korean export
restrictions on mapping data. The problem was solved after Google eventually
agreed to operate the services on a Korean server.

Yahoo was the first portal here to provide photographic maps for the Web when it
revamped its digital map service in 2007.

Naver has long been the Internet industry's "common enemy No.1," but at least
for digital maps, Daum seems to be the beast to beat.

It's been a while since Daum was No.1 at anything, and the perennial industry
runner-up is enjoying every minute of it.

The company's map service, introduced last month, is clearly blowing the
competition out of the water with its crystal-clear views of landscapes,
buildings, roads and the sushi restaurant you reserved for dinner.

Daum's map also provides "Road View," which provides a panoramic, ground-level
view of a given area, setting itself apart from rivals who rely on satellite
imagery.

It is believed that the company spent over 20 billion won (about $14 million) to
launch its map services, using airplanes for the aerial images and photo-mapping
vehicles for the ground-level images.

Daum's laborious efforts are clearly paying off, with the Web portal's daily
visitors doubling since the launching of the Web map, leaving company officials
euphoric.

According to Korean Click, a market research company, Daum's Web map services
lured more than 2.5 million visitors from Jan. 19 to 25, nearly doubling the 1.7
million visitors of the previous week.

In comparison, visitors to Yahoo's map service was just 530,000 and Google's
numbers doesn't come close to even that.

Daum officials are confident that its detailed photographic map of the country
will remain as an industry standard for years to come. The company's map
provides a resolution of 50 centimeters per pixel, which is comparable to the
latest version of Google Maps.

Daum says it is already capable of enhancing the quality to 25 centimeters per
pixel, although Korean law, which sets the limit at 50 centimeters per pixel,
prevents it from doing so.

"There could be no shortcuts in the competition for quality in Web photo maps,"
said Son Kyung-wan, Daum's chief product officer.

"From start to finish, we were setting our own standards in product development
and quality. Honestly, we were never worried about whatever Yahoo or Google were
doing," he said.

It seems clear that neither Yahoo nor Google can compete with Daum in fanciness
or image resolution.

So joining hands to expand the features and content provided on their maps,
making them the Web equivalent of the Swiss army knife, seems as the logical
approach.

Gugi, which enables users to look for a business or service by typing in
business descriptions, street addresses or postal codes, is well reviewed for
its wealth of user-generated content such as ratings. This gives Google, which
had been lacking user-generated content, a crucial base to work on.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              831 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on January 27 titled as "Dynamic
coefficient reordering"

LENGTH: 240  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,942,290, on
January 27, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Dynamic coefficient
reordering"

Inventors:  Ameres; Eric (Cohoes, NY), Bankoski; James (Los Gatos, CA),
Lavarnway; Scott (Warrensburg, NY), Xu; Yaowu (San Diego, CA), Miller; Dan (New
York, NY), Grange; Adrian (Cambridge, GB), Wilkins; Paul (Cambridge, GB)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
system, apparatus, and method of compressing video data having at least one
frame having at least one block having an array of pixels. The method includes
transforming the pixels of the at least one block into coefficients, creating a
default transmission order of the coefficients, creating an optimal transmission
order of the coefficients, comparing a coefficient position of at least one of
the coefficients in the optimal transmission order with a coefficient position
of the at least one of the coefficients in the default transmission order;
determining an update value based on the comparison, and selectively encoding
position information of the at least one of the coefficients in the optimal
transmission order based on the update value."

The patent was filed on August 30, 2012 Application no. 13/599,315

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              832 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tablet shopping for Christmas? iPad mini versus the others; price and features
compared

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 502 words


With the unveiling of the iPad mini the battlefield is finally set for this
holiday season's tablet wars. The iPad mini sports a screen just under 8 inches
and a price of $329. Its opponents compete on price, performance and features.
Each offers something unique. So let's see how they stack up on paper. (We would
have liked to include the Kindle Fire HD, but it's currently only available in
the U.S.)

DISPLAY

Although the iPad mini boasts the largest display of the bunch at 7.9 inches,
its resolution falls short. The iPad mini has just a 1,024 by 768 pixel
resolution and a low pixels per inch density (PPI) of 163.

By comparison, the Nexus 7 has a 7-inch screen with 1,280 by 800 pixel
resolutions and 216 PPI. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 screen doesn't look as pretty
as the other displays and has the lowest resolution of the three: 1024 x 600.

WEIGHT

When it comes to weight, though, the iPad mini is easily the lightest of the
three. It weighs 0.68 pounds.

The Nexus 7 comes in at 0.75 pounds while the Samsung Galaxy 2 7.0 tops out the
bunch at 0.76 pounds.

THICKNESS

The iPad mini is also the thinnest of the mini tablets at just 7.2 millimetres,
or .28 inches, thick. The iPad mini by far beats the Samsung Galaxy 2 7.0, which
is 10.5 millimetres, or about .41 inches, thick, and the Nexus 7, which is
equivalent at 10.45 millimetres.

BATTERY

Apple says the iPad mini has the same 10-hour battery life that the 9.7-inch
iPad has.

Google's Nexus 7 has a battery life of 8 hours. Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 clocks
in at 7 hours.

CAMERA

With cameras, Apple is once again the clear winner. It shoots 5-megapixel photos
and records 1080p HD video.

The iPad mini also has a front-facing camera, which records 720p HD and shoots
1.2-megapixel photos. Google ties that mark with the Nexus 7.

The Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 has a 3-megapixel camera with HD 720p video recording
capability.

CONNECTIVITY

All three tablets connect to Wi-Fi, but if you're looking for a small tablet
that can connect to cellular networks, your only choice is the iPad mini. But
LTE doesn't come cheap. The cellular-connected iPad mini starts at $459.

OPERATING SYSTEMS

All three tablets run on different operating systems. The iPad mini runs Apple's
iOS 6 and the Nexus 7 runs Android 4.1 Jelly Bean while the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2
7.0 is powered by the Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich.

VARIATIONS AND PRICE

Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 delivers a mostly pure Android 4.0 experience for $250.
Nexus 7 has a better price ($199-$249) but has a lack of built-in expandable
storage. Apple is pricier, but you get more choices.

CHIPS

The iPad mini uses Apple's own A5 dual-core chip that also powers the iPhone 4S
smartphone. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 runs on a powerful 1GHz dual core processor
which gives you the freedom to multi-task without slowing down, while the Nexus
7 uses Nvidia's quad-core Tegra 3 processor.

CONCLUSION

The iPad mini is priced in a way to suggest it is a much superior device
compared to its rivals. But its specifications, at least, say otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Nexus 7;;  Samsung Galaxy tab 2 7.0;;  iPad Mini;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              833 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Micromax A90 review: Price and performance, made for each other

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Oct. 5 -- Micromax, which has made a name for itself in the low-cost
handset market in India, seems to have made the best of its experience in the
A90 by striking a right balance between performance and price. The Micromax A90
Pixel Android smartphone was recently launched at Rs 12,990.

The Micromax A90 is a neatly tailored dual SIM phone. The design of the phone is
reminiscent of Samsung's highly successful Galaxy SII. The phone is slim and
light in weight. Aping the Galaxy SII's form means that it brings some of the
design advantages of the Samsung bestseller. The A90 is comfortable to hold.

Micromax has opted for the full touch design with on-screen home and back
buttons to take advantage of the Android Ice Cream Sandwich UI. The phone
neither has any hardware button on the front nor any capacitive controls
generally found below the display. The back has a textured panel, which protects
the rear of the phone from abrasions and also prevents it from slipping out of
the palm. The phone looks tidy and the overall build quality is satisfactory.

The Micromax A90 Pixel has a volume rocker and a power key on the sides. The
phone lacks a dedicated camera key. Another thing that I found missing on the
phone was an LED notification light. Beyond this the design and the hardware
leaves very little to grumble for.

The USP of the phone is its 4.3-inch AMOLED screen that offers a resolution of
800x480 pixels. It is a display technology, which is generally found on
higher-end phones. The inclusion of the AMOLED display on this budget phone is
the surprise. The display produces good colours. The screen is also readable
under the direct sunlight. The touch is quite responsive and the navigation on
the phone in smooth. While the company does not claim the screen to be
scratch-resistant, but compared to other phones that we have tested, this phone
barely got any scratches during the review period that lasted for around a week.

The phone runs Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich operating system. One thing that I
found a bummer was the absence of the Google Talk app on this phone, which
generally comes pre-installed on Android phones. And the catch here is that the
Google Talk app is not even available on Google Play. So, it means you can not
even download it. However, you can use the Google Plus messenger app on your
phone as an alternative.

The Micromax A90 is powered by a 1GHz processor and 512MB RAM and manages
multi-tasking with ease. It let me run 4 to 5 apps at a time. I listened to
music and browsed the Internet, while downloading apps from the Google Play
store at a same time. A few other apps were also running in the background.

The phone supports 720p video playback, but stutters when confronted by 1080p
videos. It supports mp4, mkv and avi file formats for video playback. The
phone's 512MB RAM can limit heavy users, but then this is a budget device.

The phone offer 4GB of internal storage, out of which around 2.5GB is
user-accessible, and of which around 500MB is dedicated for internal app
storage. This means that apps which due to security or performance reasons are
installable only in the internal storage have around half-a-gigabyte of space.
This may prove to be insufficient for power users. Further, its memory is
expandable up to 32GB using a microSD card.

The phone features an 8 megapixel rear camera with an LED flash that captures
satisfactory snaps in both low-light and bright-light conditions. The camera
offers you various options to customise images. Zoom in and zoom out are a
little jerky. It also has a 0.3 megapixel front camera, which surprised me with
its quality. I was not expecting much form a 0.3 megapixel front camera.

The phone's signal reception is strong and the calling experience on this phone
is fair but the phone's speakers while producing crisp sound is not loud enough.
The loudness of the speakers is satisfactory in quite places, but in noisy
surroundings it failed to impress.

The phone comes with a 1600mAh battery. If you are a heavy user and use scores
of apps on your phone, then it can easily last for around 9 hours. But if put to
normal use, the phone has enough juice to last for a day.

The Micromax A90 Pixel offers impressive features at an attractive price and
finds a place on our recommended list.

Pros

+ Good display

+ Impressive design (though the phone looks like an SII clone)

+ Satisfactory performance

+ Quality camera

+ Attractive price

Cons

- No Google Talk app

- Average speakers

- No dedicated camera key

Rating: 4/5 Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir
Monitor. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              834 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                          December 10, 2014 Wednesday

GOSF: Acer C720 Chromebook at Rs 15,999 on Snapdeal

BYLINE: Tech Desk

LENGTH: 151  words


Acer has announced the availability of its 11-inch C720 Chromebook on
Snapdeal.com at Rs 15,999. As part of the Great Online Shopping Festival
promotion, the Acer Chromebook will be available to its customers with free 1TB
Google Drive space for 2 years worth up to Rs 14,800, a buyback offer and a free
Skullcandy head phone worth Rs 2,999.

The C720 runs on Intel Celeron 2957U processor based on the Haswell
micro-architecture with 2GB RAM and claims to provide up to 8.5 hours of battery
life. It comes with built-in virus protection software. Acer C720 is aimed at
budget-conscious users and those who have heavily invested in Google's
ecosystem.

Running on Chrome OS, the C720 features a 11.6-inch HD 1366 x 768 pixels LED
display with a 720p HD webcam.

Specs:

11.6-inch HD 1366 x 768 pixels LED display

64-bit Chrome OS

1.4 GHz Intel Celeron 2957U processor

2GB of RAM expandable up to 8GB

16GB SSD drive storage

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              835 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 186  words


QWhat is your   bright idea?

AJon Ellis, Mad About Pixels director, has launched a new initiative to give
businesses a strong presence on Google to make the most of Hull's recent
successes and will not charge a monthly search engine optimisation (SEO) fee if
it is not meeting targets.

QWhere did it    come from?

AMr Ellis developed the idea for businesses to develop the SEO initiative after
the city's success. He said: "The city is already gaining excellent exposure in
the media and that will substantially increase as we approach 2017. Thousands of
people will be going online to discover more about Hull and it presents a
wonderful chance  for local businesses to raise awareness about their products
and services. It will be vital for businesses to have a strong presence on
Google but if they are not on page one they could miss out."

QWhat happens   next?

AMad About Pixels plans to get as many businesses on page one of a Google search
as it can, while making it as easy and as cost-effective as possible. Mr Ellis
said: "Once they are on page one they will generate more business, which will
increase revenue."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              836 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            February 4, 2013 Monday

Blackberry Z10 Vs Rest of the Smartphones

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


Its obviously the biggest moment in RIM's BlackBerry's history, so important,
that they've even decided to change their name in its honour. By placing all
their eggs in one basket, BlackBerry is now facing a now-or-never situation
right now.

By offering a smartphone for the average users and one for its dedicated ones,
it has definitely played a clever trick but the real question is how well do
these smartphones fare against the competition?

We will find out in a comparison table below:


BlackBerry Z10


BlackBerry Q10


Google Nexus 4


Samsung Galaxy S III


iPhone 5


Nokia Lumia 920
Status  Available  Unreleased  Available  Available  Available  Available
Weight  137.5g  139g  139g  133g  112g  185g
Thickness  9mm  10.4mm  9.1mm  8.6mm  7.6mm  10.7mm
Operating System  BlackBerry 10 OS  BlackBerry 10 OS  Android 4.2.1 Jelly Bean
Android 4.1.2 Jelly Bean  iOS 6.1  Microsoft Windows Phone 8
Sim card  Micro-sim  Micro-sim  Micro-sim  Micro-sim  Micro-sim  Micro-sim
Display size  4.2 inches  3.1 inches  4.7 inches  4.8 inches  4 inches  4.4
inches
Resolution  768 x 1280 pixels  720 x 720 pixels  768 x 1280 pixels  720 x 1280
pixels  640 x 1136 pixels  768 x 1280 pixels
Processor  1.5 Ghz dual-core Krait  1.5 Ghz dual-core Cortex A9  1.5 Ghz
quad-core Krait  1.4 Ghz quad-core Cortex A9  1.2 Ghz dual-core Apple A6  1.5
Ghz dual-core Krait
RAM  2 GB  2 GB  2 GB  1 GB  1 GB  1 GB
Memory  16 GB, expandable  16 GB, expandable  8/16GB, non-expandable  16/32/64
GB, expandable  16/32/64 GB, non expandable  32 GB non-expandable
Rear-camera  8mp with Full-HD video recording  8mp with Full-HD video recording
8mp with Full-HD video recording  8mp with Full-HD video recording  8mp with
Full-HD video recording  8.7mp with Full HD video recording and Pureview tech
Front-camera  2mp  Yes  1.3mp  1.9mp  1.2mp  1.3mp
Connectivity  Bluetooth 4.0, microUSB 2.0, NFC, dual band Wifi  Bluetooth 4.0,
microUSB 2.0, NFC, Wifi-Hotspot, dual band Wifi,  Bluetooth 4.0, microUSB 2.0,
NFC, dual band Wifi, Wifi Hotspot  Bluetooth 4.0, microUSB 2.0, USB-on-the-go,
NFC, dual band Wifi, Wifi Hotspot  Bluetooth 4.0, Lightning dock connector, Wifi
dual band, Wifi Hotspot  Bluetooth 3.1, NFC, microUSB 2.0, Wifi-dual band,
Wifi-Hotspot
Battery  1800 mAh  1800 mAh  2100 mAh  2100 mAh  1440 mAh  2000 mAh

As clear by the table, the two BlackBerry smartphone do some things better than
their competitors but the bitter truth, however, is the fact that they don't
offer anything out-of-the-world right now.

For example, lets take Nokia Lumia 920 for instance which comes with the
PureView camera technology or the iPhone 5 which comes with iOS (yes that's an
exclusive feature!... and a tall display). This might be a huge problem here but
then again, its only a start (and a strong one too, we might add).

After ruling out all of the predictions (and highs and lows) though, you'll have
to conclude that its either a win or loss case for BlackBerry here. Only time
will tell how well these shiny products will fare against the competition
sales-wise.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              837 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday

Google Play Edition of LG G Pad with KitKat announced

LENGTH: 409  words


Get the pure Google experience on the new LG G PadThe post Google Play Edition
of LG G Pad with KitKat announced appeared first on tbreak.

The LG G Pad 8.3 from LG Electronics will be the first device ever to be
designated a Google Play Edition tablet. Google's first Android Open Source
Project (AOSP) tablet will feature the latest Android operating system, Android
4.4, KitKat. The LG G Pad 8.3 Google Play Edition reference device will be
available for purchase starting today in the United States on Google Play.

With the combination of KitKat's Full-screen Immersive mode and LG's stunning
1920 x 1200 WUXGA Full HD IPS display, this special edition of LG G Pad 8.3
offers an optimal viewing experience. Apps can utilize every pixel on the G Pad
8.3 screen to create full-bleed UIs reaching edge to edge. With the ability to
hide the system UI such as the status bar and navigation bar, this feature is
ideal for rich visual content such as photos, videos, maps, books and games.

"LG's working relationship with Google has always been strong and our
collaboration on the first-ever Google Play Edition tablet is proof of that
commitment," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of the LG Electronics
Mobile Communications Company. "The LG G Pad 8.3 Google Play Edition is a device
with hardware and software that has been optimized for a truly consumer-friendly
experience. There's nothing else like it out there in the marketplace."

The LG G Pad 8.3 was designed based on insights from consumers resulting in a
compact, modern-looking device accentuating sleek lines and subtle curves for
comfortable holding with one hand. The powerful 1.7GHz Quad-Core Qualcomm
Snapdragon(TM) 600 CPU and 4,600mAh battery provide both performance and
long-life between charges.

The LG G Pad 8.3 Google Play Edition will be available in glossy Indigo Black
for USD 349.99. Availability in other countries has not yet been determined at
this time.

Key Specifications:

· Processor: 1.7GHz Quad-Core Qualcomm Snapdragon(TM) 600 Processor

· Operating System: Android(TM) 4.4, KitKat

· Display: 8.3-inch Full HD IPS WUXGA (1920 x 1200 pixels / 273 ppi)

· Memory: 16GB eMMC

· RAM: 2GB LPDDR2

· Camera: Rear 5.0MP / Front 1.3MP

· Battery: 4,600mAh

· Connectivity: Wi-Fi

· Size: 216.8 x 126.5 x 8.3mm

· Weight: 338g

· Colors: Indigo Black

The post Google Play Edition of LG G Pad with KitKat announced appeared first on
tbreak.

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>COPYRIGHT 2013 TBREAK MEDIA.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2013 TBREAK MEDIA
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              838 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday

Nexus 6P boasts creative design;
Huawei-made phone makes up for some missing smartphone aspects with innovative
ones of its own

BYLINE: Sherwin Loh

SECTION: DIGITAL

LENGTH: 676 words


Let's get this out of the way first: The latest Nexus smartphone from Google is
made by Huawei, a company seen by many as inferior to some other phone brands.

But it is about time the Chinese company, which has been making phones for a
very long time, gets some well-deserved recognition.

The latest partner of Google for its Nexus devices has already turned heads with
the 6P, yet many might not know that Huawei has been making well-designed
unibody Android phones since the beginning of the year.

The Huawei Ascend Mate 7, which came out in February, is a 6-inch phablet that
offers a responsive fingerprint sensor, while the Huawei P8 refines that build
in a smaller, 5.2-inch frame.

The Nexus 6P is a natural evolution of those devices, and it adds a QHD display,
12MP rear camera and the latest Android 6 operating system.

It comes in a thin chassis, with a small bump at the top rear, where the camera
and flash module are housed.

The QHD screen has become a standard with flagship smartphones from LG and
Samsung, so it is great to have a Nexus device offering it as well.

<ul class="background-story">  PRICE: 64GB $949
  128GB $1,049

PROCESSOR: Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 octa-core (Quad-core 1.55 GHz + Quad-core 2.0
GHz)

DISPLAY: 5.7-inch AMOLED Corning Gorilla Glass 4, 1,440 x 2,560 pixels (518 ppi
pixel density)

OPERATING SYSTEM: Android 6 (Marshmallow)

MEMORY: 64/128 GB, (No expandable memory) 3 GB RAM

CAMERA: (Rear) 12 MP, 4,608 x 2,592 pixels, laser autofocus, dual-LED flash.
(Front) 8MP

BATTERY: 3450 mAh (non removable)

FEATURES: 4/5

PERFORMANCE: 5/5

DESIGN: 4/5

BATTERY LIFE: 5/5

VALUE FOR MONEY: 4/5

OVERALL: 4/5

The screen delivered very well-defined graphics details and a colour
presentation that looks richer than real life, even with the brightness dialled
down.

The camera itself is also remarkable and comparable with the LG G4 and Samsung
Galaxy Note 5. While one might scowl at the 12MP offered here, compared with the
16MP on the Note 5, Huawei has used a larger 1.55-micron sensor which captures
more light.

This produces better low-light shots and brighter colours when used indoors. The
camera is also capable of recording 4K video, up to an astonishing 240 frames
per second.

There is no optical image stabilising, though I have yet to encounter any issues
with shooting while moving. That said, I still prefer the softer colours
produced by the Note 5, and I miss having the Lock Exposure settings of the Note
5 and iPhone 6S Plus. Also, for pro users out there, there is no option to shoot
in RAW format.

The High Dynamic Range (HDR) mode felt slightly laggy, which could mean that the
6P has a hardware-based HDR feature.

While I have grown accustomed to fingerprint sensors on phones, I have never
liked their positioning at the bottom of the screen. Activating biometrics with
one hand, especially when holding on to a phablet, is often a precarious
endeavour. The 6P's sensor is positioned at the rear where your forefinger
normally sits, which makes plenty of sense.

Sensor response is also very fast, so there is almost no delay in waking up the
Nexus 6P.

The phone is also one of the first to make use of a Type-C connector. Two cables
are provided. The USB to Type-C one connects your phone to your laptop and
current USB chargers. The Type-C to Type-C cable works with the provided Nexus
6P charger that supports fast charging.

While it is a hassle to start buying more Type-C cables, I like the stability
and sturdiness of the new larger connectors.

There is no wireless charging option. However, Android 6 has a powerful Doze
mode that runs in the background. If the phone is stationary and not connected
to a charger, the device will go into a lower-power idle mode that limits
notifications, aside from calls and SMS messages.

This means that at night, the phone on your dresser will not start ringing due
to game app notifications, which increases the stand-by battery life of your
phone.


o VERDICT: The Huawei Nexus 6P is a remarkable phone that makes up for some
missing smartphone features with new ones of its own.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Nexus 6P comes with a QHD screen, which delivers well-defined
graphics details and a colour presentation that looks richer than real life,
even with the brightness dialled down.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              839 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Samsung shares plunge on Note 7 sales halt

LENGTH: 351  words


Samsung Electronics Co halted sales of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones and asked
consumers to stop using the ones they've already purchased, another blow to
South Korea's largest company as it struggles with a crisis over exploding
batteries. Shares plunged, cutting $17 billion from its market value.

Samsung has already recalled the Note 7 once and the latest move comes after
customers reported that replacement phones were also catching fire. Samsung may
be forced to scrap an entire generation of Note smartphones, one of its two most
important phone lines, a severe setback in its competition with rivals like
Apple Inc.

The crisis has left millions of premium smartphone buyers looking for an
alternative. The obvious candidate is Apple's iPhone 7, but Google's slick new
Pixel device could get a lift, too.

Many people upgrade their phones during the Christmas shopping season, giving
Apple and Google an opportunity to fill the Samsung vacuum - and making it even
harder for the South Korean company to bounce back. The Pixel may be especially
appealing to Samsung users looking for another device that runs the Android
operating system.

The crisis has left Samsung scrambling to figure out the cause of the battery
fires and to explain how a company known for manufacturing expertise could have
missed such a critical product flaw twice. Samsung originally blamed one battery
supplier for the problems and switched to an alternative company, but it is now
investigating the issue again.

"It must find the cause and clearly say what it will do about it," said Yoo
Jong-woo, an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co.

Samsung shares fell 8 percent, the largest drop since 2008. The company has
growing competition for customers shopping for premium smartphones as they head
into the holiday shopping season.

A woman looks at her mobile phone as she rides an escalator past an
advertisement for Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 device at a Samsung store in the
Gangnam district of Seoul on Tuesday.AFP

(China Daily USA 10/12/2016 page14)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1496/2/147627200647.jpg

00221917e13e1967be3303.jpg

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              840 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Samsung shares plunge on Note 7 sales halt

BYLINE: Bloomberg

LENGTH: 351  words


Samsung Electronics Co halted sales of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones and asked
consumers to stop using the ones they've already purchased, another blow to
South Korea's largest company as it struggles with a crisis over exploding
batteries. Shares plunged, cutting $17 billion from its market value.

Samsung has already recalled the Note 7 once and the latest move comes after
customers reported that replacement phones were also catching fire. Samsung may
be forced to scrap an entire generation of Note smartphones, one of its two most
important phone lines, a severe setback in its competition with rivals like
Apple Inc.

The crisis has left millions of premium smartphone buyers looking for an
alternative. The obvious candidate is Apple's iPhone 7, but Google's slick new
Pixel device could get a lift, too.

Many people upgrade their phones during the Christmas shopping season, giving
Apple and Google an opportunity to fill the Samsung vacuum - and making it even
harder for the South Korean company to bounce back. The Pixel may be especially
appealing to Samsung users looking for another device that runs the Android
operating system.

The crisis has left Samsung scrambling to figure out the cause of the battery
fires and to explain how a company known for manufacturing expertise could have
missed such a critical product flaw twice. Samsung originally blamed one battery
supplier for the problems and switched to an alternative company, but it is now
investigating the issue again.

"It must find the cause and clearly say what it will do about it," said Yoo
Jong-woo, an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co.

Samsung shares fell 8 percent, the largest drop since 2008. The company has
growing competition for customers shopping for premium smartphones as they head
into the holiday shopping season.

A woman looks at her mobile phone as she rides an escalator past an
advertisement for Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 device at a Samsung store in the
Gangnam district of Seoul on Tuesday.AFP

(China Daily 10/12/2016 page13)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/2/147623451253.jpg

00221917e13e1967be3303.jpg

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              841 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 03 titled as
"Multi-pass encoding"

LENGTH: 158  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,529, on
February 03, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Multi-pass encoding"

Inventors:  Maaninen; Juha-Pekka (Oulu, FI)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "In
accordance with aspects of the disclosure, devices and methods are provided for
receiving uncompressed image data and performing multi-pass encoding of the
uncompressed image data including encoding a frame of the uncompressed image
data in a first pass, storing predictor pixels from the encoded frame in a
memory, and re-encoding the frame of the uncompressed image data in a second
pass using the stored predictor pixels from the first pass."

The patent was filed on October 30, 2012 Application no. 13/663,724

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              842 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 6, 2016 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Immerse yourself beyond reality;
Virtual reality is taking over the world of gaming. With the arrival of the new
Oculus Rift and Sony's PlayStation VR, Wez Evans looks at what's available

BYLINE: Wez Evans

SECTION: DISRUPTION;FEATURES; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1254 words


Oculus Rift was once synonymous with virtual reality in the same way the iPod
was with the MP3 player. Now the market has expanded to include a wide range of
platforms that vary in quality, cost and a few other parameters. VR may not be
an essential purchase just yet, but the time has never been better for those
looking to dip their toe into what is arguably the future of home entertainment.

Google Cardboard is very much the entry-level VR experience at about (EURO)20.
Users can either purchase the Cardboard with a pre-manufactured frame or
construct their own using basic, low-cost parts such as velcro, Sellotape and
cardboard, fitting them to the lenses provided.

In order to function, the Cardboard requires a smartphone running at least
Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean) or iOS, which is inserted at the front. The headset's
lenses then convert the phone's screen into an enveloping virtual reality,
although at this price point it's unsurprisingly one of the least convincing VR
headsets available.

The Cardboard's bigger brother, on the other hand, is a much more powerful
device. Google's Daydream View also requires the help of an Android smartphone,
namely its own recently released Pixel, though the company promises that more
"Daydream-ready" phones are on the way.

The Pixel, as well as its operating system, Nougat, is being developed with VR
in mind, and the Daydream will be able to take full advantage of the phone's
head-tracking algorithms and sensors.

HTC, Samsung, Asus, LG, Xiaomi, Alcatel, and ZTA have all announced Daydream
compatible phones but it takes more than hardware to create a successful
platform. Google has partnered with HBO, Netflix, Hulu, Lionsgate, NBA, MLB and
the Wall Street Journal to develop an impressive catalogue of apps as well as
flexing its YouTube muscles to bring in content creators like lifecaster Justine
Ezarik (also known as iJustine) and the Dolan twins (of AwesomenessTV) who will
create unique 360-degree promotional material.

Daydream View is an aesthetic departure from its rivals, sporting a cloth-based
frame as opposed to the industry standard's solid plastic. This makes it both
comfortable to wear and hand-washable - a reasonable selling point as prolonged
use of any headset can leave the user with a reasonably sweaty brow. The
material comes in three colour variations: Slate at launch with Crimson and Snow
available later down the line.

Similar to Cardboard and Daydream, the Samsung Gear VR works in partnership with
an Android phone. Provided you already own a Galaxy Note5, Galaxy S6, S7, or any
of their Edge and Plus variations the Gear VR is an incredibly cheap and
powerful alternative at around (EURO)60.

While the recent mass recall of faulty Galaxy S7 Edges doesn't necessarily
reflect poorly on the Gear VR, it does serve as a reminder that a faulty phone
means a faulty VR device. Buyer, beware.

Originally demoed back in 2014, the HTV Vive got a full release in April of this
year to almost universally positive reviews. As one of the most powerful virtual
reality headsets available right now the cost of more than (EURO)900 is steep,
yet that doesn't factor in the potentially steeper cost of upgrading or even
buying a PC capable of running software for the device.

The Vive is a graphically demanding headset, requiring roughly triple the power
of a typical gaming PC. Gaming rigs rocking anything less than Nvidea's Geforce
GTX 970 will likely need beefing up in order to run most of what the HTC has to
offer. Gameplay is projected onto two screens simultaneously (one for each eye)
at 1200 x 1080 resolution, making even low-intensity indie games a reasonably
big task to render.

The result of all this processing power is a thoroughly immersive gameplay
experience, further intensified by the Vive's unique controllers. The wireless
motion tracked controllers feature a comfortable trigger as well as
squeezeactivated buttons, which translate perfectly when the user attempts pick
up an object or otherwise interact with a digital world.

This digital world demands adequate space, however. While HTC recommends 2
metres x 1.5 metres some games issue a warning on startup if the user attempts
to play in anything less than 3m x 3m. A front-facing camera can be toggled to
provide picture-in-picture view of the surrounding area, allowing you to
maintain a safe distance from obstacles.

Further limiting your area of play is the sheer volume of cabling required to
hook the Vive up. While not a deal breaker, a wired VR connection might not be
for everyone, especially considering the headset weighs in at 555g before
everything's even plugged in.

The Oculus Rift is easily the Vive's biggest competitor with a similar level of
graphical fidelity and (EURO)200 knocked off the cost. The hardware requirements
are only slightly lower - you'll still want a pretty beastly PC to make the Rift
do its thing - and physical space is a non-issue with most software allowing you
to remain seated, negating any issues with cabling.

This crowdfunded machine's biggest drawback is lack of motion controls. The long
awaited Touch controllers are still in development, so for now players will need
to settle for the Xbox One game pad - a perfectly viable method of interaction
that unfortunately can't compare to the Vive's slick and visceral triggers.

In October, Oculus acquired the Irish micro-LED developer InfiniLED, a
Cork-based company specialising in the development of wearable displays and TV
screens. According to www.Uploadvr.com, InfiniLED has moved into Oculus
Research's new Cork offices in order to further develop inorganic LEDS, which
will reduce the Rift's power consumption without compromising visual quality.

The purchase of InfiniLED indicates that we'll either see a new, cheaper
generation of Rifts down the line, or at least a price drop for the original
Oculus as a more efficient version hits the market.

At (EURO)400, PlayStation VR seems to hit the sweet spot of affordability
without overly compromising quality. Similar to the Rift and Vive, external
hardware is essential, though here in the form of a PlayStation 4. The
difference is that in this case all hardware is created equal. Whether you
bought a PS4 at launch, just as PSVR released, or plan on waiting for the
upcoming PS4 Pro, Sony's headset will work just as efficiently regardless.

That said, in order to let the PSVR headset talk to your console you'll need to
drop a little extra cash on the PS4 camera, which clocks in at (EURO)60.

Optionally the PS Move motion controllers also run to (EURO)35, although the
standard PS4 controller works just fine.

Much like the Oculus Rift, some games are a little jarring without motion
controls but for titles such as EVE: Valkyrie (which is available on both
platforms) a game pad is actually preferable.

Virtual reality has crested through its content drought with plenty of games and
interactive experiences on the horizon that make any of these headsets a
worthwhile purchase. The one thing holding it back is potential motion sickness
as some but not all users complain of nausea after prolonged use, and in some
cases any use at all.

As unhelpful a cliché as it's become virtual reality needs to be experienced to
be truly understood. The most important aspect to take away is that the
technology works. Just how well it works will depend on how much money you're
willing to part with in return for a tour of a virtual world.

The Vive is a graphically demanding headset, requiring roughly triple the power
of a typical gaming PC

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Above, HTC Vive being put through its paces at the Computex computer
exhibition in Taipai, Taiwan, earlier this year. Below, PLAYSTATIONVR headset
featuring Wayward Sky.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              843 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                     November 14, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Motorola Announces Moto G Entry Level Smartphone, Coming To India In January

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 446  words


The Moto G could replace the Nexus 5 as the best value for money smartphone
available today. Way to steal your own thunder Google!

Thursday, November 14, 2013: The big news on Wednesday (13 November) was the
launch of the Moto G smartphone by the Google owned company. Motorola is
seemingly taking on competitors in the entry level smartphone market, trying to
cash in on the nearly half a billion customers in this segment.

At the launch, Motorola CEO Dennis Woodside explained how entry level
smartphones compromise on quality or features in order to come at a low price.
He event cited a certain Galaxy Phone to prove his point. According to Woodside,
the Moto G is an entry level smartphone, which can compete with the iPhone 5S in
some aspects.

In its specifications, the hero of the device is the 11.4-cm (4.5-inch) 720
pixel display with Gorilla Glass protection. The device is powered by a 1.2 GHz
Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 quad core processor and has 1 GB of RAM. In addition, it
also has a 5 mega pixel rear camera and a 1.3 mega pixel front camera. It
currently runs the Android 4.3 Jelly Bean operating system, but Motorola has
promised a KitKat upgrade by January 2014. Interestingly, this is also the time
when the phone is expected to arrive in India.

Currently, the Moto G is scheduled to go on sale in Brazil and in some parts of
Europe. The company said that it would be available in Latin America, other
parts of Europe, Canada and some parts of Asia in the next few weeks. It will be
launched in the US, Middle East, India and in some other parts of Asia in
January.

The smartphone is priced at a competitive $179 for the 8 GB variant and $199 GB
for the 16 GB variant in the US market. Both the prices are off contract. It
also draws from Motorola's efforts towards a customisable smartphone with
interchangeable Motorola Shells and Flip Shells available in seven different
colours. In addition, there are also Grip Shells available in five colours.

Moto G buyers will get an additional 50 GB of free storage on Google Drive for
two years as well. The full specifications of the device are as follows.

* Android 4.3 Jelly Bean (Android 4.4 KitKat update arriving in January 2014)

* 11.4-cm (4.5-inch) LCD with 1280x720p resolution

* Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 quad-processor at 1.2GHz (MSM 826, Adreno 305)

* 1GB of RAM, 8GB/ 16GB internal storage, two free years of 50GB on Google Drive
cloud storage

* 2,070 mAh battery (non-removable)

* 5MP rear camera with LED flash, 1.3MP front camera

* Networks: GSM (850/900/1800/1900 MHz); UMTS (850/900/1700/1900/2100 MHz); CDMA
(850/1900 MHz)

* Wi-Fi b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0, GPS/GLONASS

Watch the Hands On video done by Engadget below.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              844 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             April 2, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Google Chromebook Pixel 2

SECTION: BUSINESS;FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 45 words


Google Chromebook Pixel 2 The new 13-inch Chromebook Pixel includes a Core i7
chip and up to 16GB of Ram. It also has a very high resolution screen and a new
'USB C' port, but will anyone spend (EURO)1,000 on a laptop that needs a
constant web connection to work effectively?

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              845 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 5, 2013 Tuesday

Pakistan: Blackberry Z10 Vs Rest of the Smartphones

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Feb. 5 -- Its obviously the biggest moment in RIM's BlackBerry's
history, so important, that they've even decided to change their name in its
honour. By placing all their eggs in one basket, BlackBerry is now facing a
now-or-never situation right now.

By offering a smartphone for the average users and one for its dedicated ones,
it has definitely played a clever trick but the real question is how well do
these smartphones fare against the competition?

We will find out in a comparison table below:

BlackBerry Z10

BlackBerry Q10

Google Nexus 4

Samsung Galaxy S III

iPhone 5

Nokia Lumia 920

Status Available Unreleased Available Available Available Available

Weight 137.5g 139g 139g 133g 112g 185g

Thickness 9mm 10.4mm 9.1mm 8.6mm 7.6mm 10.7mm

Operating System BlackBerry 10 OS BlackBerry 10 OS Android 4.2.1 Jelly Bean
Android 4.1.2 Jelly Bean iOS 6.1 Microsoft Windows Phone 8

Sim card Micro-sim Micro-sim Micro-sim Micro-sim Micro-sim Micro-sim

Display size 4.2 inches 3.1 inches 4.7 inches 4.8 inches 4 inches 4.4 inches

Resolution 768 x 1280 pixels 720 x 720 pixels 768 x 1280 pixels 720 x 1280
pixels 640 x 1136 pixels 768 x 1280 pixels

Processor 1.5 Ghz dual-core Krait 1.5 Ghz dual-core Cortex A9 1.5 Ghz quad-core
Krait 1.4 Ghz quad-core Cortex A9 1.2 Ghz dual-core Apple A6 1.5 Ghz dual-core
Krait

RAM 2 GB 2 GB 2 GB 1 GB 1 GB 1 GB

Memory 16 GB, expandable 16 GB, expandable 8/16GB, non-expandable 16/32/64 GB,
expandable 16/32/64 GB, non expandable 32 GB non-expandable

Rear-camera 8mp with Full-HD video recording 8mp with Full-HD video recording
8mp with Full-HD video recording 8mp with Full-HD video recording 8mp with
Full-HD video recording 8.7mp with Full HD video recording and Pureview tech

Front-camera 2mp Yes 1.3mp 1.9mp 1.2mp 1.3mp

Connectivity Bluetooth 4.0, microUSB 2.0, NFC, dual band Wifi Bluetooth 4.0,
microUSB 2.0, NFC, Wifi-Hotspot, dual band Wifi, Bluetooth 4.0, microUSB 2.0,
NFC, dual band Wifi, Wifi Hotspot Bluetooth 4.0, microUSB 2.0, USB-on-the-go,
NFC, dual band Wifi, Wifi Hotspot Bluetooth 4.0, Lightning dock connector, Wifi
dual band, Wifi Hotspot Bluetooth 3.1, NFC, microUSB 2.0, Wifi-dual band,
Wifi-Hotspot

Battery 1800 mAh 1800 mAh 2100 mAh 2100 mAh 1440 mAh 2000 mAh

As clear by the table, the two BlackBerry smartphone do some things better than
their competitors but the bitter truth, however, is the fact that they don't
offer anything out-of-the-world right now.

For example, lets take Nokia Lumia 920 for instance which comes with the
PureView camera technology or the iPhone 5 which comes with iOS (yes that's an
exclusive feature!. and a tall display). This might be a huge problem here but
then again, its only a start (and a strong one too, we might add).

After ruling out all of the predictions (and highs and lows) though, you'll have
to conclude that its either a win or loss case for BlackBerry here. Only time
will tell how well these shiny products will fare against the competition
sales-wise Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              846 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday

USPTO Published Patent application of GOOGLE INC titled as "AUTOMATIC BACKGROUND
IDENTIFICATION IN VIDEO IMAGES"

LENGTH: 245  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20140056515, published on February 27, 2014, by GOOGLE INC, titled as "AUTOMATIC
BACKGROUND IDENTIFICATION IN VIDEO IMAGES" for the registration of patent.

Inventors: CARPENTER; Thor; (Snoqualmie, WA)
Assignee:   GOOGLE INC.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods and systems are provided allowing for background identification in
video images. A computer-implemented image processing method includes:
receiving, using at least one processing circuit, a plurality of image frames of
a video; constructing, using at least one processing circuit, a plurality of
statistical models of the plurality of image frames at a plurality of pixel
granularity levels; constructing, using at least one processing circuit, a
plurality of probabilistic models of an input image frame at a plurality of
channel granularity levels based on the plurality of statistical models; merging
at least some of the plurality of probabilistic models based on a weighted
average to form a single probability image; and determining background pixels,
based on a probability threshold value, from the single probability image."

The Patent was filed on November 1, 2013 under application No. 20140056515

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              847 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                     February 27, 2016 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Google PlaNet trained to identify locations where photos were taken based on
visual cues

BYLINE: Jeanne Rife

LENGTH: 677  words


Computer specialist Tobias Weyand and his colleagues at Google have come up with
a deep-learning platform codenamed PlaNet. They have trained the system to
figure out locations where pictures have been captured on the basis of visual
cues. The project is interesting and it has showcased amazingly high degree of
accuracy in detecting places where images were taken. The system is improving
with time, said Google research team member Weyand.

The specialists at Google began by dividing up the globe into a grid, leaving
aside the oceans and polar region. MIT Technology Review reported that
thereafter, they formed a database for PlaNet, containing 126 million
geo-located pictures taken from the Internet.

PlaNet is an artificial neural network, thus it can learn. So the experts taught
the network how to recognize a picture's location on the grid only with the help
of information present in the pixels.

For testing the accuracy of PlaNet, Weyand and his team fed it 2.3 million
geo-tagged Flickr pictures. Then, PlaNet lessened 48% of them to the right
continent, 28.4% to the right country, 10.1% to the right city, and 3.6% to the
real street.

With further improvement, PlaNet can exactly locate every single random picture
on a map, however, it has to consider many other factors and pixels in pictures.
In some cases, the system makes wrong guess about location.

Though the findings might not seem all that great initially, they became
extraordinary when the tech giant team pitted their machine opposed to 10 smart,
well-traveled humans. The machine managed to win over 50% of the rounds and had
better accuracy.

The team wrote in their abstract regarding the system, "PlaNet outperforms
previous approaches and even attains superhuman levels of accuracy in some
cases".

According to the team, PlaNet doesn't need a lot of memory, either. MIT
Technology Review reported that the model uses just 377 MB, which means it could
be easily loaded on a smartphone.

PlaNet has distinct abilities, and it could end up being like a Shazam for
picture locations. A user can run, Carmen Sandiego, but can't stay out of sight
of the Google machine.

A report published in the TheVerge said, Google's latest deep-learning program
can figure out where a photo was taken just by looking at it. The program,
called PlaNet, was trained to recognize locations based on details in a photo by
looking at over 90 million geotagged images taken from the internet. That means,
for instance, that PlaNet can determine a particular photo was taken in Paris
because it recognizes the Eiffel Tower.

But most humans can do that too. What sets PlaNet apart is that it can use its
deep-learning techniques to determine the locations of photos without
distinctive landmarks, like the random roads and houses below.

"One would expect that these cues, especially street signs, together with world
knowledge and common sense, should give humans an unfair advantage over PlaNet,
which was trained solely on image pixels and geolocations. Yet PlaNet was able
to outperform humans by a considerable margin," the researchers boast,"
according to a news report published by ZDNet.

To improve its geolocation abilities even further, for images that lack
sufficient visual cues, the researchers trained the machine to do 'sequence
location' -- that is, exploiting the way photos are often taken in sequences and
so the system uses entire photo albums.

In a report published by the Discovery, "PlaNet outperforms previous approaches
and even attains superhuman levels of accuracy in some cases," the team wrote in
their abstract about the machine. You can test your own abilities with online
games like GeoGuessr. Might want to set an alarm first, though, because that one
is kind of addictive.

I remember trying out Google Googles several years ago and quickly realized it
was mostly limited to displaying info about well-known places. PlaNet has
different potential. The technology could end up being like a Shazam for photo
locations. You can run, Carmen Sandiego, but you can't hide from the Google
machine.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              848 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Samsung shares plunge on Note 7 sales halt

BYLINE: Bloomberg

LENGTH: 307  words


Samsung Electronics Co halted sales of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones and asked
consumers to stop using the ones they've already purchased, another blow to
South Korea's largest company as it struggles with a crisis over exploding
batteries. Shares plunged, cutting $17 billion from its market value.

Samsung has already recalled the Note 7 once and the latest move comes after
customers reported that replacement phones were also catching fire. Samsung may
be forced to scrap an entire generation of Note smartphones, one of its two most
important phone lines, a severe setback in its competition with rivals like
Apple Inc.

The crisis has left millions of premium smartphone buyers looking for an
alternative. The obvious candidate is Apple's iPhone 7, but Google's slick new
Pixel device could get a lift, too.

Many people upgrade their phones during the Christmas shopping season, giving
Apple and Google an opportunity to fill the Samsung vacuum - and making it even
harder for the South Korean company to bounce back. The Pixel may be especially
appealing to Samsung users looking for another device that runs the Android
operating system.

The crisis has left Samsung scrambling to figure out the cause of the battery
fires and to explain how a company known for manufacturing expertise could have
missed such a critical product flaw twice. Samsung originally blamed one battery
supplier for the problems and switched to an alternative company, but it is now
investigating the issue again.

"It must find the cause and clearly say what it will do about it," said Yoo
Jong-woo, an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co.

Samsung shares fell 8 percent, the largest drop since 2008. The company has
growing competition for customers shopping for premium smartphones as they head
into the holiday shopping season.

(China Daily 10/12/2016 page13)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              849 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Launch Pad: Acer C720 Chromebook, HTC Desire 500, Amkette TruBeats Speaker,
Canon EOS 70D

SECTION: HARDWARE

LENGTH: 321 words


1. Acer C720 Chromebook

Price: Rs 24,990

The first Chromebook to officially launch in India comes with an 11.6-inch
display (1366 x 768 pixels). It can boot up in under 7 seconds and is powered by
an Intel Celeron processor; 2GB RAM with 16GB SSD storage. Weighing just 1.25kg,
it runs Google Chrome OS and offers free 100GB of Google Drive storage for two
years to the users. Ports include one USB 3.0, one USB 2.0, HDMI and a card
reader.

2. HTC Desire 500

Price: Rs 24,290

HTC Desire 500: With a 4.3-inch (800 x 480 pixels) display, the Desire 500 is
powered by a 1.2Ghz Qualcomm Snapdragon 200 processor. Its 8MP camera uses HTC's
Image chip processor for stills and HD video recording. Other hardware
specifications include 1GB RAM, 4GB storage, microSD slot and a 1,800mAh
battery. The smartphone runs Android 4.1 with HTC's latest Sense UI 5 and also
has Beats audio enhancement.

3. Amkette TruBeats Speaker

Price: Rs 1,295 onwards

Amkette has forayed into the audio category with two speakers - Metal and Solo.
Metal is a Bluetooth speaker designed to produce loudest sounds from its compact
size. It also has built-in microphone for voice calls. The Solo is available in
wired and wireless variants. The wired version has a unity jack system to
connect with other Solo speakers to create a chain for louder audio output,
while the wireless Solo has built in Bluetooth for connectivity.

4. Canon EOS 70D

Price: Rs 79, 995 (Body only)

The 70D comes with Dual pixel CMOS AF technology that offers improved live view
focus and improved autofocus. It has a 20MP APS-C size CMOS sensor, Digic 5+
image processor, 19 point cross type AF points and ISO up to 25600. Capable of
recording video in full HD resolution, the DSLR weighs 755 grams and comes with
a 3.2-inch articulating touchscreen. Other features include built-in WiFi,
built-in flash, HDMI and a battery life of 920 shots on full charge.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              850 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                             August 28, 2006 Monday

Creative's all-in-one digital camcorder

SECTION: ITWNEW

LENGTH: 603  words


CREATIVE Technology last week launched the Creative DiVi CAM 516, a mini digital
camcorder that also doubles as a 5.1-megapixel digital camera, MP3 player, voice
recorder and webcam. Available in three colours, the device is able to record
videos at 30 frames per second at a resolution of 640 x 480 pixels, and can also
be hooked up to a TV to playback the videos. The $249 camcorder works on four
commonly available 'AAA' size batteries, and has 32 MB of internal memory which
can be expanded via a Secure Digital memory card expansion slot.

Google Adwords in Salesforce

HOSTED business application solutions provider Salesforce has released
Salesforce for Google AdWords, a service which enables its customers to offer
Google's search engine marketing service, Google AdWords. It will be available
as part of Salesforce's online application marketplace, AppExchange. During the
pilot phase beginning on Aug 22, Salesforce for Google AdWords is available as a
free 30-day trial to all Salesforce customers. It will cost US$300 per
organisation per month upon release, currently planned for the second half of
this year.

5-megapixel twister phone from LG

LG's latest phone, the KG920, will appeal to shutterbugs with its 5-megapixel
auto-focus camera and a 2-inch LCD screen that can rotate 180 degrees to let
users capture shots from any angle. The 18.9mm thin KG920 is also able to
capture videos at 30 frames per second at a resolution of 640x480 pixels. Other
photography-related features include a flash that is effective up to 1.5 metres,
and the ability to take a burst of six consecutive shots. The triband phone also
features Bluetooth connectivity, MP3 playback capabilities and a Mini Secure
Digital memory card slot for expansion. It will be available in September at
$998 without a phone plan.

Sandisk offers 4GB memory card

IF you're looking for more storage space for digital images or digital audio
files, then Sandisk's latest 4GB Secure Digital High Capacity (SDHC) memory card
might just fit the bill. SDHC is a new specification designed for high-capacity
memory cards from 4GB to 32GB. While the SDHC cards look identical to SD cards,
they will only work with SDHC-compatible products. The Sandisk 4GB memory card
comes bundled with a USB card reader that reads both SDHC and SD cards. It is
expected to be priced around US$149.99.

Palm offers at electronics show

LOOKING for a Palm PDA? Head on down to the Palm booth at consumer electronics
show Comex from Aug 31 to Sep 3 at the Singapore Expo to get the Palm Treo 650
smartphone at a discounted price of $899 (usual price $968), and also get a free
Palm Z22 PDA worth $228. There will also be Palm Limited Edition Treo 650 Trip
Kits worth $299 each, to be given away to the first 50 customers. The Trip Kit
includes a leather case for Treo accessories, a leather case for the Treo, a
Bluetooth headset, a Treo in-vehicle charger, an extra battery, a stylus pen and
an international travel charger. The Palm TX is also on sale at $479 (usual
price $548), and comes with a free 1GB memory card and a Palm leather case.
Other Palm PDAs are also available at promotional prices, and Palm is also
running a trade-in programme. Find out more at www.palm.com

RIM releases 1st 3G version of BlackBerry

RESEARCH In Motion has released its first 3G version of its popular BlackBerry
handsets, the BlackBerry 8707g. The quad-band handset, coupled with its 3G
network compatibility, allows BlackBerry addicts to get their email almost
anywhere in the world. The device is currently available from StarHub and
SingTel at $948 without a contract. Compiled by ROLAND LIM

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              851 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

Launch pad: Panasonic P51, LG Nexus 4

SECTION: HARDWARE

LENGTH: 290 words


Panasonic P51

Panasonic has marked its entry into the smartphone segment with the P51. It runs
the latest Android 4.2 OS and is powered by a Mediatek quad core processor, 1GB
RAM with 4GB internal storage (expandable).

Weighing just 135 grams, the phone sports a matte finish with a unibody
construction. It has a 5-inch IPS display with a resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels
and features dual cameras -- 8MP rear and 1.3MP front. Other features include
3G, WiFi, Bluetooth 4.0, GPS/A-GPS and a 2,500mAh battery.

LG Nexus 4

LG has officially launched the Google Nexus 4 smartphone in India. This
smartphone will be the first one to get the latest Android OS updates, as and
when Google releases them. The phone has a 4.7-inch HD IPS display with a
resolution of 1280 x 768 pixels.

Hardware includes a 1.5Ghz Qualcomm quad core processor, 2GB RAM and 16GB non
expandable storage with 2,100mAh battery. It has an 8MP autofocus rear camera
that does full HD 1080p recording and a front 1.3MP camera for video calling.

Logitech Ultimate Ears range

Aimed at music enthusiasts, the Ultimate Ears range of audio products comprises
two portable speakers: Mobile Boombox and Boombox, two headphones: UE 6000 and
UE 9000 and the UE 900, professional in-ear monitors.

The UE 6000 is a noise cancelling wired headphone while the UE 9000 is a
wireless Bluetooth headphone. Both Boomboxes work via Bluetooth and can pair
with up to 8 devices. The UE 900 earphones includes 4 drivers in a compact
design -- two for low end and one each for mid range and high frequencies.

CORRIGENDUM: The Galaxy Grand Quattro features a Qualcomm Snapdragon quad core
processor and not a Mediatek processor as mentioned in the 15th May launch
section.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              852 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A CROWDED MARKET

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 308 words


ENTRY LEVEL

Ebook readers may have slow monochrome screens and limited functions but they
will get you online, to download books and journals, at a bargain price

Amazon 'Original' Kindle, £69 6in E Ink display, no touchscreen, wi-fi only.
Will hold up to 1,400 books. Battery life is exceptional and it's unrivalled for
its choice of books. amazon.co.uk

Barnes & Noble Nook Simple Touch, £79 7in E Ink display, touchscreen, wi-fi
only. Will hold about 1,000 books. It will be launched this week in Britain.
uk.nook.com

MID-RANGE Smaller than a full-sized tablet but more versatile than a simple
ebook reader, 7in tablets are a great compromise option. The iPad Mini is up
against these two entrenched rivals

Asus/Google Nexus 7, from £159 7in, 1280 x 800-pixel display, running Android,
with 8GB or 16GB of memory. Wi-fi only. Zippy, with a higher-resolution screen
than the iPad Mini. play.google.com/store

Amazon Kindle Fire HD, from £159 7in, 1280 x 800-pixel display, running Android,
with 16GB or 32GB of memory. It's not as fast as the Nexus 7 but does link
directly to Amazon's expansive online shops. amazon.co.uk

BLOW THE BUDGET

At the top end of the market, the iPad is challenged by Android and Windows
tablets. The latter are fast and attractive and run the new Windows 8, cleverly
adapted for touchscreens

Asus Padfone 2, from £600 (estimated)

10.1in, 1280 x 800-pixel display. Wi-fi and 3G. Asus's Transformer Pad is the
best of the pricier Android tablets, made up of a screen and keyboard. The
Padfone 2, coming soon, combines a Pad with a smartphone that slots into the
device. asus.co.uk

Microsoft Surface, from £399

10.6in, 1366 x 768-pixel display. Released last week, it's wi-fi only at
present. Memory goes from 32GB to 64GB. Windows 8 runs smoothly on this
well-made tablet; an extra £100 gets you a smart cover cum keyboard.
microsoft.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              853 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                            October 21, 2016 Friday

Google Pixel XL poses threat to the Apple iPhone 7

LENGTH: 26  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Oct. 21 -- When Google launched artificial intelligence (AI)-powered
premium devices Pixel and Pixel XL earlier this month, the message was clear


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              854 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      November 23, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Lava Pixel V1, to Get Android 6.0 Marshmallow Update

LENGTH: 287  words


Monday, November 23, 2015: Pixel V1, the reinvented Android One smartphone from
Lava, will get its first major OS upgrade. Android Marshmallow, 6.0 will be
available to Lava Pixel V1 consumers to upgrade from today.

This adds Pixel V1 to a select list of devices including the Nexus phones to get
this upgrade this early. Like other Nexus devices, Lava Pixel V1 has been
rolling out monthly security updates to consumers as minor updates. Now
consumers will be able to enjoy great performance with Marshmallow which brings
out new features. Mentioned below are some prominent changes brought forward by
Marshmallow which sets it apart from its predecessor- Lollipop.

* Enhanced Battery Performance

1. Doze: When the Lava Pixel V1 device with Android Marshmallow is at rest, Doze
automatically puts it into a sleep state to increase standby battery life.

2. App Standby: No more battery drain from apps which are not used so frequently
: App Standby limits their impact on battery life so your charge lasts longer

* Better Security: On the Lava Pixel V1 device with Android Marshmallow, 6.0,
apps designed for Android Marshmallow only ask for permission when it's needed.
Users can deny any permission and still continue to use the app.

* Refreshed Google Now Launcher: The app list includes search, fast alphabetic
scrolling, and predictive App Suggestions. This will be a visible change from
the last Android version and will drastically improve the phone browsing
experience for consumers

* Flex Storage: This makes using SD cards or external storage devices as
encrypted extended storage for your apps and games on Android Marshmallow
easier.

* Direct Share: A simpler and faster way to share to the right person in the
right app.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              855 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           October 22, 2016 Saturday

@HD New Head 36 light;Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 531 words


Agence France-Presse

NEW YORK

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

It's not exactly a store, but the Google "showroom" that opened on Thursday in
New York is the Internet giant's first real-world shop and a step onto terrain
where rival Apple has excelled.

The success of the temporary storefront Google opened in the trendy Soho
neighbourhood could help the California-based company decide whether to follow
Apple's lead and operate its own brick-and-mortar retail operation.

The New York pop-up shop will be open through the end of this year, and let
people get their hands on new Google devices such as Pixel smartphones which
began shipping Thursday in a direct challenge to Apple's latest iPhones.

"This is not even a testing ground, just an extension of the launch," Google
spokeswoman Chrissy Persico said at the showroom opening event.

"We want people to come in and experience the products."

Google early this month took on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push
into hardware, launching the in-house designed Pixel smartphone and a slew of
other devices showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.

By producing both the phone hardware and its Android software, Google is making
a more direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.

The pop-up shop also displayed Google's freshly unveiled Daydream View virtual
reality headset, a modular Wi-Fi system, and a Home virtual assistant that will
challenge the Amazon Echo device.

Nothing is sold at the Google shop, but the staff directs potential customers to
the company's online store or telephone operators who can take orders for
products.

A wall in the shop is decorated with an artful arrangement of blue, red, yellow
and green blocks, arranged to display the Internet company's trademark colours.

Only 30 or so visitors ventured into the pop-up store for its opening morning, a
lean showing in comparison to mobs typically drawn to new Apple stores.

Apple has a shop in Soho, too, and many more across the country and around the
world.

As differences on the hardware side of premium smartphones have faded,
competitors have increasingly stressed "experiences" such as smoothly accessing
content or services.

@New Subhead;'Big battle'

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;"I am interested in technology, so I just
hang out in stores," Columbia University student Ravi Lakshmanan tsaid in the
Google shop. "There is going to be a big battle of platforms and it's going to
be interesting to watch."

Another visitor, Ike McLaughlin, said he has flip-flopped between the rivals but
is on Google's side for now because he felt Apple was "playing it safe, when
Google is taking risks and making a push in artificial intelligence".

McLaughlin's verdict echoes the concerns of analysts that Apple has not
delivered a market-shaking new product since the death of visionary co-founder
Steve Jobs in 2011.

But even if its market capitalisation has fallen below peaks hit in 2015, Apple
remains the world's most valuable company based on its share price. For the
financial year ending September 2015, Apple posted a net profit of US$53 billion
(Bt1.8 trillion), double the figure posted in the last year of the reign of
Steve Jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              856 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           October 22, 2016 Saturday

@HD New Head 36 light;Google hawks hardware in real-world 'showroom'

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 531 words


Agence France-Presse

NEW YORK

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

It's not exactly a store, but the Google "showroom" that opened on Thursday in
New York is the Internet giant's first real-world shop and a step onto terrain
where rival Apple has excelled.

The success of the temporary storefront Google opened in the trendy Soho
neighbourhood could help the California-based company decide whether to follow
Apple's lead and operate its own brick-and-mortar retail operation.

The New York pop-up shop will be open through the end of this year, and let
people get their hands on new Google devices such as Pixel smartphones which
began shipping Thursday in a direct challenge to Apple's latest iPhones.

"This is not even a testing ground, just an extension of the launch," Google
spokeswoman Chrissy Persico said at the showroom opening event.

"We want people to come in and experience the products."

Google early this month took on rivals Apple, Samsung and Amazon in a new push
into hardware, launching the in-house designed Pixel smartphone and a slew of
other devices showcasing artificial intelligence prowess.

By producing both the phone hardware and its Android software, Google is making
a more direct assault on Apple and its tightly controlled ecosystem.

The pop-up shop also displayed Google's freshly unveiled Daydream View virtual
reality headset, a modular Wi-Fi system, and a Home virtual assistant that will
challenge the Amazon Echo device.

Nothing is sold at the Google shop, but the staff directs potential customers to
the company's online store or telephone operators who can take orders for
products.

A wall in the shop is decorated with an artful arrangement of blue, red, yellow
and green blocks, arranged to display the Internet company's trademark colours.

Only 30 or so visitors ventured into the pop-up store for its opening morning, a
lean showing in comparison to mobs typically drawn to new Apple stores.

Apple has a shop in Soho, too, and many more across the country and around the
world.

As differences on the hardware side of premium smartphones have faded,
competitors have increasingly stressed "experiences" such as smoothly accessing
content or services.

@New Subhead;'Big battle'

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;"I am interested in technology, so I just
hang out in stores," Columbia University student Ravi Lakshmanan tsaid in the
Google shop. "There is going to be a big battle of platforms and it's going to
be interesting to watch."

Another visitor, Ike McLaughlin, said he has flip-flopped between the rivals but
is on Google's side for now because he felt Apple was "playing it safe, when
Google is taking risks and making a push in artificial intelligence".

McLaughlin's verdict echoes the concerns of analysts that Apple has not
delivered a market-shaking new product since the death of visionary co-founder
Steve Jobs in 2011.

But even if its market capitalisation has fallen below peaks hit in 2015, Apple
remains the world's most valuable company based on its share price. For the
financial year ending September 2015, Apple posted a net profit of US$53 billion
(Bt1.8 trillion), double the figure posted in the last year of the reign of
Steve Jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              857 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      December 6, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Apple iPad Mini and iPad Air to start selling in India this weekend

LENGTH: 311  words


The Google nexus 7 II is here in India via the Google Play store, and its
competitor is also here now. The Apple iPad Mini and iPad Air are going to
release in the Indian market this weekend.

The two tablets launched by Apple this year have been late this year. Soon after
the Nexus 7 II is launched in India, the two iPad are said to be hitting shelves
this month. The 7.9 inch iPad mini with Retina display will be available in
India at Rs 28900 for the 16 GB Wi-Fi only version. The prices for the 32 GB and
the 64 GB have not been announced by the company.

The 9.7-inch iPad Air will be launched with a price tag of Rs 35900 for the 16
GB Wi-Fi only variant. Prices of 32 GB, 64 GB and 128 GB variants have not been
released by the company.

10 things that will make you want an iPad Mini as your first tablet

10 things you will love in the new iPad Air

iPad Air is a great improvement, sure it is the reason why iPad 4 has been
discontinued

7 reasons why you should buy Google Nexus 7 II

The new 7.9-inch iPad Mini Retina is a device with 2048 x 1536 pixel resolution
at 326 pixels per inch, has come for sale at the official Apple store. This 331
grams tablet that started last year now sports the latest 64-bit A7 chip
underneath with the M7 processor. This tablet has got a 5 megapixel primary
camera and a 1.2 front camera.

The iPad Air is the thinnest ever iPad from Apple and  stands at  just 7.4 mm in
thickness which is 2.0 mm thinner than the previous generation ipad. Previous
generation iPad was 9.4 mm thin. In weight the ipad Air is just 1 pounds, that
makes it the thinnest in the world.

Both the tablets are based on the 64-bit architecture A7 processor accompanied
by a M7 motion processor.

Apple iPhone 6 pics emerge: Edge-to-edge display, Retina 2 and more

Review: Is the colourful plastic iPhone 5C a good buy in India?

iPhone 5S review: Is this worth $649?

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              858 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

First look: Samsung Ativ S

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight

LENGTH: 630 words


Battery and storage

The Samsung Ativ S values practicality over aesthetics in its design. Its
removable case makes it easy for you to replace the battery with a spare should
the juice run dry. It also allows you to insert a microSD card to expand the
phone's storage capacity.

Speaker

Unfortunately, the phone's speaker is placed at the rear bottom area. When you
hold the phone, your palm will block the speaker, resulting in muffled audio.

Placing the phone on the table does not help as the speaker will be firing
downwards onto its surface. Your best bet is to use a pair of wired or
Bluetooth-enabled earphones.

Display

Among the Windows Phone 8 line-up of devices, the Ativ S takes the lead with its
massive 4.8-inch display. But with a larger display and a screen resolution of
720 x 1,280 pixels, you get a lower display density of 306 pixels per inch.
Nonetheless, its Super Amoled display technology, which is generally more power
efficient and delivers richer colours, enhances its display prowess.

Physical buttons

The power and camera buttons are situated on the right of the device. Locating
them is relatively easy as the buttons are sufficiently raised from the surface.

Start button

Unlike most Windows Phone devices, the Samsung smartphone chose to use a
physical key for its Start button, while its back and
search keys remain as touch-sensitive buttons. A physical button is much easier
to click but repeated clicking may result in a damaged button.

Tips & tricks

Shared Google calendars

If you have shared calendars in your Google account, here are some extra steps
to take before they show up on your phone:

1. Launch Internet Explorer on your Windows phone, then go to M.google.com/sync
and sign in to your Google account.

2. Select your Windows Phone device. By default, it should be named Windows
Phone.

3. Select the additional calendars.

4. Click on the Start button, swipe left and down until you find Settings.
Select Email+Account, press and hold on Google account and select Sync. Your
shared Google calendars will now appear in the Calendar hub.

Automatic photo upload

Switch on Automatic Photo Uploads if you want to ensure that your photos are
accessible from your phone and any PC when you log in to your SkyDrive account.

Be warned that this may also jack up your data usage. If you wish to keep your
data usage in check, keep this function switched off. You can do this via
Settings, then Backup and turning it off in the Photos option.

Multi-tasking

As in earlier versions, you activate multi-tasking by holding down the Back
button on your Windows Phone. This will bring up the thumbnails of recently used
apps on your phone.

Only up to seven apps will be listed, so you will have to go back to your Start
screen to find apps that were opened much earlier.

Clicking on the back button will let you exit and close an app, allowing another
app to be featured on the multi-task menu.

Selecting the app in the multi-task menu will bring you back to the exact point
where you left off, so if you were conversing halfway in WhatsApp, it will bring
you back to the conversation.

However, if you were to return to the Start screen and enter the app, you will
not continue where you left off. This is inconvenient.

Downloading apps

Apps and games are deposited quite differently on Windows Phone. All apps are
found under the app list, which is accessed by swiping left on the Start screen.
Games are stored separately under the Games hub, which is also linked to your
Xbox gamertag.

Apps can also be pushed to your phone via the Windows Phone store website. But
you will need to allow push notifications on your Windows Phone before you can
send apps to that device. Go to Settings, followed by Find My Phone. Select Send
Apps To My Phone Using Push Notifications.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              859 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Lincolnshire Echo

                           February 25, 2016 Thursday

Screening out the best from the rest

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 503  words


Microsoft Lumia 950, £419.99, microsoftstore.com

Running on Windows 10, this phone could easily double up as a PC. However, with
a 5.2-inch WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up
to a larger monitor. The bright colours are crystal clear and there's even
'sunlight readability enhancements', which basically means if you're watching
outdoors, the quality  won't be reduced. Taking films and photos yourself? This
model has 4k video resolution, 3x video zoom and your snaps can be up to 20mp.

Huawei P8, £299.99,  carphonewarehouse.com

This phone  certainly looks pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, it's
packed with quality too. Huawei  is a market leading brand in the East and this
model highlights why. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display works a charm and its
Emotion UI function  lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to warm.The
camera comes with a good set of options and extras, including optical image
stabilisation. You'll struggle to find a better value phone.

iPhone 6s Plus, £619, apple.com

Like an actor with  an Oscar nomination every year, it's hard to top the appeal
of an iPhone - and it'd be impossible to not include the latest Apple model in
the best screen awards. The iPhone 6s Plus comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD
display and 1920x1080 pixel resolution. Yet, with this model, it's  about the
ease of use. The 3D Touch function will recognise how much pressure you're
applying to the screen and react accordingly.  Your pictures will be bold,
bright and unbelievably detailed, while the 4K video you record will be
practically blockbuster quality.

Google Nexus 5X, £299, store.google.com

From the moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the wallpaper colours,
you just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, tthe
5.2-inch Full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are super sharp. As
for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright lights - picking up
on the finer details (and colours) of what you're filming.

Moto X Force, £499, motorola.co.uk

Clumsy people unite! Motorola's X Force comes with the claim that it has 'the
world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be watching films
through annoying cracks. Despite the phone focusing on its super-strength lens,
its display packs a powerful punch and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display
with 540ppi, which gives deep, rich colours when you're using your phone as a
TV. The camera is also great quality - in fact, you'll be able to take 21mp
snaps on the camera and there's 1080p video capture facility.

Sony Xperia Z5 Premium, £599, sonymobile.com

Given Sony produces great TVs, it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone
focuses on ensuring its display is of the highest quality. In fact, it's sold as
'the world's first 4K smartphone' and when you take into account its ppi is 806
(its competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this phone
isn't the market leader when it comes to display capabilities.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clockwise from below: Sony Xperia Z5 Premium; Google Nexus 5X; Moto X
Force; Microsoft Lumia 950; iPhone 6s Plus and Huawei P8

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              860 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MIGHTY MINNOWS YOU'LL WANT TO CATCH ONE-HANDED;
Android 7-inch tablets are powerful and portable. Matt Bingham tries five

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 973 words


7-INCH TABLETS

BUYER'S GUIDE

WHY GO FOR THIS SIZE?

Small tablets hit a sweet spot between usability and portability.

Their 7in displays are nearly twice the size of a 5in smartphone's, making them
better devices for, say, web browsing or video, but you can still hold them
single-handed.

HOW ARE THESE DIFFERENT FROM AN iPAD MINI?

They're cheaper (the Mini starts at £269) and all have higher-resolution
displays (although the Mini's screen is 7.9in).

The Mini has a metal case and its cameras are better.

Apple will release a new version soon, with a higher pixel count.

WHAT CAN THESE TABLETS DO?

Thanks to wi-fi and Bluetooth, they can get you online, manage email and will
work with wireless speakers.

There are now lots of games in the Android store, and these tablets will play
most of them.

Their micro-USB ports mean you can connect them to TVs using a cheap cable, and
top up the battery using most non-Apple chargers.

BEST FOR BUSINESS USE LENOVO IDEATAB A3000 £150

The A3000 gives you a pair of Sim slots - useful if you divide your time between
two countries, say - and the 1024 x 600-pixel screen works out at 170ppi.

It's bright and attractive, with pixelation noticeable only when you are reading
small text.

The 16GB memory can be expanded by up to 64GB via a micro-SD card.

A useful feature is support for USB OTG (On-the-Go): buy a compatible cable for
a few pounds and you can attach and power-up flash drives and keyboards through
the micro-USB slot, turning the tablet into a serious piece of kit.

piece of kit Like all Nexus 7 rivals hereLike all Nexus 7 rivals here it's
chunky and heavy in comparison at 345g, but its "grippy" rear cover is handy.
Verdict Add some affordable accessories and Sim card(s) to make this a genuine
laptop replacement. HHHHI www.lenovo.com/uk

BEST FOR PERFORMANCE

NEXUS 7 (2013) £199

The first Nexus 7, released by Google and Asus a little over a year ago, proved
that a budget tablet could still be fast and boast a great screen.

Its successor is even more impressive: never has such a high-resolution display
been put into such an affordable device. y Google ago, could still reen. Its
ressive: lution n Its 192080 pixels give 323 pixels per inch (ppi) in a case
just 8.65mm thick.

That, plus its 290g weight, means the Nexus 7 can be held single-handed for
hours.

The screen is brighter, more detailed and more vibrant than any on test, and the
tablet has twice the Ram of its rivals here, helping it speed through tasks.

Being a Google-branded device, it's the only one on test to run the latest
version of Android, 4.3, which usefully allows the creation of separate user
profiles - if you can bear to share the device.

The battery will run for up to 10 hours. The entrylevel model has 16GB of
storage, but unlike the rest on test cannot be upgraded with memory cards (a
32GB version costs £239; a 3G Sim version is expected soon at £299).

The 5Mp rear and 1.2Mp front cameras are none too great, but otherwise this is
excellent hardware that's worth its price premium. Verdict Move over, iPad Mini
- this is the best small tablet you can buy. *****

www.google.co.uk/nexus/7

BEST FOR BACK-UP

HP SLATE 7 £99

Heavy and with an unimpressive display, the HP has a bargain-basement build
that's hard to disguise, but it does handle pretty much every task you throw at
it, making it a suitable back-up device or child's tablet. The screen is the
sticking point: at 1024x600 pixels - giving 169ppi - it's got decent resolution,
but looks dull to the point of graininess. Unusually here it has a 16:9 aspect
ratio: good for watching widescreen films, but web pages get stretched to fill
the space. It has 8GB of storage, expandable by up to 32GB via a memory card, a
3Mp rear camera and low-res front one though of thoseand low-res front one,
though of those on test it runs the oldest version of Android - 4.1.1 - and has
a battery life of about four hours. But it works with HP's wireless printing
technology, if you have a compatible printer, plus there's a good-quality case
for £25.

Verdict Highly affordable - but not fun. **

www.hp.com/uk

BEST FOR AFFORDABILITY

TESCO HUDL £119

The sale mo 238 ab lo £in ow "Te on take are The supermarket giant's first
tablet, on sale tomorrow, gives you a lot for the money: a 1440 x 900-pixel
display for 238ppi, a quad-core processor and about nine hours of battery life.
Tesco loyalty card users can get it for just £60 in points (that's a hefty
£6,000 in baked beans). Unlike Amazon's own-brand Kindle Fire HD (£159), the
"Tesco tablet" adds only a few extras on top of regular Android: a "T" button
takes you to a Tesco web page; there are similar shortcuts on the home screen;
and you get apps for Tescoowned Blinkbox film and music streams (with book
downloads coming soon). The 16GB of memory can be upgraded by a further 32GB.
This is a fairly slim, 370g device with an excellent screen that keeps its store
tie-ins to a minimum.

Verdict High-quality kit at a great price. ****

www.tesco.co.uk/hudl

BEST FOR NON-BRANDED ANDROID

ASUS MEMO PAD HD 7 £130

Nexus 7-maker Asus also has a 7in tablet, cheaper than the class-leader but
lagging behind in specifications. The MEMO Pad's display has 1280x800 pixels for
a respectable 216ppi, and the screen is sharp and bright. It has a high
contrast, although it's a little less attractive than the Hudl's. Unlike Tesco's
tablet, you get pretty much pure Android - whether that's worth the price hike
over the Hudl is your call. The 16GB device can take micro-SD cards of up to
32GB and has a battery life of about nine hours. Like all here, the processor
had no problem running apps quickly and loading web pages without fuss. Where
corners have been cut is in the build: the glossy plastic back cover and 11mm
depth make this a tricky hold for extended periods, but it feels light at 302g.
Verdict You'd rather have a Hudl. ***uk.asus.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              861 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Google has coming-out party for Assistant;
Goal is 'a personal Google for each and every user,' CEO Sundar Pichai says of
star of hardware unveil

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 569 words


The star of Google's splashy launch event was the one with the speaking part:
the super-smart digital helper Assistant whose task is to maintain the Internet
giant's tight grip on consumers and their wallets as their attention shifts to
smartphones and Internet-connected devices.

Assistant will create a "conversation between our users and Google," CEO Sundar
Pichai said  Tuesday. The goal: "A personal Google for each and every user,"
Pichai said.

Assistant is central to a new and  aggressive push by Google to sell its own
consumer electronic devices rather than supplying the software to manufacturers.

Tuesday, Google executives showed off a series of gadgets:

A new line of Pixel smartphones with a powerful camera and long-lasting battery
-- not to mention the dedicated headphone jack -- to compete with Apple's
iPhone.

A new Home Internet-connected speaker device that responds to voice commands
like Amazon's Echo.

A virtual reality headset called Daydream View.

A Wi-Fi system.

A new version of Chromecast's media-streaming device.

Diving into hardware is a risky  move, yet Google needs its own devices to make
sure its online services and digital ads stay front and center with consumers.
What distinguishes the new wave of devices: years of investment in artificial
intelligence that produced the Assistant.

Tuesday, Google introduced two new devices that have the Google Assistant baked
in: Home and the Pixel smartphones, both vessels to showcase what the Assistant
can do and to "get Assistant in the hands of our users," Pichai said.

Google launched Assistant last month in Allo, a new messaging app. It's similar
to digital helpers such as Apple's Siri, Amazon's Alexa and Microsoft's Cortana.

"The Assistant was clearly at the center of the announcement today," Gartner
research analyst Brian Blau said. "Google is building a brand around their
ecosystem in a way they have not done before, and they are using this Assistant
as the glue that's going to tie together not only the new devices and how you
use them, but a lot of the services and apps Google has made popular over the
years."

Rick Osterloh, chief of the company's new hardware division, told reporters
Google will now focus on this intersection of hardware and software.

Google has struggled with hardware in the past. Its Google Glass wearable device
fizzled, and it recently abandoned a project to develop modular phones. Google's
Android software powers most of the world's smartphones, but sales of Nexus
phones have lagged other devices. Osterloh joined Google in April to create a
cohesive hardware strategy and bring the company's hardware groups into one
division.

"It lets us take full advantage of our capabilities like the Google Assistant
and lets us harness years of expertise we have built up in machine learning and
AI to deliver the simple, smart and fast experiences that users expect from us,"
he said.

At the heart of Pichai's vision for Google's future is the belief that we are
increasingly moving toward a world that runs on artificial intelligence, meaning
no matter what screen we are interacting with -- a smartphone or a smart-home
device -- we will be helped by the invisible hands of smart machines that answer
our questions and help us complete everyday tasks.

"This is Google's bread and butter," says Jan Dawson,  analyst with Jackdaw
Research. "A failure would call into question Google's entire value
proposition."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              862 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 10, 2013 Monday

USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc. titled as "Laying Out
Displaying Media Content Across Heterogeneous Computing Devices"

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20130145251, on June 06, 2013, by Google Inc., titled as "Laying Out Displaying
Media Content Across Heterogeneous Computing Devices" for the registration of
patent.

Inventors:  Jureidini; Imad Maurice; (Arlington, MA) ; Shore; Maurice Bennett;
(Carlisle, MA) ; Kiefer, III; William Frederick; (Cambridge, MA) ; Shalabi; Sami
Mohammed; (Winchester, MA) ; Doll; Cassandra Lynn; (Santa Clara, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A
system, computer-implemented method and computer-readable medium for displaying
edition content of a magazine edition are provided. In a method embodiment, a
virtual pixel space is generated based on the configuration of a screen of a
mobile device. Data structures that include the edition content in a plurality
of items, and a template associated with the magazine edition are received.
Display elements in the HTML document are generated by replacing the references
from the template with corresponding portions of the edition content included in
the items in the data structures. The edition content is generated, based on the
display elements of the HTML document, on the virtual pixel space as to be
rendered on the screen of the mobile device in the magazine edition."

The Patent was filed on December 6, 2011 under application No. 20130145251

For more information please visit: http://www.uspto.gov/. In case of any query
regarding this article or other content needs please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              863 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 26, 2014 Thursday

Washington: This is your screen on retina

LENGTH: 468  words

DATELINE: Washington


New Organizing Institute has issued the following news release:

This is part 3 of our 5 part tip series this week on Data and Technology. To
talk about these issues and more join us this Saturday, June 28th for UpRoots
Data and Technology. UpRoots is an unconference bringing the lessons and
collaborative spirit we share at RootsCamp year-round. You can get your tickets
here.

Over the past few years there has been an increasing trend towards
high-resolution "retina" screens. A high-DPI (dots per inch), or "retina"
display, is a display that has a significantly larger number of pixels
(individual dots that can be a mixture of red, green, and blue) per square inch,
making text and shapes appear extra crisp and clear.

Viewing text at that size, however, would be nearly impossible, so phones and
computers "scale" the image, usually by a factor of 2. Then they use algorithms
to fill in the extra pixels. Every pixel on my device is scaled to be 4 pixels
-- this means that the text is "vector" based, like the text in this email, and
it appears crisp and clear. Content in a .png or .jpg format, or "raster based,
requires that the device turns 1 pixel into 4, and it appears blurry by
comparison.

So how do we optimize for retina screens? Here are some ways that you can ensure
your content looks good:

Make all your images double the resolution. If an image in your email, or on
your website, is meant to be 300 pixels wide by 50 pixels tall, make sure the
original is 600 pixels wide by 100 pixels tall and set the 300px by 50px image
size in your HTML or CSS. This will allow both retina and non-retina browsers to
determine the best way to scale the image for the user's display.
    Default to using text. Besides just being a best practice for accessibility,
browsers will automatically render text for retina resolutions. For websites, if
you don't like the default fonts available with most browsers, try hosted
services like Google Fonts or consider paying for a webfont via Adobe Typekit.
Unfortunately there is limited support for custom fonts in emails. I recommend
adapting a default font in your email wrappers and make your logos 2x bigger.
    Make your site's icons vector-based. This is also a website-only option, but
consider defaulting to SVG (scalable vector images) for any icons or glyphs on
your website. Browsers will automatically scale these to be crisp at any
resolution.  Though you'll need to do a bit of work to support Internet Explorer
8.

A word of warning: be careful with your file sizes. It's sometimes better to
have one slightly blurry image instead of a very large image that loads slowly
on your user's mobile devices.

If you follow these rules, your content will look great at any resolution!

For further information please visit: http://www.neworganizing.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              864 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                    Trak.in

                      December 14, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Google Just Hinted at Split-Screen Multitasking in Android N

BYLINE: Abhishek Joshi

LENGTH: 564  words


Android M a.k.a Marshmallow was officially unveiled at the beginning of this
year at I/O developers conference and was finally available through Nexus
devices at the earliest to the customers. Once rolled out for its major devices,
it made sense for Google to start working on the next big thing, Android N.

Pixel C has been built from scratch by Google, and came with an attachable
keyboard to show the flexibility in using a tablet as a laptop. Marshmallow also
demonstrated that Honeycomb was not the last tablet-specific operating system
and Google has worked its way through all the potential issues. However, it is
still not as customizable as you would want it to be, and it does not make full
use of that big screen compared to a mobile phone.

The team working behind the next generation of Android OS, conducted an AMA on
Reddit, (https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/3w3x7p/hi_im_andrew_here_at_
google_and_im_with_the_team/) which has become an extremely popular method of
interacting with the masses. They did not completely reveal what we could see
from Android N, so as to hold on to the excitement, but they did reveal one
small detail which was enough for us to keep going.

Although expected now, Google is working on getting split-screen feature to the
next OS version and we sure can hope it to be more functional than the one in
iOS. With all that real estate, tablets usually do not see much support from
Google and this gives them an opportunity to showcase the potential through
Pixel C. Unlike iPads, tablets are mostly secondary devices for Google and do
not enjoy the same popularity. However, Google is trying to change everything
with Android M.

Remember Samsung had introduced this already long time back with the Note series
and some other companies had followed suit. Then why did Google notice it now?
Thanks to iOS 9. Yes Google and Apple have been trying to outdo each other since
the very beginning and they have been playing the catching-up game for years
now.

Glen Murphy, Director of Android and Chrome UX said,"We're working hard on a
range of enhancements for Android in this form factor. There are many things,
like multi-window, that we've been spending a lot of time on - hopefully we can
share more about this soon." Does multi-window ring a bell? Yes you've seen it
already on iOS 9 launched this year and Apple is already ahead in the game.

"We're working on lots of things right now for N that, of course, we wish we
had, you know, yesterday, but we'd spoil the surprise of N if we shared all of
them. Split screen is in the works," said Andrew Bowers, Consumer Hardware
Director at Google. We believe Google needs to make sure the final product is
better than iOS or it won't make sense to launch it separately through the next
gen OS.

To me, the news is not very exciting, but it does mean that Google is giving it
a very good thought and we might see some interesting features in Android N.

I wish Google would just pay attention to other companies who have been using
this feature from the very beginning, as an additional layer over stalk Android.
Although app support is lacking, but this gives Google an excellent chance to
make it work on its own will.

I really hope Google is able to give a well finished product with some
interesting features like video and messaging at the same for the heavy
smartphone and tablet users in this generation.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2015 Trak.in, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              865 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                                 ENTERTAINMENT

Arcade magic: The characters behind 'Pixels' alien force

SECTION: VIDEO GAMES

LENGTH: 472 words


In just a few days since its release, the trailer for Adam Sandler's upcoming
summer 2015 movie release "Pixels" has set a new viewing record for Sony. A
quick refresher on where the iconic arcade motifs of "Pixels" came from in the
first place, and where to find the games today, on mobile, browser, console or
computer.

Pac-Man (1980)
Happy yellow maze runner, ghost-gobbling Pac-Man eviscerated its competition in
the early 1980s. "Pac-Man Championship Edition" (2007) is available today on iOS
and Android; the supreme "Pac-Man Championship Edition DX" (2010) or "DX+" is on
Xbox Live Arcade, the PlayStation Store, Windows Phone, and Windows PC via
Steam.

Donkey Kong (1981)
At this point, the great ape was facing off against not-yet-Mario, Jumpman;
Nintendo's ongoing ownership of the franchise means that it's on Wii, 3DS and
Wii U as a Virtual Console download. "Crazy Kong," which looked like a rip-off
but was in fact officially licensed, is available to play via
archive.org/details/arcade_ckong.

Space Invaders (1978), Galaxian (1979)
Taito's "Space Invaders" and Namco's "Galaxian" series are cut from similar
cloth, with phalanxes of enemies descending crab-like from the skies. The free
"Galaga 30th Collection" on iOS contains the original with 3 sequels as in-app
purchases. "Space Invaders Infinity Gene" on iOS, Android, 360 and PS3 is
Taito's modern remake.

Q*bert (1982)
This tube-nosed orange fellow is set on ascending a pyramid made out of
hexagonal blocks, a structure that is somehow the logo for our jumpsuited heroes
in "Pixels." "Q*bert Reloaded" is on Windows, Mac and Linux via Steam, and
Android via the Google Play store, and is due PS3, PS4 and Vita.

Joust (1982)
Medieval jousting meets fantasy fiction with this flappy, frantic game of flying
ostriches and pole-carrying riders. The $0.99 "Midway Arcade" on iTunes contains
"Joust" plus five other classics. Six more can be had via two $0.99 in-app
purchases. Internet Archive has the emulated original.

Centipede (1981)
Taking "Space Invaders" and replacing its alien horde with an aggressive
arthropod that's harder to stop with each landed hit, the original is in iOS's
Atari Greatest Hits as a four-game in-app purchase, or numerous other Atari
collections elsewhere. "Centipede Origins" is the modernized mobile update, free
with a slew of IAPs to boost player proficiency.

Breakout (1976)
A brainchild of Atari's Nolan Bushnell and an early success for pre-Apple pair
Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, the bat, ball and breakable wall game went on to
inspire Taito's "Arkanoid" (1986) which, despite confusing the "Pixels"
timeline, appears to be the mould for the film's flying paddles nonetheless.
Atari has Breakout Boost+ on iOS, Super Breakout to play in-browser, and Google
Image Search turns "Atari Breakout" results into another version of the game.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              866 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SMILE, CALLER, THE BARGAINS HAVE ARRIVED;
Matt Bingham tests four budget Android contenders Bih FBDADIDD Power, speed and
big screens are no longer the preserve of the most expensive smartphones.

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 858 words


BEST FOR PRICE


MOTOROLA MOTO G £135 M driving

BEST BUY

BUDGET ANDROID PHONES

Motorola - now owned by Google - has torn up the rulebook with the Moto G, an
Android handset that with few compromises has the power and highdefinition
screen of phones costing three times the price. It puts any supermarket phone
for the same money in the shade, and is one teenagers' handset they won't
"lose". "And if they do, the device's GPS location hardware and Motorola's own
"lost phone web portal" will help you get it back (the system also works for
lost teenagers). There's a 4.5in display with 1280x720 pixels for a resolution
of about 330 pixels per inch (ppi) - the same ppi as the £469 iPhone 5C - that's
bright and high contrast too. It comes with 8GB of memory and respectable 5Mp
rear and 1.3Mp front-facing cameras. There are even coloured backs and flip
cases to replace boring black.

The Moto G is heavy at 143g but in a good way: it feels tough. A quad-core
processor handled every task we set it. Those compromises? It's thick, at
11.6mm, battery life should get you through the day but not much more, there's
no memory card slot and it's not 4G, though none should be deal breakers for
most users. VerdictThe best value-for-money smartphone - not just among these
four, but so far.

***** www.motorola.co.uk

BEST FOR SCREEN NEXUS 5 £299

Google's fingerprints are all over this handset. It's made by LG for the
internet giant, and as a Nexus device it gets Google's latest software with no
cosmetic tweaks. It has the biggest display of all here and it's a beauty: 4.9in
and 192080 pixels for a remarkably sharp 445ppi, yet the handset is light at
130g and is barely 8.6mm thick. A non-slip rear casing makes for an easy hold.
The 8Mp rear camera has a bright LED flash, but is not as strong a performer as
those found on top-end phones. Battery life is on a par with the Moto G, and any
app or game we threw at it ran without fuss. There's no memory card slot, but
you do get 16GB on board (a 32GB version costs £339) and it will work with all
UK 4G networks. Available in black or white, the Nexus 5 in most respects looks,
feels and behaves like a flagship handset. It was our Best Buy - until the Moto
G stole its thunder.

Verdict Top-end performance for mid-range money. HHHHH www.google.co.uk/nexus/5

HUAWEI ASCEND P6 £280

Affordable Android phones don't have to be characterless bricks. The P6 has the
look and feel of the iPhone and is built from many of the same high-quality
materials but is slimmer (a record-holding 6.18mm thick). It comes in black,
white or pink, weighs just 120g and, for digital narcissists, has a 5Mp
front-facing camera. Your selfies will never have looked so good after you
adjust the "beauty level" (software that enhances your face) and apply
Instagram-style effects. The 4.7in, 1280x720-pixel display gives an excellent
312ppi. The phone runs a highly customised interface: Huawei polled 5m customers
and obviously found they want a potentially headache-inducing amount of
interactive icons and effects. The specs might be underwhelming - no 4G, the
slowest processor on test and 8GB of memory (there is a memory card slot to add
more) - but on fashion credentials this is a star.

Verdict Eye-catching looks, clever cameras. ****

BEST FOR CUSTOM SOFTWARE HTC DESIRE 500 £200

The Desire 500 is the most affordable way of being able to use HTC's excellent
BlinkFeed software. This is a replacement home page comprised of an updating,
magazine-style feed made up of social network postings, plus any news and sports
outlets you add. You scroll down to see more feeds, tap to read any in detail
and swipe to get through to the regular Android running underneath. Take away
the attraction of BlinkFeed, though, and the Desire begins to look
unprepossessing: the 4.3in display has 800x480 pixels for 217ppi and there is
just 4GB of memory (thankfully it has a micro SD slot for an additional memory
card). There's no 4G and it runs the oldest version of Android on test, although
the 8Mp rear camera is no slouch, it weighs 123g and is a slim 9.9mm. It's
available in black or white. Verdict BlinkFeed on a budget.

*** www.carphonewarehouse.com

KNOW YOUR ANDROIDS BUYER'S GUIDE 4.1, 4.2 AND 4.3 JELLY BEAN

The HTC, Huawei and Motorola here all run Android Jelly Bean: versions 4.1, 4.2
and 4.3 respectively. Released 18 months ago, 4.1 introduced Google Now, search
software capable of learning your habits and eventually anticipating them. Email
and other notifications were enhanced, so you could open a web page or call a
number from one of these pull-down messages - a trick adopted by the iPhone.
Version 4.2 introduced gesture typing - sweeping a finger across the keyboard to
"draw" words rather than tap them out - and 4.3 revamped camera software.

4.4 KITKAT

The new name signified a major upgrade to Android. Unveiled in September, KitKat
brought enhanced voice control of the handset, and new apps such as the
Quickoffice software pre-installed. It also tied text messages in to Google's
Hangouts app (don't panic - you can install any texting app you like and make it
the default). Only the Nexus 5 here currently runs KitKat.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              867 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Hold the phone: Google launches new fall lineup

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Google launched a new phone, a home-assistant device, a Wi-Fi router system,
streaming device and virtual-reality headset at an event Tuesday that starred
the firm's industry-leading artificial-intelligence software.

"The software's magical, and the hardware's 'Yeah, OK,' " said Forrester
Research analyst Julie Ask.

Google confirmed it will release the "Pixel" phone, which comes in two sizes and
three colour choices and has the artificial intelligence-powered "Google
Assistant" built in.

"We designed everything about Pixel from the industrial design to the user
experience," said Rick Osterloh, head of Google's newly formed hardware
division. "We're building hardware with Google Assistant at its core so you can
get things done without worrying about the underlying technology."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Times Colonist
                              All Rights Reserved


                              868 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Google tablet features put the torch to Kindle Fire

BYLINE: ARIK HESSELDAHL, HANDHELDS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 464  words


GOOGLE'S Nexus 7 tablet is the same size and price as Amazon. com's Kindle Fire,
but it costs a bit more to build.

Researcher IHS iSuppli took apart the Nexus 7 to analyse its components and
found the hardware cost $US151.75 ($149.20) for the low-end, 8GB model, a slim
margin for the device's $US199 sale price.

But the 16GB model, which sells for $US249, costs only $US7.50 more to build,
for a total of $US159.25, the difference being the price of memory chips.

Andrew Rassweiler, who leads the teardown team at IHS iSuppli, said Google would
break even on the 8GB model but turn a tidy profit on the 16GB.

``Like Apple, Google realises it can boost its profit by offering more memory at
a stair-step price point,'' Mr Rassweiler said.

All told, IHS iSuppli figures the Nexus 7 8GB version costs about $US18 more to
make than the Kindle Fire, which only comes in one version with 8GB of memory.
But that difference could change soon. Amazon is slated to debut a new Kindle
Fire with a better, and probably more expensive, display.

By comparison, Apple's least expensive version of the new iPad with 16GB of
memory sells for $US499 and costs about $US316 to make, according to a previous
IHS iSuppli estimate.

The Nexus 7 is similar to the Kindle Fire tablet in many respects, but has a few
more robust features.

For one thing, it has a Tegra 3 processor from Nvidia as its main computing
engine

That is a four-core chip, meaning it has four main processing brains, two more
than the Kindle Fire's Texas Instruments processor. TI, however, supplied two
chips for the Nexus 7, one a power-manager and the other a low-voltage
transmitter.

The Nexus 7, manufactured by Asustek Computer for Google, also has a higher
resolution display at 1280 pixel depth by 800 pixel width, versus 1024 by 600
for the Kindle Fire.

Mr Rassweiler said the display used a technology known as in-plane switching,
and added $US38 to the hardware cost of the Nexus 7, versus $US35 for the
display in the Kindle Fire.

The Nexus 7 also has a camera, which the Kindle Fire lacks, that added $US2.50
in cost.

The Nexus 7 has a chip from NXP Semiconductors that supports near-field
communications -- a close-range wireless technology that is intended for
wireless commerce transactions.

Broadcom supplied global positioning system receiver chips to support mapping
functions.

One other part that caught Mr Rassweiler's attention was a gyroscope and
accelerometer from Invensense.

It's common to see Invensense gyroscopes, but rare to see it combined in the
same chip with the accelerometer.

Both are used to measure position and movement of the device.

The only other combined gyro-accelerometer seen before, Mr Rassweiler said, was
in Samsung's Galaxy SIII smartphone, which was made by the European chipmaker
STMicroelectronics.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              869 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SMILE, CALLER, THE BARGAINS HAVE ARRIVED;
Power, speed and big screens are no longer the preserve of the most expensive
smartphones. Matt Bingham tests four budget Android contenders

SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 32,33

LENGTH: 864 words


BEST FOR PRICE Mingear MOTOROLA MOTO G (EURO)173 BEST BUY BUDGET ANDROID PHONES
Motorola - now owned by Google - has torn up the rulebook with the Moto G, an
Android handset that with few compromises has the power and highdefinition
screen of phones costing three times the price. It puts any supermarket phone
for the same money in the shade, and is one teenagers' handset they won't
"lose". "And if they do, the device's GPS location hardware and Motorola's own
"lost phone web portal" will help you get it back (the system also works for
lost teenagers). There's a 4.5in display with 1280x720 pixels for a resolution
of about 330 pixels per inch (ppi) - the same ppi as the (EURO)599 iPhone 5C -
that's bright and high contrast too. It comes with 8GB of memory and respectable
5Mp rear and 1.3Mp front-facing cameras. There are even coloured backs and flip
cases to replace boring black.

The Moto G is heavy at 143g but in a good way: it feels tough. A quad-core
processor handled every task we set it. Those compromises? It's thick, at
11.6mm, battery life should get you through the day but not much more, there's
no memory card slot and it's not 4G, though none should be deal breakers for
most users. VerdictThe best value-for-money smartphone - not just among these
four, but so far.

HHHHH www.amazon.ie BEST FOR SCREEN NEXUS 5 PTC IN IR Google's fingerprints are
all over this handset. It's made by LG for the internet giant, and as a Nexus
device it gets Google's latest software with no cosmetic tweaks. It has the
biggest display of all here and it's a beauty: 4.9in and 192080 pixels for a
remarkably sharp 445ppi, yet the handset is light at 130g and is barely 8.6mm
thick. A non-slip rear casing makes for an easy hold. The 8Mp rear camera has a
bright LED flash, but is not as strong a performer as those found on top-end
phones. Battery life is on a par with the Moto G, and any app or game we threw
at it ran without fuss. There's no memory card slot, but you do get 16GB on
board and it will work with all UK 4G networks. Available in black or white, the
Nexus 5 in most respects looks, feels and behaves like a flagship handset. It
was our Best Buy - until the Moto G stole its thunder.

Verdict Top-end performance for mid-range money. HHHHH www.google.co.uk/nexus/5
BEST FOR SELFIES HUAWEI ASCEND P6 (EURO)330 Affordable Android phones don't have
to be characterless bricks. The P6 has the look and feel of the iPhone and is
built from many of the same high-quality materials but is slimmer (a
record-holding 6.18mm thick). It comes in black, white or pink, weighs just 120g
and, for digital narcissists, has a 5Mp front-facing camera. Your selfies will
never have looked so good after you adjust the "beauty level" (software that
enhances your face) and apply Instagram-style effects. The 4.7in, 1280x720-pixel
display gives an excellent 312ppi. The phone runs a highly customised interface:
Huawei polled 5m customers and obviously found they want a potentially
headache-inducing amount of interactive icons and effects. The specs might be
underwhelming - no 4G, the slowest processor on test and 8GB of memory (there is
a memory card slot to add more) - but on fashion credentials this is a star.
Verdict Eye-catching looks, clever cameras. HHHHI www.huaweidevice.com BEST FOR
CUSTOM SOFTWARE HTC DESIRE 500 (EURO)230 The Desire 500 is the most affordable
way of being able to use HTC's excellent BlinkFeed software. This is a
replacement home page comprised of an updating, magazine-style feed made up of
social network postings, plus any news and sports outlets you add. You scroll
down to see more feeds, tap to read any in detail and swipe to get through to
the regular Android running underneath. Take away the attraction of BlinkFeed,
though, and the Desire begins to look unprepossessing: the 4.3in display has
800x480 pixels for 217ppi and there is just 4GB of memory (thankfully it has a
micro SD slot for an additional memory card). There's no 4G and it runs the
oldest version of Android on test, although the 8Mp rear camera is no slouch, it
weighs 123g and is a slim 9.9mm. It's available in black or white. Verdict
BlinkFeed on a budget.

HHHII www.meteor.ie KNOW YOUR ANDROIDS BUYER'S GUIDE 4.1, 4.2 AND 4.3 JELLY BEAN
The HTC, Huawei and Motorola here all run Android Jelly Bean: versions 4.1, 4.2
and 4.3 respectively. Released 18 months ago, 4.1 introduced Google Now, search
software capable of learning your habits and eventually anticipating them. Email
and other notifications were enhanced, so you could open a web page or call a
number from one of these pull-down messages - a trick adopted by the iPhone.
Version 4.2 introduced gesture typing - sweeping a finger across the keyboard to
"draw" words rather than tap them out - and 4.3 revamped camera software.

4.4 KITKAT The new name signified a major upgrade to Android. Unveiled in
September, KitKat brought enhanced voice control of the handset, and new apps
such as the Quickoffice software pre-installed. It also tied text messages in to
Google's Hangouts app (don't panic - you can install any texting app you like
and make it the default). Only the Nexus 5 here currently runs KitKat.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              870 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Television Week

                                 July 16, 2007

Web Video Spinning Off Support Staff;
Conferences Present Opportunities for New Firms to Enhance Production

BYLINE: Daisy Whitney

SECTION: MEDIA&TECH; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 708  words


A spate of new businesses is springing up to support the production and
distribution of Web video well beyond just television networks and studios.

Late last month, JupiterMedia lured more than 600 people to San Jose, Calif.,
for its Web Video Summit, one of the first conferences to zero in exclusively on
the business of Web video. The conference drew Web video CEOs, the folks
supplying the software and tools for online video craftsmen and the creators
themselves, who could be identified by the Apple logos on their computers. They
jammed into two small conference rooms and an exhibit hall the size of a dining
room at the San Jose Marriott both to learn the practical aspects of Web video,
such as how to shoot and light, and to explore the business issues, such as
video search and how to make money.

If there was any doubt that Web video has moved beyond its early roots in shaky
hand-held camera work and bad lip syncs, the conference silenced that.
Opportunities have materialized now for Web video production firms such as On
Networks and Pixel Corps as well as for niche content sites such as Fora.TV,
which produces long-form videos on ideas and cultural events. All were among the
attendees at the summit.

"It used to be a closed shelf space," said Jen Grogono, co-founder and VP of
sales and marketing at On Networks, which produces about a dozen Web series.
"There is an amazing number of people who can create good quality programs."

But as the growth in Web video spawns new businesses, the unknown is how many
niche companies will stick around. Consolidation is inevitable and probably will
occur in the next 12 to 18 months, Ms. Grogono said. "Right now, the focus is on
execution and lots of people have good ideas and the companies that survive are
those that can execute and build a business model."

For now, a range of new players are building businesses around specific aspects
of Web and mobile video. A crop of companies have announced Apple iPhone
applications, for instance, in the last two weeks. Mobile video service
Clippz.com, which offers more than 500 videos from MySpace, YouTube and other
sites for uploading to mobile phones, added the tools recently to send Web
videos to iPhone.

At a conference session devoted to developing applications for the iPhone,
technology blogger Christopher Allen said he would be hosting an iPhone
"developer camp" in San Francisco July 6-8 for that purpose.

A cottage industry is quickly sprouting up around widgets, another wrinkle in
Web video. Widgets are small pieces of code or applications that reside in a Web
site, blog or MySpace page and pull content from another source, such as an
online video provider or a video search engine. Late last month, Google launched
the Google Gadget Ventures program to fund third-party widget and gadget
developers who create new features for Google's personalized home-page service.
The company will provide $5,000 grants and $100,000 seed investments.

Also in the widget world, Web services company Freewebs.com started a
widget-centric conference that kicks off July 11 in New York called WidgetCon
2007. Executives from Digitas, Fox Interactive Media, Google and Warner Bros.
Pictures are slated to speak.

Then there are companies like Pixel Corps and On Networks that produce
professional-quality Web series in high-definition. "The way to shoot for the
Web efficiently is to shoot in large batches, so 10 to 12 episodes," Alex
Lindsay, a producer with Pixel Corps, said during a session. "We don't even do a
show if we can't shoot six episodes in a day."

Pixel Corps shoots all its Web video in hi-def. So does On Networks. That helps
to future-proof a show and also makes it possible to watch the shows on an
AppleTV via iTunes, Ms. Grogono said.

On Networks produces about a dozen Web series including "Golf Tips" and a dating
show for NBC. The production shop should be up to 20 shows by the end of July.

The hi-def versions for AppleTV are downloaded more frequently than the
standard-definition versions for iTunes, she said.

"Our entire focus is to move content from screen to screen, and we want it to
look just as good on a small screen as it does on AppleTV," Ms. Grogono said.
"We think hi-def is the future, and we have bet on that."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Art Credit: SCREWBALL COMEDY: On Networks' "Backpack Picnic" is a
series of offbeat humorous shorts. * MIXING IT UP: On Networks offers a
selection of short Web videos, including "Cocktails on the Fly," hosted by
airline attendant Alberta Straub.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tw


                      Copyright 2007 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              871 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 1, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Screen savers with all features great and small;
Small-form Android tablets offer hardware close to the standards of the iPad
Mini but at much lower prices. Matt Bingham tries out four

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 998 words


BEST FOR VALUE

Tesco Hudl2 £129

The new tablet from the supermarket giant is terrific value for money. Its specs
might not be class-leading but are by no means shabby, and unlike the plasticky
first Hudl, this time round the hardware is housed in an attractive case with a
soft coating for easy handling. The bright, sharp and colourful 8.3in display is
192200 pixels, working out at 273 pixels per inch (ppi). The 16GB of memory
might come under pressure if you take advantage of the bundled discount for
Blinkbox, Tesco's video download and streaming service, but can be supplemented
with a memory card of up to 32GB. Frankly the only giveaways that this is a
budget tablet are the cameras, with 5Mp to the rear and a 1.2Mp on the front,
and - if you must use it without headphones - the sound, which is tinny.
Otherwise the Hudl2 will handle most users' gaming, video and web-browsing
chores without breaking sweat. And if you're a regular Tesco shopper you can
pick it up for £65 - assuming you've got something like a year's worth of
Clubcard points to spare.

Verdict Looks, feels and in most respects performs like a premiumpriced product.

**** www.tesco.com

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER @ST_gadgets

BEST FOR BUDGET 4G

Vodafone Smart Tab 4G £125

Opting for the 4G version of a tablet is normally expensive - a 4G Nexus 9 costs
£460, for example - but this 8in Android tablet is very affordable. At the base
price you add a free Vodafone Sim and then pay for data as you use it;
alternatively, take out a two-year contract (starting at £17 a month for 1GB of
data) and the tablet comes free. The Smart Tab runs on the slowest processor
here, and other specs are similarly basic: the 1280x800-pixel screen gives
189ppi - meaning you'll notice the pixels when looking at fine text - and it is
less bright compared with others on test. Memory is just 8GB (although up to
64GB MICROSD cards are supported), and the cameras are 5Mp at the rear and 2Mp
on the front. That said, it feels tough and well built, while 4G data is fast
and effortless to use, assuming you're in a zone with good signal, such as a
city centre. Stray into the sticks and unless you can find wi-fi, you're down to
3G or slower: fine for email, less so for the web.

Verdict A mobile data bargain - assuming Vodafone coverage.

**** www.vodafone.co.uk

BEST FOR BATTERY

Lenovo Yoga Tablet 2 (8in) £200

The Yoga is quirky but practical. The cylinder at the base of the screen
contains a battery big enough to power the tablet for up to 18 hours between
recharges; real-world use suggests more like 12 hours, but it's still double the
life of any other tablet on test. It also houses a kick-stand on a hinge that
lets you prop up the tablet in landscape mode at any angle you like, or hang
from a hook - useful in a kitchen or other messy environment - and a pair of
speakers for decent stereo sound. On the downside, teasing out the stand from
its position flush against the rear case is not easy, and the design is heavy
and awkward to hold. The Yoga 2's 8in display contains 192200 pixels for 283ppi,
its cameras are a rear-facing 8Mp and a 1.6Mp on the front, there's 16GB of
memory and it takes MICROSD cards of up to 64GB. Like all the tablets tested bar
the Nexus 9 it comes with "bloatware" - services installed by the maker that you
might not be able to remove. The Yoga 2 is the most weighed down by these
largely unnecessary apps.

Verdict Brilliant battery life and useful upright desktop mode.

***lenovo.co.uk

BEST FOR DISPLAY

Google Nexus 9 from £300

Nexus products are endorsed by Google and are intended as showcases for its
latest Android software and apps. They also used to be great value for money,
but this tablet is nudging Apple-price territory. So is it worth the cost? It is
made by HTC for Google, and you get a lovely 8.9in display with 2048x1536 pixels
for a best-in-test 281ppi, plus it runs the latest version of Android - Lollipop
- which as well as performance tweaks brings a clean new look to the operating
system. The 8Mp rear and 1.6Mp front-facing cameras are the most impressive here
too - but not as good as the iPad's ones, if you must use a tablet to take shots
- while its 2.3GHZ processor is also the most powerful of our four. Among the
optional accessories are a clever case (£25) that doubles as a stand, with a
corner that folds back to expose the rear camera, and a magnetic wireless
keyboard/cover (£120!). But build quality is disappointing for the price, and
there's no way of expanding the 16GB of memory unless you plump for the £376,
32GB version. Incidentally the 4G version of that model is free on a
£29-a-month, two-year contract from O2 for 1GB of data a month.

Verdict Looks overpriced in this company.

*** www.google.co.uk/nexus/9

BUYER'S GUIDE

Apple or Android?

The iPad Mini was Apple's answer to small Android tablets such as these, and
despite being late to the party in some ways it is the best. The 7.9in Mini 3
offers an outstanding screen resolution of 326ppi, has a best-in-class rear
camera and runs on a chip designed by Apple for its mobile devices. It's
supported too by the App Store and its 500,000-plus tablet-optimised apps (there
are far fewer for Android tablets). But the Mini 3 starts at £319 for a 16GB
device, and no option to expand it with cheap memory cards. If you use a tablet
for web browsing, watching video, emails and playing big-name games - most of
which have Android versions as good as Apple ones - then these devices hold
their own against the Mini.

KitKat or Lollipop?

All here bar the Nexus 9 run Android 4.4 - aka KitKat - the second mostrecent
version of Google's operating system. It's featurepacked, although anyone used
to Apple software will think it a little messy, especially should you venture
into the needlessly complicated settings.

Version 5 - aka Lollipop - brings a minimalist and attractive new look to the
software, particularly if in the main you use Google's own apps, such as Gmail
and Chrome, which have benefited from a similar makeover.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              872 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Solihull News

                                 July 27, 2012
                                  1st Edition

Keep taking the tablets!

BYLINE: Dave Pinwell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 258 words


THE tablet market has been shaken up and put in a tailspin over the past week
with the arrival of the Google Nexus 7. The new device has scored a bullseye,
hitting a hole in the market, between the Kindle and Galaxy Note on one hand and
the iPad and its rivals on the other. It is an affordable tablet that does more
than an overgrown e-reader. It costs pounds 159 for the entry level model and
runs Android 4.1.

Users can read books, play songs, watch video, send emails, surf the web and run
Apps, all at a price which significantly undercuts the current top tablets.

The 7in screen is a fair bit smaller than that of an iPad, but some users are
seeing that as an advantage when it comes to portability. With an NVIDIA Tegra 3
quad-core processor, it is fast and responsive. The 1280x 800 pixel
high-resolution display gives a good picture quality and it connects via wi-fi
or Bluetooth.

Some quality problems have been reported with a minority of deliveries,
particularly with loose screen glass and dead pixels. As purchases so far have
been on backorder through home delivery, recipients have been unable to inspect
before parting with their money.

Demand has not been affected though and finding a Nexus 7 available on the shelf
anywhere is expected to be a good while off yet.

The rush to preorder the (yet to be launched) 16Gb model, at pounds 199, has
outstripped expectations so much that Google has stopped taking orders for the
time being. The cheaper 8Gb model, though, is still currently shipping in 3-5
days from play.google.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sh


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              873 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Solihull News

                                 July 27, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Keep taking the tablets!

BYLINE: Dave Pinwell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 254 words


THE tablet market has been shaken up and put in a tailspin over the past week
with the arrival of the Google Nexus 7. The new device has scored a bullseye,
hitting a hole in the market, between the Kindle and Galaxy Note on one hand and
the iPad and its rivals on the other. It is an affordable tablet that does more
than an overgrown e-reader. It costs £159 for the entry level model and runs
Android 4.1.

Users can read books, play songs, watch video, send emails, surf the web and run
Apps, all at a price which significantly undercuts the current top tablets.

The 7in screen is a fair bit smaller than that of an iPad, but some users are
seeing that as an advantage when it comes to portability. With an NVIDIA Tegra 3
quad-core processor, it is fast and responsive. The 1280x 800 pixel
high-resolution display gives a good picture quality and it connects via wi-fi
or Bluetooth.

Some quality problems have been reported with a minority of deliveries,
particularly with loose screen glass and dead pixels. As purchases so far have
been on backorder through home delivery, recipients have been unable to inspect
before parting with their money.

Demand has not been affected though and finding a Nexus 7 available on the shelf
anywhere is expected to be a good while off yet.

The rush to preorder the (yet to be launched) 16Gb model, at £199, has
outstripped expectations so much that Google has stopped taking orders for the
time being. The cheaper 8Gb model, though, is still currently shipping in 3-5
days from play.google.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SON


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              874 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday

3 new toys, each great in its own way;
State of the Art

BYLINE: BY DAVID POGUE

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1263 words

ABSTRACT

Meet the iPad Mini, Nook HD and Windows Phone 8.

FULL TEXT

Hollywood studios try to avoid opening big movies on the same weekend, to avoid
diluting the buzz and the news coverage. ''Oh, no - we can't open that day,''
one might say. '' 'Titanic II: The Return' is opening that weekend.''

That is usually the way it works with technology companies, too, especially as
the holiday shopping season begins.

This year, though, a barrage of huge technology announcements all landed within
about a week. Windows 8.   Microsoft's Surface. The iPad Mini. Google's
Chromebook. The Barnes & Noble Nook HD. Windows Phone 8. A 10-inch Samsung
tablet and a new Google phone.

Meet the iPad Mini, Nook HD and Windows Phone 8.

The iPad Mini  The rumors were true: Apple now has a smaller iPad.

The iPad Mini is half the weight of the big iPad (0.7 pounds versus 1.4, or 318
grams versus 635), thinner (0.28 inch versus 0.37, or 7 millimeters versus 9
millimeters), shorter (7.9 inches versus 9.5) and narrower (5.3 inches versus
7.3). Those specifications add up to one towering meta-change: You can
comfortably hold this iPad in one hand. It is still too wide for a blazer
pocket, alas, but it certainly fits in a purse or overcoat pocket.

It is available in white-and-silver and black-on-black, both with metal backs,
both gorgeous.

Apple's masterstroke was keeping the screen shape and resolution the same as on
the iPad 2 (1,024 by 768 pixels). As a result, the Mini can run all 275,000
existing iPad apps unmodified, plus 500,000 more iPhone apps. The text and
graphics are a little smaller, but perfectly usable.

Sadly, the Mini does not gain Apple's supercrisp Retina display. Nobody's going
to complain about the sharpness - it packs in 163 pixels per inch - but it is
not the same jaw-dropping resolution as the big iPad (264 ppi). Gotta hold
something back for next year, right?

You pay $330 for the base model (16 gigabytes of storage, Wi-Fi connections).

Prices run all the way up to $660 for four times the storage and the option to
go online over the cell network.

The Mini's price allows the $200 class of seven-inch Android tablets and readers
to live (Google Nexus, Kindle Fire HD, Nook HD). Those tablets also have
high-definition screens (1,280 by 800 pixels), which the Mini does not.

But the iPad Mini is a classier, more attractive, thinner machine. It has two
cameras instead of one. Its fit and finish are far more refined. And above all,
it offers that colossal app catalog, which Android tablet owners can only dream
about.

Over all, the Mini gives you all the iPad goodness in a more manageable size,
and it is awesome. You could argue that the iPad Mini is what the iPad always
wanted to be.

Barnes & Noble Nook HD  The redesign of this $200 e-book reader/video player
focuses on the three things that matter most in a hand-held e-book reader:
weight, size and screen clarity.

In those ways, the Nook HD trounces its nemeses, Amazon's Kindle Fire HD and
Google's Nexus 7. The Nook is lighter (11.1 ounces, or 315 grams, versus 12 for
the Nexus and 13.9 for the Kindle) and noticeably narrower, despite the
same-size screen, because it has a far slimmer bezel. You can wrap your hand
around its back, even if you are dainty of hand.

And the screen is much sharper: 1,440 by 900 pixels (versus 1,280 by 800). At
243 dots ppi, the Nook's screen comes dangerously close to the iPad Retina's 264
ppi. Wow, is this screen sharp. Movies, books and magazines pop.

Whites are so white on this screen, it could be a bleach commercial; the Nexus
and Kindle screens look yellowish in comparison. (A 9-inch, $270 version, the
Nook HD+, is also available.)

The software continues to improve. You can now create as many as six accounts,
one for each family member, each listing different books and movies. (It does
not remember where each person stopped reading a given book, but the company
says that is coming soon.)

The base-model, $200 Nook comes with only 8 gigabytes of storage - half as much
as the Kindle; on the other hand, it has a memory-card slot, so it is simple and
costs little to expand. The Nook includes a wall charger (it cannot charge from
a USB jack), which the Kindle does not. And the Nook does not display ads, as
the $200 Kindle does.

However, there is no camera at all. (The company says it spent the money on the
nicer screen.) And the speaker volume is way too low during movie playback, but
B&N says a fix is coming this week.

Still, in the hardware war, Nook HD clearly wins this round. It is fast, fluid
and gorgeous; the Fire HD lags in all of those categories.

Then again, Amazon's movie service - rent, buy or stream free as part of the
$80-a-year Prime program - is mature and delightful; Barnes & Noble's movie
store is just starting up. If you can tolerate that fledgling store awhile, then
you will love the way the company exploited its second-mover advantage.

Windows Phone 8  The good news in touch screens continues with Windows Phone 8.
It is what you will get on sleek coming phones like the Nokia Lumia 920 and
HTC's Windows Phone 8X (the one I tested).

Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 - a fresh, colorful, efficient, tile-based
alternative to the icon-based design of iPhone and Android - earned rave
reviews. But few phones run it and few people have it.

Windows Phone 8 may look identical, but the company says it is a complete
rewrite based on underlying code from Windows 8 for PCs. It is therefore ready
for far more hardware flexibility than 7 was: multicore processors, screens with
different resolutions, phones with memory cards and so on.

The Start screen is more customizable; you can choose from three different tile
sizes. Apps can modify your Lock screen automatically; for example, the Groupon
app might display a special offer that is tailored to where you are right now.

If you swipe leftward from the Lock screen, you enter Kid Corner, an inspired
idea. It is a quarantined world containing only apps, music and videos that you
handpick for your offspring. Next time you hear, ''I'm bored - can I play on
your phone?'' you can hand the phone over without worry; the phone, Web and text
messages are off limits.

More solid improvements: The desktop software can load the phone with your
iTunes music and video libraries. ''Rooms'' are private groups - Bowling
Buddies, Teen Party and so on - whose members can share their locations,
calendars, photos and chats. You can now back up the phone online.

Two juicy features are promised: a ''pay with your phone'' option brought to you
by NFC, or near-field communication, chips in phones, and Data Sense, which
tries to conserve Internet data and monitors your monthly allotment.

Microsoft's phone software is fast, simple and beautiful. But it still lacks
universal dictation for quick text entry. Its new Maps app does not offer spoken
directions (in 2012? seriously?). And the audience will not come until there are
more great apps.

There are promising signs; Microsoft says that there are 110,000 Windows Phone
apps and that software companies can reuse chunks of code from their Windows 8
programs. That should make it easier to bring new apps to the phone.

So there you have it: three touch-screen technology toys, each triumphant in its
own way. One comes from a market leader hoping to swipe business from its
bargain-basement rivals; two come from underdogs determined to make a bigger
dent.

None of these products are themselves perfect. But they represent new highs on
the graph that plots price against polish and pleasure - and for gadget lovers,
that portends some very merry holidays indeed.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              875 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           November 25, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Nightmares for the dream factory

BYLINE: Philippe Mora. Philippe Mora is a film director. His latest film is When
We Were Modern.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1140 words


The Hollywood sign is starting to look like Salvador Dali's melting clock. The
film industry is in the biggest crisis of its 100-year history. The watershed
event was the Google purchase of YouTube recently for $US1.5 billion ($1.9
billion). Google last week was valued at $US150 billion on the stock exchange.
It marks the final victory of the digital paradigm over those century-old cans
of 35mm film. Jean-Luc Godard famously said: "Photography is truth. And cinema
is truth 24 times a second."

Well, we don't have those 24 frames a second any more. We have pixels, RAM, HDV,
streaming and self-broadcasting. Truth may be deleted, frozen or is now a pixel
or a dead battery.

Meanwhile, the six major studios - or the ugly sisters, as they are sometimes
called - are reeling from Wall Street demands for big stock increases as well as
from piracy, bloated marketing costs, ridiculous budgets, overpriced stars and
generally a lack of ideas, reflected in a punishing, if not farcical, slew of
sequels, remakes, movies of old TV shows and then remakes of sequels and sequels
of remakes.

I'm not kidding. Film scripts were once written by Truman Capote, John
Steinbeck, William Faulkner, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Norman Mailer, Dorothy Parker,
Tennessee Williams ... Now they are based on comic strips.

Hollywood had a similar panic attack when it thought television was going to
destroy it. It counterattacked with Cinemascope, 3-D and some good scripts. In
that frenzy, one highly intelligent studio hired a one-eyed film director, Andre
de Toth, to direct the first 3-D film (House of Wax, 1953).

For obvious reasons, the media focus on the most marketed "tent pole" films. The
studios now live or die by the gross takings from the first weekend or the even
first night of their films. The rule of thumb is that a film's total gross will
be twice the takings of its opening weekend. This model has driven quality down
radically because studios concentrate on hyping the first days. Films don't have
to be any good, just marketable on a fast-food basis.

The latest report from the Motion Picture Association of America says the
average cost of making and marketing an association film last year was $US96.2
million. This included $US60 million in production costs and $36.2 million in
marketing costs.

These numbers mean that every time a studio gives the green light to a picture
it is a $US96.2 million commitment. So they are making fewer pictures. These
huge numbers also mean there is a great opportunity for well made independent
pictures that can be made for far less. Bloated overheads and enormous fees to
stars contribute to the studio model, as well as outmoded and open chequebook
production methods. Very few studios have completion bonds - they effectively
bond themselves, so that there is no objective third party check on spending and
production methods.

Interestingly, and kind of under the radar in this era of boring testosterone
movies, when $US100 million is routinely spent on movies for teenagers with
pimples, the most successful and profitable films aside from studio "tent pole"
productions are films based on the lives of famous or infamous people in history
and a curious sub-genre, movies about weddings.

What are sometimes disparagingly referred to as "biopics" turn out to be some of
most commercial and memorable films ever made. Many of these films and their
cast members are Oscar nominees and/or winners. This reflects the fact that not
all audiences want their eyeballs hanging out and their eardrums abused with the
sight and sound of digital kinetic mayhem, accompanied by dialogue such as
"Run!" and "Watch out!"

Some audiences respond to stories about real people and the human condition, and
dialogue with more than one syllable a word. Despite studio market research that
is sometimes akin to voodoo and often results in generic, homogenised movies,
films celebrating an interesting person attractan audience.

The biopics that have scored well with audiences have budgets well below the
studio average. Some of these films cross over into the genre of epic so they
have considerably higher budgets.

Three recent films in the budget range of $US25 million did very well: The Hours
(about Virginia Woolf), Finding Neverland (about J. M. Barrie) and Shakespeare
in Love (about Shakespeare). All three films appeared to appeal to the literate
demographic that is generally ignored.

Other recent movies in this genre include Infamous, Walk the Line, Ray, Pollock,
Fur, Marie Antoinette, King of Scotland, Hollywoodland, Copying Beethoven, Bobby
and The Aviator. There are also feature documentaries that cross over into the
genre such as The US vs John Lennon.

It may be stretching the point, but it is worth noting that completely fictional
semi-biopics such as the latest Bond film, Casino Royale, about the "origins" of
James Bond, and Borat, about a crude moron from Kazakhstan, are spectacular
successes as of last week. Venus, a thinly veiled biopic about Peter O'Toole,
starring O'Toole, is destined for Oscar nominations.

The wedding picture is now also a profitable staple. In fact, let's declare it a
new, full-on genre that should stand beside horror, action, science fiction and
so on. In fact, you would be hard-pressed to find a studio that is not preparing
another wedding movie.

Just a smattering of successful wedding titles will give you the picture: Four
Weddings and a Funeral, My Big Fat Greek Wedding, The Wedding Crashers, The
Wedding Singer, My Best Friend's Wedding, The Wedding Planner, Muriel's Wedding
and American Wedding. Don't forget the new French hit I Do, or Prete-moi ta
main.

As the entertainment world reels from high costs and the crushing effect of the
new media, it is heartening that two very basic human themes are surviving the
corporate melee: the life stories of fascinating people and the celebration of
an ancient ritual - getting married.

MONEY MAKERS
    YEAR  BUDGET   US BOX OFFICE
     $US million  $US million
 Lawrence of Arabia   1962  na   44
 The Sound of Music   1965  na   158
 Patton    1970  12   61
 Raging Bull   1980  na   23
 Coal Miner's Daughter  1980  na   67
 Gandhi    1982  na   52
 Amadeus    1984  na   51
 The Last Emperor   1987  na   43
 JFK    1991  na   70
 Hoffa    1992  na   24
 Schindler's List   1993  22   96
 Nixon    1995  44   13
 Braveheart   1995  na   75
 Shakespeare In Love  1998  25   100
 A Beautiful Mind   2001  58   170
 Frida    2002  12   25
 Catch Me If You Can  2002  52   164
 The Hours   2002  25   41
 Finding Neverland   2004  25   51
 The Passion of the Christ  2004  30   370
 Capote    2005  7   28
 SMH GRAPHIC: DIONNE GAIN
 Amounts are for dollar value of noted year and not adjusted for 2006 value.
 US theatrical only, not including world grosses and lucrative ancillary rights
 such as television and DVD. SOURCE: BOXOFFICEMOJO AND OTHERS


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NINE PHOTOS: The Passion of the Christ, Frida, Catch Me If You Can,
Finding Neverland, Shakespeare In Love, Raging Bull, The Hours, Lawrence of
Arabia, The Wedding Crashers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              876 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                            May 15, 2013, Wednesday

Google I/O: A lower-key Android keynote, but devs get huge set of new tools;
New integrated development environment, game tools, and wide array of Google
Play upgrades puts developers at center stage.

BYLINE: Jon Gold

LENGTH: 543 words


Those hoping for a major new Android version or splashy device launch were
likely disappointed by the Android portionof the keynote today at the Google I/O
conference in San Francisco - but developers may have gotten more than they
bargained for.

Google promised a stronger focus on developers than at last year's event - which
saw the company roll out a new version of Android and a well-received tablet,
among other things - and delivered in no uncertain terms. Among the new
dev-focused features announced this morning was an all-new integrated
development environment, dubbed "Android Studio."

[MORE GOOGLE I/O: Google says it has 900 million Android activations  Google I/O
attendees each given a pricey Chromebook Pixel ]

  Google says it has 900 million Android activations Google I/O: The buzz from
this Google-extravaganza is decidedly quieter Hours before I/O, Larry Page opens
up about his hoarse voice At Google I/O, attendees compete to save the world,
virtually Google I/O attendees each given a pricey Chromebook Pixel Studio
provides software makers with a number of built-in simplifications and
previewing features, allowing them to adjust screen layouts based on
localization and display size on the fly, rather than directly editing code. It
also provides previews of color and icon appearance alongside the relevant
lines, among other handy functionality.

Google also announced major additions to its cloud messaging system, which
originally rolled out at last year's I/O. Essentially a Google-managed method
for developers to push data to apps, GCM is now under the umbrella of Google
Play Services. It now supports continuous connectivity, the ability to handle
upstream messaging, and syncs notifications between Android devices on the same
account. (Which means, among other things, no more blizzards of "new email"
notifications when users turn on infrequently used devices.) Location-based
services also got a substantial update, as Google rolled out a "complete
rewrite" of that code, which it advertised as faster, more accurate and far
easier on battery life than the previous version. Developers can now also build
"geo-fencing" and activity recognition into their software, which means that
they can make apps behave differently in designated areas and identify whether a
user is walking, biking or riding in a car.

Google Play was the focus of much of the day's Android announcements. Along with
the ability to deploy and manage access to alpha and beta tests of new software
versions, new analytics and localization options and more, the Play Games
framework - which had leaked before the show - made its official debut. While
the demo didn't go so well - product management vice president Hugo Barra
couldn't get a three-way racing game session to work on stage - Play Games
promises matchmaking, shared high scores among friends, cloud-based save games,
and other built-in multiplayer features for Android game developers.

Finally, Google Plus got some love with support for cross-platform single
sign-on capabilities, allowing for more robust sync between web, Android and
even iOS.

Email Jon Gold at jgold@nww.com and follow him on Twitter at @NWWJonGold, but
remember that he's disappointed there were no skydivers this time around.




LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2013 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              877 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                    September 29, 2016 Thursday 3:20 PM GMT

Samsung Galaxy S8: Release date, price, specs and other rumours about the next
generation smartphone;
If the latest rumours are to be believed, Samsung is going to pack some serious
power into its next smartphone

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 644 words


Samsung's next flagship smartphone will have to be the best one its ever
produced.

Firstly, the South Korean company will have to overcome the disastrous rollout
of the exploding Galaxy Note 7. And secondly, there's the small matter of the
iPhone 7 to compete with.

Although it's unlikely that we'll see the next Samsung Galaxy phone much before
March 2017, there are already supposed leaks showing up online.

Google Pixel and Pixel XL: Specs, price, screen size, news and rumours about
Google's new Android smartphones

Whilst Apple appears to refine and strip down its phones, Samsung appears to be
going the other way. If the current crop of internet rumours are to be believed,
the company will be throwing everything it has into its next blower.

So, what do we know so far? We've collected all the latest whisperings right
here and will continue to update this piece as we learn more.

How waterproof is the iPhone 7? We put Apple's new smartphone to the test

The most recent news regarding Samsung's next creation is to do with the
processor chips inside the phones themselves.

A report on Samsung-watching site SamMobile hit on the fact that the S8 may
include an Exynos 8895 processor coupled with a Mali-G71 GPU. According to the
site, that means the new phone will be up to 1.8 times more powerful than the
already-impressive Galaxy S7.

What's more, SamMobile echoes other sites that suggest the S8 will have a
5.2-inch 4K-capable display. The reason? Samsung's pushing heavily into virtual
reality and having a powerful screen resolution means you can use the phone in
VR headsets like the Samsung Galaxy Gear and Google Cardboard.

We might not know anything concrete about the Galaxy S8 release date for months
yet, but thankfully it's a relatively easy thing to predict.

What makes phone batteries explode? And what to do if YOU bought Samsung's
Galaxy Note 7

Samsung's Galaxy phones have (since the S2 in 2011) been announced at or around
the time of the Mobile World Congress (MWC) event in Barcelona. It happens each
year in late February or early March. This lets Samsung have its phones on the
shelves by the end of March or, more likely, early April.

The 2017 Mobile World Congress event will take place from February 27 to March
2. Meaning we can expect a new Samsung announcement around February 26 or 27
next year.

As with Apple's iPhones, the Samsung Galaxy handsets have more or less plateaued
when it comes to price. The current 32GB S7 comes in at £569 whilst the slightly
larger S7 edge is £639. It's unlikely that Samsung's new phones will deviate too
far from this kind of pricing. So you better start saving.

iPhone 7 vs Galaxy S7: Which smartphone is best when Apple and Samsung go
toe-to-toe?

What could change things is if Samsung decides to offer multiple storage
options. At the moment you can only get the S7 with 32GB of storage. If Samsung
opts to increase this to 64GB or even 128GB the price could increase also.

However, the company could also keep the storage space as it is and instead
include the capacity of the microSD card slot.

Aside from the aforementioned 4K screen, there are a few rumours circulating
about what kind of power the S8 may have under the bonnet.

Samsung's cameras have been exceptionally good recently, but the proliferation
of dual-lens snappers from the likes of Apple, Huawei and LG may inspire it to
follow suit. According to tech site Trusted Reviews , Samsung is indeed planning
to include dual-lens cameras in its next phone.

Samsung to start selling second-hand Galaxy S7 smartphones 'on the cheap'

A recent leak, reported on by the gadget site Pocket Lint , seems to have a
clear picture of the S8's specs. It says the new phone will pack in 6GB of RAM
and a 30-megapixel camera.

There will also be a 4,200mAh battery which - providing it doesn't explode -
should easily see the phone through 24 hours of solid usage.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              878 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MIGHTY MINNOWS YOU'LL WANT TO CATCH ONE-HANDED;
Android 7-inch tablets are powerful and portable. Matt Bingham tries five

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 990 words


7-INCH TABLETS BUYER'S WHY GO FOR THIS SIZE? Small tablets hit a sweet spot
between usability and portability.

GUIDE Their 7in displays are nearly twice the size of a 5in smartphone's, making
them better devices for, say, web browsing or video, but you can still hold them
single-handed.

HOW ARE THESE DIFFERENT FROM AN iPAD MINI? They're cheaper (the Mini starts at
£269) and all have higher-resolution displays (although the Mini's screen is
7.9in).

The Mini has a metal case and its cameras are better.

Apple will release a new version soon, with a higher pixel count.

WHAT CAN THESE TABLETS DO? Thanks to wi-fi and Bluetooth, they can get you
online, manage email and will work with wireless speakers.

There are now lots of games in the Android store, and these tablets will play
most of them.

Their micro-USB ports mean you can connect them to TVs using a cheap cable, and
top up the battery using most non-Apple chargers.

BEST FOR BUSINESS USE LENOVO IDEATAB A3000 £150 The A3000 gives you a pair of
Sim slots - useful if you divide your time between two countries, say - and the
1024 x 600-pixel screen works out at 170ppi.

It's bright and attractive, with pixelation noticeable only when you are reading
small text.

The 16GB memory can be expanded by up to 64GB via a micro-SD card.

A useful feature is support for USB OTG (On-the-Go): buy a compatible cable for
a few pounds and you can attach and power-up flash drives and keyboards through
the micro-USB slot, turning the tablet into a serious piece of kit.

piece of kit Like all Nexus 7 rivals hereLike all Nexus 7 rivals here it's
chunky and heavy in comparison at 345g, but its "grippy" rear cover is handy.
Verdict Add some affordable accessories and Sim card(s) to make this a genuine
laptop replacement. HHHHI www.lenovo.com/uk BEST FOR PERFORMANCE NEXUS 7 (2013)
£199 The first Nexus 7, released by Google and Asus a little over a year ago,
proved that a budget tablet could still be fast and boast a great screen.

Its successor is even more impressive: never has such a high-resolution display
been put into such an affordable device. y Google ago, could still reen. Its
ressive: lution n Its 192080 pixels give 323 pixels per inch (ppi) in a case
just 8.65mm thick.

That, plus its 290g weight, means the Nexus 7 can be held single-handed for
hours.

The screen is brighter, more detailed and more vibrant than any on test, and the
tablet has twice the Ram of its rivals here, helping it speed through tasks.

Being a Google-branded device, it's the only one on test to run the latest
version of Android, 4.3, which usefully allows the creation of separate user
profiles - if you can bear to share the device.

The battery will run for up to 10 hours.

The entrylevel model has 16GB of storage, but unlike the rest on test cannot be
upgraded with memory cards (a 32GB version costs £239; a 3G Sim version is
expected soon at £299).

The 5Mp rear and 1.2Mp front cameras are none too great, but otherwise this is
excellent hardware that's worth its price premium. Verdict Move over, iPad Mini
- this is the best small tablet you can buy. HHHHH www.google.co.uk/nexus/7 BEST
FOR BACK-UP HP SLATE 7 £99 Heav disp buil han thro devi the - gi reso grai aspe
scre stre of s via Heavy and with an unimpressive display, the HP has a
bargain-basement build that's hard to disguise, but it does handle pretty much
every task you throw at it, making it a suitable back-up device or child's
tablet. The screen is the sticking point: at 1024x600 pixels - giving 169ppi -
it's got decent resolution, but looks dull to the point of graininess. Unusually
here it has a 16:9 aspect ratio: good for watching widescreen films, but web
pages get stretched to fill the space. It has 8GB of storage, expandable by up
to 32GB via a memory card, a 3Mp rear camera and low-res front one though of
thoseand low-res front one, though of those on test it runs the oldest version
of Android - 4.1.1 - and has a battery life of about four hours. But it works
with HP's wireless printing technology, if you have a compatible printer, plus
there's a good-quality case for £25. Verdict Highly affordable - but not fun.
HHIII www.hp.com/uk BEST FOR AFFORDABILITY TESCO HUDL £119 The sale mo 238 ab lo
£in ow "Te on take are The supermarket giant's first tablet, on sale tomorrow,
gives you a lot for the money: a 1440 x 900-pixel display for 238ppi, a
quad-core processor and about nine hours of battery life. Tesco loyalty card
users can get it for just £60 in points (that's a hefty £6,000 in baked beans).
Unlike Amazon's own-brand Kindle Fire HD (£159), the "Tesco tablet" adds only a
few extras on top of regular Android: a "T" button takes you to a Tesco web
page; there are similar shortcuts on the home screen; and you get apps for
Tescoowned Blinkbox film and music streams (with book downloads coming soon).
The 16GB of memory can be upgraded by a further 32GB. This is a fairly slim,
370g device with an excellent screen that keeps its store tie-ins to a minimum.

Verdict High-quality kit at a great price. HHHHI www.tesco.co.uk/hudl BEST FOR
NON-BRANDED ANDROID ASUS MEMO PAD HD 7 £130 Nexus 7-maker Asus also has a 7in
tablet, cheaper than the class-leader but lagging behind in specifications. The
MEMO Pad's display has 1280x800 pixels for a respectable 216ppi, and the screen
is sharp and bright. It has a high contrast, although it's a little less
attractive than the Hudl's. Unlike Tesco's tablet, you get pretty much pure
Android - whether that's worth the price hike over the Hudl is your call. The
16GB device can take micro-SD cards of up to 32GB and has a battery life of
about nine hours. Like all here, the processor had no problem running apps
quickly and loading web pages without fuss. Where corners have been cut is in
the build: the glossy plastic back cover and 11mm depth make this a tricky hold
for extended periods, but it feels light at 302g. Verdict You'd rather have a
Hudl. HHHII www.uk.asus.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              879 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Techtree.com

                       July 30, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Google Translate Brings English To Hindi Instant Visual Translation

BYLINE: Phalgunn Maharishi

LENGTH: 525  words


While Google Translate app on your smartphone already allows you to visually
translate printed text in seven languages, the company has come up with an
update on Wednesday which expands instant visual translation to 20 more
languages including Hindi.

Giving more importance to the Indian market, the company has improved the
translation experience for Indian users and this move looks significant as India
is a very important market for the company.

Along with Hindi, the recent update also supports 19 other languages -
Bulgarian, Catalan, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Filipino, Finnish,
Hungarian, Indonesian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, Polish, Romanian, Slovak, Swedish,
Turkish, Ukrainian and Thai. However, Hindi and Thai are currently supporting
only one-way translations from English and not vice-versa.

Earlier, Google supported seven languages - English, French, German, Italian,
Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.

All you need to do is just open the Google Translate app, click on the camera
and point it at the text you need to translate - a street sign, ingredient list,
instruction manual or even dials on a washing machine. You would be able to see
the text transforming live on your screen with no Internet connection required.

This reminds us of Bing Translator for Phone which has quite similar features,
however, it seems to have a few less language support even though there's an
option to download basic language packs for offline use.

Along with this, Google has announced that the latest update would be making
real-time voice translations a lot faster and smoother. Having said this,
Google's picture mode translation which requires a snapshot of text can also
operate in 37 languages which may open the roads for many.

So, how this instant visual translation actually work? Well, the answer takes us
back to 2014 when Google acquired WordLens which is the master brain behind
recognizing printed words using its optical character recognition capabilities
and instantly translating these words in to the desired language.

The neural nets have all kinds of records in image recognition which means that
if you are translating a foreign menu or sign with the latest version of
Google's Translate app, you are using a deep neural net. But, surprisingly, it
can work on your phone without an Internet connection.

Well, here's how.

First, When a camera image comes in, the app finds the letters in the picture by
weeding out the background objects like trees or cards. It looks at blobs of
pixels that have similar colour to each other that are also near other similar
blobs of pixels. Those are possibly letters, and if they're near each other,
that makes a continuous line we should read.

Second step is where the deep learning comes in. This is where the app
recognizes what each letter actually is.

Next, the app tries to take those recognized letters and look in to the
dictionary for translations.

Finally, the translation is rendered on top of the original words in the same
style as the original in just a matter of seconds.

In case if you are interested to know more on how this technology actually works
(in-depth), you can check it out here.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


            Copyright 2015 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              880 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday

LG enters tablet market with Optimus Pad

LENGTH: 535  words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Sept. 17 -- With the growing demand for ICT products in the market,
domestic distributors of various brands have been busy introducing the latest
devices. While companies like Samsung, ZTE, Olive and Prolink have already
featured the best of their tablets in the market, CG Impex, sole authorised
distributor of LG in Nepal, has unveiled its tablet the LG Optimus Pad.

Marketed as the first Honeycomb tablet, the Optimus Pad is powered by the
Android tablet-optimized 3.0 Honeycomb platform. According to the company, the
Optimus Pad is powered by a 1 GHz dual-core processor. The dual-core processor
operates with the NVDIA Tegra 2 mobile processor.

"The tablet has been launched with a motive to acquaint our customers with the
latest innovations in the world of technology," said Ramesh Shrestha, general
manager of CG Electronics. "This is the most advanced tablet launched in the
Nepali market so far." He added that the

newly unveiled device boasts numerous new features compared to the tablets
available in the domestic market.

"All the tablets available in the market are 2G. The Optimus Pad is the first 3G
tablet to hit the Nepali market," said Shrestha. According to him, the device is
faster than other devices as it features the NVDIA Tegra 2 mobile processor.
Likewise, the tablet has a 8.9 inch high-definition touch screen with 15:9 ratio
of 1280 x 768 WXGA resolution, 3D capable multi-touch display and playback with
HDMI to please gamers, multimedia users and movie buffs. There is also a 5 mega
pixel rear camera with LED flash and 1080p HD and 3D video capture feature. The
images and videos captured by the device can be transferred to 2D and

3D TVs or uploaded via You Tube

3D, HDMI 1.4 connectivity and 1080p video playback. Other attractions are the 32
GB inbuilt memory storage, console-quality games available through the Tegra
Zone app, Google services including Google eBooks, Google Maps 5 and Google
Talk, the company said.

The Optimus Pad is available throughout the country at an introductory price of
Rs 69,999. According to Shrestha, the company aims to sell around 50 tablets
monthly. "As our device is expensive compared to others, it is certain that
there will be a niche market for it. However, we are sure that it will be able
to entice techno lovers and customers of the high-end segment," he said.
Likewise, CG Impex

has also unveiled two new mobile handsets, the LG Rosemary2 S365 and the Brava
A230 in the economic segment. The Rosemary2 S365 is a dual-SIM mobile phone that
features Wi-Fi, 2 mega pixel camera, multi-design video player, internal memory
of 9 MB and expandable memory of up to 1 GB. Additional features are Bluetooth,
WAP, GPRS, USM connectivity and Opera mini browser.

The handset is available at Rs 8,799. The other handset, the LG Brava A230, is a
bar phone that gives talk time of up to 10 hours through its Lion 950 MAH
battery. Moreover, the phone features a 1.77 inch TFT colour display and 1.3
mega pixel camera. The handset costs Rs 4,499. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              881 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Apple claims iPhone4 equates to a 'big leap'

BYLINE: GARRY BARKER SAN FRANCISCO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 368 words


APPLE is boasting that its grand plan to connect the world has just made a "big
leap" with a radically different mobile phone.

Running a new operating system called iOS4, the phone, dubbed iPhone4, will go
on sale in Australia late in July, about a month after its June 24 release in
the US, Britain, France, Germany and Japan.

Apple chief executive Steve Jobs unveiled the phone in San Francisco yesterday
to an almost euphoric audience of 5500 software developers, calling the iPhone4
"the biggest leap since the original iPhone".

The audience included a strong Melbourne contingent, among them Marc Edwards of
Bjango and Sean Woodhouse of Itty Bitty Apps, two small but successful
developers.

Mr Edwards and Mr Woodhouse said they regarded iPhone4 as "a significant jump
ahead, beyond the 3GS model".

Inevitably, comparisons are made with Google's Android, seen by some as treading
on Apple's coat-tails. But Android has a smaller share of the smartphone market,
according to recent Nielsen surveys that give BlackBerry 35 per cent of the US
market, iPhone 28 per cent, Windows Mobile 19 per cent and Android 9 per cent.

Mr Edwards suggested that Google was under pressure from Microsoft (with its new
search engine, Bing) and Facebook. Adding to this trend, Mr Jobs said Bing would
be added to Yahoo and Google on all mobile devices.

But Microsoft was also under attack from Google, Mr Woodhouse said. "Microsoft's
money comes from software licence fees," he said. But, increasingly, software
will be leased from the internet "cloud", which Google was good at.

So what has iPhone4 got?

Apple claims it is the thinnest smartphone in the world at 9.3 millimetres.

It has two 5-megapixel autofocus cameras. On its screen it doubles the pixels in
each direction to 960 by 640, or four times the resolution of the iPhone 3GS,
giving 326 pixels per inch on the 3.5-inch display.

Prime in iOS4's software bag is FaceTime, software that enables high-resolution
video calling but only over the internet via a Wi-Fi connection.

A gyroscope has been added to the accelerometer that allows six-axis control of
3D images on iPhone4.

But the big money is in the applications. So far 255,000 apps have been approved
in iTunes App Store.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The phone's iMovie application.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              882 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             August 11, 2014 Monday

LG starts pre-order for very high-resolution TV

BYLINE: Naushad K Cherrayil Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 524 words


Dubai: When ultra high-definition TV (UHD), also known as 4K, market is slowly
gaining traction globally, manufactures have already upscaled to newer
technology, which is 5K.

4K TVs boast a pixel format of 3840 x 2160 resolution, four times that of the
current 1920 x 1080p Full HD TVs, while 5K TVs boast a pixel format of 5120 x
2160 resolution.

The world's second-largest TV manufacturer, LG, is showcasing  its 105-inch
curved 5K TV with 8MP built-in camera at the Mall of the Emirates in Dubai for
the next few days.

"The TV runs on WebOS operating system with an aspect ratio of CinemaScope 21:9
as most of the movies are shot in this ratio. The IPS panel display uses 11
million pixels to bring out its true colours and clarity. More pixels allow
makers to make bigger screens without compromising sharpness," Duk Young Kim,
president of LG Electronics Gulf, said in an exclusive to Gulf News.

4K TVs have 8.3 million pixels while Full HD TVs have two million pixels.

LG acquired webOS operating system technology from HP to power its
next-generation Smart TV technology in February 2013. HP acquired webOS from
Palm in 2010 for $1.2 billion.

Kim said that webOS platform has a simple user interface than Google's Android
and all its smart TV models will run this operating system. The menus are card
based on the home screen instead of going into multiple folders.

Normally, all other TV operating systems are Linux based.

Pre-booking

Both Samsung and Toshiba have launched 5K TVs in Korea and Japan but Toshiba
uses a flat panel.

Kim said that LG has started pre bookings for the device but the product will be
shipped only by December.

The TV comes with a price tag of Dh400,000.

According to a research firm IHS, overall TV sales in the Middle East and Africa
this year are expected to be 17.7 million units compared to 16.8 million units
last year, registering a growth of over five per cent.

Globally, around 41,000 OLED (organic-light-emitting display) TVs are likely to
be sold this year compared to 3,000 last year. In the MEA, only 8,000 are
expected to be sold this year compared to 100 last year.

4K TV sales in MEA will grow by 440 per cent to 108,000 units this year compared
to 20,000 last year.

"We are seeing a big shift towards 4K TV acceptance this year. Some of the
brands have reduced the prices of 4K TVs in the second half," said Sweta Dash,
senior director for display research at IHS.

Even though 4K and 5K TVs are out in the market, there is no native 4K or 5K
content in the market, apart from the upscaling facility.

Upscale content

"We are in plans to talk to broadcasters and telco operators to upscale the
content to 4K," she said.

Sony has been pushing the 4K recording since last year and has produced three
full Fifa World Cup matches in 4K this year to further promote the growth of 4K
content.

"We will have exclusive channels like OSN, Icflix and beIN sports from
September," he said.

He said the price gap between UHD and a normal TV is not that much when compared
to more than two times last year. Right now, UHD TVs are only 20 per cent higher
than the normal LED TVs and customers are willing to pay a premium for UHD TVs.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2014 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              883 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                            February 15, 2009 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Google God to get a good look at the new cyberflocks;
Radio review By Barry Didcock

BYLINE: Barry Didcock

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 415 words


BBC Radio does its required Sunday morning God stuff by stringing a handful of
programmes across its various networks and hoping not to offend anyone. It works
well most of the time, though complaints from believers that the religious
content is at best perfunctory do have an element of truth to them. Which is
probably why early risers of a nonreligious outlook - people like me - find the
programmes so instructive.

On that last score, one Sunday's predawn listening last year introduced me to St
Pixels, the UK's first cyberchurch.

Since then St Pixel's has also featured on Sunday Worship, with the online
congregation relocating to a church in Manchester instead of singing into a
laptop at home.

I wasn't surprised, then, to hear St Pixels featured in God.com (BBC Radio Four,
Monday, 11am), an examination by theologian and broadcaster Dr Robert Beckford
of the impact religion is having on the internet - and vice versa.

Beckford cast his net wider than just St Pixels though, speaking to Muslims,
Jews and Evangelical Christians about their relationship with the web.

He started with Pagans. The internet is "a godsend" said Mogg Morgan, secretary
of the Oxford Golden Dawn Occult Society, though he didn't specify which god had
actually licked the stamp and queued for an hour in the post offi ce with it.
Faunus, perhaps, the Roman god of fl ocks. Or maybe it was Suadela, goddess of
persuasion.

With Morgan as his guide, Beckford travelled into Second Life, the online
virtual world. As well as churches, synagogues and mosques he found a number of
ceremonial sites for pagan worshippers. Mogg Morgan's avatar turned out to be a
priest in some sunworshipping Egyptian sect.

Back in First Life, Beckford learned that Judaism requires all computers be
turned off on the Sabbath while in the Catholic Church canonical law means the
holy sacrament cannot be dispensed as an email attachment, nor confession heard
via webcam.

Beckford also consulted boffi n Will Dutton of the Oxford Internet Institute who
compared the web to the invention of the printing press, the engine that drove
the Reformation.

Ominously, he warned that the proliferation of information about religion, much
of it questionable, had brought about a crisis as challenging as the global
recession and climate change.

"There's no more important subject we're teaching in schools at the moment than
the critical evaluation of alternative sources of information, " he said.

Worry not: I'm sure the Romans had a god for that too.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              884 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 3, 2015 Saturday

USPTO Published Patent application of Google Inc titled as "Background detection
as an optimization for gesture recognition"

LENGTH: 278  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150003727, published on January 01, 2015, by Google Inc, titled as "Background
detection as an optimization for gesture recognition" for the registration of
patent.

Inventors:   Carpenter; Thor; (Snoqualmie, WA) ; Petterson; Frank; (Redwood
City, CA) ; Vivekanandan; Janahan; (Los Altos, CA)

Assignee: Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA
US

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods and systems are provided allowing for background identification and
gesture recognition in video images. A computer-implemented image processing
method includes: receiving, using at least one processing circuit, a plurality
of image frames of a video; constructing, using at feast one processing circuit,
a plurality of statistical models of the plurality of image frames at a
plurality of pixel granularity levels; constructing, using at least one
processing circuit, a plurality of probabilistic models of an input image frame
at a plurality of channel granularity levels based on the plurality of
statistical models; merging at least some of the plurality of probabilistic
models based on a weighted average to form a single probability image;
determining background pixels, based on a probability threshold value, from the
single probability image; and determining whether the plurality of image frames,
when examined in a particular sequence, conveys a gesture by the object."

The Patent was filed on September 12, 2014 under application No. 20150003727

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              885 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                     November 3, 2015 Tuesday 12:23 PM EST

8 facts that explain Google's complex situation with Chrome OS

BYLINE: Steven Max Patterson

SECTION: NEWSANALYSIS

LENGTH: 770  words


Click for image

The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Google would fold the Chrome OS
into Android, spawning widespread rumors and speculation. Then Chrome and
Android VP of Engineering Hiroshi Lockheimer contradicted the Wall Street
Journal in a tweet confirming Google's commitment to Chrome OS. And a Google
spokesperson's response to my request for clarification unequivocally stated
that Google wasn't sun-setting the Chrome OS. But then again, Google CEO Sundar
Pichai, who once ran the Chrome group, has said that Chrome OS and Android would
come closer together. The controversy has been echoing ever since.

The root of this controversy is probably the high-end Chromebook Pixel C
introduced in September. The Pixel C runs Android Marshmallow 6.0 and created a
hybrid third use case, combining the unique features of both Android and Chrome
OS into a superset of both.

Here are the eight things that will help you understand the controversy for
yourself.


     ·    Chrome OS was built to provide compatibility on low-cost hardware
          running Google's Chrome browser. Chromebooks presume its users will
          have consistent access to a high-bandwidth internet connection and a
          use case limited to running all apps in a browser. Chrome OS provides
          a minimal set of OS resources that a browser needs to run, like
          storage, memory management, and connections to external services such
          as HTTPS, identity, and security.


     ·    Android was created to run immersive native mobile apps with rich
          interactions designed for the mobile internet. It's a complete
          operating system able to run many different autonomous apps, including
          the Chrome browser.


     ·    Both Chrome OS and Android system architects chose Linux as the
          foundation for their operating systems because it reduces the time to
          market and the risk of building a mobile device. Chromebook and
          Android device manufacturers gain time to market advantages too,
          because Linux has been cooperatively ported to many hardware platforms
          by system on a chip (SoC) manufacturers such as Qualcomm and Intel,
          device manufacturers like Lenovo and Samsung, and the Linux community.


     ·    Google would benefit immediately from the cost reductions from
          maintaining a single software stack of the Linux modules common to
          both Android and Chrome OS. However, there is a much bigger
          opportunity to scale Chromebooks by combining the Chrome OS and
          Android communities, especially with the device manufacturers. The
          hundreds of Android device manufacturers could quickly become
          Chromebook manufacturers.


     ·    Building apps for Android and extensions for the Chrome browser
          require entirely different skills. Android apps are built by native
          platform developers in Java and C/C++, while Chrome apps are built by
          front-end developers with HTML, CSS, and Javascript (not to be
          confused with Java). Different tools for different jobs. Android
          development targets the native features of the platform to build apps
          with rich interactions. Chrome targets the rich features of the web.


     ·    The mobile use cases for smartphones, tablets, and PCs are converging.
          So is the hardware. For example, a teardown of the new MacBook by
          iFixit revealed a mobile phone-sized system board with an Intel Core M
          mobile processor. Nearly the same hardware design could be used for a
          smartphone, tablet, Chromebook, or ultrabook. Devices are defined by
          software, not hardware.


     ·    As devices become more intelligent and the internet of things (IoT)
          emerges, many will need a user interface. Building a unique user
          interface for most applications wouldn't be justified when browsers
          are available and millions of developers understand how to program
          them. Android has been ported to every type of device, from power
          outlets to vending machines, making a merged Chrome OS and Android a
          strong and light candidate to support a Chrome browser-based user
          interface, not only for Chromebooks but for smart devices like
          refrigerators.


     ·    The Android App ecosystem has achieved large-scale efficiency, with
          over 1.5 million apps on the Google Play store. Chrome apps number in
          the tens of thousands, and could benefit from Android's scale.


Converging Android and Chrome OS into one OS that supersedes both is easier said
than done. The hardware is converging much more quickly than the use case and
the software. Chromebooks, embedded devices, and smartphones all are used
differently. The superset represented by the Pixel C is very attractive, but why
drag the overhead of all the underlying Chrome OS and Android software to an
interactive Chrome kiosk, a Chrome control panel, or a Chromebook used in an
environment where just a browser meets all the requirements?

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              886 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                October 11, 2016
                                 First Edition

Google gives the elbow to robotic arms project;
TECHNOLOGY

BYLINE: Rhiannon Williams TECHNOLOGY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 480 words


Fears that robots will take over the world may have been greatly exaggerated.
Alphabet, Google's huge umbrella conglomerate that works on future projects such
as driverless cars, has just axed a product created by its robotics division on
the grounds that the machines would never be used by millions of people.

The division had developed a robotic arm that it had planned to sell to
warehouse operators and other large-scale enterprise customers but cancelled any
plans to supply the machines - although Alphabet will still use the technology
for future research.

The team that built Google has made a concerted play for the expansive consumer
product market in the past week with the launch of its Pixel and Pixel XL
smartphones, alongside its Google Home speaker, Chromecast Ultra streaming
dongle and Google WiFi system. Traditionally, Google has supplied software for
seasoned manufacturers such as Samsung and LG, rather than tackling the design
process itself.

The company has invested heavily in robotics over the past few years, but has
little to show for it in terms of market-ready offerings. It acquired a raft of
robotics companies in 2013 under the leadership of former head of Android, Andy
Rubin, who left the following year to found tech start-up incubator Playground
Global.

The robotic arm division is now focusing on how the machines can be used in the
application of machine learning, training them to gradually learn skills over
time and communicate with other arms.

Current experiments involve individual arms attempting to open doors after
observing a human instructor demonstrating how to do it. The purpose of this is
to increase the difficulty of the task by moving the door slightly out of the
robot's reach, training it through the acquisition of experience.

"We don't have any plans to sell these robots," a spokesman for Google told i.
"We're using them to do basic research on how machine learning might help robots
be a bit more coordinated - a promising field of research, but still very early
days."

Robots Relief or rival? Robots are already at work doing difficult or dangerous
tasks that free up humans for more rewarding work: Warfare The British Army is
using Dragon Runner, a multi-terrain robot capable of detecting a variety of
improvised explosive devices Agriculture The Wall-Ye robot is used in French
vineyards to carry out such routine tasks as pruning the vines and harvesting
the grapes.

Housework Roomba 880, a newer version of the floor-cleaning robot, is said to do
a better job than any upright vacuum.

Surgery Robotic surgery has become increasingly common. The Da Vinci robot has a
set of robotic arms controlled by a human surgeon.

Among the highest-profile of Google's purchases was Boston Dynamics. Google put
the unit up for sale in March this year, though it has yet to find a buyer for
the firm it paid $500m (£405m) to acquire.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2016 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              887 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Android 7.1 Nougat update available soon

LENGTH: 203  words


The 'Made by Google' event held recently introduced a wide array of offerings
from the company including its new Pixel smartphone series. Of course, the
devices came with the latest update of its mobile OS, the Android 7.1 Nougat.

Come the end of October, 7.1 will also be made available for the Nexus 5X and 6P
smartphones, as well as the Pixel C. Other phones will get their turn at a 7.1
update by December, reports Engadget.

The 7.1 update will come with Daydream VR support, as well as a collection of
new features focused on giving additional options that would let developers add
more functionality to their apps. Some of these options are custom shortcuts and
image keyboard support. There will also be APIs in 7.1 that would allow for
multi-endpoint calling and telephony configuration. Finally, for people who are
always looking for things to delete and free up space, developers will be able
to route users to a Settings page where unused files can be disposed of.

There is no definitive date yet for the 7.1 update's release. However, Google is
encouraging everyone to apply at the Android Beta site to have their chance at
tinkering and adjusting their software before the official release of the Nougat
upgrade.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                              888 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  New Orleans City Business (New Orleans, LA)

                           September 26, 2016 Monday

Tech talk: Mobile phone market in need of new sluggers at bat

BYLINE: Gatehouse News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 655  words


If there was ever a time for the bad news bears of the smartphone industry --
Motorola, LG and HTC -- to get some runs on the board, it certainly is now.

After some bad errors by perennial sluggers Apple and Samsung, one with a yawner
of a new release and the other with a new release featuring literal fireworks,
the bottom dwellers are just a swing and a hit away from getting some much
needed runs on the board if they can quickly push some solid devices to market.

Buyers finally might be willing to look past top-shelf devices like the iPhone
and Galaxy Note after a round of wicked bad press. Apple just released its
iPhone 7 that to many seems like a step backwards with the removal of the
headphone jack. Fans of the biggest iFranchise device consistently clamor for
revolutionary new iPhones but generally only get evolutionary upgrades. To some,
the iPhone 7, with the lack of any real design upgrades, represents the first
new iPhone to have "neverlutionary" upgrades. Where Samsung could have taken
Apple's underhanded pitch and rocketed one out of the park but instead released
a franchise device of their own that has a problem with batteries catching fire
or even exploding. I'm not sure Molotov cocktail was on the list of features
Android fans have been asking for.

The questions becomes this: what is the best device not named Apple or Samsung?
To be honest, the aforementioned all-stars have been so good and racked in so
much of the profit shares, literally more than 100 percent, that they have
lapped the competitors.

Putting that aside, the first device I would consider is the forthcoming Google
Nexus Pixel/Pixel XL that is expected to be announced early next month. Its
biggest feature, a pure Android experience, actually negates Android's biggest
downfall and that is manufacturers who take Android and muddle it up or sell it
out with bloatware. Since the device has yet to be officially announced much of
what is known is still speculative. What you can expect is a device similar in
specs to the iPhone 7 but with perhaps a welcomed price break. Much of the
hardware is expected to be produced by HTC or possibly Huawei.

When you say Motorola, you once were saying Google -- but now you are saying
Lenovo. The longtime electronics maker brings a few new tricks up its sleeve
with the Moto Z and Moto Z Force that accept what the refer to as Moto Mods.
Through the use of magnets on the back of the device you can add an external
battery, speaker or a projector with potentially more mods in the pipeline. The
Moto Zs are no slouch on the spec side with great Quad HD AMOLED displays and a
super thin frame.

I have a nostalgic affection for HTC, which was the manufacturer of my first
smartphone. They've always designed great devices with rich features but somehow
got squeezed out of the market by Samsung and have seemingly been a bad device
or two away from ceasing to exist. HTC needed a great device and many consider
the new HTC 10 to be just that. The design is forward thinking in an almost
Apple-esque manner. The specs are in step with competitors and you can even buy
an unaltered pure Android experience through HTC.

The device that tends to peak my in-store sniff test is the LG G5. I'm drawn to
the beautiful display and dumbfounded at how such a large device can feel so
small in your hands. If HTC is the copycat iPhone, LG is certainly modeling its
devices after Samsung. The G5 features a modular design that allows for an
easily swap of batteries and even the addition of a grip for more comfortable
picture taking.

Is there a Louisville Slugger in the bunch of third-tier devices? Probably not.
But are there great devices that put pressure on Apple and Samsung to do better?
You bet.

To sign up for free CityBusiness Daily Updates, click here.

http://www.neworleanscitybusiness.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more
from this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              889 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

Google unveils Pixel; HP earnings beat expectations; more

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 319 words


Betting that computer users are increasingly "committed to living in the cloud,"
Google on Thursday added to the line of laptops running its Chrome operating
system byintroducing Pixel , a new high-end, high-priced notebook computer with
touch-screen capability. The Merc's Dan Nakaso did aquick review : The Pixel
offers stunning features   once it starts running.

Struggling to reinvigorate its beleaguered business, Hewlett-Packard on Thursday
reported earnings that were worse than a year ago butbeat Wall Street's
expectations .

A closely watched trial that some say could shake up the world of venture
capital got under way Thursday as two former employees of HRJ Capital, an
investment firm launched by former 49ers Harris Barton, Ronnie Lott and Joe
Montana, pressed their claim that they're due tens of millions.

The 160 West Santa Clara building, a prominent office tower in downtown San
Jose, has beenbought for $56.5 million by a veteran developer and an investment
partner with robust resources, a signal that investors are bullish on the city's
urban core, realty agents and city officials said Thursday.

California's struggling homeowners are on track to get at least$20 billion in
mortgage reductions and other relief under a multistate settlement five major
banks agreed to a year ago, according to a report Thursday.

A state legislative committeeintends to hold hearings in early March on
potential flaws in how the Public Utilities Commission handles billions of
dollars in accounts for California's major power companies, including PG&E.

About 30 workers at NetScout took an afternoon away from the business of IT
Thursday to pick up different tools such as hammers, power drills and paint
brushes tobuild a pair of playhouses for the young children of two local
military families. The gifts also were made possible by the Habitat for Humanity
East Bay/Silicon Valley and the South Bay Blue Star Moms.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              890 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      Fraser Coast Chronicle (Queensland)

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

A whole lot of laptop

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 427  words



HIGHLIGHT: For just $399, Acer's C720 Chromebook is an impressive piece of
technology


IMAGINE having a super-cheap laptop that could only do one thing - access your
internet browser.

That's what Google has done with its Chromebook series of laptops and the result
has been surprisingly useful.

It turns out you can do almost anything through your browser these days. Games,
documents, spreadsheets, videos, social media - all can be done with just one
program.

Acer's C720 Chromebook easily lets you tackle Google Music, Youtube, Google+
hangouts (video conferencing) with little to no performance drop.

But why the limited operating system? Why not put a full Linux or Windows system
on it?

Once you've seen how staggeringly fast the C720 boots, you'll never ask again.

This Chromebook will go from off to playing within six seconds. In under 40
seconds you can completely wipe the whole thing and have it back up and running.

The 11.6-inch display is a clear and precise viewport that runs natively at
1366x768 pixels.

While this isn't 1080p, you do get a massive performance boost out of not
needing to push quite so many pixels through the pipe all the time.

This was most noticeable during Facebook games and video.

Another major speed boost comes from the use of USB 3.0.

If you've not seen the file transfer speed difference, you're in for a treat.

On paper, USB 3.0 transfers data 10 times faster than the older USB does, though
the hands-on experience here was closer to six to eight times faster on average.

The one thing that might be a problem for newcomers to Chromebooks is the need
to be online almost all of the time.

While you can edit Google Documents offline, most functionality is reliant on
being connected to the internet.

Fortunately the C720 has a notably quick and reliable network card that vacuums
up whatever Wi-Fi signal or dongle you throw at it.

The build quality might also put some off, as the plastic-y finish might mislead
some people into thinking the C720 is less sturdy than it actually is.

This machine is a workhorse, no doubt about it, and the ergonomics are top
quality as well - using this Chromebook is somewhat easier than using most other
laptops, even, to an extent HP's Chromebook offering.

Compared to last year's C7 from Acer, this unit is faster, sleeker, and less
terrible in general, mainly due to the newer technologies that have come out in
the year since the older laptop came out.

For only $399, you're getting a lot of laptop for not a whole lot of money.

You can get cheaper - but they're unlikely to be using the cutting-edge techs
like USB 3.0 or 802.11 N Wi-Fi with all the bells and whistles.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FFC


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              891 of 997 DOCUMENTS



          NewsMail and Rural Weekly (Wide Bay, Bundaberg, Queensland)

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

A whole lot of laptop

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 427  words



HIGHLIGHT: For just $399, Acer's C720 Chromebook is an impressive piece of
technology


IMAGINE having a super-cheap laptop that could only do one thing - access your
internet browser.

That's what Google has done with its Chromebook series of laptops and the result
has been surprisingly useful.

It turns out you can do almost anything through your browser these days. Games,
documents, spreadsheets, videos, social media - all can be done with just one
program.

Acer's C720 Chromebook easily lets you tackle Google Music, Youtube, Google+
hangouts (video conferencing) with little to no performance drop.

But why the limited operating system? Why not put a full Linux or Windows system
on it?

Once you've seen how staggeringly fast the C720 boots, you'll never ask again.

This Chromebook will go from off to playing within six seconds. In under 40
seconds you can completely wipe the whole thing and have it back up and running.

The 11.6-inch display is a clear and precise viewport that runs natively at
1366x768 pixels. While this isn't 1080p, you do get a massive performance boost
out of not needing to push quite so many pixels through the pipe all the time.
This was most noticeable during Facebook games and video.

Another major speed boost comes from the use of USB 3.0. If you've not seen the
file transfer speed difference, you're in for a treat.

On paper, USB 3.0 transfers data 10 times faster than the older USB does, though
the hands-on experience here was closer to six to eight times faster on average.

The one thing that might be a problem for newcomers to Chromebooks is the need
to be online almost all of the time.

While you can edit Google Documents offline, most functionality is reliant on
being connected to the internet.

Fortunately the C720 has a notably quick and reliable network card that vacuums
up whatever Wi-Fi signal or dongle you throw at it.

The build quality might also put some off, as the plastic-y finish might mislead
some people into thinking the C720 is less sturdy than it actually is.

This machine is a workhorse, no doubt about it, and the ergonomics are top
quality as well - using this Chromebook is somewhat easier than using most other
laptops, even, to an extent HP's Chromebook offering.

Compared to last year's C7 from Acer, this unit is faster, sleeker, and less
terrible in general, mainly due to the newer technologies that have come out in
the year since the older laptop came out.

For only $399, you're getting a lot of laptop for not a whole lot of money.

You can get cheaper - but they're unlikely to be using the cutting-edge techs
like USB 3.0 or 802.11 N Wi-Fi with all the bells and whistles.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BNM


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              892 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Queensland Times (Ipswich)

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

A whole lot of laptop

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 427  words



HIGHLIGHT: For just $399, Acer's C720 Chromebook is an impressive piece of
technology


IMAGINE having a super-cheap laptop that could only do one thing - access your
internet browser.

That's what Google has done with its Chromebook series of laptops and the result
has been surprisingly useful.

It turns out you can do almost anything through your browser these days. Games,
documents, spreadsheets, videos, social media - all can be done with just one
program.

Acer's C720 Chromebook easily lets you tackle Google Music, Youtube, Google+
hangouts (video conferencing) with little to no performance drop.

But why the limited operating system? Why not put a full Linux or Windows system
on it?

Once you've seen how staggeringly fast the C720 boots, you'll never ask again.

This Chromebook will go from off to playing within six seconds. In under 40
seconds you can completely wipe the whole thing and have it back up and running.

The 11.6-inch display is a clear and precise viewport that runs natively at
1366x768 pixels. While this isn't 1080p, you do get a massive performance boost
out of not needing to push quite so many pixels through the pipe all the time.
This was most noticeable during Facebook games and video.

Another major speed boost comes from the use of USB 3.0. If you've not seen the
file transfer speed difference, you're in for a treat.

On paper, USB 3.0 transfers data 10 times faster than the older USB does, though
the hands-on experience here was closer to six to eight times faster on average.

The one thing that might be a problem for newcomers to Chromebooks is the need
to be online almost all of the time.

While you can edit Google Documents offline, most functionality is reliant on
being connected to the internet.

Fortunately the C720 has a notably quick and reliable network card that vacuums
up whatever Wi-Fi signal or dongle you throw at it.

The build quality might also put some off, as the plasticy finish might mislead
some people into thinking the C720 is less sturdy than it actually is.

This machine is a workhorse, no doubt about it, and the ergonomics are top
quality as well - using this Chromebook is somewhat easier than using most other
laptops, even, to an extent, HP's Chromebook offering.

Compared to last year's C7 from Acer, this unit is faster, sleeker, and less
terrible in general, mainly due to the newer technologies that have come out in
the year since the older laptop came out.

For only $399, you're getting a lot of laptop for not a whole lot of money.

You can get cheaper - but they're unlikely to be using the cutting-edge techs
like USB 3.0 or 802.11 N Wi-Fi with all the bells and whistles.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IQT


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              893 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

A whole lot of laptop

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 428  words



HIGHLIGHT: For just $399, Acer's C720 Chromebook is an impressive piece of
technology


IMAGINE having a super-cheap laptop that could do only one thing - access your
internet browser.

That's what Google has done with its Chromebook series of laptops and the result
has been surprisingly useful.

It turns out you can do almost anything through your browser these days. Games,
documents, spreadsheets, videos, social media - all can be done with just one
program.

Acer's C720 Chromebook easily lets you tackle Google Music, YouTube and Google+
hangouts (video conferencing) with little to no performance drop.

But why the limited operating system? Why not put a full Linux or Windows system
on it?

Once you've seen how staggeringly fast the C720 boots, you'll never ask again.

This Chromebook will go from off to playing within six seconds. In under 40
seconds you can completely wipe the whole thing and have it back up and running.

The 11.6-inch display is a clear and precise viewport that runs natively at
1366x768 pixels. While this isn't 1080p, you do get a massive performance boost
out of not needing to push quite so many pixels through the pipe all the time.
This was most noticeable during Facebook games and video.

Another major speed boost comes from the use of USB 3.0. If you've not seen the
file transfer speed difference, you're in for a treat.

On paper, USB 3.0 transfers data 10 times faster than the older USB does, though
the hands-on experience here was closer to six to eight times faster on average.

The one thing that might be a problem for newcomers to Chromebooks is the need
to be online almost all of the time.

While you can edit Google Documents offline, most functionality is reliant on
being connected to the internet.

Fortunately the C720 has a notably quick and reliable network card that vacuums
up whatever Wi-Fi signal or dongle you throw at it.

The build quality might also put some off, as the plastic-y finish might mislead
some people into thinking the C720 is less sturdy than it actually is.

This machine is a workhorse, no doubt about it, and the ergonomics are top
quality as well.

Using this Chromebook is somewhat easier than using most other laptops - even,
to an extent, HP's Chromebook offering.

Compared to last year's C7 from Acer, this unit is faster, sleeker, and less
terrible in general, mainly due to the newer technologies that have come out in
the year since the older laptop came out.

For only $399, you're getting a lot of laptop for not a whole lot of money.

You can get cheaper - but they're unlikely to be using the cutting-edge techs
like USB 3.0 or 802.11 N Wi-Fi with all the bells and whistles.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              894 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Google's new Nexus sticks it to mini iPad

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 391 words


Google's unveiled its super-slim Nexus 7 - and with its excellent specifications
and killer price tag, this tablet will be a serious contender against the iPad
Mini.

It has been a year since Google released its firstgen Nexus and once again the
web firm has teamed up with Asus to build the revamped device.

Speaking at the Nexus 7 launch in California, Google's Android Product
Management Vice President Hugo Barra revealed they are trying to follow up with
another "big hit". And judging by first impressions, it looks like they've
nailed it.

The Nexus 7 boasts the world's highest resolu- ation screen for a tablet - a
198200 display that offers twice the amount of pixels per inch than the iPad
Mini.

The screen is ideal for gaming and HD video thanks to its 16:9 aspect ratio,
compared to the iPad Mini's 4:3 ratio.

A 5MP rear-facing camera has been added to the Nexus 7 for the first time, a
feature the original one lacked and was seriously criticised for, with a 1.2mp
camera at the front.

It has been fitted with a speedy 1.5Ghz processor and 2GB of RAM which will make
applications, games and videos run smoother than ever, compared to the iPad
Mini's Apple A5 (1 Ghz).

One game-changing new feature on the Nexus 7 is wireless charging.

Users will be able to place their tablet on to a charging pad without the need
of any cables.

The Nexus 7 will be the first gadget to have Google's new operating system Jelly
Bean running on Android 4.3 installed on it, which will allow even more
customisation for users.

The updated operating system also has a new safety feature - a 'child mode' that
will stop kids from running up massive bills.

Barra said: "We're adding multi user so that parents can restrict their child's
access content and in-app purchases. You can hide all of the purchasing
functions with restricted profiles."

Winner Google claims the Nexus 7 has about nine hours of HD video playback and
ten hours of browsing the web or e-reading - similar to the iPad Mini.

Barra explained: "Even with more than twice the pixels and double the
performance, you get an extra hour - up to nine hours of video, and ten hours of
web surfing."

Pricewise, the Nexus 7 should be around '180 (it has been released in the States
at $229) making it the clear winner over the iPad Mini's '339 price tag.

The Nexus 7 is expected to be released sometime in September.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCREEN DREAM ... Nexus 7 has world's highest res for a tablet and its
speedy processor ensures a smooth performance

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              895 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                    September 30, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

5 Devices Unveiled At Yesterday's Google Event

LENGTH: 336  words


Google has done fine job with the new range of devices announced yesterday.

Wednesday, September 30, 2015: Google unveiled 5 new devices devices at
yesterday's event in San Francisco. Company has put in all efforts in the
development of these 5 flagship devices. Some of these devices were leaked
previously.

1. Nexus 6P

14.47cm (5.7-inch) AMOLED of QHD resolution (1440x2560 px)

Snapdragon 810 processor, 3 GB RAM

12.3 MP primary camera with dual-LED flash, 8 MP front facing camera with
highest resolution for selfies

Android v6.0 (Marshmallow)

7.33 thick metal body with white, aluminum and grey finish. Front facing stereo
speakers.

3450 mAh battery, USB C connector.

3 variants - 32GB ($499), 64GB ($549) and 128GB ($649)

2. Nexus 5X

13.20-cm (5.2-inch) full HD display (1080x1920 px)

64-bit Snapdragon 808 processor, 2 GB RAM

12.3 MP primary camera with laser autofocus, 5 MP front facing camera

Available in black, white and blue colors. Fingerprint sensor.

Android v6.0 (Marshmallow)

2700 mAh battery, USB C connector

2 variants - 16GB ($379) and 32GB ($429)

3. Pixel C

Laptop-cum-tablet convertible

25.90-cm (10.2-inch) display of 2560x1800 px resolution

Quad-core Tegra X1 processor, 3GB RAM

Pixel C hardware keyboard with inductive charging

Android v6.0 (Marshmallow)

2 variants - 32 GB ($499), 64GB ($599). Keyboard ($149)

4. Chromecast 2nd Gen.

The new generation Chromecast sports circular body and multiple colors. Google
claims that this Chromecast streams high resolution content faster than the
predecessor generation. The all new fast play feature lets you connect faster to
the television. You can easily cast 1080p videos with 2nd gen Chromecast. The
device has improved content discovery engine.

5. Chromecast Audio

Chromecast Audio is meant to be for audiophiles. You can stream high quality
music via WiFi. The device automatically recognizes music on the same WiFi
network and casts audio from the network to speakers. The device supports
multi-room devices like Sonos. It is compatible with Spotify, Pandora and Play
Music.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              896 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Google Launches Android One-Powered i-mobile iQ II In Thailand

BYLINE: Anurima Mondal, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 198  words


Priced at THB 4444, the handset can be easily purchased through an i-mobilephone
website

Thursday, August 06, 2015: After introducing Android One in India with Lava
Pixel V1, Google is all set to expand its latest operating system in Thailand
with the i-mobile iQ II. Priced at  8062, the handset can be easily purchased
through an i-mobilephone website. The dual-SIM i-mobile iQ II sports a 12.7cm
(5-inch) HD display with a resolution of 720 x 1280 pixels.

Powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 410 processor clubbed with Adreno 306 GPU, the
phone comes with 2GB RAM and 16GB ROM which can be further expanded upto 32GB
via microSD. Backed by a 2500mAh battery, the device can deliver up to 200 hours
of standby time and eight hours of talk time.

The phone runs on Android 5.1.1 Lollipop. It has an 8MP auto-focus rear camera
with BSI sensor, LED flash and a 2MP front-facing camera. Measuring
140.5x69.75x9.3mm, the smartphone weighs 134 grams. With the connectivity of
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS, the handset features an accelerometer, proximity
sensor and ambient light sensors. Google has also made its latest operating
system reach Pakistan through Qmobile A1 and Myanmar via Cherry Mobile One.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              897 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            November 23, 2014 Sunday

Nexus 6 vs Moto X (2nd gen): Should you really spend that Rs 12,000 more?

BYLINE: Debashis Sarkar

LENGTH: 627  words


Google Nexus 6 and Moto X (2nd gen) are both made by Motorola and share an
'almost similar' spec sheet. But the former is priced at Rs 43,999 while the
later is available at Rs 31,999. Of course, at Rs 12,000 more, the Nexus 6
offers better display, 4K camera, a better CPU, more RAM and a bit more here and
there.

But does it make sense for a regular user to spend Rs 12,000 more for the new
Nexus smartphone? Yes, but only, if you can unleash the true potential of the
Nexus 6. If you are one of those buyers who just like boasting about specs and
not using it in reality, then it makes very little sense in buying the Nexus 6.
Here is why

Design and display

Both the smartphones looks almost the same except for the fact that the Nexus 6
is larger in size. The Moto X (2014) features a 5.2-inch Full HD 1920 x 1080
pixels OLED display at a density of 424 ppi while the Nexus 6 sports a 5.96-inch
QHD 2560 x1440 pixels AMOLED display at a density of 493 ppi. The display of
both smartphones comes with Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection. So, if you need
an almost 6-inch screen then buy the Nexus 6. Or, if you are fine with 5.2-inch
screen then Moto X (2014) is okay.

Now, coming to the Full HD (1920 x 1080 pixels) and quad HD (2560 x1440 pixels)
battle. Well, QHD wins with ultra high resolution content. But then are you
really into 4K and QHD? Decide for yourself.

Operating system:

Of course, the Google Nexus 6 will come with the latest Android 5.0 Lollipop
operating system out of box. However, Motorola has already promised Android 5.0
Lollipop update for its Moto X (2014) smartphone. We don't know when Motorola
will roll out the update but it is expected to come soon. So, if you are okay
with stock Android 4.4.4 KitKat and willing to wait for Lollipop update, then
Moto X (2014) sounds sweet. But if you a power user and desperately want stock
Lollipop, go for Nexus 6 ASAP.

Hardware:

This one area you might have expected to get some Nexus mileage and thanks to
Motorola. For average user you really don't get much. Both the smartphones come
with quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon processors. The Moto X (2014) runs on 2.5 GHz
Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 MSM8974-AC CPU with Andreno 330 GPU, 2 GB RAM and 16 GB
internal memory. Memory cannot be expanded.

On the other hand, the Nexus 6 features a 2.7 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon
805 processor with Adreno 420 GPU, 3GB RAM and 32 GB or 64 GB internal memory.
No external memory is supported.

The Nexus 6 advantage here is the extra RAM and internal storage. An average
user will not feel a difference when it comes to RAM, while the storage could be
used up for high-resolution videos.

Camera:

If you love hearing the word 'megapixel' then be informed that both the
smartphones sports a 13 MP rear camera and a 2MP front camera with dual LED
flash. The major differentiator is that the Nexus 6 can capture 4K videos at 30
fps while the Moto X (2014) can't.

Battery:

A bigger screen needs a bigger battery. The Nexus 6 is powered by a 3220 mAh
battery and comes with Qi wireless charging while the Moto X (2014) is powered
by a 2300 mAh. But no real advantage, as the screen will use the battery and you
might not get extra juice from the battery.

Verdict:

Yes, you are really can't compare two smartphones with a price difference of Rs
12,000. Agreed. But this comparison is more for the readers out there who feels
the Google Nexus 6 is just a larger version of the Moto X (2014). Of course,
there are several other good smartphones in this price range or even lower but
let's keep the discussion limited to these two smartphones now. So, is it worth
spending Rs 12,000 more for the new Nexus smartphone? If you pay Rs 12,000 more,
you get Android 5.0 Lollipop, QHD display, a 4K camera and a bit more here and
there.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              898 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                       April 6, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Google Nexus 7 V/s Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0

LENGTH: 326  words


The tablet majors battle against each other with their affordable tablet
offerings.

Saturday, April 06, 2013:

Google Nexus 7 V/s Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0

The tablet majors battle against each other with their affordable tablet
offerings.



Google's highly popular Nexus 7 was officially launched by ASUS in the country
last month. The affordable small display Android running powerful tablet has
received tremendous response all over the globe but due to some reasons unknown
to us, Google did not find the Indian market attractive enough to introduce its
Nexus tablet. But that is not the case anymore, the tablet is available across
Google Play (only the 16 GB Wi-Fi variant) and on ASUS stores (32 GB Wi-Fi And
3G variant) across the country.

While there are plenty of India-based tablet brands offering similar products at
an affordable price range, the obvious rival to the search-engine giant's
affordable tablet is Samsung's Galaxy Tab 2 7.0, which has been around in the
market for quite some time now. One would say that Samsung's slate is available
at a cheaper price point compared to the Nexus 7 and we could safely say that
both the devices have their pros and cons. Here we take an elaborate look at
them, both in terms of hardware and features.

Google Nexus 7 Vs Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0

Brand/Specs

Google Nexus 7

Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0

Price

Rs 15,999 (16 GB Wi-Fi only), Rs 18,999 (32 GB Wi-Fi only), Rs 21,999 (32 Wi-Fi
+ 3G)

Rs 12, 599 (Wi-Fi 16 GB) Rs 15,999 (3G + Wi-Fi, 16 GB)

OS

Android 4.1 Jelly Bean

Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich (Android 4.1 update available)

CPU

1.2 GHz Qual Core NVIDIA Tegra 3

1 GHz dual-core

RAM

1 GB

1 GB

Memory

16/32 GB (no memory slot)

8/ 16 GB internal storage + microSD slot

Display

17.8-cm (7-inch) TFT display

17.8-cm (7-inch) LCD display

Resolution

1280 x 800 pixels, 216 ppi

1024 x 600 pixels, 170 ppi

Camera

1.2 MP front-facing only

3 MP rear and 0.3 MP front-facing

Battery

4,325 mAh

4,000 mAh

Aadeetya S, EFYTimes News Network

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              899 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Saving Earth from Pac-Man; Adam Sandler and the gang create a mildly amusing
nostalgia trip

BYLINE: Chris Knight, National Post

SECTION: ARTS &; LIFE; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 627 words


Pixels

Rating: 3

Starring: Adam Sandler, Kevin James, Michelle Monaghan

Directed by: Chris Columbus Running time: 106 minutes

Here's a far-fetched concept for you: In 1982, the winners of a video-game
championship had their achievements videotaped and sent into space aboard a
probe that somehow wound up in the hands of aliens. They took the blasting of
space invaders as a personal affront, and have now mounted a retaliatory attack
on Earth. The gamers, one of whom (Kevin James) is now the U.S. president, must
use their mad skills to defeat the extraterrestrials, who assault our planet in
the form of real-life versions of Pac-Man, Centipede, Pong, Donkey Kong, etc.
Only by playing out these ancient computer games with light-emitting blasters on
the streets of New York and Washington can our planet be saved.

I know. Kevin James as president?

In fact, the Jamesian regime is one of a number of mini-plots that seem to have
been cobbled together to create a mildly amusing nostalgia trip, and probably
the funniest movie ever to feature both James and Adam Sandler. (Not a high
bar.) There's also Sandler as a tech nerd who falls for an out-of-his-league
lady (Michelle Monaghan). And Josh Gad as the shy loner who grew into an adult
version of the same creature, and now must find his way out of his shell.

That leaves Peter Dinklage as Eddie "The Fire Blaster" Plant, an amalgam of the
type of reallife gamers seen in such documentaries as 2007's King of Kong or
Chasing Ghosts. He also seems to be channelling the voice of Barry White, and
tells detractors in resonant tones that it doesn't really matter if he made up
his nickname himself; it still counts.

The real inspiration for Pixels is the short film of the same name by Patrick
Jean - Google "Pixels short" and you'll find it, two minutes and 34 seconds of
anarchic, creative joy. The short has little in the way of plot, which meant
professor Sandler scribes Timothy Dowling (Role Models, Just Go with It) and Tim
Herlihy (everything else) had to cook up a story beefy enough to fill an
additional 103½ minutes.

They almost manage it. After a Grown Ups-style prologue that sees young actors
playing the main cast members in 1982, the movie shifts to the present day, with
Sandler as Brenner, a guy who can set up your new home entertainment system.

In his orange uniform he looks like he has a get-into-jail-free card, but
somehow he maintains a close friendship with James' President Cooper. The two
are so tight that when a U.S. military base in Guam is attacked, the president's
first move is to call his buddy Brenner.

He also brings in Lt.-Col. Violet van Patten (Monaghan), who has just had a
meet-cute with Brenner.

The aliens communicate through video recreations of such '80s icons as Ronald
Reagan and Mr. Roarke, with their ultimatum being delivered by Hall and Oates,
which feels about right.

It's worth noting some of the references come from after 1982 - Max Headroom and
the Where's the Beef lady didn't appear until '84, and neither did Tetris, but
the vision of highrise meets low-rez was probably too tempting to let go.

Director Chris Columbus (Harry Potter 1 and 2) lets the scenes play out, often a
bit too loosely, to encompass random moments of karaoke, out-ofcharacter
speeches and shots of military types (Sean Bean, Brian Cox, etc.) looking grumpy
at having their world-saving jobs made redundant by a bunch of nerds.

Not sure what Tom McCarthy is doing in a robot suit, or why Dinklage's character
has a thing for Serena Williams and/or Martha Stewart, but maybe it's best to
let such moments pass without remark. Anyone who lived through the '80s knows
that not everything that happened in that decade made perfect sense.
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / With cars coloured like the ghosts Pinky, Clyde, Blinky and Inky, our
heroes face down a menacing Pac-Man in the new comedy, Pixels.;;  Michelle
Monaghan, Adam Sandler, Josh Gad, and Peter Dinklage star in the absurd, yet
relatively funny, Pixels, blasting away aliens shaped like Pac-Man, Donkey Kong
and other 1980s game characters.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Vancouver Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              900 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     October 18, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Battle of flagship tablets: HTC-made Google Nexus 9 compared against Apple iPad
Air 2

LENGTH: 570  words


A day after Google announced the Nexus 9 tablet in hardware partnership with
HTC, Apple unveiled its new generation iPads including the iPad Air 2 and iPad
mini 3. The Nexus 8 is Google's much awaited update to its tablet line, while
Apple's iPad Air is a leap ahead of the iPad Air, with major internal upgrades.
Since Google and Apple are arch rivals and their respective tablets are loaded
with powerful specifications as well as look promising, comparison between these
is obvious.

Here we compare the two tablets against each other, on the basis of their
specifications on paper, to see which one would fare better than the other.

Design:

The iPad Air 2 flaunts an aluminum unibody design which is thinner than ever at
merely 6.1mm. The Nexus 9 on the other hand looks like an entirely plastic
construction and measures 7.95mm in thickness. The premium metal body of Apple
iPad Air 2 would give it an edge over the Nexus 9. Also, Apple has opted for
original iPad Air like design language for iPad Air 2 as both the tablets look
almost similar, while the Nexus 9 looks pretty different from the previous
generation Nexus tablets.

Display:

The Apple iPad Air 2 comes with a 9.7-inch display with 2048x1536 pixels
resolution offering pixel density of 264 pixels per inch. The Nexus 9 on the
other hand has same resolution spread across a comparatively smaller 8.9-inch
display.

A smaller display size accommodating similar display would mean better visuals,
however considering that iPad Air comes with anti-reflective coating which as
per the company's claim can cut down glare by 56 percent, and offer improved
readability even in daylight, comparison would be difficult. Both the tablet
should offer good visuals, and reproduce colors well.

Processor:

Apple iPad Air 2 is powered by the second-gen 64-bit A8X chipset with M8 motion
co-processor, which promises 40 percent faster performance and 180 times better
graphics performance than the iPad Air. The Nexus 9, on the other hand runs on
Nvidia's Tegra K1 2.3GHz dual-core SoC, which also boasts 64-bit architecture.
Both the processors are powerful, and should be capable of offering glitch free,
smooth performance. It would be unfair to decide on the better one until both
the tablets are tested thoroughly.

Camera:

Both the tablets sport 8-megapixel primary camera with 1080p HD video recording
capabilities, though are based on different technologies. However, the Nexus 9
has a slightly bigger 1.7 megapixel sensor than the 1.2-megapixel on the iPad
Air 2.

Software:

Both tablets are based on completely different platforms, and come with a
variety of software features that seem useful. The iPad Air 2 runs the latest
iOS 8 while the Nexus 9 is powered by the newest Android version - the Lollipop
5.0, both of which have been designed to bring an integrated interface across
devices working on the respective platforms.

Others:

The iPad Air 2 comes with TouchID fingerprint scanner while the Nexus 9 gets NFC
connectivity.

Price:

This would be a key factor to decide the fate of these tablets. Going by the
officially suggested prices (starting from INR 35,900 for 16GB Wi-Fi only
version) of iPad Air 2 in India, the tablet would be a pricey affair over
Google's Nexus 9 which has been listed on Play Store for price starting from
28,900. However, that I sjust a major differentiating factor and does not mean
that Nexus 9 would be a better choice over the iPad Air 2.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              901 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                           September 17, 2012 Monday

Nuevo Phone Tablet PC in market

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Sept. 17 -- KATHMANDU, Sept 17: In a bid to tap the growing demand for
tablet PCs in the country, Nuevotronics International has launched Nuevo Phone
Tablet in the Nepali market.

According to the company, the device, which is assembled in China, has been
manufactured under supervision of its engineers and software personnel.

Sagun Dhungana, technical specialist at Nuevotronics International, said the
tablet supports mobile telephony and does everything that a computer does. "We
are hopeful that customers will love this tablet as it can function both as a
phone and a laptop," added Dhungana.

The tablet with 7-inch capacitive touch screen uses Android 2.3 operating
system. It has a SIM slot that helps customers make phone calls, send messages
and use 3G Internet. It is powered by ARM 11 dual core processor and uses 512 MB
RAM. It comes with 4GB internal memory and supports expandable memory up to
64GB.

According to Dhungana, other features in the tablet includes GPS, Bluetooth, USB
connector, 0.3 mega pixels front camera and 2 mega pixels rear camera, among
others. Customers get accessories like charger, earphones and USB connector free
with the tablet phone. The company is also giving away screen guard and card
dock for free.

Besides, the company has incorporated Google Cloud computing in the tablet. "We
have introduced Google Cloud computing with Nuevo phone tablet so that customers
can easily store their data," said Dhungana.

Nuevo phone tablet has inbuilt Skype, Viber, Facebook, Google Play and many
other applications so that customers. Though the tablet is available in black
color only, customers can choose covers in attractive colors like yellow, red,
cream, pink and grey by paying Rs 500.

Though the company has already started booking for the tablet phone, it will
start delivering the device from Wednesday onwards.

The company has priced the gadget at Rs 18,999. However, it will offer 15
percent discount for the first week as an introductory offer.

"We have already received bookings for 50 phone tablets. Most of the bookings
have come from the corporate sector," added Dhungana. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              902 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 1, 2013 Friday

Why don't Apple laptops have touch screens?

BYLINE: By Farhad Manjoo, Slate

SECTION: BREAKING; Personal Technology; News; Business; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 1145 words


Like many kids, my 2-year-old son can run circles around you on an iPad. He
learned to unlock the screen before he learned to conjugate verbs, and nowadays
he can turn it on, find Netflix or a game, and keep himself occupied forever, or
at least for a merciful 40 minutes.

Computers, though, flummox him. He's especially confused by pointing devices --
I've tried to teach him about the relationship between his fingers on the track
pad and the pointer on the screen, but he's too innocent of the ways of the
world to understand such mysticism. So when I plop him down in front of YouTube
on my MacBook while my wife and I try to enjoy a lovely dinner he always gets
confused when a video ends. He reaches for the screen and repeatedly taps to get
a new clip to play. It's pretty funny, actually. And then he whines for me to
help him, which is kind of annoying.

But of course, my kid is totally right. Why doesn't the MacBook screen respond
to his touch? In the couple of years since my son was born, nearly every screen
that we interact with has become touch-enabled. Your phone, tablet, Kindle, GPS,
car radio and maybe even your fridge -- you can tap that. But not your computer.
Or, more specifically, not your Mac.

Last fall Microsoft released Windows 8, which brings touch capabilities to the
ubiquitous PC operating system. This year PC makers are putting out dozens of
touch-enabled Windows 8 laptops and desktops. Or consider Google's new
Chromebook Pixel, which has a brilliant high-definition display screen that
responds to touch. At $1,299, the Pixel is a high-end machine, but what's most
interesting about touch screens is that they're quickly becoming a standard
feature even on low- and mid-range machines. The Asus VivoBook, an 11-inch
touch-screen laptop, sells for under $500. The HP Pavilion TouchSmart goes for
$649. When you get to machines classified as "ultrabooks" -- the thin and light
PCs that are meant to compete with Apple's MacBook Air -- it's hard to find any
that don't have touch screens. The Acer Aspire S7, the Asus Zenbook Prime Touch,
and the Samsung Series 7 Chronos -- which go for around $1,100 -- can all be
touched. You'll spend around the same for a Mac, but if you touch its screen,
all you'll get are smudges.

I should note that the new touch PCs don't dispense with track pads or mice;
you'll spend most of your time controlling them through those traditional means.
But they also allow you to touch -- if my son tapped a YouTube clip on the
Pixel's screen, the video would start playing, and I'd be able to continue
eating dinner in peace.

The rise of touch-enabled computers raises two questions. First, what's the
point: Do you really need to be able to touch your computer's screen rather than
use a track pad or mouse? And second, why is Apple -- the firm that has done
more to stoke our collective touch-screen fervor than any other -- apparently
holding out against touch on its computers?

To answer the first question: Yes, a touch screen on a PC can be useful. Over
the past few months I've used a few touch-enabled Windows 8 PCs, and during the
last week I've been playing with a Chromebook Pixel that Google sent me to
review. I've found their touch screens to be handy -- the screen complements the
keyboard and the track pad quite naturally, making for one more way to get your
computer to do your bidding. I wouldn't go so far as to say you need a touch
screen on your PC. Touching the screen doesn't allow you to do anything you
couldn't do on a nontouch PC. But like other high-end laptop features -- a
backlit keyboard, a slot for an SD card, a high-definition display -- a touch
screen is a nice thing to have.

I found myself touching the screen during a few primary tasks. If I pulled up a
long article on the Web and sat back to read, I'd sometimes reach for the screen
to scroll down rather than hit the keyboard or flick at the track pad. I did the
same when I was flipping through photos. Windows 8 has two completely different
interfaces -- a traditional "desktop" mode in which you click on small icons to
launch programs that run in multiple windows on your screen (i.e., the Windows
we all know and love), and a "modern" mode in which apps occupy the full screen
and feature large, touch-friendly buttons. When I used this second mode, I found
myself touching more often -- to browse Amazon or Netflix, to read the news, or
to play games.

You may have spotted a pattern there: I tended to touch for leisure activities,
and I'd stick to the keyboard and track pad when doing work. But this wasn't by
design, and I only discerned the leisure-vs.-work behavior when I thought about
it later. Indeed, while using these touch laptops, the touching became intuitive
and invisible. I flitted among the screen, the track pad and the keyboard from
moment to moment without ever having to think about it.

I didn't expect to take to touching my PC. The conventional criticism against
adding touch to laptops is that it's unnatural. When you use a laptop, your
hands usually rest on the keyboard, which is relatively far from the screen;
from that position it's easier to reach for the track pad than the display. The
other problem is what's on the screen. On a PC -- even a Windows 8 machine with
an interface specifically designed for touch -- there are lots of small controls
that are better handled with a precise pointer than your fat finger. For
instance, to close a tab in the Chrome browser, you've got to hit a little X
next to the tab's title. I'd often miss that X when I tried to hit it with my
finger. That was a bit frustrating -- although after a few times making that
mistake, I learned to stop trying to close tabs with my finger, and then I
didn't get annoyed anymore.

This gets to why Apple hasn't added touch to the Mac. While it's mostly handy,
sometimes touching your PC's screen results in an annoying experience. Thus, to
do it right, giving a MacBook a touch screen wouldn't just require a small
hardware upgrade to the screen -- Apple would also have to reimagine its OS,
redesigning it so that every element could be controlled as easily with your
fingers as with a pointer. Microsoft solved this problem by building a
touch-friendly interface that sits alongside the old Windows' point-and-click
interface, but I don't think Apple would go for that -- it feels too tacked-on
and inelegant.

Apple would have to do something bigger and more ambitious than that. But why
should it? Considering that the Mac is an ever-smaller part of its revenues, and
that Apple firmly believes that PCs will be eclipsed by tablets anyway, it has
little incentive to make the Mac touch-friendly. Thus, for the foreseeable
future, we're likely to be stuck with touch-less Macs.

- - -

Manjoo is Slate's technology reporter and the author of "True Enough: Learning
to Live in a Post-Fact Society." Twitter: @fmanjoo

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Profile view of the 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              903 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 13, 2015 Monday

Google Inc applies for US Patent titled as "DYNAMIC BACKLIGHT CONTROL FOR
SPATIALLY INDEPENDENT DISPLAY REGIONS"

LENGTH: 254  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has received an application no.
20150097853 for US Patent, published on April 09, 2015, by Google Inc, titled as
"DYNAMIC BACKLIGHT CONTROL FOR SPATIALLY INDEPENDENT DISPLAY REGIONS" for the
registration of patent.

Inventors:   Bastani; Behnam; (San Jose, CA) ; Jepsen; Mary Lou; (Sausalito, CA)

Assignee:   Google Inc.
Mountain View
CA


According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Embodiments of the disclosure describe a tileable display panel including a
screen layer to display a unified image, an illumination layer including a
two-dimensional array of lamps, and a display layer disposed between the screen
layer and illumination layer. The display layer includes a plurality of pixelets
each positioned to be illuminated by a corresponding lamp from the illumination
layer to project a magnified image sub-portion corresponding to a received
subset. The magnified image sub-portions collectively blend together to form the
unified image displayed on the screen layer. Embodiments of the disclosure
further include illumination layer control logic to determine a brightness value
of each of the received subsets of pixel data, and adjust an illumination
setting to reduce or increase an illumination output of a lamp in the
illumination layer based, at least on part, on the brightness values of the
corresponding subset of pixel data."


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              904 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                           January 16, 2016 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Google's Kitchener hub impacting lives globally;
Gmail, Chrome, Google Ads, Pixel ... intimately tied to Canadian R&D efforts

BYLINE: Terry Pender, Record staff, tpender@therecord.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E10

LENGTH: 1013 words


The 350 software and hardware engineers in Google's office in the Breithaupt
Block work on a long list of products that underscore how much the technology
giant has changed since it started out as a search engine 18 years ago.

The Kitchener office is the centre of the company's research and development
efforts in Canada, and teams here do leading edge work on products used by
billions of people around the world.

The products developed here, or largely developed here include Gmail, Chrome,
Inbox, the OnHub Wi-Fi Router, Google Ads and Google Fibre, and high performance
tablets and laptops like Google Flip and the Pixel.

Engineers in Kitchener also develop mobile applications and mobile ads and work
on virtual reality as part of Google Cardboard.

Gmail is good example of the impact of the engineering and development teams in
Kitchener. The email service is used by more than 900 million people a day, and
75 per cent of them are on mobile devices, said Google engineer Matthew Izatt.

"So this is a really big product," he said. "The Canadian site is one of three
main engineering sites for Gmail world wide."

All of the Gmail-related development work for iPhones and iPads was done in
Kitchener.

"The Gmail app and the Inbox Gmail app are all developed solely in Canada,"
Izatt said.

More than 100,000 businesses in Canada use Gmail and Google Ads. Many
universities, school boards and cities do as well.

"The team here is really impactful across both consumers and businesses," Izatt
said.

Chrome, the open source web browser, was largely developed by Google in
Kitchener. And a team here continues to enhance and expand Chrome products.

"There are 800 million users searching the Internet on their mobile devices
using Chrome every single day," Alex Nicolaou, engineering director for the
Chrome team, said.

With the rise of mobile browsing, Nicolaou approached his bosses about forming a
dedicated team.

That was in 2010. He formed a team with deep expertise in mobile computing and
the touchable web, which involves interacting with information by touching the
screen.

Google engineers have done their jobs right when you drag your finger across the
screen of Chrome laptops Pixel or Flip and it feels like you are manipulating an
object behind the screen.

"And that takes a tonne of engineering work," said, Rick Byers, senior software
engineer for the Touch platform.

Byers and Nicolaou are working to make operating systems disappear. That will
make computers faster and easier to use.

"So instead of having to worry about bar scanners or software installs or
software updates, all you do is turn it on, you type in what you want, and you
get that from the web," Nicolaou said.

The developers working on Google Ads in Kitchener have access to one of the
world's largest computer systems. The server infrastructure that keeps Google
Ads working 24-7 is a massive technical challenge. It brings together
advertisers and some of the world's biggest content providers, protects privacy
and keeps other ads off client sites.

As the capabilities of computers and mobile devices increased the Wi-Fi routers
in homes lagged.

Frequent interruptions in Internet service were made worse by tiresome reboot
steps. So Google engineers and developers in Kitchener went to work, and created
the OnHub Wi-Fi Router.

"This is one of the highest performance routers you can buy on the market
today," said Jay Shah, a lead engineer for the OnHub team.

The software for OnHub learns and adapts the more it is used. With a sleek
design - it has no external antenna - it can be placed out in the open where
Wi-Fi works best.

Like 60 per cent of the Google engineers working in Kitchener, Shah is a
graduate of the University of Waterloo. He was one of the three founders of
BufferBox, an automated parcel delivery startup that Google acquired for $17
million in 2012.

"Another cool thing about it is you manage it through an app," said Melissa
Dominguez, an OnHub developer. "We have an Android and iOS app, which we
developed right here."

Users get real-time information about their Wi-Fi usage on their smartphones.
They also can share their passwords with visitors by sending the information to
their phone instead of looking for a piece of paper that fell off the
refrigerator door.

Google Fibre is the stuff of near legend, providing ultrafast Internet services.
It starts with a connection that provides Internet service at a speed of up to
1,000 megabits per second. Since it was founded in 2012, Google Fibre has been
rolled out in Austin, Kansas City and Provo, Utah.

Several other U.S. cities are on the list, but so far there are no plans to
bring Google Fibre to any Canadian cities. That may seem strange when people
learn that a lot of the engineering work for Google Fibre is done in Kitchener.

Fibre engineers and developers here work on the infrastructure that is needed to
light up a city with super-fast Internet. They also work on expanding
opportunities for Fibre in apartment buildings, small business, school boards
and universities.

The Google team for FibreTV develops both hardware and software. The network box
that brings the fast Internet into a residence was developed here.

So was the TV box that connects a TV to the Internet through either the ethernet
of coaxial cable.

FibreTV is controlled with a traditional remote, or an app on a smartphone.
Users can type in the name of their favourite actor, and every movie that actor
was in will be recorded for your FibreTV. Google HD-DVR can record up to eight
shows at the same time and can hold up to 20 days of HD content.

With FibreTV you can also watch live TV and on-demand content on mobile devices.

Steve Woods, the head of engineering for Google Canada, said these products pave
the way into the Internet of Things, the world in which common objects are
connected to the Internet and can communicate with each other.

"We are interested in hardware and consumers and their homes," Woods said. "So
those give us entry into those product areas and we will experiment. Some things
will launch, some things won't."

tpender@therecord.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              905 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SMALL AND PERFECTLY FORMED: THE BONSAi PAD;
Apple has come late to the 7in tablet market, but its new iPad Mini pips the
competition. Powerful features and superior quality make it the one to be seen
with, says David Phelan

BYLINE: David Phelan

SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1090 words


Apple has become the biggest company in the world by inventing products we
didn't know we needed. The iPod, the iPhone and the iPad opened up new areas of
technology and left rivals flailing in Apple's wake. But the ride couldn't
continue for ever, which is why last week the company had to do something it
hasn't done in years: play catch-up.

The iPad Mini is a 7.9in version of Apple's market-leading full-size tablet, and
it's here because smaller tablets from Google and Amazon have been runaway
successes. The late Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder, had described the idea of
small tablets as "dead on arrival", and half-jokingly added that a
smaller-screen iPad wouldn't work because people would have to file down their
fingertips to use it. But The Sunday Times went hands-on with the new gadget at
its launch in San Jose, California, and we think it's eminently usable - and our
fingers remain intact.

At 7.9in from corner to corner, the iPad Mini's display is almost an inch larger
than those of its two closest rivals, the Asus/Google Nexus 7 and the Kindle
Fire HD. But the screen appears far bigger by nearly filling the front of the
device, with only a thin frame around it. Normally this would mean you would be
brushing the touchscreen inadvertently as you held it, but Apple's neat solution
is "thumb rejection": the software knows that a touch at the edge of the display
will be your thumb and ignores it, while simultaneously allowing you to operate
the screen with your other hand. Other tablets guard against this with a wider
frame, but this solution is much more elegant.

At 7.2mm thick, the Mini is thinner than all its small-form Android tablet
rivals, and at 308g it is lighter too. You can hold it and use it with one hand
for long periods of time - something you can't do with the full-sized version.
And little of the bigger iPad's usability has been lost in the downsizing: the
display has the same pixel count as the iPad 2 (which remains on sale at
(EURO)399), and although the app icons are smaller and differently spaced, this
is merely a cosmetic change. It will run every app made for every iPad - all
275,000 of them.

If you've seen people struggling to hold up an iPad to take photographs, you'll
know the bigger tablet is not suited to use as a camera. The Mini - unlike the
Nexus 7 and Fire HD - has a 5MP camera on the back. With its smaller size and
shape, it sits better in the hand while you're snapping, but don't expect to see
a top photographer toting one.

The wi-fi version of the iPad Mini goes on sale on Friday and at first glance is
no bargain, starting at (EURO)339 - about (EURO)140 more than Google's model.
But the Nexus 7 has 8GB of storage; for a 16GB version, the same as Apple's
entry-level model, the Nexus 7 price is (EURO)240. Amazon's Kindle Fire HD looks
a good alternative, especially for its video playback capabilities, but it's not
on sale in Ireland just yet. A 3G version of the Mini will appear later in
November (from (EURO)469), and it will work on 4G when it eventually arrives
here.

Is Apple''s latest worth the extra money? Specifications aside, the iPad Mini is
by far the best-made small tablet. The Nexus 7 and Fire HD may look snazzy but
they feel plastic. The iPad Mini, with its aluminium back, is a step above.

And that's ultimately what Apple is selling. Not a bargain-basement iPad with a
smaller display, but a multimedia tablet that offers high screen quality plus
the exceptional user interface and appealing tactile quality of its full-size
cousins.

Often with Apple it can be worth waiting until the second version of its
products appear. The iPad 2 was a big leap forward, for example. But the
first-generation iPad Mini is a chic and powerful gadget - the best small tablet
on the market. Apple may be late to the party, but it has made a showstopping
entrance.

A CROWDED MARKET ENTRY LEVEL Ebook readers may have slow monochrome screens and
limited functions but they will get you online, to download books and journals,
at a bargain price Amazon 'Original' Kindle, (EURO)115 6in E Ink display, no
touchscreen, wi-fi only. Will hold up to 1,400 books. Battery life is
exceptional and it's unrivalled for its choice of books. amazon.co.uk Barnes &
Noble Nook Simple Touch, (EURO)100 7in E Ink display, touchscreen, wi-fi only.
Will hold about 1,000 books. It will be launched this week in Britain.

uk.nook.com MID-RANGE Smaller than a full-sized tablet but more versatile than a
simple ebook reader, 7in tablets are a great compromise option. The iPad Mini is
up against these two entrenched rivals Asus/Google Nexus 7, from (EURO)199 7in,
1280 x 800-pixel display, running Android, with 8GB or 16GB of memory. Wi-fi
only. Zippy, with a higher-resolution screen than the iPad Mini.

play.google.com/stor Amazon Kindle Fire HD, from £TBC 7in, 1280 x 800-pixel
display, running Android, with 16GB or 32GB of memory. It's not as fast as the
Nexus 7 but does link directly to Amazon's expansive online shops.

amazon.co.uk BLOW THE BUDGET At the top end of the market, the iPad is
challenged by Android and Windows tablets. The latter are fast and attractive
and run the new Windows 8, cleverly adapted for touchscreens ed) Asus Padfone 2,
from (EURO)799 (estimated) 10.1in, 1280 x 800-pixel display. Wi-fi and 3G.
Asus's Transformer Pad is the best of the pricier Android tablets, made up of a
screen and keyboard. The Padfone 2, coming soon, combines a Pad with a
smartphone that slots into the device. asus.co.uk rf f (EURO)500 Microsoft
Surface, from (EURO)500 10.6in, 1366 x 768-pixel display. Released last week,
it's wi-fi only at present. Memory goes from 32GB to 64GB. Windows 8 runs
smoothly on this well-made tablet; an extra (EURO)120 gets you a smart cover cum
keyboard. microsoft.co.uk The iPad Mini goes on sale on Friday. It starts at
(EURO)339 for a 16GB wi-fi version. The 'wi-fi plus cellular' version, out a few
weeks later, starts at (EURO)469 The cellular version's Sim card slot will get
the tablet onto any Irish 3G network, but for 4G you will have to wait for the
outcome of the state-led bidding process The new tablet's screen is made up of
1024 x 768 pixels. That's not enough to qualify as a Retina display, on which
Apple says the eye cannot pick out individual pixels The iPad Mini runs the same
iOS 6 software as Apple's iPhone and full-size iPad, and works with the 275,000
apps optimised for the iPad The tablet uses Apple's new Lightning connector -
bad news for owners of speakers and docks designed for the previous 30-pin
technology

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              906 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  SME Channels

                            December 6, 2013 Friday

ASUS and Google Introduce Nexus 7 in India

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 6 -- Asus and Google have launched the new Nexus 7 which comes with
the 7-inch IPS, 2.3 million pixels and 1920 x 1200 with 323 pixels per inch
(PPI).

Peter Chang, Regional Head (South Asia) & Country Manager (System Business
Group), ASUS India, said, "We are extremely elated to bring the all new Nexus 7
which is sleeker yet comprises the same sized screen and significantly
increasing performance. The quality of the pixels has been improved with a 30%
wider color gamut than the previous generation model; ensuring colors are both
accurate and vibrant to further enhance the user experience. Our constant quest
for the incredible has led us to further innovate and deliver a device which is
the ultimate blend of power and portability."

Nexus 7 features Quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro (APQ8064-1AA, with Krait
300 cores) processor running at 1.5GHz, 2GB RAM, up to 32GB of internal eMMC
storage with FSTRIM function, Dual stereo SonicMaster speakers with Fraunhofer
Cingo virtual surround sound technology; Wireless charging and Lead device for
Android 4.3.

As per the release, Nexus 7 is lighter than ever and lasts longer and it comes
with up to 9 hours of HD video playback and 10 hours of web browsing or
e-reading.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from SME Channels. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                   Copyright 2013 Accent Info Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              907 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

This Year, Gift Ideas In Triplicate

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE.

E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words


Hollywood studios try to avoid opening big movies on the same weekend, to avoid
diluting the buzz and the press coverage. ''Oh, no -- we can't open that day,''
one might say. '' 'Titanic II: The Return' is opening that weekend.''

That's usually the way it works with the tech companies, too, especially as the
holiday shopping season begins.

This year, though, a barrage of huge tech announcements all landed within about
a week. Windows 8. Microsoft Surface. The iPad Mini. Google Chromebook. The
Barnes & Noble Nook HD. Windows Phone 8. A 10-inch Samsung tablet and a new
Google phone.

All right, tech industry. You want splintered news coverage? You got it. You get
to share this column: one-third of a column each for the three big touch-screen
headlines of the week. Meet the iPad Mini, Nook HD and Windows Phone 8.

The iPad Mini

The rumors were true: Apple now has a smaller iPad.

The iPad Mini is half the weight of the big iPad (0.7 pounds versus 1.4),
thinner (. 28 inches versus .37), shorter (7.9 inches versus 9.5) and narrower
(5.3 inches versus 7.3). Those specs add up to one towering meta-change: you can
comfortably hold this iPad in one hand. It's still too wide for a blazer pocket,
alas, but it's certainly purse-size and overcoat pocketable.

It's available in white-and-silver and black-on-black, both with metal backs,
both gorgeous.

Apple's masterstroke was keeping the screen shape and resolution the same as on
the iPad 2 (1,024 by 768 pixels). As a result, the Mini can run all 275,000
existing iPad apps unmodified, plus 500,000 more iPhone apps. The text and
graphics are a little smaller, but perfectly usable.

Sadly, the Mini doesn't gain Apple's supercrisp Retina display. Nobody's going
to complain about the sharpness -- it packs in 163 pixels per inch (ppi) -- but
it's not the same jaw-dropping resolution as the big iPad (264 ppi). Gotta hold
something back for next year's model, right?

You pay $330 for the base model (16 gigabytes of storage, Wi-Fi connections).
Prices run all the way up to $660 for four times the storage and the option to
go online over the cell network.

By pricing the Mini so high, Apple allows the $200 class of seven-inch Android
tablets and readers to live (Google Nexus, Kindle Fire HD, Nook HD). Those
tablets also, by the way, have high-definition screens (1,280 by 800 pixels),
which the Mini doesn't.

But the iPad Mini is a far classier, more attractive, thinner machine. It has
two cameras instead of one. Its fit and finish are far more refined. And above
all, it offers that colossal app catalog, which Android tablet owners can only
dream about.

Over all, the Mini gives you all the iPad goodness in a more manageable size,
and it's awesome. You could argue that the iPad Mini is what the iPad always
wanted to be.

Barnes & Noble Nook HD

The redesign of this $200 e-book reader/video player focuses on the three things
that matter most in a hand-held e-book reader: weight, size and screen clarity.

In those ways, the Nook HD trounces its nemeses, Amazon's Kindle Fire HD and
Google's Nexus 7. The Nook is lighter (11.1 ounces, versus 12 on the Nexus and
13.9 on the Kindle) and noticeably narrower, despite the same-size screen,
because it has a far slimmer bezel. You can wrap your hand around its back, even
if you're dainty of hand.

And the screen is much sharper: 1,440 by 900 pixels (versus 1,280 by 800). At
243 dots ppi, the Nook's screen comes dangerously close to the iPad Retina's 264
ppi. Wow, is this screen sharp. Movies, books and magazines pop.

Whites are so white on this screen, it could be a Clorox commercial; the Nexus
and Kindle screens look yellowish in comparison. (A 9-inch, $270 version, the
Nook HD+, is also available.)

The software continues to improve. You can now create up to six accounts, one
for each family member, each listing different books and movies. (It doesn't
remember where each person stopped reading a given book, but B&N says that's
coming soon.)

The base-model, $200 Nook comes with only 8 gigabytes of storage -- half as much
as the Kindle; on the other hand, it has a memory-card slot, so it's simple and
cheap to expand. The Nook includes a wall charger (it can't charge from a USB
jack), which the Kindle doesn't. And the Nook doesn't display ads, as the $200
Kindle does.

However, there's no camera at all. (The company says it spent the money on the
nicer screen.) And the speaker volume is way too low during movie playback, but
B&N says a fix is coming this week..

Still, in the hardware war, Nook HD clearly wins this round. The Nook HD is
fast, fluid and gorgeous; the Fire HD lags in all of those categories.

Then again, Amazon's movie service -- rent, buy or stream for free as part of
the $80-a-year Prime program -- is mature and delightful; Barnes & Noble's movie
store is just starting up. If you can tolerate that fledgling store awhile, then
you'll love the way B&N exploited its second-mover advantage.

Windows Phone 8

The good news in touch screens continues with Windows Phone 8. It's what you'll
get on sleek coming phones like the Nokia Lumia 920 and HTC's Windows Phone 8X
(the one I tested).

Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 -- a fresh, colorful, efficient, tile-based
alternative to the icon-based design of iPhone and Android -- earned rave
reviews. But few phones run it and few people have it.

Windows Phone 8 may look identical, but the company says it's a complete rewrite
based on underlying code from Windows 8 for PCs. It's therefore ready for far
more hardware flexibility than 7 was: multi-core processors, screens with
different resolutions, phones with memory cards and so on.

The Start screen is more customizable; you can choose from three different tile
sizes. Apps can modify your Lock screen automatically; for example, the Groupon
app might display a special offer that's tailored to where you are right now.

If you swipe leftward from the Lock screen, you enter Kid Corner, a truly
inspired idea. It's a quarantined world containing only apps, music and videos
that you've handpicked for your offspring. Next time you hear, ''I'm bored --
can I play on your phone?'' you can hand the phone over without worry; the
phone, Web and text messages are off-limits.

More solid improvements: The desktop software can load the phone with your
iTunes music and video libraries. ''Rooms'' are private groups -- Bowling
Buddies, Teen Party and so on -- whose members can share their locations,
calendars, photos and chats. You can now back up the phone online.

Two juicy features are promised for the coming months: a ''pay with your phone''
option brought to you by NFC (near-field communication) chips in phones, and
Data Sense, which tries to conserve Internet data and monitors your monthly
allotment.

Microsoft's phone software is fast, simple and beautiful. But it still lacks
universal dictation for quick text entry. Its new Maps app doesn't offer spoken
directions (in 2012? seriously?). And the audience won't come until there are
more great apps.

There are promising signs; Microsoft says there are 110,000 Windows Phone apps,
and that software companies can reuse chunks of code from their Windows 8
programs. That should make it easier to bring new apps to the phone.

So there you have it: three touch-screen tech toys, each triumphant in its own
way. One comes from a market leader hoping to swipe business from its
bargain-basement rivals; two come from underdogs determined to make a bigger
dent.

None of these products are themselves perfect. But they represent new highs on
the graph that plots price against polish and pleasure -- and for gadget lovers,
that portends some very merry holidays indeed.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/01/technology/personaltech/presenting-the-nook-hd
-ipad-mini-and-windows-phone-8-review.html

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The iPad Mini, right, the Nook HD Plus, far right, and the
Windows Phone 8, below, are all new introductions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              908 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                            March 31, 2016 Thursday

DoST's Lipad 'clearer than Google Earth'

BYLINE: Jovic Yee

LENGTH: 210  words


Land developers now can't make excuses if they have built on areas prone to
floods, landslides and other geo-hazards.

The Department of Science and Technology (DOST) on Wednesday launched Lipad, a
website that provides such crucial information for free. Lipad stands for Lidar
(Light Detection and Ranging) Portal for Archiving and Distribution.

Lidar technology produces high-resolution images at 1 meter per pixel, much
clearer than Google Earth which has a resolution of 2 meters per pixel, said
Carlos Primo David, executive director of the Philippine Council for Industry,
Energy and Emerging Technology Research and Development, a DOST-attached agency.

A ground image can be processed to remove obstructions like trees and buildings,
so the user can also detect underground rivers, for example, he added.

In use since 2012, Lidar has mapped out almost half of the country's total land
area, including Metro Manila, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo and parts of Eastern Visayas.

If offered commercially, the valuable data gathered by the DOST through Lipad
can cost around P600 million, David said.

At present, Lidar data are used only by the environment and public works
departments, other DOST-affiliated entities like Pagasa and Project NOAH, and
some local governments.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                              909 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday

Pakistan: Apple unveils iPhone with video chat

LENGTH: 721  words

DATELINE: San Francisco


San Francisco, June 10 -- Apple has unveiled a next-generation iPhone that
features video chat, can shoot and edit high-definition quality video and has a
crisper resolution screen.

"We are going to take the biggest leap since the original iPhone," Apple chief
executive Steve Jobs said as he showed off the "iPhone 4" at Apple's Worldwide
Developers Conference here.

The iPhone 4 will go on sale on June 24 in Britain, France, Germany, Japan and
the United States and will cost 199 dollars for the 16 gigabyte model and 299
dollars for the 32GB version.

The touchscreen smartphone, which comes in black and white versions, will be
available in 18 other countries in July and 24 more in August.

The iPhone 4 includes more than 100 new features including a front-facing video
camera to allow for video-conferencing between iPhones, a better still camera,
an improved battery and a screen with significantly higher resolution.

To demonstrate the video chat program, called "FaceTime," Jobs, dressed in his
trademark black turtleneck and blue jeans, called up Jonathan Ive, an Apple
product designer, and held an iPhone-to-iPhone video conversation.

The iPhone 4 can also shoot and edit HD video. Randy Ubillos, Apple's chief
architect for video applications, displayed an iMovie for iPhone video editing
program available from Apple's App Store for 4.99 dollars.

Jobs touted the higher-resolution screen as a major leap forward. "There has
never been a display like this on a phone," he said.

The 3.5-inch screen is the same size as on previous models but features 326
pixels per square inch, four times more pixels than the earlier iPhones.

"There is a magic number around 300 pixels per inch that is the limit of the
human retina," Jobs said. "We are over that limit.

"That's going to set the standard for display for years to come."

The improved battery life allows for 40 percent more talk time, Jobs said, and
the iPhone 4 -- at 9.3 millimeters or three-eighths of an inch -- is 24 percent
thinner than the previous model, iPhone 3GS.

The iPhone 4, which runs on Apple's A4 processor, features a five-megapixel
camera, an improvement on the previous three-megapixel camera.

Users will also have the option to use Microsoft's Bing as an Internet search
engine in addition to Google and Yahoo! Google remains the default search
engine.

Jobs joked that some of the attendees at the conference may have seen the iPhone
4 previously "because there have been a few photos around."

Technology blog Gizmodo obtained a prototype of the iPhone in April from a
21-year-old man who found it in a California beer garden, where it had been lost
by an Apple software engineer, and published details of the device.

Apple launched the iPhone in 2007 and has sold more than 50 million as it
battles Google's Android platform, the Blackberry from Canada's Research in
Motion and others for the fast-growing market.

Before displaying the latest iPhone, Jobs said that more than five million
digital books have been downloaded since Apple began selling its iPad tablet
computer two months ago.

Jobs, who received a standing ovation as he walked on stage to address the more
than 5,200 software developers attending the conference, said the 8,500
applications developed for the iPad have been downloaded more than 35 million
times from Apple's App Store.

Apple has sold more than two million iPads since it went on sale in the United
States in early April and in nine other countries late last month.

Jobs said that 225,000 applications for the iPhone and the iPod Touch were
currently available and that five billion applications had been downloaded from
the App Store as of last week.

The new iPhone received positive reviews from analysts, although most of the
features were known already because of the Gizmodo leak.

Altimeter's Michael Gartenberg said Apple has "raised the bar once again by
offering next year's technology at last year's prices.

"They are the first ones to make video chat easy and that will drive the sales,"
Gartenberg said.

Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi said the iPhone 4 "keeps Apple ahead of the
competition" by "driving software and hardware innovation hand in hand.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              910 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Vintage games fuel flashy romp; Adam Sandler and the gang create a mildly
amusing nostalgia trip

BYLINE: CHRIS KNIGHT, National Post

SECTION: MOVIES; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 629 words


PIXELS

3

Starring: Adam Sandler, Kevin James, Michelle Monaghan

Directed by: Chris Columbus

Running time: 106 minutes

Here's a far-fetched concept for you: In 1982, the winners of a video-game
championship had their achievements videotaped and sent into space aboard a
probe that somehow wound up in the hands of aliens. They took the blasting of
space invaders as a personal affront, and have now mounted a retaliatory attack
on Earth. The gamers, one of whom (Kevin James) is now the U.S. president, must
use their mad skills to defeat the extraterrestrials, who assault our planet in
the form of real-life versions of Pac-Man, Centipede, Pong, Donkey Kong, etc.
Only by playing out these ancient computer games with light-emitting blasters on
the streets of New York and Washington can our planet be saved.

I know. Kevin James as president?

In fact, the Jamesian regime is one of a number of mini-plots that seem to have
been cobbled together to create a mildly amusing nostalgia trip, and probably
the funniest movie ever to feature both James and Adam Sandler. (Not a high
bar.) There's also Sandler as a tech nerd who falls for an out-of-his-league
lady (Michelle Monaghan). And Josh Gad as the shy loner who grew into an adult
version of the same creature, and now must find his way out of his shell.

That leaves Peter Dinklage as Eddie "The Fire Blaster" Plant, an amalgam of the
type of reallife gamers seen in such documentaries as 2007's King of Kong or
Chasing Ghosts. He also seems to be channelling the voice of Barry White, and
tells detractors in resonant tones that it doesn't really matter if he made up
his nickname himself; it still counts.

The real inspiration for Pixels is the short film of the same name by Patrick
Jean - Google "Pixels short" and you'll find it, two minutes and 34 seconds of
anarchic, creative joy. The short has little in the way of plot, which meant
professor Sandler scribes Timothy Dowling (Role Models, Just Go with It) and Tim
Herlihy (everything else) had to cook up a story beefy enough to fill up an
additional 103½ minutes.

They almost manage it. After a Grown Ups-style prologue that sees young actors
playing the main cast members in 1982, the movie shifts to the present day, with
Sandler as Brenner, a guy who can set up your new home entertainment system.

In his orange uniform he looks like he has a get-into-jail-free card, but
somehow he maintains a close friendship with James' President Cooper. The two
are so tight that when a U.S. military base in Guam is attacked, the president's
first move is to call his buddy Brenner. He also brings in Lt.-Col. Violet van
Patten (Monaghan), who has just had a meet-cute with Brenner.

The aliens communicate through video recreations of such '80s icons as Ronald
Reagan and Mr. Roarke, with their ultimatum being delivered by Hall and Oates,
which feels about right. It's worth noting that some of the references actually
come from after 1982 - Max Headroom and the Where's the Beef lady didn't appear
until '84, and neither did Tetris, but the vision of highrise meets low-rez was
probably too tempting to let go.

Director Chris Columbus (Harry Potter 12) lets the scenes play out, often a bit
too loosely, to encompass random moments of karaoke, out-of-character speeches
and shots of military types (Sean Bean, Brian Cox, etc.) looking grumpy at
having their world-saving jobs made redundant by a bunch of nerds. Not sure what
Tom McCarthy is doing in a robot suit, or why Dinklage's character has a thing
for Serena Williams and/or Martha Stewart, but maybe it's best to let such
moments pass without remark. Anyone who lived through the '80s knows that not
everything that happened in that decade made perfect sense. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015
Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SONY PICTURES; Pinky, left, Clyde, Blinky and Inky in Columbia
Pictures' Pixels.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Montreal Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved


                              911 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Making a game of it; Adam Sandler and gang of comics create a mildly amusing
nostalgia trip in Pixels

BYLINE: Chris Knight, National Post

SECTION: MOVIES; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 609 words


REVIEW

Pixels 3 (out of 5) Starring: Adam Sandler, Kevin James, Michelle Monaghan
Directed by: Chris Columbus Running time: 106 minutes

Here's a far-fetched concept for you: In 1982, the winners of a video-game
championship had their achievements videotaped and sent into space aboard a
probe that somehow wound up in the hands of aliens. They took the blasting of
space invaders as a personal affront, and have now mounted a retaliatory attack
on Earth.

The gamers, one of whom (Kevin James) is now the U.S. president, must use their
mad skills to defeat the extraterrestrials, who assault our planet in the form
of real-life versions of Pac-Man, Centipede, Pong, Donkey Kong, etc. Only by
playing out these ancient computer games with light-emitting blasters on the
streets of New York and Washington can our planet be saved.

I know. Kevin James as president?

In fact, the Jamesian regime is one of a number of mini-plots that seem to have
been cobbled together to create a mildly amusing nostalgia trip, and probably
the funniest movie ever to feature both James and Adam Sandler. (Not a high
bar.) There's also Sandler as a tech nerd who falls for an out-of-his-league
lady (Michelle Monaghan). And Josh Gad as the shy loner who grew into an adult
version of the same creature, and now must find his way out of his shell.

That leaves Peter Dinklage as Eddie (The Fire Blaster) Plant, an amalgam of the
type of real-life gamers seen in such documentaries as 2007's King of Kong or
Chasing Ghosts. He also seems to be channelling the voice of Barry White, and
tells detractors in resonant tones that it doesn't really matter if he made up
his nickname himself; it still counts.

The real inspiration for Pixels is the short film of the same name by Patrick
Jean - Google "Pixels short" and you'll find it, two minutes and 34 seconds of
anarchic, creative joy. The short has little in the way of plot, which meant
professional Sandler scribes Timothy Dowling (Role Models, Just Go with It) and
Tim Herlihy (everything else) had to cook up a story beefy enough to fill up an
additional 103-1/2 minutes.

They almost manage it. After a Grown Ups-style prologue that sees young actors
playing the main cast members in 1982, the movie shifts to the present day, with
Sandler as Brenner, a guy who can set up your new home entertainment system.

In his orange uniform he looks like he has a get-into-jail-free card, but
somehow he maintains a close friendship with James' President Cooper. The two
are so tight that when a U.S. military base in Guam is attacked, the president's
first move is to call his buddy Brenner. He also brings in Lt.-Col. Violet van
Patten (Monaghan), who has just had a meet-cute with Brenner.

The aliens communicate through video recreations of such '80s icons as Ronald
Reagan and Mr. Roarke, with their ultimatum being delivered by Hall and Oates,
which feels about right.

It's worth noting that some of the references actually come from after 1982 -
Max Headroom and the Where's the Beef lady didn't appear until '84, and neither
did Tetris, but the vision of highrise meets low-rez was probably too tempting
to let go.

Director Chris Columbus (Harry Potter 12) lets the scenes play out, often a bit
too loosely, to encompass random moments of karaoke, outof-character speeches
and shots of military types (Sean Bean, Brian Cox, etc.) looking grumpy at
having their world-saving jobs made redundant by a bunch of nerds.

Maybe it's best to let such moments pass without remark. Anyone who lived
through the '80s knows that not everything that happened in that decade made
perfect sense. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sony Pictures; From left, Michelle Monaghan as Violet, Adam Sandler as
Sam Brenner, Josh Gad as Ludlow, and Q*bert, star in Pixels.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Edmonton Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              912 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           January 2, 2013 Wednesday

Best tablet (below nine inches)

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Spotlight; DL AWARDS 2013 NOMINEES

LENGTH: 281 words


Apple iPad mini

Despite Steve Jobs' avowed rejection of a 7-inch form factor, the post-Jobs
Apple went ahead with a downsized 7.9-inch display for the iPad mini.

With a screen resolution of 1,024 x 768 pixels, this baby is favoured by those
seeking a lighter tablet that can be held in one hand.

Once again, the lure of a well-populated app store is the main appeal.

Google Nexus 7

The Google Nexus 7 is a favourite with Android users for one reason - it is the
first to receive the latest updates to Google's mobile operating system. The
buttery smooth performance of Android 4.2 Jelly Bean is well complemented by its
hardware, which includes an Nvidia Tegra 3 quad-core processor and 1GB of RAM to
keep apps running smoothly on this compact tablet.

Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7

Measuring 7.89mm and weighing 340g, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7 is a portable
tablet that is easy to handle. It stands out with its Super Amoled Plus display,
delivering rich colours and clear images on its 7.7-inch screen. With its 1.4GHz
dual-core processor, the Galaxy Tab 7.7 creates a smooth seamless user
experience.

Samsung Galaxy Tab 8.9 LTE

The Galaxy Tab 8.9 LTE represents the sweet spot for those who want a large
screen but not the weight of a bulky tablet. Viewing movies is as easy and as
comfortable as reading e-books on this 8.9-inch display with its screen
resolution of 1,280 x 800 pixels.

Sony Tablet P

The Sony Tablet P is one of the most interesting Android tablets to date, with
two 5.5-inch displays to house the customised Android user interface. This
innovative design allows users to use the bottom screen as a keyboard or
touchpad controller while the top screen acts as a regular display.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              913 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE CHEAP TABLET THAT'S EASIER TO SWALLOW;
Google has thrown its hat into the tablet ring with the launch of the Nexus 7.
Keenly priced and well put together, it's the most dangerous challenger the iPad
has yet faced, says Matt Bingham

BYLINE: Matt Bingham

SECTION: IN GEAR;FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 945 words


Anyone unwilling or unable to pay the minimum of £399 for the latest iPad will
welcome the launch of Google's first tablet - already dubbed the austerity
tablet. The Nexus 7 starts at £159 - but surprisingly, given the price, few
corners seem to have been cut in this fast and well-made device. The Sunday
Times is one of the few publications to have got its hands on one to test. Our
verdict: this is the most dangerous tablet challenger Apple has yet faced.

Google's hardware partner is Asus, and it has done the internet company proud:
the 7in tablet is one of the lightest available but it feels robust. Its screen
has the highest resolution of any seven-incher, better than that of BlackBerry's
PlayBook and Samsung's Galaxy Tab 2 7.0, and coming close to the quality of the
new iPad in the crisp way it renders text and its bright and colourful video.

It's the first tablet of any size to run on a quad-core processor. The extra
power is most apparent with ebooks, where animated page turns are quick and free
of stutter; video, which launches instantly and plays smoothly; and
graphics-rich games. Battery life is claimed to be an iPad-rivalling nine hours
- if that stands up, it's a significant improvement over existing 7in devices,
which have been hampered by proportionately small batteries.

Only the single, front-facing camera and the lack of Sim and memory card slots
betray the tablet's budget origins. You won't be able to get online outside
wi-fi zones, or bulk up the 8GB or 16GB memory. Links to Google and Asus's cloud
storage - a total of 10GB, free for one year - will help to ease the pain.

One thing prevents the Nexus from going head to head with Apple, and that's
size. Its screen looks small next to the iPad's 9.7in.

There's a reason Google has plumped for a screen of this size - the Kindle Fire.
The Fire, with a screen size of 7.1in, became the bestselling non-Apple tablet
overnight when it was launched by Amazon in America last year, priced at a
competitive $199 (£130). An estimated 6m were sold in the run-up to Christmas.
The implication was clear: while Android may not have behaved as predictably as
Apple's software, and while there were fewer tabletoptimised apps available,
millions of people were willing to overlook those flaws as long as the price was
right.

The Fire could be sold cheaply because Amazon put prominent links to its online
stores on the device's start screen. Sales of ebooks and downloads of music
subsidise the hardware costs. Google has got the message. As with the Fire, the
Nexus 7's home page is a user-friendly shop window for Google's online services.
The company now runs the world's biggest ebookshop, with around 4m titles; it
has smartened up its app store, now second only to Apple's, with about 600,000
programs available to download; and it rents out movies and plans to sell music
too.

Move away from the home page and you're in more familiar Android territory -
although the Nexus doesn't short-change you with an old version like the Fire's.
The tablet is the first to come with Android 4.1, aka Jelly Bean, the
smoothest-running edition yet. Highlights include notifications popping up as
new email and tweets arrive, and the excellent Chrome web browser, capable of
synching bookmarks between the tablet and your desktop PC.

The 8GB version of the Nexus 7 is available to pre-order now via play.google.com
and will start to be sent out in two weeks. The 16GB model will arrive in shops
at the end of the month. With rival 7in devices dropping in price in response to
the newcomer, there's never been a better time to try a tablet.

THE BUDGET RIVALS

BLACKBERRY PLAYBOOK From £169

Software BlackBerry Tablet OS

Processor 1GHz dual-core

Memory 16GB-64GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 425g

Sim slot? No

Cameras 5MP, 3MP

Reduced from a launch price of £399, the BlackBerry tablet is as well built as
the Nexus and runs attractive software. But very few apps and games have been
released for it, leaving it suitable for little more than browsing the internet
and grabbing your email. As for getting 3G on the move, you'll need to pair it
with a BlackBerry phone.

SAMSUNG GALAXY TAB 2 7.0 From £200

Software Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)

Processor 1GHz dual-core

Memory 8GB-32GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 344g

Sim slot? Yes

Cameras 3MP, 1.3MP

Samsung makes the bestselling Galaxy S Android phones, but its tablets have yet
to make as much of an impression. The 7in version of the Tab 2 is competent: it
runs fast and feels light in the hand, but the finish is plasticky. Its version
of Android is Ice Cream Sandwich, which was the most up to date - until the
Nexus appeared.

HTC FLYER 16GB From £200

Software Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)

Processor 1.5GHz single-core

Memory 16GB-32GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 421g

Sim slot? Yes

Cameras 5MP, 1.3MP

Like the PlayBook, this is a tablet that's had a big price drop since launch.
The Flyer is the only tablet to come with a stylus - useful for drawing apps,
accurate typing and hitting small buttons on websites. It feels chunky compared
with the Nexus and runs an earlier, far more pedestrian version of Android. You
do get HTC's own excellent apps, though.

AMAZON KINDLE FIRE About £170 (import only)

Software Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)

Processor 1GHz dual-core

Memory 8GB

Display 1024 x 600 pixels

Weight 413g

Sim slot? No

Cameras None

Amazon cannily launched its budget Android tablet as a version of the Kindle and
scored a hit in America. Like the Nexus, it's "skinned": users are greeted not
with a regular Android screen but a display featuring links to Amazon's book,
music and video shops - which don't work with their UK equivalents, should you
have one shipped over.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stephen Lam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              914 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                          December 16, 2015 Wednesday
                                 METRO EDITION

How to show Apple screen on your TV

BYLINE: STEVE ALEXANDER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 467 words


Q: I read your column about how to transfer a Windows 10 screen image to a
Samsung Smart TV (see tinyurl.com/jto844d.) How could I do the same thing with
an Apple computer?

MIKE DOSCH, EAGAN

A: There are a couple of ways to transfer the view on your Macintosh computer
screen to your HDTV, a process called screen mirroring.

To do it Apple's way, you'll need a newer computer and operating system that can
handle the AirPlay feature. Macs that can handle the task include the iMac, Mac
Mini, MacBook Air or MacBook Pro models from 2011 or later, Mac Pro models from
late 2013 onward and MacBook models from earlier this year. Those Macs must use
the operating system OS X Mountain Lion version 10.8, or a newer one.

In addition, you'll need an Apple TV device that plugs into your TV's HDMI port,
then wirelessly connects to your Mac. The most basic Mac-to-Apple TV connection,
which uses a home Wi-Fi network as an intermediary, requires a second-generation
or later Apple TV unit.

If you want to link a Mac directly to your HDTV without a Wi-Fi network, you'll
need a third-generation Apple TV and a 2012 or newer Mac running the operating
system OS X Yosemite version 10.10, or a newer one. For details, see
tinyurl.com/nnldkga.

A non-Apple method for screen mirroring involves linking, via a Wi-Fi network,
Google's Chrome Web browser on the Mac and Google's Chromecast device that plugs
in to your TV's HDMI port. See tinyurl.com/hfpdpoe. For Mac system requirements
and a Chrome browser download site, see tinyurl.com/l7w8wdf and click "Mac."

Q: I had Google Earth installed on my Windows 7 PC before I upgraded to Windows
10. Now when I use Google Earth, the screen image is poor at my "start location"
and gets worse when I move to other geographic places. In addition, once I close
Google Earth, I have to restart the PC in order to open the program again. I
tried uninstalling and reinstalling Google Earth, but it didn't help. What
should I do?

TOM MADERE, LAPLACE, LA.

A: Google Earth is acting as if your Windows 10 computer doesn't have high
enough screen resolution (picture sharpness) to display its images. That can be
fixed by changing the PC's DPI, or dots per inch, setting for Google Earth.
(While screen resolution is often measured by the number of pixels horizontally
and vertically, DPI counts just the pixels in a line 1 inch long.)

To alter the DPI setting, use Windows Explorer to find the Google Earth program
on your C drive. Right click the Google Earth application folder, select
"properties," then choose "compatibility." Under "settings," uncheck the box in
front of "disable display scaling on high DPI settings."

E-mail tech questions to steve.j.alexander@gmail.com or write to Tech Q&A, 650
3rd Av. S., Suite 1300, Minneapolis, MN 55488. Include name, city and telephone
number.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              915 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                          February 27, 2013 Wednesday

Boot up: iOS 6.1 bypassed no.2, Yahoos on Mayer, Pentagon looks at iOS and
Google, and more

BYLINE: Charles Arthurguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1372 words

ABSTRACT

Charles Arthur and Josh Halliday: Plus FRAND patents rows, the puzzle of
Android, the lousy state of data on guns crime in the US, Pixel reviewed, and
more

FULL TEXT

A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team

Why Google Glass is fascinating; Chromebook Pixel just puzzling && Chicago
Sun-Times

Andy Ihnatko:

This was a good week for the Glass project. I still don't know that Google has a
viable product on their hands. But it's certainly no longer a pie-in-the-sky
concept. The mockery that Glass received from some commentators during its first
announcement in April of last year might have been understandable...but now it
seems embarrassingly premature.

Google had something else to talk about last week, though. I can't remember a
product that's baffled me harder or more roughly than Google's new Chromebook
Pixel...

I talked to Google about the Pixel on launch day, asking some of the dumbest and
most basic questions I've ever dared ask, but I'm still profoundly confused.
Today, the Pixel seems to be serving a customer who doesn't exist. Even a power
Chromebook user, I reckon, would be more likely to buy a $1300 Windows notebook
and simply run webapps in the Chrome browser, right?

No, the new iOS 6.1 lock screen bypass bug does not allow access to your
iPhone's file system && The Next Web

Matt Panzarino:

Earlier today, word began getting around that there was a new way to bypass the
iOS 6.1 lock screen and that this one was even worse, allowing full access to
the user portion of the file system. Well, that's not exactly true, as we've
uncovered with some simple tests.

The lock screen bug does in fact exist, and it works as advertised, bypassing
the lock and bringing you to a blank black screen with just the status bar. But
it allows you no access to anything, not pictures, not contacts and certainly
not the file system.

Two ways to bypass the lock screen?

The iTunes Value Structure && asymco

Note 2: My estimate for the iTunes Music payments to publishers is equivalent to
about 60% of total [recorded] industry revenues.

BlackBerry threat? Pentagon to open networks to Apple, Google && Financial Post

The Pentagon said it wants employees to have the flexibility to use commercial
products on classified and unclassified networks. It plans to create a military
mobile applications store and hire a contractor to build a system that may
eventually handle as many as 8m devices.

"This is not simply about embracing the newest technology -- it is about keeping
the department's workforce relevant in an era when information accessibility and
cybersecurity play a critical role in mission success," Teri Takai, the
department's chief information officer, said in a statement.

BlackBerry shares fell. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)

Science and gun violence: why is the research so weak? && Boing Boing

Meanwhile, outside the filter bubble...

Gun violence research suffers from a lack of consistently recorded data and, for
that matter, a lack of data, in general. As John Pepper, associate economics
professor at The University of Virginia and the study director on the 2004
report, put it, "The data are just terrible."

Worse, critics say the methods used to analyze that data are also deeply flawed
in many cases. What you end up with, researchers told me, is a field where key
pieces of the puzzle are missing entirely and where multiple scientists are
reaching wildly different conclusions from the exact same data sets. For
instance, because of those differences in the definition of "defensive gun use"
some researchers will tell you that Americans use a gun to defend themselves
something like 1.5 million times every year. Others say it happens maybe 200,000
times annually.

Part one of a series. Read.

What has been the internal reaction at Yahoo to Marissa Mayer's no work from
home policy? && Quora

Based on this titanic list of three, possibly four, Yahoos, the answer is:
positive.

The CCIA and RIM tell the FTC banning injunctions for FRAND patents can make
smartphone wars worse && Groklaw

The FTC is now suggesting that companies that own standards-essential patents
and offer them under FRAND terms, like Motorola, should not be allowed to seek
injunctions regarding those kinds of patents except in the most extreme of
circumstances. But for decades, they had those property rights, the right to
seek injunctive relief. How can a government agency just show up and take those
traditional rights away by fiat, without reasonable compensation? That's not
America, to me. I don't even like software patents, but as long as the patent
system exists, you want it to be fair. And this just feels wrong.

This seems to be a case of Groklaw deciding which side it likes, and tailoring
its thinking to go along with it. The reason to oppose injunctions on
standards-essential patents (SEPs) - which Google (via Motorola) and Samsung own
lots of - is that it would allow the owners of those SEPs to shut rivals who
need to meet standards out of the marketplace, simply by withdrawing the rival's
permission to use those patents. Being part of a standard requires licensing to
all comers. (The idea that stopping injunctions over SEPs would make things
worse is obvious nonsense. Nor is the FTC saying that SEP injunctions aren't
ever allowed. )

Apple to FTC: Samsung and Google lose most of their cases over
declared-essential patents && FOSS Patents

Apple's letter raises the very important point (starting on page 6) that most
patents that are declared essential to a standard (by their holders, typically
without any independent verification of essentiality) actually aren't - and if
someone wants to get paid for an allegedly standard-essential patent, a
defendant must have the right to challenge the validity of the patent and its
essentiality in court without having to pay for a portfolio license based on an
arbitrated or court-determined value of an unverified portfolio. While the
proposed consent decree generally mentions that challenges to validity,
essentiality and infringement allegations don't make a company an unwilling
licensee, a very recent InterDigital filing in lawsuits targeting Huawei and ZTE
shows that some SEP owners nevertheless argue that they should receive royalties
even without having to prove that their asserted patents are valid and actually
used by an implementer of the standard in question.

Something of a new wrinkle that many of these claimed "standards-essential"
patents actually aren't. Shouldn't there be a clear register of such things? And
if not, why not?

On bias && Benedict Evans

Apple Maps is a fiasco, but it is fundamentally a secondary issue and there is
no evidence it affects sales. The same is true of skeumorphism, or 'openness' or
a dozen other issues that people talk about. What matters is the addressable
market. Criticisms of Apple product, by and large, do not matter so long as they
do not affect sales, and there is no evidence that they do, to any material
degree. Hence, they do not really interest me, regardless of whether I
personally agree with them, as a user of the product.

Android is different. Android does not really face an addressable market
question. 1.7bn phones will be sold this year, perhaps a little more, and half
will be smartphones, and almost all of those that are sold for less than $400
will run Android. In a couple of years, if nothing changes, Android will be
selling a billion units a year or more.

The important questions, therefore, are within Android: they are product
questions. Something like a third of unit sales are in China and have little
access to Google services. What does that mean? Another third to a half of units
are sold by Samsung, and all the other branded Android OEMs are struggling.
Android is fragmented, Android is very weak in apps for tablets, and so on, and
so on. What do all these variations mean? Android is many different things in a
way that the iPhone is not, and understanding those variations makes up the
analytical challenge.

The bias is a cognitive one, so most people aren't aware they suffer from it.

You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard

To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free
Delicious service.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              916 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc. (California) on February 03 titled as "Methods,
systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

LENGTH: 213  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,948,512, on
February 03, 2015, to Google Inc. (California), titled as "Methods, systems, and
media for image processing using hierarchical expansion"

Inventors:  Zuczek; Pawel (Wroclaw, PL)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office:
"Methods, systems, and media for image processing using hierarchical expansion
are provided. More particularly, the hierarchical expansion can include a merge
expansion and/or a refine expansion. In some embodiments, a method for image
processing, comprising: receiving a plurality of images, wherein each of the
plurality of images has one of a plurality of resolutions; for a first image
from the plurality of images that has a first resolution, determining a first
set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the first image; and for a second
image from the plurality of images that has a second resolution, generating a
second set of labels corresponding to each pixel of the second image based on
the first set of labels."

The patent was filed on March 15, 2013 Application no. 13/833,654

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              917 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           October 27, 2012 Saturday

Sony India launches new range of Xperia smartphones in India

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Oct. 27 -- Sony India announced the launch of its new Xperia
smartphone range in India. In an official statement, the company shares that the
trio - Xperia miro, Xperia J and Xperia SL, are equipped to deliver the next
step in connected entertainment, and are now available at all retail counters
across India. These new devices will be available across price points, catering
to smartphone requirements wants of different consumers.

The Xperia SL is powered by a dual core 1.7GHz processor. With a 12-megapixel
fast capture camera, Exmor R for mobile camera sensor to lighten up, Sony India
claims that users can get sharper pictures even in lowlight. The all out HD
smartphone, Xperia SL is known to have the highest pixels per inch (PPI) of any
Sony smartphone, and is certified as the sharpest HD smartphone display. The
company has priced it at Rs 32,549.

Xperia SL is armed with a 12MP shooter

Here's a quick look at the specifications of the Xperia SL:

4.3-inch capacitive touchscreen display with a resolution of 720 x 1280 pixels

3G, EDGE/GPRS, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct

GPS with A-GPS support for Google Maps

Bluetooth with A2DP and USB 2.0 (Micro)

12MP camera with LED flash, secondary camera

Stereo FM radio

32GB storage

The Xperia miro smartphone is available in a range of funky colours with deep
integration of Facebook throughout contacts, photo gallery and the music player.
It also comes equipped with Sony's xLOUD audio technology for crisp and loud
sound. The Xperia miro is priced Rs 15,249.

The Xperia Miro comes with deep FB integration

Here's a quick look at the specifications of the Xperia Miro:

3.5 inches capacitive touchscreen display with a resolution of 320 x 480 pixels

3G, EDGE/GPRS, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct

GPS with A-GPS support for Google Maps

Bluetooth with A2DP and USB 2.0 (Micro)

5MP camera with LED flash, secondary camera up front

Stereo FM radio

4GB internal + microSD card support for up to 32GB more memory

Sony has also announced the Xperia J, which it refers to as an affordable
smartphone, with eye-catching design and a stand-out screen size. The Xperia J
features a design measuring 9.2mm and is available in Black and White colours.
The Xperia J has been priced at Rs 18,399.

Xperia J is referred to as an affordable smartphone

Here's a quick look at the specifications of the Xperia J:

4.0-inch FWVGA display with a resolution of 854 x 480 pixels

3G, GPRS/EDGE, Wi-Fi, WiFi hotspot functionality

GPS with A-GPS for Google Maps

Bluetooth with A2DP and USB 2.0 (Micro)

5MP camera with LED flash, front facing camera

Stereo FM radio

4GB internal + microSD card support for up to 32GB more memory

Sony has also slashed down the price of its existing range of smartphones from
10th Oct onwards for the festive season. This includes price drop on Xperia U,
Xperia P, Xperia go and Xperia ion smartphones across all the markets.

A recent FICCI-KPMG report suggests that the consumption of media and
entertainment will grow at CAGR of 15 percent over next five years. Kenichiro
Hibi, Managing Director, Sony India, said, "Given the ever growing demand for
entertainment on-the-go, we are launching the new range of Xperia Smartphones
today, to offer seamless visual HD experience, social networking on-the-go,
Finest looks and the Smarter Music experience. Sony is also driving itself
across price segments to keep up with the expectation of every Indian consumer
who aspires to own a smartphone," he added. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any query with respect to this article
or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              918 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  t-break Tech

                           November 2, 2016 Wednesday

Google's Daydream View will officially be available from November 10

LENGTH: 382  words


Google's Daydream VR platform can only be run on the Daydream View headset, and
it will start getting sold from November 10

Google announced its Daydream VR platform at the company's I/O 2016 event,
followed by the actual headset named Daydream View. Carrying a price of $79, the
headset will officially be available to purchase starting from this month and it
will officially be available on November 10. In order to start viewing Daydream
content on your smartphone, you will need to own a smartphone that's not only
running impressive hardware specifications, but is also running Android 7.0 out
of the box.

So far, there are only a few smartphones available that can run Daydream VR,
with LG V20, and the Pixel lineup running Android 7.0 to name a few. Daydream
View is also lightweight, and weighs far less compared to other VR headsets
readily available in the market. It also features an attractive fabric that
upgrades its aesthetics, and the soft fabric present inside will provide a
comfortable experience to the wearer. In addition to the headset, there is also
a controller that has multiple sensors built into it, allowing you to take your
VR experience on smartphones to the very next level.

The controller has a 220mAh battery and has been designed to run for a very long
period (up to 12 hours). If you're looking for an affordable Daydream ready
smartphone, then be sure to check out the ZTE Axon 7 at Gear Best, which is an
affordable flagship and sports a Snapdragon 820 combined with 4GB of RAM, which
are essentially the minimum hardware requirements necessary for the smartphone
to be Daydream ready.

All Daydream View and controller specifications have been listed here

Dimensions

Length: 6.56in (166.8 mm)

Width: 4.18in (106.2 mm)

Height: 3.88in (98.6 mm)

Weight

220 grams (7.76oz)

Material

Lightweight stretch fabric

Colour

Slate

Compatibility

Daydream-ready phones, including Pixel

Controller

Dimensions

Length: 4.13in (105mm)

Width: 1.37in (35mm)

Height: 0.67in (17mm)

Weight

1.41oz (40g)

Sensors

9 axis IMUs for precision tracking

Wireless

Bluetooth low energy (LE)

Ports and connectors

Fast-charging with USB-C charger and cable

Battery

220mAh battery with run-time of up to 12 hours

Source

http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/68/147808607537.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/59/147808607680.jpg



LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 814


                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              919 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           January 6, 2016 Wednesday

Smartphone camera shoot-out;
Want the best selfie? ST Digital puts five popular smartphone cams to the test

BYLINE: Trevor Tan

SECTION: DIGITAL

LENGTH: 507 words


The five most-used cameras on Flickr are phones. In the photo-sharing website's
latest report last month, it noted that point- and-shoot cameras continue to be
in steady decline since losing the mantle to camera phones in 2011.

Smartphones are the go-to cameras these days because, well, the best camera is
the one that is with you. Besides, smartphone cameras have been getting better
and camera quality is a big selling point for smartphone makers.

MEGAPIXELS

More megapixels means more details in images, allowing you to make bigger
prints.

This year, Apple, LG and Sony increased the megapixel count of their flagship
smartphones.

The Apple iPhone 6s camera has been upgraded to 12 megapixels from 8 megapixels,
while Sony raised the Z5's image sensor to a whopping 23 megapixels from its
predecessor's 20.7 megapixels.

With selfies being the norm these days, front-facing cameras are getting the
megapixel upgrade too.

Apple, Sony and Samsung have all upgraded the ones in their flagship smartphones
to 5 megapixels.

SENSOR SIZE

Many camera experts will tell you that sensor size - calculated in microns - is
more important than megapixel count when it comes to image quality. A larger
sensor captures more light, resulting in less image noise and more details in
low light.

Consider the Google Nexus 6P's camera, which has a sensor with a pixel size of
1.55 microns. It captures over 88 per cent more light per pixel than a
smartphone camera with a sensor pixel size of 1.12 microns.

AUTOFOCUS

If you want a sharp image, you will need fast and accurate autofocusing (AF).
The latest innovation in this area can be seen in LG's Laser AF technology,
which uses infrared light to gauge the distance between camera and subject.

To up its AF ante, Apple added 50 per cent more Focus Pixels - they are similar
to the phase-detection AF points found in DSLRs - in its iPhone 6s and 6s Plus,
compared with its predecessors.

The tough competition has also forced smartphone makers to pile on other
features beyond the basic ones.

Among them are Apple's Live Photos, which captures 1.5 seconds of motion before
and after an image is shot. The feature is found on the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.

Also, both the LG G4 and Samsung Galaxy Note 5 are now able to record RAW files,
which allows for more post-processing options.

We tested the cameras of five latest smartphones, putting them through four test
scenarios:

· In bright sunlight to check for sharpness;

· In panoramic mode with good lighting;

· In low artificial lighting conditions, with and without flash; and

· At night.

We also took selfies and assessed how each smartphone camera handles as well as
the usefulness of its functions.

For consistency, all the pictures and videos were taken using the native camera
app in Auto mode with Auto High Dynamic Range .

To ensure fairness, we took shots of the same scene at the same time by using a
special mount to house all five smartphones as close together as possible. Shots
were taken using earphones attached to each smartphone as a shutter release.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Using a special mount to ensure a fair comparison, the ST Digital team
tested five smartphone cameras - (clockwise from top left) Sony Xperia Z5
Premium, Apple iPhone 6s Plus, Google Nexus 6P, LG G4 and Samsung Galaxy Note 5.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              920 of 997 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday

Google changes strategy with new Pixel smartphone, doubles down on virtual
assistant

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST

LENGTH: 31 words


In a Canadian exclusive interview, Google's Gummi Hafsteinsson said Google
Assistant is a 'natural evolution' for the tech giant !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016
Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              921 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                             July 14, 2016 Thursday
                               Bangalore Edition

Intex Aqua View

BYLINE: KARAN BAJAJ

SECTION: GADGETS & YOU

LENGTH: 736 words


Virtual Reality (VR) is something that is slowly gaining a lot of hype. After
big brands like Samsung, HTC, Lenovo and LG launched their VR headsets, Indian
brands have followed suit. Karbonn was the first to launch a budget phone with a
VR headset bundle and now Intex has launched their offering in this space -it's
called the Intex Aqua View.

The company includes a Google Cardboard type VR headset in the box -Intex calls
it the Intex Eyelet and says that it is based on ve r s i o n 2 . 0 o f t h e G
o o g l e Cardboard design. It is compatible with any smartphone as long as it
has a gyroscope and accelerometer. It is made of good quality cardboard and
feels sturdy -there is a button on the top right and it worked with a 5.5-inch
display size without any issue. It has a QR code at the bottom for quick setup
with the Cardboard app too.

S o m e m i g h t s ay t h a t t h e Karbonn offering is sturdier because it has
a rigid plastic body -the Intex Eyelet appears to be l a ck i n g i n c o m p a
r i s o n . We should also mention that there are various third party VR
headsets that can you can buy at a lower price from various e-commerce portals.

On the phone is a dedicated setting for VR calibration -it is recommended to
calibrate your headset the first time before you start using it for the best
experience.Intex preloads the Google Cardboard as well as the Google Cardboard
camera on the device along with a few photos and videos to use with the VR
headset. You can install various other VR apps and games from the Google Play
store -we tried some of the usua l s l i k e A r t e 3 6 0 , Vr s e,
Rollecoaster as well as YouTube and they all worked without any issue. However,
the 5-inch display with 1280 x 720 pixels' resolution is far from ideal when it
comes to VR use. You will be able to see individual pixels through the lenses.
Intex should have offered at least full HD resolution on the screen for a better
VR experience.

Specifications are like what we have seen on a number of devices launched in
this price range.There is a 1Ghz quad-core Mediatek processor, 2GB RAM, 16GB RAM
and a 2,200mAh battery. Since the phone has a nearstock user interface, the
navigation is smooth and there is no sluggishness. The phone had no issues
playing full HD videos as well as basic games like Subway

Surfer and Crashing Season.However, with heavier games like Dead Trigger 2, we
noticed frame drops during gameplay.With a full charge, the phone lasts from 9
am to 4pm.Considering that using a phone for VR drains battery rather fast (20%
consumed in around 10 minutes), one big issue is the lack of fast charging -it
takes over 3 hours for the phone to charge from 0 to 100%.

Camera performance from the Aqua view is a mixed bag. The rear 8MP camera's
daylight images look good on the phone's display but on close inspection, we
could see that they lacked sharpness. Images captured indoors also look fine on
the screen but there is visible noise. The front camera also had similar issues
and often resulted in dark images indoors since it failed to

capture enough light. Video recording is supported in full HD quality and is the
saving grace with above average quality.

There are two more issues with the phone. First

is that while it comes with a front fingerprint scanner, it doesn't work
properly -it worked fine 3 out of 10 attempts. We tried setting up different
fingers also but the fingerprint failed to work as expected. Second, there is no
USB OTG support on the phone which is disappointing.

The build quality of the phone is impressive. It looks and feels great in hand
even though it's not a full metal body. The back panel is removable and has a
brushed metal finish with a slight curve for better ergonomics. Up front, the
fingerprint scanner is placed under the screen and looks very similar to what
you get on the iPhone 5 (complete with silver ring). The screen has thick black
bezels on all four sides -that's never nice to look at either.

Overall, the Intex Aqua View has more negatives than positives. If it's only a
VR experience t h at yo u w a n t , I n t e x a n d Karbonn are the only two
that offer a bundled headset. We would suggest that you buy a third party
headset and use it with a better phone. For instance, you buy the Coolpad Note 3
Plus at the same price. It offers better hardware and a full HD screen. A
third-party VR headset will cost an additional '1,000 \xAD 2,000.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              922 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                    September 30, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Nexus Launch Event: Google Announces Nexus 5X And Nexus 6P

BYLINE: Anurima Mondal, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 343  words


The company has still not revealed pricing and availability details of the Nexus
devices in India

Wednesday, September 30, 2015: Search engine giant Google has unveiled new Nexus
smartphones during the launch event, which was held in San Francisco on Tuesday.
Dubbed as the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P, the phones have been listed on a Google
Play Store page. However, the company has still not revealed pricing and
availability details of the Nexus devices in India.

If we talk about the specifications, the Nexus 5X is slightly bigger than the
Nexus 5 sporting a 13.20cm (5.2-inch) FullHD display with a resolution of
1080x1920 pixels. Powered by a 1.82GHz hexa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808
processor coupled with Adreno 418 GPU and 2GB RAM, the device comes with 16 and
32GB of built-in storage without expandability through microSD card. Backed by a
non-removable 2700mAh battery, it runs on the much anticipated Android 6.0
Marshmallow out-of-the-box and promises to bring the latest updates directly
from Google.

The handset comes with a USB Type-C port for faster charging and data transfer
and sports a 12MP rear camera with laser autofocus and dualLED flash besides a
5MP front-facing camera for capturing selfies.

On the other hand, the Nexus 6P features 14.47cm (5.7-inch) QuadHD AMOLED
display with 518ppi pixel density. The handset will come with Qualcomm
Snapdragon 810 chipset which has a 64-bit 2.0GHz octa-core processor with Adreno
430GPU along with 3GB of RAM. With Corning Gorilla Glass 4 protection, it comes
in 32GB, 64GB and 128GB storage variants. Sporting an all-metal body design, it
runs on Android 6.0 Marshmallow out-of-the-box. Sporting a 3450mAh battery, the
phone claims to deliver 7 hours of use with 10mins of charging.

Both the devices will come with the Nexus Imprint fingerprint sensor which
enables you to unlock your phone and purchase apps on the Play Store. Google has
also added an all new hardware based Android Sensor Hub which will track "sensor
fusion, activity recognition, gesture recognition, movements and low power
times."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              923 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

Launch pad: HTC One Max, Google Nexus 5, Whammy Titan 3

SECTION: HARDWARE

LENGTH: 295 words


HTC One Max

The new flagship from HTC comes with a 5.9-inch Super LCD3 display with a
resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels.

It is HTC's first phone with a fingerprint sensor -- the sensor allows you to
unlock the phone or launch a pre-specified app.

Weighing 217 grams, the Android smartphone is powered by a quad core Qualcomm
Snapdragon 600 processor, 2GB RAM and has 16GB of storage (expandable).

Like the HTC One, the One Max has dual speakers and Ultrapixel camera (though
without optical image stabilisation) .

It has a 3,300mAh battery that promises excellent battery life.

Google Nexus 5

Google's latest Nexus 5 has a 4.95-inch full HD display and with Android 4.4 out
of the box.

Its powered by a 2.3Ghz quad core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor, Adreno 330
GPU, 2GB RAM and has 16/32GB storage (non expandable).

In terms of photography, the Nexus 5 comes with an 8MP rear camera and a front
1.3MP camera. Other features include 3G, dual band WiFi ac, NFC, Bluetooth, dual
microphones, gyroscope, accelerometer, compass, proximity sensor, ambient light
sensor as well as a pressure sensor. The 2300mAh battery has a claimed talk time
of 17 hours.

Wickedleak Whammy Titan 3

Wickedleak's new phablet has a 5.7-inch display with a resolution of 1920 x 1080
pixels. The dual SIM device is just 7.9mm thick and runs Android 4.2 on a 1.5Ghz
quad core Mediatek processor with 1GB RAM & 16GB storage.

It has dual cameras (13MP rear camera with LED flash, 5MP front camera), 3G,
WiFi and Bluetooth. Other features are -- 3200mAh battery, microSD slot (up to
64GB supported), full HD video recording, gravity sensor, proximity sensor,
ambient light sensor, magnetic sensor and Gyroscope.

The phone will be available for purchase from December 2013 onwards.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              924 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                             October 3, 2016 Monday

Google to introduce new 'Andromeda' OS for laptops

LENGTH: 163  words


With the release of the Pixel phones less than a day away, the rumor mill has
shifted to a juicier topic. This one revolves around an apparently new operating
system from Google that will run on a new laptop.

The new OS is being dubbed as 'Andromeda' and will be merging aspects of Chrome
OS into Android, reports Business Insider.

Additional reports from Android Police and 9to5Google corroborate the new rumor
and adds that 'Andromeda' may be coming out together with a new Huawei Nexus
tablet.

The laptop that would be running 'Andromeda,' on the other hand, is said to be
codenamed 'Bison,' formerly 'Pixel 3.' This laptop is said to have a 12-inch
form factor under 10mm thick and equipped with a touchscreen display.

Speculations from Android Police places the Bison among the 'convertible'
devices such as the Lenovo Yoga laptop series.

Apart from the hardware speculations, there has been no word yet as to what
exactly would set Andromeda apart from the standard Android OS.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                              925 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     September 15, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

5 things that are missing from the Android One smartphones

LENGTH: 786  words


A few months after the project was unveiled at the Google I/O, Android One
budget Smartphones finally see the morning sun today. Snapdeal has just launched
the Karbonn Sparkle V Android One Smartphone price for INR 6399 in India.
Earlier Spice too accidentally revealed its first Android One Smartphone 'the
Mi-498 Android One Dream UNI' priced at INR 6999 on Flipkart. On the basis of
the information revealed by these smartphone players as well as information
revealed by Google at its I/O, we lest down five things that are missing from
Android One Smartphones.

Today Google's Android head Sundar Pichai along with Micromax, Karbonn, and
Spice would be announcing the first wave of Android One Smartphones. These
smartphones are meant to cater to the low-range Smartphone segment in the
country, and as per Google would offer a rich-user experience. Though Google had
already revealed information about some of the specs of the Android One hardware
reference phone, there has been some more information leaked online.

These smartphones are priced for INR 6,399 instead of the earlier mentioned
sub-$100 price point, which we feel is slightly more for the phones with such
specifications especially considering that competitors have better options
available in this price point.

It was highlighted by Google that these phones will get an edge over others in
terms of software related updates, but is that enough to attract buyers to
invest in these phones? Here we give you five reasons that we feel would be
missing from these phones.

1. Display resolution:

Google Android One smartphones including Spice Mi-498 Android One Dream UNI, and
Karbonn Sparkle V Android One smartphones come with 4.5-inch display with
480x800 pixels display, which gets a beating from Xiaomi RedMi 1S that flaunts a
4.7-inch HD display accommodating 1280 x 720 pixels resolution with 312 pixel
per inch density. The RedMi 1S' display is not only bigger but also boasts
better resolution in a lower price point of INR 5,999. The Android One
smartphones clearly loose the charm in the display department!

2.Memory:

The Android One smartphones come with 4 GB of internal memory, expandable by up
to 32 GB via microSD card. This sounds good only when you do not look at the
Celkon Millennium Vogue Q455 that has got 16 GB internal memory and 64 GB
expandable memory, or the Lava Iris X1 that has 8 GB internal memory and 32 GB
expandable memory. These two are however, placed slightly above INR 7K, but will
still compete against the Android One smartphones.

Don't we want the Android One smartphones to offer better features than what its
counterparts in this price range!

3. Water and dust proof quality:

When Motorola launched its budget Moto E with the water proof coating at merely
INR 6,999, it surprised us all. Didn't it! Water proof qualities in the
Smartphones in this price range was completely new to us, as we had not really
seen any local vendor offering such feature on their smartphones. Sadly, the
feature is missing even from the Android One smartphones.

4. Camera goodness!

As was revealed by Google's Sundar Pichai, these Android Ones smartphones are
supposed to come with a 5-megapixel rear camera, which is nothing that we have
not seen before. There are smartphones with an 8-megapixel rear camera in this
range, and Xiaomi RedMi 1s is just one of them. We do get an 8 megapixel camera
(with flash) on the Xiaomi RedMi 1S at almost INR 6,000, and on others like the
Lava Iris X1, Karbonn Titanium S5 Plus, XOLO Q700S (Silver) and Celkon
Millennium Vogue Q455, though these are placed at a slightly higher price range
of INR 7K to 8K.

Please note that we do not say that more megapixels would assure you better
performance as it depends on lens type and quality as well as other features,
but the megapixel number does sound good to the consumer who look for this
number on the spec list.

5. Price

INR 6,999 for the Spice Mi-498 Android One Dream UNI - is not that a high price
for such specs? Don't we have Mozilla phones today at less than INR 2,000 and
the Snapdragon 400 chipset powered Xiaomi RedMi 1S at INR 5,999?

In this price segment, we expect Google and partnering smartphones players to
play intelligently with the specs and features to create a space for themselves.
Motorola played it well by launching feature packed-smartphones at a
ridiculously low price point, which changed the Smartphone market dynamics to a
great extend.

It was the launch of the Motorola's Moto G and later Moto E that paved way for
quality-rich smartphones in the budget segment. However, considering the rumored
price and price of the Spice's Android One smartphone, we are somewhat
disappointed with the pricing of the Android One smartphones.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              926 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Google users join search for missing US aviator

BYLINE: Dan Glaister in Los Angeles

SECTION: WORLD; Other World Stories; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 376 words


US: As the search for aviator Steve Fossett enters its second week, rescuers
have received help from an unlikely source: Google Earth.

The satellite imaging programme has released new images of Nevada which, through
a collaborative system run by Amazon called Mechanical Turk, enables individual
users to search from their homes and notify rescuers in Nevada of potential
leads. The system's creators say the plane Mr Fossett (63) was flying would
appear as an object about "21 pixels long and 30 pixels in wingspan".

But rescuers assembled in the western Nevada desert close to the California
border are becoming increasingly frustrated. A second wreck was found on Sunday,
but again it was not Mr Fossett's plane.

"We're finding them left and right. Nevada is a graveyard," Kim Toulouse, a
spokesman for the Nevada department of wildlife, told the Associated Press.

There are 129 known crash sites in Nevada, but officials estimate that over the
last 50 years more than 300 small planes have disappeared in the state.

The false alarms highlight some of the difficulties facing rescuers as they comb
50,000sq km (19,300sq miles) of wilderness.

At least six old crash sites have been discovered since Mr Fossett went missing
on September 3rd. He set off in a two-seat Bellanca Citabria Super Decathlon
from the private airfield of hotel magnate Barron Hilton for what was to be a
three-hour trip. The plane was one of a selection at the Flying M ranch owned by
Mr Hilton, the grandfather of Paris, for the use of guests. Mr Fossett and his
wife, Peggy, were due to leave the ranch after his flight.

An experienced survivalist who was the first person to circle the globe in a
balloon, Mr Fossett left no flight plan, instead departing with the words: "I
head for the south." It is believed that he took the flight to scout for
locations for an attempt on the land-speed record.

On Sunday rescuers changed tactics, focusing the search on a 50-mile area around
the ranch's mile-long airstrip because most crashes occur within that radius.

"We've got close to 100 per cent covered, at least in some cursory fashion," Mr
Ryan said. "We have to eliminate a lot of territory." Ms Fossett remained at the
ranch, waiting with rescuers for news of her husband.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              927 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 20, 2015 Sunday

Google Nexus 5X and Apple iPhone 5S @ Rs 25,000: Which one to buy

BYLINE: Ravi Sharma

SECTION: MOBILES

LENGTH: 862 words


Applebrought down the price of iPhone 5S, its flagship smartphone two years ago,
to Rs 24,999. This pricing puts iPhone 5S - the highest-selling smartphone for
Apple India - in direct competition with Google Nexus 5X, whose priceto a little
under Rs 25,000.

Now this presents a conundrum for any buyer who is looking for a flagship
smartphone at mid-range prices. We take a look at the pros and cons of both
smartphones so that you can decide which one is the right model for you.

Apple iPhone 5S: Pros

READ ALSO:

iPhone 5S may not be the cheapest iPhone you can buy in India right now, but it
is surely the one we would recommend if you want your first taste of the Apple
brand. It is also the model that made fingerprint sensors a mainstream feature
among smartphones. And the gold colour as well.

Here are a few pros of buying iPhone 5S...

* iOS 10 update

iPhone 5S may be over two years old, but it will be upgraded to the next version
of iOS next year (going by Apple's software update strategy so far). This means
you will get access to many of the new features the company will introduce to
the iPhone series (though not all features will get to iPhone 5S).

* Great build quality

iPhone 5S has a well-crafted metallic body that looks premium from the get go.
Courtesy the small screen of the phone, it is easy to operate with one hand as
well.

* Sharp screen

iPhone 5S' 4-inch screen sports resolution of 640x1136p, resulting in pixel
density of 326ppi or what Apple calls Retina display. This is the same pixel
density that the new iPhone 6S also sports, so with iPhone 5S you will get a
smartphone that shows sharp text as well as images.

* Decent performance

Though iPhone 5S is an ageing smartphone, it is certainly no slouch in the
performance department. You can expect all apps and games to run smoothly and
without any lag.

* Good camera iPhone 5S was ranked among the best camera smartphones at the time
it was launched, so you can expect great shots from the handset.

READ ALSO:

Apple iPhone 5S: Cons

iPhone 5S has a lot of pros, but not everything about it is great. Check out a
few cons of the smartphone...

* Storage insufficient

At Rs 25,000, you will get only the base model of the iPhone 5S, which offers
storage of only 16GB. Therefore, you will find yourself running out of storage
if you plan to have a lot of music, photos and videos on the phone.

* Weak battery life

Apple, seemingly in a bid to keep phones thin, has always compromised on the
battery. Due to this, heavy users have to keep a power bank with them in fear of
the phone running out of juice. One reprieve is that Apple has introduced
several small improvements with iOS 9 that have had a positive effect on the
battery life of iPhones in general.

* Small screen size

This is an unavoidable trade-off for anyone who wants to buy an iPhone under Rs
35,000 today. The small screen makes for a compact handset but also means that
you have a very small screen for videos as well as for typing.

Google Nexus 5X: Pros

READ ALSO:

Nexus 5X, unlike iPhone 5S, is a fresh-off-the-rack smartphone and comes with
some of the best features Google has to offer to a smartphone, including the new
Nexus Imprint fingerprint sensor and fast-charging. Here are some of the pros
you can look forward to in Nexus 5X...

* Android Marshmallow

With Android Marshmallow still only on a handful of smartphones, Nexus 5X is
your most affordable bet if you want a taste of the latest version of Google's
mobile OS.

* Excellent camera

One of the most compelling reasons to buy Google Nexus 5X is its stellar camera.
Camera was always a weak point for the Nexus range, but that all changed this
year. You can expect super-sharp photos that capture even the small details,
offer great colour reproduction and white balance.

* Great performance

Powered by Snapdragon 808, Google Nexus 5X delivers a stellar performance across
the board, whether it is heavy apps or games.

* Sharp display

The 5.2-inch display of Google Nexus 5X offers pixel density of 423ppi due the
Full HD (1080x1920p) panel. This makes for a very crisp screen that does not
show any pixelation and offers colours that are not oversaturated.

* Compact design

One big advantage of Google Nexus 5X is that its design ensures that you get a
sufficiently big screen without making it unwieldy to operate with one hand.

Google Nexus 5X: Cons

But even Google Nexus 5X is not without cons of its own...

* Just 2GB of RAM

One of the gripes we have with Nexus 5X is that it packs only 2GB of RAM under
the hood. The performance of the smartphone was excellent throughout our review
period, but Android apps are expected to get heavier over the coming couple of
years and 2GB of RAM may be insufficient for them.

* Insufficient storage

Google Nexus 5X, like iPhone 5S, offers just 16GB of internal storage (and no
microSD card support) at Rs 25,000. Thankfully, Android offers file system
access to users, so you can add storage via USB OTG.

* Plastic body

The Nexus 5X is mostly plastic, so the smartphone does not feel as premium at
first look as does a metal-bodied handset.

READ ALSO:

Other models you can buy at Rs 25,000: OnePlus 2, Lenovo Vibe Shot, YU Yutopia

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              928 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 20, 2015 Sunday

Google Nexus 5X and Apple iPhone 5S @ Rs 25,000: Which one to buy

BYLINE: Ravi Sharma

SECTION: MOBILES

LENGTH: 862 words


Applebrought down the price of iPhone 5S, its flagship smartphone two years ago,
to Rs 24,999. This pricing puts iPhone 5S - the highest-selling smartphone for
Apple India - in direct competition with Google Nexus 5X, whose priceto a little
under Rs 25,000.

Now this presents a conundrum for any buyer who is looking for a flagship
smartphone at mid-range prices. We take a look at the pros and cons of both
smartphones so that you can decide which one is the right model for you.

Apple iPhone 5S: Pros

READ ALSO:

iPhone 5S may not be the cheapest iPhone you can buy in India right now, but it
is surely the one we would recommend if you want your first taste of the Apple
brand. It is also the model that made fingerprint sensors a mainstream feature
among smartphones. And the gold colour as well.

Here are a few pros of buying iPhone 5S...

* iOS 10 update

iPhone 5S may be over two years old, but it will be upgraded to the next version
of iOS next year (going by Apple's software update strategy so far). This means
you will get access to many of the new features the company will introduce to
the iPhone series (though not all features will get to iPhone 5S).

* Great build quality

iPhone 5S has a well-crafted metallic body that looks premium from the get go.
Courtesy the small screen of the phone, it is easy to operate with one hand as
well.

* Sharp screen

iPhone 5S' 4-inch screen sports resolution of 640x1136p, resulting in pixel
density of 326ppi or what Apple calls Retina display. This is the same pixel
density that the new iPhone 6S also sports, so with iPhone 5S you will get a
smartphone that shows sharp text as well as images.

* Decent performance

Though iPhone 5S is an ageing smartphone, it is certainly no slouch in the
performance department. You can expect all apps and games to run smoothly and
without any lag.

* Good camera iPhone 5S was ranked among the best camera smartphones at the time
it was launched, so you can expect great shots from the handset.

READ ALSO:

Apple iPhone 5S: Cons

iPhone 5S has a lot of pros, but not everything about it is great. Check out a
few cons of the smartphone...

* Storage insufficient

At Rs 25,000, you will get only the base model of the iPhone 5S, which offers
storage of only 16GB. Therefore, you will find yourself running out of storage
if you plan to have a lot of music, photos and videos on the phone.

* Weak battery life

Apple, seemingly in a bid to keep phones thin, has always compromised on the
battery. Due to this, heavy users have to keep a power bank with them in fear of
the phone running out of juice. One reprieve is that Apple has introduced
several small improvements with iOS 9 that have had a positive effect on the
battery life of iPhones in general.

* Small screen size

This is an unavoidable trade-off for anyone who wants to buy an iPhone under Rs
35,000 today. The small screen makes for a compact handset but also means that
you have a very small screen for videos as well as for typing.

Google Nexus 5X: Pros

READ ALSO:

Nexus 5X, unlike iPhone 5S, is a fresh-off-the-rack smartphone and comes with
some of the best features Google has to offer to a smartphone, including the new
Nexus Imprint fingerprint sensor and fast-charging. Here are some of the pros
you can look forward to in Nexus 5X...

* Android Marshmallow

With Android Marshmallow still only on a handful of smartphones, Nexus 5X is
your most affordable bet if you want a taste of the latest version of Google's
mobile OS.

* Excellent camera

One of the most compelling reasons to buy Google Nexus 5X is its stellar camera.
Camera was always a weak point for the Nexus range, but that all changed this
year. You can expect super-sharp photos that capture even the small details,
offer great colour reproduction and white balance.

* Great performance

Powered by Snapdragon 808, Google Nexus 5X delivers a stellar performance across
the board, whether it is heavy apps or games.

* Sharp display

The 5.2-inch display of Google Nexus 5X offers pixel density of 423ppi due the
Full HD (1080x1920p) panel. This makes for a very crisp screen that does not
show any pixelation and offers colours that are not oversaturated.

* Compact design

One big advantage of Google Nexus 5X is that its design ensures that you get a
sufficiently big screen without making it unwieldy to operate with one hand.

Google Nexus 5X: Cons

But even Google Nexus 5X is not without cons of its own...

* Just 2GB of RAM

One of the gripes we have with Nexus 5X is that it packs only 2GB of RAM under
the hood. The performance of the smartphone was excellent throughout our review
period, but Android apps are expected to get heavier over the coming couple of
years and 2GB of RAM may be insufficient for them.

* Insufficient storage

Google Nexus 5X, like iPhone 5S, offers just 16GB of internal storage (and no
microSD card support) at Rs 25,000. Thankfully, Android offers file system
access to users, so you can add storage via USB OTG.

* Plastic body

The Nexus 5X is mostly plastic, so the smartphone does not feel as premium at
first look as does a metal-bodied handset.

READ ALSO:

Other models you can buy at Rs 25,000: OnePlus 2, Lenovo Vibe Shot, YU Yutopia

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              929 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 25, 2014 Monday

Boot up: net makes smart?, iPhone displays figured, clone wars

BYLINE: Charles Arthurtheguardian.com

LENGTH: 1588 words

ABSTRACT

Charles Arthur: Plus Baidu's move into AI, HERE's problem competing with Google
and Apple, China's LTE market and more

FULL TEXT

A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team

States with faster internet access have smarter people && High Speed Internet
blog

Despite several doomsday claims that the Internet is breeding a generation of
morons, new analysis suggests the opposite may be true.

We gathered the 2013 average ACT scores for each state from act.org and compared
them with the 2013 Internet speed data from Akamai that was highlighted in a
recent Broadview article. We found a correlation of .57. Given that a 0 is no
correlation and a 1 is perfect correlation, this strong correlation of .57 shows
that students from states with faster Internet speeds have higher ACT scores on
average.

This sound like something from Tyler Viglen's Spurious Correlations site - which
manages far better correlations, such as the divorce rate in Maine having a
0.992 correlation with US per capita consumption of margarine.

Conjecture regarding larger iPhone displays && Daring Fireball

John Gruber:

after giving it much thought, and a lot of tinkering in a spreadsheet, here is
what I think Apple is going to do:

· 4.7-inch display: 1334 × 750, 326 PPI @2x· 5.5-inch display: 2208 × 1242, 461
PPI @3x@2x means the same "double" retina resolution that we've seen on all iOS
devices with retina displays to date, where each virtual point in the user
interface is represented by two physical pixels on the display in each
dimension, horizontal and vertical. @3x means a new "triple" retina resolution,
where each user interface point is represented by three display pixels. A single
@2x point is a 2 × 2 square of 4 pixels; an @3x point is a 3 × 3 square of 9
pixels.

I could be wrong on either or both of these conjectured new iPhones. I derived
these figures on my own, and I'll explain my thought process below.

iPhone 5 battery replacement program && Apple Support

Apple has determined that a very small percentage of iPhone 5 devices may
suddenly experience shorter battery life or need to be charged more frequently.
The affected iPhone 5 devices were sold between September 2012 and January 2013
and fall within a limited serial number range.

If your iPhone 5 is experiencing these symptoms and meets the eligibility
requirements noted below, Apple will replace your iPhone 5 battery, free of
charge.

US and China only at present; will be extended to other countries from 29
August. You have to input your serial number if you think you're affected on the
page; it doesn't offer the range.

Swing Copters, clones and the dismal failure of the 'open' app store && Polygon

Ben Kuchera:

This is also how we end up with games like Combat Trigger: Call of the Modern
Shooter Dead Duty 3D. I'm not one to shy away from optimizing for search, you
can check out this story's URL for yourself, but there has to be a line
somewhere. This isn't the title of a game that anyone took seriously as anything
other than a honeypot.

This isn't one problem, it's a series of problems. It's not localized in one
place, but literally everywhere apps are sold. There's not a ton of incentive
for platform holders to kick ass and clean things up, because they get paid
regardless, and asking for refunds is often a long, tedious process that likely
isn't worth the buck or two you may have lost.

Which is, of course, part of the reason clones, scam apps and SEO releases are
so attractive. It's all about scale.

There's no easy solution, and fighting back is impossible without Apple, Google
or Microsoft onboard. But games are being strangled, customers are losing money
and no one is happy. Something has to give.

Chinese search giant Baidu thinks AI pioneer Andrew Ng can help it challenge
Google and become a global power && MIT Technology Review

Robert Hof:

Andrew Ng, newly appointed chief scientist at Baidu, China's dominant search
company, is here to talk about his plans to advance deep learning, a powerful
new approach to artificial intelligence loosely modeled on the way the brain
works. It has already made computers vastly better at recognizing speech,
translating languages, and identifying images - and Ng's work at Google and
Stanford University, where he was a professor of computer science, is behind
some of the biggest breakthroughs. After his talk, the audience of about 200
entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, and tech workers sends him off with two
rounds of applause.

The avid reception helps explain why Baidu has made Ng, 38, the linchpin of an
effort to transform itself into a global force. The company hired him in May to
head its research organization, which includes a new artificial-intelligence lab
in Silicon Valley and two labs in Beijing, one focused on deep learning and the
other on large-scale data analysis. Often called China's Google, the company
plans to invest $300 million in the new lab and a development office on the same
floor over the next five years.

Hear HERE - "Halbherr is Not Here Anymore." && Telemapics

Mike Dobson looks at the departure of Nokia HERE's boss:

I doubt that Nokia can afford to compete in the mapping wars with Google and
Apple.

The last potentially meaningful data we have on Navteq's database development
and delivery was that it spent $273 million in the first nine months of 2007 in
the pursuit of a better database. At that time the amount that NAVTEQ spent
during a partial year far outstripped the combined expenses of all of its
competitors for several years. I doubt that HERE is now spending at a comparable
rate to maintain and expand its database.While the amounts that Google is
spending to expand its mapping/navigation/location databases may not be
sustainable in the long run, the large investments in mapping that they continue
to be willing to make have put them far ahead of anyone in the mapping arms
race. Perhaps the more important issue is that few potential acquirers will
understand that the amount of money HERE is spending on database development is
grossly inadequate to grow the business in the mapping/navigation/location
marketplace or to compete with Google or Apple in the future.

Market monitor: Q2 2014: China, LTE & smartphones && Counterpoint Technology
Market Research

Neil Shah:

Global smartphone market grew to a record all-time-high shipment volumes
surpassing 300m units in Q2 2014 surpassing the Q4 2013 holiday season surge

· Smartphone shipments now account to 70% of all mobile phone shipped during the
quarter, highest ever· China was the big factor this quarter clocking record
high smartphone shipments, more than 100m units· China now accounts to more than
a third of the global smartphone volumes up from a quarter, eight quarters ago·
The major growth in China is as a result of unparalleled demand for smartphones:
almost 94% of the total phones shipped compared to the US, where smartphone
still represents 88% of the total phones shipped in Q2 2014· During the quarter,
LTE was one of the big factor driving smartphone volumes and the LTE phenomenon
is just getting started in China· Within three quarters or so, China has raced
to become the second largest market globally in terms of LTE smartphone volumes,
almost a fourth of global LTE volumes and almost non-existent LTE volumes in the
same quarter a year ago

A niche of a niche && CCS Insight

Demographics don't always correlate with the realities of the market.
Smartphones for seniors seems an obvious niche given the expanding penetration
rate of smartphones and the growing elderly population. However, it appears
there's been limited demand for such devices.Yesterday, Doro, a Swedish phone
manufacturer specialising in handsets for seniors, reported that its smartphone
makes up only 7% of its mobile device sales. The company's portfolio has several
simplified, big-button feature phones and one smartphone: the Liberto 810. Doro
has stripped away levels of complexity in its user interfaces and made the
hardware large and clear, with screens optimised for older eyes and sound
optimised for older ears.

Contains the phrase "younger seniors", which may be a first.

The golden age of neuroscience has arrived && WSJ

Michio Kaku:

The Pentagon, witnessing the human tragedy of the wounded warriors from Iraq and
Afghanistan, has invested more than $150 million in the military's Revolutionary
Prosthetics program, so that injured veterans can bypass damaged limbs and
spinal cords and mentally control state-of-the-art mechanical arms and legs.
Already, the technology exists to let you walk into a room and mentally turn on
the lights, control appliances, surf the Web, write and send emails, play
videogames, dictate articles, control a distant robot or avatar, and even drive
a car.

Not just our bodies, but even our memories are now being digitized. Last year at
Wake Forest University and the University of Southern California, scientists for
the first time were able to record and upload memories directly into an animal
brain, which is something straight out of a sci-fi movie like "The Matrix."
Scientists there trained mice to perform certain simple tasks, which can be
recorded by sensors placed in their brains. After they forget the task, the
digitized memory can be reinserted back into their brain, allowing them to
remember.

Kaku is a professor of theoretical physics at the City College of New York.

You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard

To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free
Delicious service.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              930 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 5, 2016 Saturday
                               Hyderabad Edition

BIG SHOTS

BYLINE: Ashutosh Desai

SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS | TECHTONIC

LENGTH: 2252 words


If you're looking for an Android smartphone with a great camera, you're spoiled
for choice: the Pixel is the first \x93phone by Google\x93. It runs Nougat and
packs in quality optics. Then, there's the Moto Z, a modular smartphone that
trans

forms into a point-and-shoot. And finally , the Honor 8, a smartphone that comes
with dual rear snappers. All three devices are equipped with top-end chips,
high-res scratch-resistant screens, day-long battery life and the USB Type-C
interface for fast charging and OTG pen drive support.Read on to find out which
one is for you...

HONOR 8

Build: The Honor 8 is the new device from Huawei's spinoff brand that builds
smartphones for online sales. In keeping with its flagship status, it is
fabricated out of aluminium alloy , which is then encased under multiple layers
of glass to give it a shimmery look. Its screen is fronted by toughened Gorilla
Glass that's scratch resistant and protects against accidental nicks and bumps.

The Full HD display renders crisp text and punchy colours with deep blacks and
excellent contrast. You also get the option to tweak the colour profile
according to your viewing preferences, as well as a reading mode that filters
out blue light to reduce eye strain. Overall, the Honor 8 looks plush and feels
solid, but with so much glass in its fabrication, we would be extremely nervous
if it slipped or fell.

User Interface: The handset's customised user interface comes packed with a lot
of accessibility settings for improved handling. For instance, you can enable a
floating dock that lets you navigate the screen without reaching for the touch
controls at the bottom; you can clear background tasks and even lock the display
with a tap. Its fingerprint sensor, which also responds as a clickable button,
can be used to unlock the handset, answer a call, silence the alarm, and
recognise gestures for direct access to the Honor 8's notification panel and
photo gallery. You can also assign this \x93smart key\x93 to launch an app or
utility , take a screenshot, etc with a few quick presses.

The Honor 8 is equipped with motion recognition that allows you to mute an
incoming call by flipping the device over, answer a call by raising the phone to
the ear, and more. Plus, you get an infrared port and a companion app to control
your television, cable TV box and Bluray player from the handset itself.

Performance: The Honor 8 works without any hiccups despite the heavy
customisation over the Android Marshmallow OS. In fact, its processor is almost
on a par \xAD in terms of synthetic benchmarks \xAD with the chips on the Moto Z
and Google Pixel. This means, it runs highdefinition content and intensive 3D
games very smoothly . Call quality and network handling is easily one of the
best in smartphones, and audio playback with earphones sounds balanced, complete
with low bass lines, crisp mid ranges and pronounced highs. On the downside, the
music player doesn't include any presets or a graphic equalizer to fine-tune the
output.Cameras: The dual rear cameras \xAD one is equipped with a monochrome
sensor for detail while the other captures colour \xAD on this handset are quick
to focus and take photos that are sharp, and rendered with neutral colours and
contain a considerable amount of detail.

A depth of field effect lets you decide on the

subject you want to focus on even after taking a snapshot. That said, this
software optimisation is not perfect, but works well in most cases to give you
snapshots that are comparable to those you would shoot on a point and shoot
camera.

Pictures taken in low light are impressive, retaining detail with minimal image
softening.Results can be further improved with the Honor 8's manual mode. You
even get presets for scanning documents, photographing food, capturing light
trails, shooting slow motion clips, and more.The front snapper takes selfies
with neutral colours and slightly muted skin tone, which are still pretty good
for sharing online.

Battery: Despite its bright, high-res display and processing muscle, the Honor 8
manages to provide well over a day's worth of battery with mixed usage. Plus,
you get three power management modes and the ability to lower the screen
resolution to save juice.

As far as flagship devices go, the Honor 8 ticks all the right boxes. If you're
looking for a premium handset that sports eye-catching design, promises
consistent top-of-theline performance, great set of cameras (with customisation
modes) and battery life, this is worth your consideration.

MOTO Z

Build: The Moto Z's biggest differentiator is its modular design. Depending on
your need, you can opt for a camera mod with 10x optical zoom, a dual 3-watt
speaker mod, a 50-lumens projector mod, and a 2220mAh battery attachment (all
sold separately).These add-ons snap onto the device magnetically and connect to
it via 16 gold contacts on its back.

The smartphone is fabricated out of aluminium, stainless steel and toughened
glass. You get a textured back cover in the box for when you use the device
without its add-ons, and a hard plastic bumper case to protect the edges in case
of accidental falls.

Like most other Motos, the Z is treated with a water-repellent
\x93nanocoating\x93 to guard against accidental spills. Its Quad HD display
renders bright colours, crisp text and is usable even under sunlight.

The handset feels solid, but we recommend careful handling when used with its
accessories \xAD especially the camera mod \xAD as a fall could lead to both
components separating, and even damage to the add on.

User Interface: For most part, you get a stock Android Marshmallow interface
with subtle additions like Active Display , where sensors detect a wave of your
hand to display the date, time and notifications. You can also twist your wrist
twice to activate the camera, or shake the handset to activate its rear flash
for torchlike illumination. A fingerprint sensor adds a layer of security to
your device. All in all, the lack of bloatware makes the handset responsive and
spiffy .

Performance: The Moto Z pairs with the mods seamlessly. Also, you don't need to
turn the device off before attaching the mods. The handset posted high scores in
synthetic benchmarks, and this processing muscle is reflected in day-to-day use.
It handles Full HD movies, as well as 3D games like Modern Combat 5 and War
Robots without a problem.

Notably , the Moto Z lacks a 3.5mm headphone jack.

Instead, you will have to use a wireless headset, or invest in a pair of USB
Type-C earphones, or use the included converter to use the Moto Z's standard
hands-free kit. Considering this is a top-end phone, the included earphones are
underwhelming performers with muted highs and dull lows. Calls are clear, crisp,
and the Moto Z's handling of networks is comparable to some of the best
smartphones that exist.

Camera: The rear shooter captures quality stills in well-lit environments. It
uses a laser to focus on subjects quickly and the results appear evenly lit with
adequate detail and sharpness. Grain begins to appear

in photos \xAD and there is also some softening of details \xAD as soon as there
is a drop in lighting. Shooting pictures in HDR poses quite another problem:
There is a noticeable lag after you press the shutter release button, and moving
subjects end up looking blurry because the camera takes a split second to
process the shot. The front shooter is quite average; skin tones look pale and
washed out. Here, the strong front-facing flash adds some warmth to the frame.

Snap on the Hasselblad True Zoom mod ('19,999) and the phone becomes a
full-fledged camera \xAD with a 12MP sensor, flash and 10x optical zoom. Photo
captures, without magnification, are mostly on a par with the Z's stock camera,
except that it achieves better depth of field. Use the zoom lens, and framing a
shot requires steady hands. Even though the mod includes optical image
stabilisation, shooting at fullzoom results in shots with mixed results. For
instance, we managed to take some very good shots of birds under a canopy of
leaves, which is not usually possible with a smartphone, but only after a few
frustrating tries.

Battery: The True Zoom mod draws power from the phone's battery , so long
sessions with it will dent the Moto Z's battery life to much less than a day .
Thankfully, the JBL SoundBoost Speaker ('6,999) and the Moto Insta-Share
Projector ('19,999) mods \xAD which were not available to us for tests \xAD
include a 1000mAh and 1100mAh battery , respectively. By itself, you can expect
to get a day's worth of work done with a single charge of the Moto Z's battery .
Add the battery mod ('5,999), and you can expect almost two days.

The Moto Z's modular design will require some tweaking before it becomes truly
viable. At present, it is an expensive proposition with each mod costing almost
as much as an entire smartphone.Buy if you are an 'early adopter' of tech and
want bragging rights to owning a phone that can shape shift into a camera,
speaker and projector.

GOOGLE PIXEL

Build: Google's flagship smartphone keeps things simple with a smooth anodised
aluminium body and a dual-tone finish on the back panel. You get a bright Quad
HD oleophobic toughened display that's responsive and works wonderfully when in
the bright outdoors. Colours appear vibrant with excellent contrast. The Pixel
will not win any awards for original design, but you will find no reason to
complain about its build, which feels solid and well balanced in the hand.
Still, for its asking price, we would have preferred if it came with some form
of water resistance.

User Interface: The Pixel comes with the latest version of Android, called
'Nougat'. There's Google Assistant, a personal voice-activated helper, which is
an augmented version of Google Now, where you can expect to get some amusing
answers for cheeky questions like \x93What do you like to eat?\x93, \x93 Are you
married?\x93.The Assistant was able to understand myriad thick accents we used
and it did a fair job of finding answers too. That said, it is unable to extract
info locally from the phone as easily as it reveals web results for nearby
restaurants and world trivia.

You can now preview notifications and perform basic actions (archive an email,
reply to an SMS) without unlocking the screen. The notification panel is also
redesigned to make it easier to access quick settings, which can be reorganized
to your preferences.Visually , icons and text look smaller and crisper. However,
Nougat lets you adjust their size as well. Pressing and holding an app icon now
displays a contextual menu with quick-action options for that app. For instance,
press and hold the Contacts icon to quickly add a new contact; do the same with
the Gmail icon to choose Compose, and the Camera icon to choose between \x93Take
a video\x93 or \x93Take a selfie\x93.

With Nougat, you get native support for faster switching between apps: Double
tap the Recents button (extreme right control in the navigation panel)

to switch between two recently-used apps. This is equivalent to the Alt+Tab
shortcut on a Windows machine. And if you long press this control, it enables a
multi-window mode. However, this works only with supported apps, which as of now
is restricted to Google services like Gmail, Chrome, Maps, etc.

You also get unlimited online storage for photos and videos at their original
resolution \xAD so you don't have to worry about running out of memory .

Performance: The Google Pixel notched the highest scores in synthetic
benchmarks, thanks to the currentgen processor purring under the hood. The
handset worked fluidly; switching quickly between apps, working across two apps
in split-screen mode without freezing up, and playing stutter-free HD games.
Simply put, this is one of the most powerful smartphones in the market right
now.

Camera: Ever since the Pixel's launch, everyone has been talking about its
cameras. Well, it's true: this handset is equipped with the best set of
smartphone cameras. Portraits taken with the rear camera are sharp with lots of
detail and vibrant colours. Low light shots are also impressive; noise is kept
under control with little loss of detail. Here, the Pixel uses electronic image
stabilisation (EIS) and shots tend to take on a slight yellow tinge. Selfies
taken with the front camera are much better than what the Honor 8 and Moto Z
were able to manage. There was just the right amount of exposure and warm skin
tones. So if you want a good Android handset primarily for a good camera, put
your money on the Pixel.

Battery: Now with all its processing muscle and sterling hardware, the Pixel XL
still manages to eke out almost two days of service before requiring a recharge.
This can vary if the device is used for watching movies and mobile photography .

The Google Pixel comes at a premium price tag, but it comes with one of the best
cameras, the absolute current and fastest mobile processor, and runs the latest
version of Android. You also get a Type-C-to-USB cable to connect pen drives for
direct file transfers. If budget is not a constraint, get this phone for its
hardware, display, battery life and fantastic cameras. It's an allround winner
alright.

What the ratings mean Below 5: The product is poor and doesn't offer the
experience it promises | 5 and 6: The product works as advertised | 7: The
product is good; will not disappoint the buyer | 8: Very good; super value for
money | 9: The device is exceptional | 10: You're kidding, right?

For more tech stories, visit toitech.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              931 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 5, 2016 Saturday
                                 Mumbai Edition

BIG SHOTS

BYLINE: Ashutosh Desai

SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS | TECHTONIC

LENGTH: 2252 words


If you're looking for an Android smartphone with a great camera, you're spoiled
for choice: the Pixel is the first \x93phone by Google\x93. It runs Nougat and
packs in quality optics. Then, there's the Moto Z, a modular smartphone that
trans

forms into a point-and-shoot. And finally , the Honor 8, a smartphone that comes
with dual rear snappers. All three devices are equipped with top-end chips,
high-res scratch-resistant screens, day-long battery life and the USB Type-C
interface for fast charging and OTG pen drive support.Read on to find out which
one is for you...

HONOR 8

Build: The Honor 8 is the new device from Huawei's spinoff brand that builds
smartphones for online sales. In keeping with its flagship status, it is
fabricated out of aluminium alloy , which is then encased under multiple layers
of glass to give it a shimmery look. Its screen is fronted by toughened Gorilla
Glass that's scratch resistant and protects against accidental nicks and bumps.

The Full HD display renders crisp text and punchy colours with deep blacks and
excellent contrast. You also get the option to tweak the colour profile
according to your viewing preferences, as well as a reading mode that filters
out blue light to reduce eye strain. Overall, the Honor 8 looks plush and feels
solid, but with so much glass in its fabrication, we would be extremely nervous
if it slipped or fell.

User Interface: The handset's customised user interface comes packed with a lot
of accessibility settings for improved handling. For instance, you can enable a
floating dock that lets you navigate the screen without reaching for the touch
controls at the bottom; you can clear background tasks and even lock the display
with a tap. Its fingerprint sensor, which also responds as a clickable button,
can be used to unlock the handset, answer a call, silence the alarm, and
recognise gestures for direct access to the Honor 8's notification panel and
photo gallery. You can also assign this \x93smart key\x93 to launch an app or
utility , take a screenshot, etc with a few quick presses.

The Honor 8 is equipped with motion recognition that allows you to mute an
incoming call by flipping the device over, answer a call by raising the phone to
the ear, and more. Plus, you get an infrared port and a companion app to control
your television, cable TV box and Bluray player from the handset itself.

Performance: The Honor 8 works without any hiccups despite the heavy
customisation over the Android Marshmallow OS. In fact, its processor is almost
on a par \xAD in terms of synthetic benchmarks \xAD with the chips on the Moto Z
and Google Pixel. This means, it runs highdefinition content and intensive 3D
games very smoothly . Call quality and network handling is easily one of the
best in smartphones, and audio playback with earphones sounds balanced, complete
with low bass lines, crisp mid ranges and pronounced highs. On the downside, the
music player doesn't include any presets or a graphic equalizer to fine-tune the
output.Cameras: The dual rear cameras \xAD one is equipped with a monochrome
sensor for detail while the other captures colour \xAD on this handset are quick
to focus and take photos that are sharp, and rendered with neutral colours and
contain a considerable amount of detail.

A depth of field effect lets you decide on the

subject you want to focus on even after taking a snapshot. That said, this
software optimisation is not perfect, but works well in most cases to give you
snapshots that are comparable to those you would shoot on a point and shoot
camera.

Pictures taken in low light are impressive, retaining detail with minimal image
softening.Results can be further improved with the Honor 8's manual mode. You
even get presets for scanning documents, photographing food, capturing light
trails, shooting slow motion clips, and more.The front snapper takes selfies
with neutral colours and slightly muted skin tone, which are still pretty good
for sharing online.

Battery: Despite its bright, high-res display and processing muscle, the Honor 8
manages to provide well over a day's worth of battery with mixed usage. Plus,
you get three power management modes and the ability to lower the screen
resolution to save juice.

As far as flagship devices go, the Honor 8 ticks all the right boxes. If you're
looking for a premium handset that sports eye-catching design, promises
consistent top-of-theline performance, great set of cameras (with customisation
modes) and battery life, this is worth your consideration.

MOTO Z

Build: The Moto Z's biggest differentiator is its modular design. Depending on
your need, you can opt for a camera mod with 10x optical zoom, a dual 3-watt
speaker mod, a 50-lumens projector mod, and a 2220mAh battery attachment (all
sold separately).These add-ons snap onto the device magnetically and connect to
it via 16 gold contacts on its back.

The smartphone is fabricated out of aluminium, stainless steel and toughened
glass. You get a textured back cover in the box for when you use the device
without its add-ons, and a hard plastic bumper case to protect the edges in case
of accidental falls.

Like most other Motos, the Z is treated with a water-repellent
\x93nanocoating\x93 to guard against accidental spills. Its Quad HD display
renders bright colours, crisp text and is usable even under sunlight.

The handset feels solid, but we recommend careful handling when used with its
accessories \xAD especially the camera mod \xAD as a fall could lead to both
components separating, and even damage to the add on.

User Interface: For most part, you get a stock Android Marshmallow interface
with subtle additions like Active Display , where sensors detect a wave of your
hand to display the date, time and notifications. You can also twist your wrist
twice to activate the camera, or shake the handset to activate its rear flash
for torchlike illumination. A fingerprint sensor adds a layer of security to
your device. All in all, the lack of bloatware makes the handset responsive and
spiffy .

Performance: The Moto Z pairs with the mods seamlessly. Also, you don't need to
turn the device off before attaching the mods. The handset posted high scores in
synthetic benchmarks, and this processing muscle is reflected in day-to-day use.
It handles Full HD movies, as well as 3D games like Modern Combat 5 and War
Robots without a problem.

Notably , the Moto Z lacks a 3.5mm headphone jack.

Instead, you will have to use a wireless headset, or invest in a pair of USB
Type-C earphones, or use the included converter to use the Moto Z's standard
hands-free kit. Considering this is a top-end phone, the included earphones are
underwhelming performers with muted highs and dull lows. Calls are clear, crisp,
and the Moto Z's handling of networks is comparable to some of the best
smartphones that exist.

Camera: The rear shooter captures quality stills in well-lit environments. It
uses a laser to focus on subjects quickly and the results appear evenly lit with
adequate detail and sharpness. Grain begins to appear

in photos \xAD and there is also some softening of details \xAD as soon as there
is a drop in lighting. Shooting pictures in HDR poses quite another problem:
There is a noticeable lag after you press the shutter release button, and moving
subjects end up looking blurry because the camera takes a split second to
process the shot. The front shooter is quite average; skin tones look pale and
washed out. Here, the strong front-facing flash adds some warmth to the frame.

Snap on the Hasselblad True Zoom mod ('19,999) and the phone becomes a
full-fledged camera \xAD with a 12MP sensor, flash and 10x optical zoom. Photo
captures, without magnification, are mostly on a par with the Z's stock camera,
except that it achieves better depth of field. Use the zoom lens, and framing a
shot requires steady hands. Even though the mod includes optical image
stabilisation, shooting at fullzoom results in shots with mixed results. For
instance, we managed to take some very good shots of birds under a canopy of
leaves, which is not usually possible with a smartphone, but only after a few
frustrating tries.

Battery: The True Zoom mod draws power from the phone's battery , so long
sessions with it will dent the Moto Z's battery life to much less than a day .
Thankfully, the JBL SoundBoost Speaker ('6,999) and the Moto Insta-Share
Projector ('19,999) mods \xAD which were not available to us for tests \xAD
include a 1000mAh and 1100mAh battery , respectively. By itself, you can expect
to get a day's worth of work done with a single charge of the Moto Z's battery .
Add the battery mod ('5,999), and you can expect almost two days.

The Moto Z's modular design will require some tweaking before it becomes truly
viable. At present, it is an expensive proposition with each mod costing almost
as much as an entire smartphone.Buy if you are an 'early adopter' of tech and
want bragging rights to owning a phone that can shape shift into a camera,
speaker and projector.

GOOGLE PIXEL

Build: Google's flagship smartphone keeps things simple with a smooth anodised
aluminium body and a dual-tone finish on the back panel. You get a bright Quad
HD oleophobic toughened display that's responsive and works wonderfully when in
the bright outdoors. Colours appear vibrant with excellent contrast. The Pixel
will not win any awards for original design, but you will find no reason to
complain about its build, which feels solid and well balanced in the hand.
Still, for its asking price, we would have preferred if it came with some form
of water resistance.

User Interface: The Pixel comes with the latest version of Android, called
'Nougat'. There's Google Assistant, a personal voice-activated helper, which is
an augmented version of Google Now, where you can expect to get some amusing
answers for cheeky questions like \x93What do you like to eat?\x93, \x93 Are you
married?\x93.The Assistant was able to understand myriad thick accents we used
and it did a fair job of finding answers too. That said, it is unable to extract
info locally from the phone as easily as it reveals web results for nearby
restaurants and world trivia.

You can now preview notifications and perform basic actions (archive an email,
reply to an SMS) without unlocking the screen. The notification panel is also
redesigned to make it easier to access quick settings, which can be reorganized
to your preferences.Visually , icons and text look smaller and crisper. However,
Nougat lets you adjust their size as well. Pressing and holding an app icon now
displays a contextual menu with quick-action options for that app. For instance,
press and hold the Contacts icon to quickly add a new contact; do the same with
the Gmail icon to choose Compose, and the Camera icon to choose between \x93Take
a video\x93 or \x93Take a selfie\x93.

With Nougat, you get native support for faster switching between apps: Double
tap the Recents button (extreme right control in the navigation panel)

to switch between two recently-used apps. This is equivalent to the Alt+Tab
shortcut on a Windows machine. And if you long press this control, it enables a
multi-window mode. However, this works only with supported apps, which as of now
is restricted to Google services like Gmail, Chrome, Maps, etc.

You also get unlimited online storage for photos and videos at their original
resolution \xAD so you don't have to worry about running out of memory .

Performance: The Google Pixel notched the highest scores in synthetic
benchmarks, thanks to the currentgen processor purring under the hood. The
handset worked fluidly; switching quickly between apps, working across two apps
in split-screen mode without freezing up, and playing stutter-free HD games.
Simply put, this is one of the most powerful smartphones in the market right
now.

Camera: Ever since the Pixel's launch, everyone has been talking about its
cameras. Well, it's true: this handset is equipped with the best set of
smartphone cameras. Portraits taken with the rear camera are sharp with lots of
detail and vibrant colours. Low light shots are also impressive; noise is kept
under control with little loss of detail. Here, the Pixel uses electronic image
stabilisation (EIS) and shots tend to take on a slight yellow tinge. Selfies
taken with the front camera are much better than what the Honor 8 and Moto Z
were able to manage. There was just the right amount of exposure and warm skin
tones. So if you want a good Android handset primarily for a good camera, put
your money on the Pixel.

Battery: Now with all its processing muscle and sterling hardware, the Pixel XL
still manages to eke out almost two days of service before requiring a recharge.
This can vary if the device is used for watching movies and mobile photography .

The Google Pixel comes at a premium price tag, but it comes with one of the best
cameras, the absolute current and fastest mobile processor, and runs the latest
version of Android. You also get a Type-C-to-USB cable to connect pen drives for
direct file transfers. If budget is not a constraint, get this phone for its
hardware, display, battery life and fantastic cameras. It's an allround winner
alright.

What the ratings mean Below 5: The product is poor and doesn't offer the
experience it promises | 5 and 6: The product works as advertised | 7: The
product is good; will not disappoint the buyer | 8: Very good; super value for
money | 9: The device is exceptional | 10: You're kidding, right?

For more tech stories, visit toitech.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              932 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 5, 2016 Saturday
                               Bangalore Edition

BIG SHOTS

BYLINE: Ashutosh Desai

SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS | TECHTONIC

LENGTH: 2252 words


If you're looking for an Android smartphone with a great camera, you're spoiled
for choice: the Pixel is the first \x93phone by Google\x93. It runs Nougat and
packs in quality optics. Then, there's the Moto Z, a modular smartphone that
trans

forms into a point-and-shoot. And finally , the Honor 8, a smartphone that comes
with dual rear snappers. All three devices are equipped with top-end chips,
high-res scratch-resistant screens, day-long battery life and the USB Type-C
interface for fast charging and OTG pen drive support.Read on to find out which
one is for you...

HONOR 8

Build: The Honor 8 is the new device from Huawei's spinoff brand that builds
smartphones for online sales. In keeping with its flagship status, it is
fabricated out of aluminium alloy , which is then encased under multiple layers
of glass to give it a shimmery look. Its screen is fronted by toughened Gorilla
Glass that's scratch resistant and protects against accidental nicks and bumps.

The Full HD display renders crisp text and punchy colours with deep blacks and
excellent contrast. You also get the option to tweak the colour profile
according to your viewing preferences, as well as a reading mode that filters
out blue light to reduce eye strain. Overall, the Honor 8 looks plush and feels
solid, but with so much glass in its fabrication, we would be extremely nervous
if it slipped or fell.

User Interface: The handset's customised user interface comes packed with a lot
of accessibility settings for improved handling. For instance, you can enable a
floating dock that lets you navigate the screen without reaching for the touch
controls at the bottom; you can clear background tasks and even lock the display
with a tap. Its fingerprint sensor, which also responds as a clickable button,
can be used to unlock the handset, answer a call, silence the alarm, and
recognise gestures for direct access to the Honor 8's notification panel and
photo gallery. You can also assign this \x93smart key\x93 to launch an app or
utility , take a screenshot, etc with a few quick presses.

The Honor 8 is equipped with motion recognition that allows you to mute an
incoming call by flipping the device over, answer a call by raising the phone to
the ear, and more. Plus, you get an infrared port and a companion app to control
your television, cable TV box and Bluray player from the handset itself.

Performance: The Honor 8 works without any hiccups despite the heavy
customisation over the Android Marshmallow OS. In fact, its processor is almost
on a par \xAD in terms of synthetic benchmarks \xAD with the chips on the Moto Z
and Google Pixel. This means, it runs highdefinition content and intensive 3D
games very smoothly . Call quality and network handling is easily one of the
best in smartphones, and audio playback with earphones sounds balanced, complete
with low bass lines, crisp mid ranges and pronounced highs. On the downside, the
music player doesn't include any presets or a graphic equalizer to fine-tune the
output.Cameras: The dual rear cameras \xAD one is equipped with a monochrome
sensor for detail while the other captures colour \xAD on this handset are quick
to focus and take photos that are sharp, and rendered with neutral colours and
contain a considerable amount of detail.

A depth of field effect lets you decide on the

subject you want to focus on even after taking a snapshot. That said, this
software optimisation is not perfect, but works well in most cases to give you
snapshots that are comparable to those you would shoot on a point and shoot
camera.

Pictures taken in low light are impressive, retaining detail with minimal image
softening.Results can be further improved with the Honor 8's manual mode. You
even get presets for scanning documents, photographing food, capturing light
trails, shooting slow motion clips, and more.The front snapper takes selfies
with neutral colours and slightly muted skin tone, which are still pretty good
for sharing online.

Battery: Despite its bright, high-res display and processing muscle, the Honor 8
manages to provide well over a day's worth of battery with mixed usage. Plus,
you get three power management modes and the ability to lower the screen
resolution to save juice.

As far as flagship devices go, the Honor 8 ticks all the right boxes. If you're
looking for a premium handset that sports eye-catching design, promises
consistent top-of-theline performance, great set of cameras (with customisation
modes) and battery life, this is worth your consideration.

MOTO Z

Build: The Moto Z's biggest differentiator is its modular design. Depending on
your need, you can opt for a camera mod with 10x optical zoom, a dual 3-watt
speaker mod, a 50-lumens projector mod, and a 2220mAh battery attachment (all
sold separately).These add-ons snap onto the device magnetically and connect to
it via 16 gold contacts on its back.

The smartphone is fabricated out of aluminium, stainless steel and toughened
glass. You get a textured back cover in the box for when you use the device
without its add-ons, and a hard plastic bumper case to protect the edges in case
of accidental falls.

Like most other Motos, the Z is treated with a water-repellent
\x93nanocoating\x93 to guard against accidental spills. Its Quad HD display
renders bright colours, crisp text and is usable even under sunlight.

The handset feels solid, but we recommend careful handling when used with its
accessories \xAD especially the camera mod \xAD as a fall could lead to both
components separating, and even damage to the add on.

User Interface: For most part, you get a stock Android Marshmallow interface
with subtle additions like Active Display , where sensors detect a wave of your
hand to display the date, time and notifications. You can also twist your wrist
twice to activate the camera, or shake the handset to activate its rear flash
for torchlike illumination. A fingerprint sensor adds a layer of security to
your device. All in all, the lack of bloatware makes the handset responsive and
spiffy .

Performance: The Moto Z pairs with the mods seamlessly. Also, you don't need to
turn the device off before attaching the mods. The handset posted high scores in
synthetic benchmarks, and this processing muscle is reflected in day-to-day use.
It handles Full HD movies, as well as 3D games like Modern Combat 5 and War
Robots without a problem.

Notably , the Moto Z lacks a 3.5mm headphone jack.

Instead, you will have to use a wireless headset, or invest in a pair of USB
Type-C earphones, or use the included converter to use the Moto Z's standard
hands-free kit. Considering this is a top-end phone, the included earphones are
underwhelming performers with muted highs and dull lows. Calls are clear, crisp,
and the Moto Z's handling of networks is comparable to some of the best
smartphones that exist.

Camera: The rear shooter captures quality stills in well-lit environments. It
uses a laser to focus on subjects quickly and the results appear evenly lit with
adequate detail and sharpness. Grain begins to appear

in photos \xAD and there is also some softening of details \xAD as soon as there
is a drop in lighting. Shooting pictures in HDR poses quite another problem:
There is a noticeable lag after you press the shutter release button, and moving
subjects end up looking blurry because the camera takes a split second to
process the shot. The front shooter is quite average; skin tones look pale and
washed out. Here, the strong front-facing flash adds some warmth to the frame.

Snap on the Hasselblad True Zoom mod ('19,999) and the phone becomes a
full-fledged camera \xAD with a 12MP sensor, flash and 10x optical zoom. Photo
captures, without magnification, are mostly on a par with the Z's stock camera,
except that it achieves better depth of field. Use the zoom lens, and framing a
shot requires steady hands. Even though the mod includes optical image
stabilisation, shooting at fullzoom results in shots with mixed results. For
instance, we managed to take some very good shots of birds under a canopy of
leaves, which is not usually possible with a smartphone, but only after a few
frustrating tries.

Battery: The True Zoom mod draws power from the phone's battery , so long
sessions with it will dent the Moto Z's battery life to much less than a day .
Thankfully, the JBL SoundBoost Speaker ('6,999) and the Moto Insta-Share
Projector ('19,999) mods \xAD which were not available to us for tests \xAD
include a 1000mAh and 1100mAh battery , respectively. By itself, you can expect
to get a day's worth of work done with a single charge of the Moto Z's battery .
Add the battery mod ('5,999), and you can expect almost two days.

The Moto Z's modular design will require some tweaking before it becomes truly
viable. At present, it is an expensive proposition with each mod costing almost
as much as an entire smartphone.Buy if you are an 'early adopter' of tech and
want bragging rights to owning a phone that can shape shift into a camera,
speaker and projector.

GOOGLE PIXEL

Build: Google's flagship smartphone keeps things simple with a smooth anodised
aluminium body and a dual-tone finish on the back panel. You get a bright Quad
HD oleophobic toughened display that's responsive and works wonderfully when in
the bright outdoors. Colours appear vibrant with excellent contrast. The Pixel
will not win any awards for original design, but you will find no reason to
complain about its build, which feels solid and well balanced in the hand.
Still, for its asking price, we would have preferred if it came with some form
of water resistance.

User Interface: The Pixel comes with the latest version of Android, called
'Nougat'. There's Google Assistant, a personal voice-activated helper, which is
an augmented version of Google Now, where you can expect to get some amusing
answers for cheeky questions like \x93What do you like to eat?\x93, \x93 Are you
married?\x93.The Assistant was able to understand myriad thick accents we used
and it did a fair job of finding answers too. That said, it is unable to extract
info locally from the phone as easily as it reveals web results for nearby
restaurants and world trivia.

You can now preview notifications and perform basic actions (archive an email,
reply to an SMS) without unlocking the screen. The notification panel is also
redesigned to make it easier to access quick settings, which can be reorganized
to your preferences.Visually , icons and text look smaller and crisper. However,
Nougat lets you adjust their size as well. Pressing and holding an app icon now
displays a contextual menu with quick-action options for that app. For instance,
press and hold the Contacts icon to quickly add a new contact; do the same with
the Gmail icon to choose Compose, and the Camera icon to choose between \x93Take
a video\x93 or \x93Take a selfie\x93.

With Nougat, you get native support for faster switching between apps: Double
tap the Recents button (extreme right control in the navigation panel)

to switch between two recently-used apps. This is equivalent to the Alt+Tab
shortcut on a Windows machine. And if you long press this control, it enables a
multi-window mode. However, this works only with supported apps, which as of now
is restricted to Google services like Gmail, Chrome, Maps, etc.

You also get unlimited online storage for photos and videos at their original
resolution \xAD so you don't have to worry about running out of memory .

Performance: The Google Pixel notched the highest scores in synthetic
benchmarks, thanks to the currentgen processor purring under the hood. The
handset worked fluidly; switching quickly between apps, working across two apps
in split-screen mode without freezing up, and playing stutter-free HD games.
Simply put, this is one of the most powerful smartphones in the market right
now.

Camera: Ever since the Pixel's launch, everyone has been talking about its
cameras. Well, it's true: this handset is equipped with the best set of
smartphone cameras. Portraits taken with the rear camera are sharp with lots of
detail and vibrant colours. Low light shots are also impressive; noise is kept
under control with little loss of detail. Here, the Pixel uses electronic image
stabilisation (EIS) and shots tend to take on a slight yellow tinge. Selfies
taken with the front camera are much better than what the Honor 8 and Moto Z
were able to manage. There was just the right amount of exposure and warm skin
tones. So if you want a good Android handset primarily for a good camera, put
your money on the Pixel.

Battery: Now with all its processing muscle and sterling hardware, the Pixel XL
still manages to eke out almost two days of service before requiring a recharge.
This can vary if the device is used for watching movies and mobile photography .

The Google Pixel comes at a premium price tag, but it comes with one of the best
cameras, the absolute current and fastest mobile processor, and runs the latest
version of Android. You also get a Type-C-to-USB cable to connect pen drives for
direct file transfers. If budget is not a constraint, get this phone for its
hardware, display, battery life and fantastic cameras. It's an allround winner
alright.

What the ratings mean Below 5: The product is poor and doesn't offer the
experience it promises | 5 and 6: The product works as advertised | 7: The
product is good; will not disappoint the buyer | 8: Very good; super value for
money | 9: The device is exceptional | 10: You're kidding, right?

For more tech stories, visit toitech.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              933 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 5, 2016 Saturday
                                Chennai Edition

BIG SHOTS

BYLINE: Ashutosh Desai

SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS | TECHTONIC

LENGTH: 2252 words


If you're looking for an Android smartphone with a great camera, you're spoiled
for choice: the Pixel is the first \x93phone by Google\x93. It runs Nougat and
packs in quality optics. Then, there's the Moto Z, a modular smartphone that
trans

forms into a point-and-shoot. And finally , the Honor 8, a smartphone that comes
with dual rear snappers. All three devices are equipped with top-end chips,
high-res scratch-resistant screens, day-long battery life and the USB Type-C
interface for fast charging and OTG pen drive support.Read on to find out which
one is for you...

HONOR 8

Build: The Honor 8 is the new device from Huawei's spinoff brand that builds
smartphones for online sales. In keeping with its flagship status, it is
fabricated out of aluminium alloy , which is then encased under multiple layers
of glass to give it a shimmery look. Its screen is fronted by toughened Gorilla
Glass that's scratch resistant and protects against accidental nicks and bumps.

The Full HD display renders crisp text and punchy colours with deep blacks and
excellent contrast. You also get the option to tweak the colour profile
according to your viewing preferences, as well as a reading mode that filters
out blue light to reduce eye strain. Overall, the Honor 8 looks plush and feels
solid, but with so much glass in its fabrication, we would be extremely nervous
if it slipped or fell.

User Interface: The handset's customised user interface comes packed with a lot
of accessibility settings for improved handling. For instance, you can enable a
floating dock that lets you navigate the screen without reaching for the touch
controls at the bottom; you can clear background tasks and even lock the display
with a tap. Its fingerprint sensor, which also responds as a clickable button,
can be used to unlock the handset, answer a call, silence the alarm, and
recognise gestures for direct access to the Honor 8's notification panel and
photo gallery. You can also assign this \x93smart key\x93 to launch an app or
utility , take a screenshot, etc with a few quick presses.

The Honor 8 is equipped with motion recognition that allows you to mute an
incoming call by flipping the device over, answer a call by raising the phone to
the ear, and more. Plus, you get an infrared port and a companion app to control
your television, cable TV box and Bluray player from the handset itself.

Performance: The Honor 8 works without any hiccups despite the heavy
customisation over the Android Marshmallow OS. In fact, its processor is almost
on a par \xAD in terms of synthetic benchmarks \xAD with the chips on the Moto Z
and Google Pixel. This means, it runs highdefinition content and intensive 3D
games very smoothly . Call quality and network handling is easily one of the
best in smartphones, and audio playback with earphones sounds balanced, complete
with low bass lines, crisp mid ranges and pronounced highs. On the downside, the
music player doesn't include any presets or a graphic equalizer to fine-tune the
output.Cameras: The dual rear cameras \xAD one is equipped with a monochrome
sensor for detail while the other captures colour \xAD on this handset are quick
to focus and take photos that are sharp, and rendered with neutral colours and
contain a considerable amount of detail.

A depth of field effect lets you decide on the

subject you want to focus on even after taking a snapshot. That said, this
software optimisation is not perfect, but works well in most cases to give you
snapshots that are comparable to those you would shoot on a point and shoot
camera.

Pictures taken in low light are impressive, retaining detail with minimal image
softening.Results can be further improved with the Honor 8's manual mode. You
even get presets for scanning documents, photographing food, capturing light
trails, shooting slow motion clips, and more.The front snapper takes selfies
with neutral colours and slightly muted skin tone, which are still pretty good
for sharing online.

Battery: Despite its bright, high-res display and processing muscle, the Honor 8
manages to provide well over a day's worth of battery with mixed usage. Plus,
you get three power management modes and the ability to lower the screen
resolution to save juice.

As far as flagship devices go, the Honor 8 ticks all the right boxes. If you're
looking for a premium handset that sports eye-catching design, promises
consistent top-of-theline performance, great set of cameras (with customisation
modes) and battery life, this is worth your consideration.

MOTO Z

Build: The Moto Z's biggest differentiator is its modular design. Depending on
your need, you can opt for a camera mod with 10x optical zoom, a dual 3-watt
speaker mod, a 50-lumens projector mod, and a 2220mAh battery attachment (all
sold separately).These add-ons snap onto the device magnetically and connect to
it via 16 gold contacts on its back.

The smartphone is fabricated out of aluminium, stainless steel and toughened
glass. You get a textured back cover in the box for when you use the device
without its add-ons, and a hard plastic bumper case to protect the edges in case
of accidental falls.

Like most other Motos, the Z is treated with a water-repellent
\x93nanocoating\x93 to guard against accidental spills. Its Quad HD display
renders bright colours, crisp text and is usable even under sunlight.

The handset feels solid, but we recommend careful handling when used with its
accessories \xAD especially the camera mod \xAD as a fall could lead to both
components separating, and even damage to the add on.

User Interface: For most part, you get a stock Android Marshmallow interface
with subtle additions like Active Display , where sensors detect a wave of your
hand to display the date, time and notifications. You can also twist your wrist
twice to activate the camera, or shake the handset to activate its rear flash
for torchlike illumination. A fingerprint sensor adds a layer of security to
your device. All in all, the lack of bloatware makes the handset responsive and
spiffy .

Performance: The Moto Z pairs with the mods seamlessly. Also, you don't need to
turn the device off before attaching the mods. The handset posted high scores in
synthetic benchmarks, and this processing muscle is reflected in day-to-day use.
It handles Full HD movies, as well as 3D games like Modern Combat 5 and War
Robots without a problem.

Notably , the Moto Z lacks a 3.5mm headphone jack.

Instead, you will have to use a wireless headset, or invest in a pair of USB
Type-C earphones, or use the included converter to use the Moto Z's standard
hands-free kit. Considering this is a top-end phone, the included earphones are
underwhelming performers with muted highs and dull lows. Calls are clear, crisp,
and the Moto Z's handling of networks is comparable to some of the best
smartphones that exist.

Camera: The rear shooter captures quality stills in well-lit environments. It
uses a laser to focus on subjects quickly and the results appear evenly lit with
adequate detail and sharpness. Grain begins to appear

in photos \xAD and there is also some softening of details \xAD as soon as there
is a drop in lighting. Shooting pictures in HDR poses quite another problem:
There is a noticeable lag after you press the shutter release button, and moving
subjects end up looking blurry because the camera takes a split second to
process the shot. The front shooter is quite average; skin tones look pale and
washed out. Here, the strong front-facing flash adds some warmth to the frame.

Snap on the Hasselblad True Zoom mod ('19,999) and the phone becomes a
full-fledged camera \xAD with a 12MP sensor, flash and 10x optical zoom. Photo
captures, without magnification, are mostly on a par with the Z's stock camera,
except that it achieves better depth of field. Use the zoom lens, and framing a
shot requires steady hands. Even though the mod includes optical image
stabilisation, shooting at fullzoom results in shots with mixed results. For
instance, we managed to take some very good shots of birds under a canopy of
leaves, which is not usually possible with a smartphone, but only after a few
frustrating tries.

Battery: The True Zoom mod draws power from the phone's battery , so long
sessions with it will dent the Moto Z's battery life to much less than a day .
Thankfully, the JBL SoundBoost Speaker ('6,999) and the Moto Insta-Share
Projector ('19,999) mods \xAD which were not available to us for tests \xAD
include a 1000mAh and 1100mAh battery , respectively. By itself, you can expect
to get a day's worth of work done with a single charge of the Moto Z's battery .
Add the battery mod ('5,999), and you can expect almost two days.

The Moto Z's modular design will require some tweaking before it becomes truly
viable. At present, it is an expensive proposition with each mod costing almost
as much as an entire smartphone.Buy if you are an 'early adopter' of tech and
want bragging rights to owning a phone that can shape shift into a camera,
speaker and projector.

GOOGLE PIXEL

Build: Google's flagship smartphone keeps things simple with a smooth anodised
aluminium body and a dual-tone finish on the back panel. You get a bright Quad
HD oleophobic toughened display that's responsive and works wonderfully when in
the bright outdoors. Colours appear vibrant with excellent contrast. The Pixel
will not win any awards for original design, but you will find no reason to
complain about its build, which feels solid and well balanced in the hand.
Still, for its asking price, we would have preferred if it came with some form
of water resistance.

User Interface: The Pixel comes with the latest version of Android, called
'Nougat'. There's Google Assistant, a personal voice-activated helper, which is
an augmented version of Google Now, where you can expect to get some amusing
answers for cheeky questions like \x93What do you like to eat?\x93, \x93 Are you
married?\x93.The Assistant was able to understand myriad thick accents we used
and it did a fair job of finding answers too. That said, it is unable to extract
info locally from the phone as easily as it reveals web results for nearby
restaurants and world trivia.

You can now preview notifications and perform basic actions (archive an email,
reply to an SMS) without unlocking the screen. The notification panel is also
redesigned to make it easier to access quick settings, which can be reorganized
to your preferences.Visually , icons and text look smaller and crisper. However,
Nougat lets you adjust their size as well. Pressing and holding an app icon now
displays a contextual menu with quick-action options for that app. For instance,
press and hold the Contacts icon to quickly add a new contact; do the same with
the Gmail icon to choose Compose, and the Camera icon to choose between \x93Take
a video\x93 or \x93Take a selfie\x93.

With Nougat, you get native support for faster switching between apps: Double
tap the Recents button (extreme right control in the navigation panel)

to switch between two recently-used apps. This is equivalent to the Alt+Tab
shortcut on a Windows machine. And if you long press this control, it enables a
multi-window mode. However, this works only with supported apps, which as of now
is restricted to Google services like Gmail, Chrome, Maps, etc.

You also get unlimited online storage for photos and videos at their original
resolution \xAD so you don't have to worry about running out of memory .

Performance: The Google Pixel notched the highest scores in synthetic
benchmarks, thanks to the currentgen processor purring under the hood. The
handset worked fluidly; switching quickly between apps, working across two apps
in split-screen mode without freezing up, and playing stutter-free HD games.
Simply put, this is one of the most powerful smartphones in the market right
now.

Camera: Ever since the Pixel's launch, everyone has been talking about its
cameras. Well, it's true: this handset is equipped with the best set of
smartphone cameras. Portraits taken with the rear camera are sharp with lots of
detail and vibrant colours. Low light shots are also impressive; noise is kept
under control with little loss of detail. Here, the Pixel uses electronic image
stabilisation (EIS) and shots tend to take on a slight yellow tinge. Selfies
taken with the front camera are much better than what the Honor 8 and Moto Z
were able to manage. There was just the right amount of exposure and warm skin
tones. So if you want a good Android handset primarily for a good camera, put
your money on the Pixel.

Battery: Now with all its processing muscle and sterling hardware, the Pixel XL
still manages to eke out almost two days of service before requiring a recharge.
This can vary if the device is used for watching movies and mobile photography .

The Google Pixel comes at a premium price tag, but it comes with one of the best
cameras, the absolute current and fastest mobile processor, and runs the latest
version of Android. You also get a Type-C-to-USB cable to connect pen drives for
direct file transfers. If budget is not a constraint, get this phone for its
hardware, display, battery life and fantastic cameras. It's an allround winner
alright.

What the ratings mean Below 5: The product is poor and doesn't offer the
experience it promises | 5 and 6: The product works as advertised | 7: The
product is good; will not disappoint the buyer | 8: Very good; super value for
money | 9: The device is exceptional | 10: You're kidding, right?

For more tech stories, visit toitech.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              934 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 5, 2016 Saturday
                                 Delhi Edition

BIG SHOTS

BYLINE: Ashutosh Desai

SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS | TECHTONIC

LENGTH: 2252 words


If you're looking for an Android smartphone with a great camera, you're spoiled
for choice: the Pixel is the first \x93phone by Google\x93. It runs Nougat and
packs in quality optics. Then, there's the Moto Z, a modular smartphone that
trans

forms into a point-and-shoot. And finally , the Honor 8, a smartphone that comes
with dual rear snappers. All three devices are equipped with top-end chips,
high-res scratch-resistant screens, day-long battery life and the USB Type-C
interface for fast charging and OTG pen drive support.Read on to find out which
one is for you...

HONOR 8

Build: The Honor 8 is the new device from Huawei's spinoff brand that builds
smartphones for online sales. In keeping with its flagship status, it is
fabricated out of aluminium alloy , which is then encased under multiple layers
of glass to give it a shimmery look. Its screen is fronted by toughened Gorilla
Glass that's scratch resistant and protects against accidental nicks and bumps.

The Full HD display renders crisp text and punchy colours with deep blacks and
excellent contrast. You also get the option to tweak the colour profile
according to your viewing preferences, as well as a reading mode that filters
out blue light to reduce eye strain. Overall, the Honor 8 looks plush and feels
solid, but with so much glass in its fabrication, we would be extremely nervous
if it slipped or fell.

User Interface: The handset's customised user interface comes packed with a lot
of accessibility settings for improved handling. For instance, you can enable a
floating dock that lets you navigate the screen without reaching for the touch
controls at the bottom; you can clear background tasks and even lock the display
with a tap. Its fingerprint sensor, which also responds as a clickable button,
can be used to unlock the handset, answer a call, silence the alarm, and
recognise gestures for direct access to the Honor 8's notification panel and
photo gallery. You can also assign this \x93smart key\x93 to launch an app or
utility , take a screenshot, etc with a few quick presses.

The Honor 8 is equipped with motion recognition that allows you to mute an
incoming call by flipping the device over, answer a call by raising the phone to
the ear, and more. Plus, you get an infrared port and a companion app to control
your television, cable TV box and Bluray player from the handset itself.

Performance: The Honor 8 works without any hiccups despite the heavy
customisation over the Android Marshmallow OS. In fact, its processor is almost
on a par \xAD in terms of synthetic benchmarks \xAD with the chips on the Moto Z
and Google Pixel. This means, it runs highdefinition content and intensive 3D
games very smoothly . Call quality and network handling is easily one of the
best in smartphones, and audio playback with earphones sounds balanced, complete
with low bass lines, crisp mid ranges and pronounced highs. On the downside, the
music player doesn't include any presets or a graphic equalizer to fine-tune the
output.Cameras: The dual rear cameras \xAD one is equipped with a monochrome
sensor for detail while the other captures colour \xAD on this handset are quick
to focus and take photos that are sharp, and rendered with neutral colours and
contain a considerable amount of detail.

A depth of field effect lets you decide on the

subject you want to focus on even after taking a snapshot. That said, this
software optimisation is not perfect, but works well in most cases to give you
snapshots that are comparable to those you would shoot on a point and shoot
camera.

Pictures taken in low light are impressive, retaining detail with minimal image
softening.Results can be further improved with the Honor 8's manual mode. You
even get presets for scanning documents, photographing food, capturing light
trails, shooting slow motion clips, and more.The front snapper takes selfies
with neutral colours and slightly muted skin tone, which are still pretty good
for sharing online.

Battery: Despite its bright, high-res display and processing muscle, the Honor 8
manages to provide well over a day's worth of battery with mixed usage. Plus,
you get three power management modes and the ability to lower the screen
resolution to save juice.

As far as flagship devices go, the Honor 8 ticks all the right boxes. If you're
looking for a premium handset that sports eye-catching design, promises
consistent top-of-theline performance, great set of cameras (with customisation
modes) and battery life, this is worth your consideration.

MOTO Z

Build: The Moto Z's biggest differentiator is its modular design. Depending on
your need, you can opt for a camera mod with 10x optical zoom, a dual 3-watt
speaker mod, a 50-lumens projector mod, and a 2220mAh battery attachment (all
sold separately).These add-ons snap onto the device magnetically and connect to
it via 16 gold contacts on its back.

The smartphone is fabricated out of aluminium, stainless steel and toughened
glass. You get a textured back cover in the box for when you use the device
without its add-ons, and a hard plastic bumper case to protect the edges in case
of accidental falls.

Like most other Motos, the Z is treated with a water-repellent
\x93nanocoating\x93 to guard against accidental spills. Its Quad HD display
renders bright colours, crisp text and is usable even under sunlight.

The handset feels solid, but we recommend careful handling when used with its
accessories \xAD especially the camera mod \xAD as a fall could lead to both
components separating, and even damage to the add on.

User Interface: For most part, you get a stock Android Marshmallow interface
with subtle additions like Active Display , where sensors detect a wave of your
hand to display the date, time and notifications. You can also twist your wrist
twice to activate the camera, or shake the handset to activate its rear flash
for torchlike illumination. A fingerprint sensor adds a layer of security to
your device. All in all, the lack of bloatware makes the handset responsive and
spiffy .

Performance: The Moto Z pairs with the mods seamlessly. Also, you don't need to
turn the device off before attaching the mods. The handset posted high scores in
synthetic benchmarks, and this processing muscle is reflected in day-to-day use.
It handles Full HD movies, as well as 3D games like Modern Combat 5 and War
Robots without a problem.

Notably , the Moto Z lacks a 3.5mm headphone jack.

Instead, you will have to use a wireless headset, or invest in a pair of USB
Type-C earphones, or use the included converter to use the Moto Z's standard
hands-free kit. Considering this is a top-end phone, the included earphones are
underwhelming performers with muted highs and dull lows. Calls are clear, crisp,
and the Moto Z's handling of networks is comparable to some of the best
smartphones that exist.

Camera: The rear shooter captures quality stills in well-lit environments. It
uses a laser to focus on subjects quickly and the results appear evenly lit with
adequate detail and sharpness. Grain begins to appear

in photos \xAD and there is also some softening of details \xAD as soon as there
is a drop in lighting. Shooting pictures in HDR poses quite another problem:
There is a noticeable lag after you press the shutter release button, and moving
subjects end up looking blurry because the camera takes a split second to
process the shot. The front shooter is quite average; skin tones look pale and
washed out. Here, the strong front-facing flash adds some warmth to the frame.

Snap on the Hasselblad True Zoom mod ('19,999) and the phone becomes a
full-fledged camera \xAD with a 12MP sensor, flash and 10x optical zoom. Photo
captures, without magnification, are mostly on a par with the Z's stock camera,
except that it achieves better depth of field. Use the zoom lens, and framing a
shot requires steady hands. Even though the mod includes optical image
stabilisation, shooting at fullzoom results in shots with mixed results. For
instance, we managed to take some very good shots of birds under a canopy of
leaves, which is not usually possible with a smartphone, but only after a few
frustrating tries.

Battery: The True Zoom mod draws power from the phone's battery , so long
sessions with it will dent the Moto Z's battery life to much less than a day .
Thankfully, the JBL SoundBoost Speaker ('6,999) and the Moto Insta-Share
Projector ('19,999) mods \xAD which were not available to us for tests \xAD
include a 1000mAh and 1100mAh battery , respectively. By itself, you can expect
to get a day's worth of work done with a single charge of the Moto Z's battery .
Add the battery mod ('5,999), and you can expect almost two days.

The Moto Z's modular design will require some tweaking before it becomes truly
viable. At present, it is an expensive proposition with each mod costing almost
as much as an entire smartphone.Buy if you are an 'early adopter' of tech and
want bragging rights to owning a phone that can shape shift into a camera,
speaker and projector.

GOOGLE PIXEL

Build: Google's flagship smartphone keeps things simple with a smooth anodised
aluminium body and a dual-tone finish on the back panel. You get a bright Quad
HD oleophobic toughened display that's responsive and works wonderfully when in
the bright outdoors. Colours appear vibrant with excellent contrast. The Pixel
will not win any awards for original design, but you will find no reason to
complain about its build, which feels solid and well balanced in the hand.
Still, for its asking price, we would have preferred if it came with some form
of water resistance.

User Interface: The Pixel comes with the latest version of Android, called
'Nougat'. There's Google Assistant, a personal voice-activated helper, which is
an augmented version of Google Now, where you can expect to get some amusing
answers for cheeky questions like \x93What do you like to eat?\x93, \x93 Are you
married?\x93.The Assistant was able to understand myriad thick accents we used
and it did a fair job of finding answers too. That said, it is unable to extract
info locally from the phone as easily as it reveals web results for nearby
restaurants and world trivia.

You can now preview notifications and perform basic actions (archive an email,
reply to an SMS) without unlocking the screen. The notification panel is also
redesigned to make it easier to access quick settings, which can be reorganized
to your preferences.Visually , icons and text look smaller and crisper. However,
Nougat lets you adjust their size as well. Pressing and holding an app icon now
displays a contextual menu with quick-action options for that app. For instance,
press and hold the Contacts icon to quickly add a new contact; do the same with
the Gmail icon to choose Compose, and the Camera icon to choose between \x93Take
a video\x93 or \x93Take a selfie\x93.

With Nougat, you get native support for faster switching between apps: Double
tap the Recents button (extreme right control in the navigation panel)

to switch between two recently-used apps. This is equivalent to the Alt+Tab
shortcut on a Windows machine. And if you long press this control, it enables a
multi-window mode. However, this works only with supported apps, which as of now
is restricted to Google services like Gmail, Chrome, Maps, etc.

You also get unlimited online storage for photos and videos at their original
resolution \xAD so you don't have to worry about running out of memory .

Performance: The Google Pixel notched the highest scores in synthetic
benchmarks, thanks to the currentgen processor purring under the hood. The
handset worked fluidly; switching quickly between apps, working across two apps
in split-screen mode without freezing up, and playing stutter-free HD games.
Simply put, this is one of the most powerful smartphones in the market right
now.

Camera: Ever since the Pixel's launch, everyone has been talking about its
cameras. Well, it's true: this handset is equipped with the best set of
smartphone cameras. Portraits taken with the rear camera are sharp with lots of
detail and vibrant colours. Low light shots are also impressive; noise is kept
under control with little loss of detail. Here, the Pixel uses electronic image
stabilisation (EIS) and shots tend to take on a slight yellow tinge. Selfies
taken with the front camera are much better than what the Honor 8 and Moto Z
were able to manage. There was just the right amount of exposure and warm skin
tones. So if you want a good Android handset primarily for a good camera, put
your money on the Pixel.

Battery: Now with all its processing muscle and sterling hardware, the Pixel XL
still manages to eke out almost two days of service before requiring a recharge.
This can vary if the device is used for watching movies and mobile photography .

The Google Pixel comes at a premium price tag, but it comes with one of the best
cameras, the absolute current and fastest mobile processor, and runs the latest
version of Android. You also get a Type-C-to-USB cable to connect pen drives for
direct file transfers. If budget is not a constraint, get this phone for its
hardware, display, battery life and fantastic cameras. It's an allround winner
alright.

What the ratings mean Below 5: The product is poor and doesn't offer the
experience it promises | 5 and 6: The product works as advertised | 7: The
product is good; will not disappoint the buyer | 8: Very good; super value for
money | 9: The device is exceptional | 10: You're kidding, right?

For more tech stories, visit toitech.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              935 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                           October 12, 2016 Wednesday

Galaxy Note 7 fiasco: Samsung stumble opens opportunity for rivals

LENGTH: 665  words

DATELINE: Paris


Paris, Oct. 12 -- Smartphone customers losing faith in Samsung have plenty of
choice at a time when Apple, Google and China's Huawei are each pushing new
models that up the features ante and do not self-combust.


 "All of Samsung's competitors are rubbing their hands in glee," said Thomas
Husson, an analyst with the Forrester technology research and consultancy firm.
 "It's basically a good product, released at the right time, but a slip-up, and
we've seen in the past with Nokia or Blackberry that these can have disastrous
effects," he added.
 While it is too early to predict a similar disappearance from the phone market
of the South Korean company, rivals are nipping at the heels of the market
leader.
 These include not only Apple and Chinese companies like Huawei, but also
internet titan Google, which entered the smartphone market last week with its
own device - the Pixel.
 "There will inevitably be some moderate-to-marginal benefit for Samsung's
handset rivals, more particularly Apple, perhaps faster-growing Huawei can
benefit more from Samsung's Note 7 travails," said analyst Ken Odeluga at the
online trading firm City Index.
 - Apple and Huawei -
 However Ian Fogg, senior director and head of the mobile and telecoms team at
the IHS technology consultancy, said that "Huawei will be the biggest
beneficiary from brand damage to Samsung."
 One of the largest providers of network infrastructure globally, Huawei has
been pushing into the smartphone market, including the top-end segment with its
P9 model that features a camera with two Leica lenses.
 "Huawei will look to pick up sales right across its portfolio," said Fogg,
noting that Huawei was already the third-largest smartphone maker.
 "Like Samsung, it uses Android and offers smartphones at a wide range of
prices."
 The blow to Samsung is unlikely to be fatal, however.
 "Competitors might enjoy a short-term boost to sales as a result of a major
player having to withdraw its new model, though overall it is likely to remain a
competitive market," said Laith Khalaf, an analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown
brokerage.
 Part of the reason is that its competitors have their own challenges to
surmount.
 Huawei, for instance, still needs to build its brand in Europe and North
America.
 Meanwhile Apple needs to recapture the excitement around its products that has
disappeared in recent years.
 - Tip of the iceberg? -
 Thomas Husson at Forrester believes "it is too early to say what the long-term
impact will be" from this incident, although the recall is likely to set it back
a considerable amount.
 Linda Sui, wireless smartphone strategies director at Strategy Analytics,
estimated that Samsung could lose "$10 billion or more" over the recall.
 "The loss of sales from the Galaxy Note is only the tip of the iceberg," warned
CMCMarkets analyst Jasper Lawler.
 "Demand for the flagship Galaxy S8, scheduled for release early next year,
could be severely impeded by the loss of consumer confidence in the Samsung
brand."
 But City Index's Ken Odeluga said that "nobody wants to believe Samsung has
'lost its touch' at producing beautiful and advanced consumer technology.
 "So there is some underlying sentiment that views its problems as the kind of
bad luck which could afflict almost any smartphone maker that is pushing
boundaries."
 But ManMohan Sodhi, a professor of operations and supply chain management at
Cass Business School in London believes that it wasn't bad luck as much as bad
judgement.
 "They should have figured out the product but with Google coming out with the
Pixel, they did not give it enough time," said Sodhi.
 While Google has developed the Android operating system that powers the
smartphones made by Samsung and other manufacturers, except for Apple, it has
generally stayed on the sidelines when it comes to handsets.
 The release of the Pixel, along with its Google Home virtual assistant,
indicates that Google aims to get its artificial intelligence technology into
the hands and homes of consumers.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              936 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                      February 28, 2016 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Google's PlaNet can tell location of photos with high accuracy

BYLINE: John DiPietro

LENGTH: 356  words


Computer specialist Tobias Weyand and his colleagues at Google have come up with
a deep-learning platform codenamed PlaNet. They have trained the system to
figure out locations where pictures have been captured on the basis of visual
cues. The project is interesting and it has showcased amazingly high degree of
accuracy in detecting places where images were taken. The system is improving
with time, said Google research team member Weyand.

The specialists at Google began by dividing up the globe into a grid, leaving
aside the oceans and polar region. MIT Technology Review reported that
thereafter, they formed a database for PlaNet, containing 126 million
geo-located pictures taken from the Internet.

PlaNet is an artificial neural network, thus it can learn. So the experts taught
the network how to recognize a picture's location on the grid only with the help
of information present in the pixels.

For testing the accuracy of PlaNet, Weyand and his team fed it 2.3 million
geo-tagged Flickr pictures. Then, PlaNet lessened 48% of them to the right
continent, 28.4% to the right country, 10.1% to the right city, and 3.6% to the
real street.

With further improvement, PlaNet can exactly locate every single random picture
on a map, however, it has to consider many other factors and pixels in pictures.
In some cases, the system makes wrong guess about location.

Though the findings might not seem all that great initially, they became
extraordinary when the tech giant team pitted their machine opposed to 10 smart,
well-traveled humans. The machine managed to win over 50% of the rounds and had
better accuracy.

The team wrote in their abstract regarding the system, "PlaNet outperforms
previous approaches and even attains superhuman levels of accuracy in some
cases".

According to the team, PlaNet doesn't need a lot of memory, either. MIT
Technology Review reported that the model uses just 377 MB, which means it could
be easily loaded on a smartphone.

PlaNet has distinct abilities, and it could end up being like a Shazam for
picture locations. A user can run, Carmen Sandiego, but can't stay out of sight
of the Google machine.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              937 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Beautiful but not smart;
DIGITAL LIFE

BYLINE: John Davidson

SECTION: LIFE & LEISURE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 716 words


The new Bravia is gorgeous - but don't bother trying to surf the net.

Try to view the website of The Daily Show With Jon Stewart on a new Sony Bravia
HX925 TV, and you'll get this message: "The size of the page was too large to be
displayed. Please view an other [sic] page."

That might be an understandable error message if, say, the HX925 were a digital
watch that doubled as a web browser. The size of a lot of pages would be too
large for a screen that size. But it's not a digital watch. It's an
internet-enabled TV with (in the case of this review) a humungous 55-inch
(134cm) screen. Just how big is Jon Stewart's noggin, that it's too large to fit
on a screen that huge? The guy is obviously smart, but bigger than 55 inches'
worth of smart? It can't be.

It turns out, it's not. It's not size that the HX925 lacks, but grunt. Like all
the smart TVs we've looked at lately, the Sony just doesn't have what it takes
to view a lot of web pages on the internet. Web pages that (like the
thedailyshow.com) use a recent version of Flash are a particular problem for the
Bravia, as are sites such as Nine's Fixplay catch-up TV service, which use a
video plug-in from Microsoft, known as Silverlight, that can't be installed.

Some catch-up TV sites, most notably those of the ABC, SBS and Channel 7, can be
viewed, not through the TV's web browser but through separate apps on the
Bravia, but other than those you're out of luck. The pages just won't play.
Given that most of the sites you're going to want to view on the Bravia are ones
that use video plug-ins, it's a real problem. And even sites that don't use
video plug-ins can have display problems on the HX925, too. Google searches
didn't work on our review unit (any search term we entered returned a Google
page featuring a picture of a broken robot), and sites that did work were
painfully slow to load and to navigate.

Smart TV just isn't as smart as you might think. A smarter option would be to
plug some other internet device into your TV, and use its grunt and the Bravia's
gorgeous screen to watch it.

Thankfully, there are plenty of other reasons to buy the $4999 HX925, the main
one being it's a beautiful piece of furniture with a gorgeous screen which, in
spite of its error messages, really is large enough to display anything.

It's one of those LCD screens that has LED backlights that can switch off in
black regions of the image, making for blacks so deep that, at times, you can't
tell where the screen ends and the black bezel that surrounds the screen begins.
The Intelligent Peak LED technology, as it's known, is quite remarkable.

It's not perfect, though. Because the LED backlights only turn off zone-by-zone
rather than pixel-by-pixel, zones that contain a mix of bright images and black
(and which therefore have to leave the LED backlights switched on) won't display
blacks as deep as zones that are completely black and can turn all the LED
backlights off. At times this creates a sort of halo around the bright images.
Intelligent Peak LED is still very good, though, and the next best thing to a
plasma display, which actually can turn its lights on and off pixel by pixel.

A feature of the Bravia which you may be slightly less interested in, but which
we nevertheless spent some time reviewing just in case, is its 3D. The HX925 has
active 3D, which has the advantage of showing 3D Blu-ray movies in all their
1080p high definition glory, but the disadvantage of meaning you have to wear
fairly expensive, fairly bulky electronic glasses if you want to see that third
dimension. As you may recall from last week's review of an LG TV, we've come to
prefer passive 3D, which is lower resolution but which uses cheaper, more
comfortable, easier-to-use glasses that won't make the room flicker and won't
make your eyes twitch the way active glasses can. (Well, active 3D makes my eyes
twitch disconcertingly, at any rate. Doubtless I'm in a small minority of
unfortunates.) Still, the HX925 does show very good, smooth 3D if you're into
that sort of thing.

As a bonus, the glasses will make you look pretty cool while you're watching 3D.
Not a brainy, Jon Stewart sort of cool, perhaps, but a rock star, Roy Orbison
sort of cool, definitely.

jdavidson@afr.com.au

It just doesn't have what it takes to view a lot of web pages.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              938 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           December 20, 2012 Thursday
                               1 - State Edition

Top 10 tech innovations of 2012

BYLINE: by Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 446  words


1. GOOGLE GLASSES Created under the moniker Project Glass, Google's wearable
technology was finally seen in the real world in April on the face of Google
co-founder Sergey Brin.

The spaceage spectacles replace one lens with a 1.3cm heads-up display offering
information otherwise seen on a smartphone screen. Google Glasses can, for
example, let users message friends, read maps and look up pub trivia answers.

Google Glass Explorer Edition will be available to app developers early next
year for $US1500.

2. MINIATURE TABLETS

Small tablets became big business this year, starting with a little something
from Google (Nexus 7) and finishing with a handbagfriendly number from Apple
(the iPad Mini).

3. LYTRO CAMERA

It's the camera that lets photographers change a photo's focus after it's been
captured. The Lytro camera, created by Australian Ren Ng, makes sophisticated
technology easy to use, as it contains a series of tiny lenses that capture
light from all angles.

4. PHONES GO LARGE

Big phones are now big business.

From the HTC One X, with its 4.7inch display, to Motorola's new 4.7inch RAZR HD,
smartphones edged closer to tablet size. Samsung retained its crown as size
leader, however, with the Galaxy Note II boasting a 5.5-inch screen.

5. 4G SPREADS

Not only did many more smartphones and mobile modems start supporting 4G this
year, but Telstra and Optus delivered LongTerm Evolution (LTE) networks to more
areas. Vodafone promises 4G next year.

6. MACS SEE RETINA

Unveiled in June, the 15-inch MacBook Pro became the first Apple Mac to receive
a Retina screen, so-named because users are unable to see individual pixels up
close. The screen features more than five million pixels, giving it a resolution
sharper than a TV.

7. MUSIC-STREAMING SERVICES

Subscription music service Rdio was joined by Rara and big-name service Spotify.
Then Telstra's MOG, Sony's Music Unlimited, Nokia Music and Microsoft's Xbox
Music started dancing to the same tune, all for a monthly subscription fee.

8. CONNECTED CAMERAS

Cameras joined the internet revolution this year.

Samsung's Galaxy Camera offers the latest Google Android software and, for the
first time, a built-in 3G connection for instant sharing.

Similarly, the Nikon Coolpix S800c features a wi-ficonnection and Android apps.

9. INSTAGRAM BOOM

This photo app launched on the Google Android system, announced it had attracted
30 million users and was bought by Facebook in a $1 billion deal in April.

10. OLED TV SCREENS

Organic light-emitting diode screens offer significantly brighter pictures,
higher contrast, smaller screen borders and significantly thinner forms.
Samsung's 55-inch screen was just 4mm thin, while LG's was just 9mm.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              939 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 4, 2013 Monday

Cloud security, Chrome Pixel review, Apple vs. Samsung award slashed, more

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 433 words


Holding everything from highly personal medical and social media material to
confidential financial and corporate documents, Internet-based cloud services
are gathering an enormous trove of information   already a quarter of the
world's business data   that is provinga powerful lure for hackers .

Troy Wolverton reviews Google's Chrome Pixel: Despite all of its bells and
whistles, the Pixel is still a Chromebook and suffers the same limitations as
the others.

GoldieBlox, anengineering toy for young girls , is the brainchild of Stanford
graduate and engineer-turned-entrepreneur Debbie Sterling, who wants to teach
girls basic engineering skills and encourage them to pursue jobs in the
male-dominated industry.

Mike Cassidy writes : When Stanford's Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller started
Coursera they didn't realize just how powerful a movement they were joining. By
taking a Coursera course, I'm beginning to see how massive open online courses
hold the promise to change the way the world learns.

Larry Magid is a judge for a contest that encourages young people to explore the
benefits of technology. And he writes: Thanks to a bill passed by the House of
Representatives last week, Congress is on the verge of creating a competition to
encourage students to create mobile and computer "apps" that demonstrate their
mastery of science, technology, education and mathematics.

A San Jose federal judge on Fridayslashed about $450 million from the $1 billion
award Apple won last August in its patent feud with Samsung, the latest in a
series of decisions weakening Apple's legal assault on its smartphone and tablet
rival.

Facebook is planning an event this weekto show off a new look for its signature
"News Feed" page , in the latest of several moves the company has made to
bolster its business and keep users coming back to the social networking site.

Seagate Technology on Fridayunveiled a $180 million cutting-edge research and
development complex at the former Solyndra solar factory in Fremont, a site the
company will use to invent next-generation disk drives.

Activist investor David Einhornwithdrew his lawsuit against Apple on Friday,
after the company pulled the proposal at the center of the court battle from the
agenda of its recent shareholders meeting.

The federal government announced Friday it willseek private bids for the
restoration and reuse of Moffett Field's Hangar One , giving fans of the
Depression-era structure a reason to cheer

Mercury News interview : Don Faught, new president of the California Association
of Realtors, talks about the housing crash and nascent recovery.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              940 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Cheap Motorola smartphone available in US early

SECTION: BUSINESS; General

LENGTH: 346 words


NEW YORK (AP) Motorola will start selling a cheap smartphone in the U.S. more
than a month ahead of schedule.

The company says it was able to produce the Moto G phones faster than expected.
The U.S. launch was initially planned for January. But it is going on sale
Tuesday.

The phone starts at $179 without a contract requirement. That compares with $600
or more that people must typically pay for high-end phones without traditional
two-year service agreements.

With the Moto G, Motorola is trying to offer a device that is closer to what"s
currently available on leading high-end phones, although it won"t work on the
faster 4G LTE networks.

The version out Tuesday will work only with GSM networks, the type used by AT&T,
T-Mobile and most carriers around the world. It won"t work with Verizon and
Sprint, which have CDMA networks. Verizon says it will offer the CDMA version
early next year. There"s no immediate word on Sprint"s plans.

The phone"s 4.5-inch (11.4-centimeter) screen, measured diagonally, is capable
of high-definition video, but only at 720p, not at the better, 1020p standard
found in leading phones. The resolution is 329 pixels per inch, which is
comparable to the 326 pixels in the latest, 4-inch iPhones but short of the 441
pixels in Samsung"s 5-inch (12.5-centimeter) Galaxy S4.

The $179 price is for a phone with 8 gigabytes of storage, not the 16 gigabytes
typical with high-end phones. A 16-gigabyte version is available for $199. The
rear camera can take images at 5 megapixels, which is less than leading phones.

In the U.S., Motorola is targeting so-called prepaid accounts. Under those
plans, customers pay for devices up front, but are not tied to two-year service
agreements. Credit-challenged customers who don"t qualify for traditional plans
often sign up for prepaid accounts.

Motorola is owned by Google Inc. Moto G, however, won"t get Google"s latest
Android operating system, Kit Kat, until early next year.

The phone launched two weeks ago. It"s currently available in Brazil, Mexico,
Chile, Argentina, Peru, Britain, Germany, France and Canada.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              941 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Latest Chromebooks coming to more countries, Android and Chrome OS merge
anticipated

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 634 words


Google has announced that it is rolling out its Chrome OS notebooks to
Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, France, and the Netherlands as of Tuesday.

The latest Chromebooks manufactured by Acer, HP and Samsung are coming to more
markets in a push that many see as confirmation that Google is planning to merge
the Android smartphone and tablet operating system with its Chrome desktop OS.

Chromebooks differ from 'traditional' notebooks in that they use a suite of
web-based applications rather than software installed directly on the computer's
hard drive. By eliminating pre-installed (or any) software and by using a very
basic operating system, installed on the processor, Chromebooks are quicker to
load and boot up than a typical desktop or notebook computer and their
processing and performance speed is dependent on the strength of the device's
internet connection. And, as the applications are stored online, they are always
the most up-to-date versions of those applications available. Chromebook users
don't have to worry about downloading patches or application updates. The use of
the Chrome internet browser to access the applications plus the fact that the
applications are constantly updated also means that the Chromebook is the
closest a typical consumer can currently get to virus-free computing.

However, since the first Samsung-built Chromebooks rolled out in 2011, they have
failed to gain any meaningful traction in their initial markets, the US and UK.
Google points to the fact that its Chromebooks dominate Amazon's best-seller
lists in the US, but according to research carried out by Digitimes, combined
sales to date are around the 500,000 mark. This gives the device's operating
system a less than 1 percent share of the global notebook market. To put this
into context, Apple sold 4.1 million Macs in the first quarter of 2013 alone
(unfortunately, Apple doesn't differentiate between desktop and notebook
computers in its earnings reports).

Still, Chromebooks are well-made, affordable computers and, with the recent
launch of the Chromebook Pixel, a notebook with a high-definition touch screen
and aluminium construction, Google is demonstrating that it can do premium as
well as entry-level design. And, if the Chrome OS and Android are merged, then
the Chromebook is expected to rocket in popularity as a device that seamlessly
integrates with the user's existing smartphone, tablet and smart TV that offers
the same services and apps on all computing platforms.

As Ben Bajarin explains in a Time tech piece: "Google has a large global
developer base for Android but not yet for Chrome web apps. Chrome is designed
to run only apps developed for the web, where Android is designed to run apps
that are installed. Once these two development environments merge, developers
will be able to design both Android and Chrome web apps with the same set of
tools, consistency and unified application stores. Google, with its expertise in
cloud services, could bring a cloud-based virtual Android environment to Chrome,
perhaps giving us the ability to run Android in the browser, seamlessly, on all
Chrome hardware."

The merger would also explain why the Chromebook Pixel features a touch screen
as Android apps are all optimized for touch rather than keyboard or mouse input.

At the moment, Microsoft and Apple both offer very good levels of device
interoperability. The iPhone and iPad dock and synch seamlessly with Apple
computers and a number of mobile apps are also available as desktop widgets.
However, Apple desktops and notebooks can't run actual iPhone apps.

As well as expanding sales to other countries, Google has also announced that in
the US, where the Chromebook is slowly starting to establish itself, the devices
will now be stocked by over 1000 Best Buy outlets.

ch/cm

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2013 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              942 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            February 21, 2014 Friday

Google-backed crowdsourced website aims to track forest destruction, but can
it?;
An online tool promises 'near-real time' monitoring of deforestation, but
critics argue that it doesn't distinguish between forests and plantations.

BYLINE: Fabien Tepper

SECTION: Science

LENGTH: 761 words


An ambitious international effort to track the rapid disappearance of the
world's forests has provoked a mix of hope and skepticism among those most
invested in their conservation.

Powered by a $25-million budget and Google-donated cloud services, Global Forest
Watch (GFW) is an online tool that algorithmically analyzes NASA satellite
photos of the world's forested areas, to detect changes indicating deforestation
or fires, both of which have been identified as contributors to global warming.
The results are presented on a free interactive website where users can watch
how industry activities, forests, fires, and conservation areas overlap across
the globe.

"Global Forest Watch is a near-real time monitoring platform that will
fundamentally change the way people and businesses manage forests," said Andrew
Steer, CEO of the World Resources Institute (WRI), in the organization's press
release. WRI launched the project in partnership with Google and the University
of Maryland. "From now on," said Dr. Steer, "the bad guys cannot hide and the
good guys will be recognized for their stewardship."

The program will provide daily visual updates on fires burning across the world
and monthly updates on forest cover in the world's humid tropical belt - in
which each pixel covers roughly the area of four football fields. Once per year,
the program will create higher-resolution updates on forest cover worldwide,
whose pixels will describe an area roughly the size of two NBA basketball
courts.

That may sound a bit slower and more pixellated than "near-real time" would
suggest, but it may be properly scaled to global deforestation; a 2013
University of Maryland study published in the journal Science found that
worldwide, about 50 football fields-worth of forest disappear per minute. And
Nigel Sizer, a former climate change advisor to President Bill Clinton who leads
GFW, says the program can detect smaller changes. "If there's a significant
change within that area, then it will light up the whole pixel," he says.

Amy Moas, a Senior Forest Campaigner with Greenpeace, says the project could
improve both public and corporate understandings of deforestation.

"I think that any time you take what's happening on the ground and you put it
into a useful tool that everyday people can use, it can make a huge difference
in people's understanding of what's happening," she says. "In principle, it
could be a part of the solution."

But a sticking point of the project may be the difficulty of distinguishing
forest cover from agricultural plantations, which are often in direct
competition. Managed plantations rarely allow the species diversity that arises
in a forest, and most use harmful pesticides. A 2013 version of GFW, presented
by University of Maryland geographers without the backing of WRI, received
criticism for its failure to identify oil palm plantations in Indonesia.

"The Global Forest Cover Change map has mapped out oil palm plantations owned by
Sinarmas Group in Papua as forest cover gains," Elfian Effendi, director of
environmental group Greenomics Indonesia, told the Jakarta Post in November.

Dr. Moas of Greenpeace says this problem was a serious drawback to last year's
version. "Rows and rows and rows of the exact same tree for as far as you can
see... doesn't provide the same ecosystem services that a forest would provide,"
she says.

The project's failure to distinguish between natural forests and industrial
agriculture has not yet been resolved, according to Dr, Sizer. "The current
University of Maryland and Google analysis does not differentiate between
plantations and forests, and we're working on that," he says, adding that "one
of the cool ways that we can potentially accelerate that is using the power of
the crowds."

Anyone can drop comments, reports, or corrections onto specific map locations at
globalforestwatch.org. And the project is working on a mobile phone app that
will allow the discerning eyes of human volunteers to distinguish between crops
and forests, in areas which may flummox the computer algorithm.

"Citizen scientists can help improve the accuracy of the whole system," says
Sizer.

During the first 24 hours of the project's launch, Sizer says 25,000 people in
170 countries had browsed the site. "We're very happy with that from day one,"
he says.

Global Forest Watch charges ahead with a staff of 20, on the strength of a $10
million donation from the Norwegian government, and $5 million each from the
governments of the US and UK, and the international public-private Global
Environment Facility.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              943 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Bucks Free Press

                            January 20, 2014 Monday

Tech round-up: Google working on 'smart contact lens' and Valve reveals gaming
interface

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1045 words


In this week's Round-Up we hear about Google's plans for a 'Smart Contact Lens',
new screens for next-gen Apple devices, updates to Google's Chrome browser plus
possible new products from Amazon and Valve!

CUTTING EDGE: Google Working on 'Smart Contact Lens' To Monitor Glucose Levels

Google has announced that they are developing a 'smart contact lens' to measure
glucose levels in human tears. It utilises a tiny wireless chip and glucose
sensors, which are embedded between two layers of lens material.

To take the concept further, Google are said to be working on integrating small
LED lights into the device to act as a warning when levels fall beneath a
certain threshold.

Obviously, this device is still in the early stages of development but it will
become part of a growing market for wearable technology and more significantly,
could help those with diabetes manage their disease.

According to the International Diabetes Foundation, one in ten people across the
world are expected to suffer with diabetes by 2035 so this new device and cannot
come soon enough.

Google is working with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to help bring
the market to mainstream use, whilst also searching for app developers to help
build an interface and make the information accessible to both user and doctor
alike.

In the years to come, I think we can expect to see many more healthcare devices
hit the open market and they could become invaluable to a great many of us.

APPLE: Possible 5-inch HD Display on Next iPhone and a Curved AMOLED for iWatch

The research firm DisplaySearch predicts that the next-gen iPhone could boast an
impressive 5.5-inch 'Full HD' display and that the iWatch might feature a
flexible AMOLED screen.

These are of course only projections but the firm has shown some success with
Apple predictions in the past. The technology site CNET reported that there are
two possible options for the display on the iPhone 6.

The first, lower-end option is a 4.7-inch 1600x900 pixel resolution display,
which would still be an improvement on the iPhone 5S.

The second, high-end option is a 5.5-inch screen with the Full HD resolution of
1920x1080, providing an impressive 407 pixels per inch (PPI). As for the iWatch,
DisplaySearch thinks that Apple will use and AMOLED screen, this would be the
first time they have used the technology.

Two possible screen candidates have emerged, both flexible displays at 1.3 or
1.6 inches with a 320x320 pixel resolution.

However, it is too early to tell for sure, these are only predictions and 2013
saw many rumours of flexible displays for Samsung's wearable tech that have yet
to materialise.

ANDROID: Chrome Update Adds Data Compression and Home Screen Shortcuts

For those of you who use Chrome for Android as your mobile browser, you will be
happy to hear that Google has introduced a new data compression option and
simple home screen shortcuts.

Google's bandwidth management compresses data through its own servers, which is
great news for those on limited data plans. Simply launch Chrome, go into
'Settings' then 'Bandwidth Management' and toggle 'Reduce Data Usage'.

A welcome feature indeed and it's good to see Google looking after its
customers' interests here. The gorgeous simplicity of Chrome's mobile browser
has been improved by the addition of home screen shortcuts as well.

You can add any web page you like to your Chrome home screen by just going to
'Settings' and 'Add to Home Screen'. This brings the experience much closer to
its desktop counterpart, making regularly used links that bit more accessible.

Certain optimised websites will even appear in full-screen and be displayed
separately in the Android app switcher, which is especially useful if those
sites don't already have their own Android app.

GADGETS: Amazon Working on a Device That's "Bigger Than Kindle"

As seen on one of Amazon's own event invites, the online retailer is said to be
working on a product that will be "bigger than Kindle".

Obviously, we don't believe this should be taken literally; this isn't about
increasing the size of their e-readers. The company has not revealed publicly
what this new product could be but they are set to discuss it further at a
recruitment event in Boston on January 30th.

The Boston Globe reports that Amazon may be looking to hire people to develop a
new set-top box to deliver digital content to your television. Certainly there
have been extensive rumours about such a product but this could be the first
real sign of its development.

It makes complete sense for the company to release such a device but would put
it in direct competition with the likes of Google's Chromecast, Apple TV and the
Roku Box.

It's a tough market to be in but Amazon could pull it off, we've already seen
them diversify their product ranges and delivery options in the form of the
Google Fire HDX and Kindle Air drones respectively.

Of course, nothing has been confirmed about this set-top box yet but if it does
become a reality, would you make use of it?

GAMING: Valve Releases Virtual Reality Interface To The Public

The infamous games giant Valve has released a virtual reality interface dubbed
'SteamVR' to the public. It is currently available to anyone with an Oculus Rift
device, the pioneering new virtual reality machine in the hands of many
developers at the moment.

SteamVR allows users to explore the company's digital game platform but could
well be just a proof of concept at this stage as the company has already
revealed bigger plans for virtual reality technology.

It follows Valve's development of new, innovative interfaces; there is already a
custom full-screen mode for Steam on PC.

Considering their development of the 'Steam Box' and 'Steam Controller' I am
sure we can expect to see the company release its own virtual reality headset
sometime soon.

Valve continues to re-affirm its commitment to innovative design and breaking
down the barriers between game and gamer. 2014 could be a very interesting year
for all us, potentially changing how we interface with our favourite devices for
years to come.

James is a freelance technology and science writer from Bucks.

His interests range from gadgets and apps to movies and gaming, really anything
geeky!

Check back here every week for the latest news and reviews!

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              944 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday
                              CourierMail Edition

All I want for Christmas

BYLINE: Rod Chester and Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SECTION: SWITCHEDON; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 419  words


Rod Chester and Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson hunt for the best big-ticket gadgets
to put under the Christmas tree

FENIX 3 SAPPHIRE IN ROSE GOLD GARMIN **** Garmin has joined the rush to release
hi-tech gadgetry in rose gold with this running-friendly watch. The Fenix 3
Sapphire offers a fashionable look but it comes with a very large watch face
that won't suit everyone's tastes or wrists. This is a true multi-sport GPS
watch with navigational functions and smart features suited to a range of
sports, from trail running to skiing. $899 / garmin.com.au

HARMONY ELITE LOGITECH **** If you live in a house where remote controls are too
remote, the Logitech Harmony Elite kit can assist. It contains a hub, extra
receiver, and controller with large touchscreen. Together they can control up to
15 devices. Setup is easy - entering a device model into its Android or Apple
app programs the control's buttons - and you can add "activities" such as "Watch
a movie" that can dim smart lights, turn your TV on and prepare your Blu-ray
player simultaneously. The kit turns phones connected to your wi-fi network into
remote controls. It is a big expense, however, for convenience.

$550 / logitech.com

NEXUS 6P GOOGLE **** 1/2 Google calls this its "most premium" phone yet, and
it's no exaggeration. The Nexus 6P, made by Huawei, is far from a mid-range
phone. It has an aluminium body, a Quad HD screen with more pixels than the
latest Apple iPhone (518ppi), a USB-C port and a powerful 2GHz octa-core chip to
run its new Android Marshmallow software. This phone introduces the Nexus
Imprint fingerprint scanner, which works reliably and turns the phone on at the
back, and its 12.3-megapixel rear camera leaps over its predecessor, thanks to
an f2.0 aperture and larger pixels for lowlight performance.

$899-$1099 / play.google.com

ALPHA 7R II SONY **** 1/2 Sony's second full-frame compact camera aimed at pros
is a 42.4-megapixel beast most would be happy to unwrap this Christmas. The
second A7R camera quickens its focus to just 0.3 second thanks to hybrid
autofocus, adds a backlit CMOS sensor for greater light sensitivity, ably
captures 4K video, and has five-axis image stabilisation to reduce motion blur.
Its body is largely unchanged, with a comfortable grip, electronic viewfinder
and tilting screen, and its wi-fi transfer feature is easy to use. On the
downside, given its high resolution it pauses for 0.7 second between shots, only
shoots five photos per second, and it also lacks a touchscreen.$4499 /
sony.com.au

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              945 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

@Thinking Digital: Hans Rosling shows how to visualise world change

LENGTH: 611 words

ABSTRACT

Doctor and researcher discusses how he developed visualisations to illustrate
data on the developing world

FULL TEXT

At a conference called Thinking Digital, the presentation of doctor and
researcher Hans Rosling might be called Seeing Digital. If there ever was a
statistics and visualisation rock star, Hans Rosling would be it. While
teaching, he realised that his students had a 40-year-old world view. They have
a view of the developing world that didn't take into the account the level of
development those countries had achieved in the last 40 years. "They had a
Tintin-based view of the world," he said.

Working with his son and other members of his family, he developed
visualisations that showed how China, Brazil and India had caught up with the
developed world over the last 40 years based in looking at fertility rates and
life expectancy. But this outdated view of the world wasn't just among his
students, the news media had never communicated these changes, he said.

As he looked at the data and the best way to represent it, he saw how animations
could help explain these changes, showing how health and economic conditions had
changed over time. Using Flash, they were able to clearly show these trends in
powerful ways and established the  to support their work.

Moving on from health data, he also showed how interactive graphics could drill
down from comparisons between regions in the world to countries in those
regions. They even were able to dynamically drill down to variations on a
country-basis, showing variations in health between the richest and poorest 20%
of populations in countries like Brazil and Namibia.

To develop these animations, they used an iterative process, improving the
animations step-by-stop. They used game principles, putting their hours of video
gaming to good use, he joked. Usually in developing statistical visualisations,
you have the content or stat geeks and the designers, and it's a difficult
balance to be struck. They decided instead of making beautiful icons that:

...no pixel would be there just for beauty. Every pixel had to carry
information.

Challenging governments over data

The biggest problem that they ran into during developing these statistical
visualisations was getting the data. He called on governments around the world:

Statistics are paid by for the taxpayers, compiled by people paid for taxpayers.
That data should be allowed free on the net for innovators like you to use.

The Gapminder Foundation have now sold some of its software to Google but have
retained a free licence and the ability to sub-licence the software. Hans's son
and the Swedish staff have now moved to Google. Hans said some have questioned
the decision to sell the source code to Google, but he said he had wanted to
develop a service not a product. Their main goal was to push for governments to
liberate data so that innovators could use that data to develop services. He
highlighted how  in the US beginning with unemployment data.

He showed how unemployment in California compared to US unemployment overall,
and he was even able to show unemployment in Alpine County. The data showed huge
seasonal spikes. Why the wide variation? It's a ski resort.

He was asked whether governments should create a single portal for data like
Data.gov in the US or leave it to individual agencies. He replied:

The government should take all statistics - labour, financial, education and
health in one unified block - and make it downloadable every Friday afternoon
with their watermark embedded. Allow the software industry to innovate.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              946 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Nepali Times

                              May 10, 2013 Friday

Born again

LENGTH: 534  words

DATELINE: Kathmandu


Kathmandu, May 10 -- To put it simply, Samsung Galaxy S4 begins where the S3
ended. At first glance, it looks a lot like its predecessor, but the new and
much improved features make the S4 a much smarter choice. So just what does the
newest Galaxy offer? A better question would be what doesn't it offer?

The S4 comes jam packed with a lot of features that will take some time to
master but once you get the hang of it, you'll not stop touching your phone.
S4's colouful 5-inch HD, 1080 super AMOLED screen is absolutely beautiful and
ideal for watching videos. With a 441 ppi pixel density, the images appear
refined, sharp, and detailed without any blur edges. Yantrick watched the
trailer of Iron Man 3 and was blown away by the precision in details of images.
Now, add a blazing quad-core processor and the S4 is your gaming heaven.

The phone runs on Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean, has 2GB RAM, and comes with 16GB,
32GB, and 64GB internal memory. Although it is currently only available in 16GB
model, the internal memory can be extended using a micro SD card. The S4 comes
with basic preinstalled apps like calculators, music player, Google services
like Gmail, navigation, chrome, and also Samsung's apps like S memo, S Health, S
translator (which works much like Google translate). The speakers placed at the
rear provide fairly loud audio. But be careful not to place your hands on the
back-mounted speaker otherwise the sound gets muffled.

The screen is super sensitive and if you are too busy eating a burger when the
phone rings, don't worry about getting your set dirty. The Air gesture lets you
accept calls, browse photos or the web, and change songs with a quick sweep of
your hands across the screen and voila. The Air view, which was first featured
on the Galaxy Note II, allows you to preview mails and photos from the gallery
by simply hovering your finger above the screen. Samsung seems really determined
to turn us all into budding magicians.

Equipped with a sharp shooting 13 mega pixel camera along with a 2 mega pixel
front facing camera, the S4 is a good enough substitute for digital cameras.
Also on offer are a myriad of tricks that allow everything from dual shots to
smart pause.

At Rs 71,900, owning the new kid on the block will burn a hole in most of our
wallets. But fret not. Nabil Bank and Laxmi Bank are offering easy monthly
installments at zero per cent interest. You can even exchange your old Samsung
S2 and S3 by forking out some extra cash.

Galaxy S4 is available at Samsung Mobile Plaza, Royal Singhi Plaza, Darbar Marg.

Yantrick's verdict: if you are willing to splash some real cash for a
do-everything smart phone, then Samsung Galaxy S4 is the right pick.

Display: 5 inches

Weight: 130 grams

OS: Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean

Memory: 2GB

Storage: 16 (8.8GB free space), 32 or 64GB

Removable storage: up to 64GB microSDXC

Battery: 2600 mAh Li-ion

Rear camera: 13 megapixels 1080p

Front camera: 2 megapixels 1080p

Audio: Mono speaker with Qualcomm DAC or Wolfson Micro WM5102 audio chip
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Nepali Times. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Himal Media Pvt. Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              947 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

3 giants from Androidland enter the phone lists;
State of the Art

BYLINE: BY DAVID POGUE

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1245 words

ABSTRACT

The HTC Rezound, the Motorola Razr Maxx and the Samsung Galaxy Nexus are being
offered by the three biggest players in Androidland.

FULL TEXT

You know the old geek joke, right? If you don't like the Android phones, just
wait. There will be a new one in a moment.

Together, the iPhone and phones running the Android software by Google make up
more than 90 percent of the app-phone market. But the philosophies of these two
companies could not be more different.

Apple designs ''the whole widget,'' as Steven P. Jobs used to say: both the
software and the phone. The result is clean, reliable and consistent, but you
are limited to the features Apple wants to give you. For example, if you want a
4G phone (one that runs on the new, very fast Internet networks in big U.S.
cities), you are out of luck.

And a new iPhone, accompanied by a major software release, comes out only once a
year, or less often.

Google, on the other hand, subscribes to the old Microsoft Windows formula:
Write the software, and let other companies build the phones. There are dozens
of Android phones, and they are replaced by newer, better phones every few
months.

The result is a lot of choice, but also a lot of fragmentation. There is no one
Android phone. Some models can be updated with new Android software, some
cannot. A certain app might or might not run on your phone.

The three biggest players in Androidland are Samsung, Motorola and HTC. All
three are offering new marquee Android phones.

By iPhone standards, these phones are big; that is the trend these days. You
could almost fit an entire iPhone into just the screen area of these Androids.
Big is great for maps, movies, photos and Web sites; less good for holding up to
your head on a call.

All three phones have front and back cameras, Wi-Fi, GPS and Bluetooth. Each can
serve as a portable Wi-Fi hot spot for your laptop, for an added monthly fee
from a service provider.

The HTC Rezound ($300 with a two-year contract in the United States) comes with
a pair of in-ear headphones from Beats by Dr. Dre. Those, plus matching
software, give music playback extra clarity and bass.

This thickish phone was the first in the United States with a true
high-definition screen (1280 pixels by 720 pixels; 4.3 inches, or 11
centimeters) - sharper even than the iPhone's Retina screen. Even the
front-facing screen can film 720p high-definition video, which is a rarity. The
rest of the specs are the usual on high-end phones these days: 8-megapixel rear
camera, 10 gigabytes of built-in storage for your apps, and a   memory-card slot
if you need more room (a 16-gigabyte card comes with the phone).

Then there is the huge Motorola Razr Maxx ($300), whose claim to fame is its
beefy battery. This may be the first 4G phone that gets you through a full day,
and maybe even longer, on a single charge. Yet it is still as thin as an iPhone.

The screen is not hi-def (it is 960 pixels by 540 pixels), but the storage is
ample: 16 gigabytes inside, plus a 16-gig memory card.

Motorola continues to think outside the hardware and software boxes: you can buy
a 10-inch or 14-inch laptop for this phone, which becomes the brain and the
storage when you connect it. And the Smart Actions app is pure brilliance: it
lets you set up battery-saving rules like ''dim the screen when the battery gets
low'' or ''turn off GPS if I forget to plug you in at nighttime.'' You can also
set up convenience rules like ''set the ringer to vibrate after 10 p.m.,'' or
''display my kids' photo as the wallpaper whenever I'm at home.'' It is pretty
wonderful.

But the Samsung Galaxy Nexus ($300) might be the most interesting phone of the
batch. Not because of the phone itself, though that is fine: 32 gigabytes of
storage (no card slot), fast processor, textured removable plastic back panel to
swap out a battery or memory card easily, 1280-by-720-pixel hi-def screen, so-so
5-megapixel   camera.

No, the Nexus is significant because it is the first phone to come with Android
4.0, code-named Ice Cream Sandwich, or I.C.S. (Google names its Android versions
after sugary treats.) There is a lot of excitement in this new software.

One important change is that I.C.S. phones do not have a row of physical
navigation buttons anymore (like Home, Back and Menu); instead, they are images
on the screen. That eats away at the screen space, of course, but they disappear
when you need the room - say, when you are watching movies or taking
photographs. And they rotate with the phone now, too, so they are always
upright.

The Motorola and HTC phones reviewed here will get upgrades to I.C.S. this year.
Of course, they will then have double sets of navigation buttons.

A large part of I.C.S. is about playing iPhone catch-up. Now, for example, you
can fire up the camera directly from the Lock screen. There is a Dock at the
bottom of the screen for your most-used apps. You can now perform photo and
video edits right on the phone. The e-mail apps show the first few words of the
message bodies. There is a spelling checker that underlines questionable words.
You can create folders for your apps by dragging one icon atop another.

The new address-book app collects your friends' information from Twitter,
LinkedIn and Google Plus (though not Facebook, weirdly enough). All of their
photos and news blurbs rest in one handy place, as Microsoft has done with its
phone software.

The Web browser lets you save Web pages for reading later when you are offline,
offers a stealth mode that leaves no browsing history and lets you request the
full-blown version of a site if a subpar cellphone version is being forced on
you.

Android's speech recognition is not as accurate as that of Siri on the iPhone,
and it is still just for dictation - it does not take Siri commands like ''Set
my alarm for 8:30.'' But now the words fly onto the screen as you are saying
them; you no longer have to wait until you stop talking for the transcription to
appear.

The camera app is a marvel. It offers zero shutter lag, face recognition and
special effects like buggy eyes and background replacement. You can take a still
photo while you are recording video. Best of all, there is a Panorama mode like
the one on Sony cameras. You slowly swing the phone in an arc around you, and
the phone creates a seamless super-wide photo.

Then there is Face Unlock, which instantly unlocks the phone when the front
camera recognizes you. It is probably sufficient to thwart only the least
motivated bad guys; it is easily fooled by a photo of you, or a blood relative.

Beam lets you share an app, a video, an address-book card, map directions or a
Web address, just by holding your phone back-to-back with another I.C.S. phone
and then tapping O.K. If it catches on, Beam will be a real hero.

That is really only the tip of the ice cream sandwich. When the new software
arrives on superphones like the Motorola Razr Maxx, it will be a truly delicious
combination.

Android still feels disjointed in spots. Why do we still have to use different
apps for Gmail and all other e-mail? And there is no standard connector in a
standard spot, so there is no universe of docks, alarm clocks, car adapters and
so on, as there is with the Apple devices.

Still, Android is coming on strong; all manufacturers considered, it is
outselling the iPhone. In short, Android's latest push toward power and polish
should thrill almost everyone. The possible exception: anyone whose
three-month-old Android phone is suddenly obsolete.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              948 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                           January 9, 2008 Wednesday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

Top tech trends for 2008

BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SECTION: TODAY; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1664  words


What will this year's must-have device be? Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson reports

GADGETS just get better and more desirable every year. Who, in 2006, would have
predicted that iPods would make phone calls, cheap laptops would be the size of
books and mobile phones would be directing us through traffic?

Yet even more seemingly unfathomable technological breakthroughs will be made
this year, with a new wave of creations on the horizon.

Some of the top entertainment and technology firms have already foreshadowed big
releases, while trends will force others to think on their feet and produce
amazing gadgetry to enhance our lives.

We've peeked at their plans, extrapolated others and report below on what looks
like a promising year.

The Google phone

THOUGHT the Apple iPhone was exciting? What about a mobile phone from web giant
Google?

We don't know what it will look like yet, but Google reportedly showed a
prototype of the so-called Google phone dubbed "Dream'' to interested companies
in August last year.

Taiwanese mobile phone company HTC is collaborating with Google on the project,
and HTC chief marketing officer John Wang said the phone would be released
mid-year.

What is known is that any Google phone would feature access to Google's search
engine and web applications and make mobile web surfing second nature.

Apple iPhone in Australia

WHEN will it get here, who will sell it and why isn't it here already?

Apple single-handedly shook up the mobile phone market last year with the launch
of its iPhone handset, left. But more than six months on, the revolutionary
mobile phone is still only travelling to Australia via American relatives,
tourists and eBay. Apple even instructed Australian resellers not to support the
iPhone in an attempt to stem the grey market trade.

For those who missed the hype, the iPhone won praise for its 3.5in touch-screen
and its phone, iPod, camera, video and photo capabilities.

So when will it finally get here? An Apple spokeswoman says it is expected
``some time in 2008'' but Australia's big five mobile phone companies have yet
to announce a deal with Apple.

Apple CEO Steve Jobs said Apple was also working on a 3G version of the iPhone,
with an acceptable battery for the device due late this year, though it is
likely Australia will get the 2.5G version first.

Digital radio

RADIO fans already have their choice of listening to AM, FM or internet
stations, but what about the ability to rewind and pause live broadcasts, tune
into dedicated concert, competition and traffic stations and read song titles
from a radio's screen?

All of these things will be possible with digital radio, below, due to launch in
Australia this year.

Australian radio stations have been testing the technology since 1999, with
active trials in Sydney for some time. But with plans under way to launch the
technology in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart on January
1, 2009, experts are tipping broadcasts to begin late this year.

You will need a new radio to tune into the digital broadcasts, but it should be
worth the investment. Radio stations will be able to beam text or images such as
traffic maps to your radio screen, will be able to offer more than one channel
each, and reception will be clear.

High-definition everything

THOUGHT high-definition was big in 2007? Expect to hear that term more than ever
this year.

Television stations are broadcasting it, Foxtel is plotting to release it and
more DVDs and flat-panel television screens will boast full high-definition
resolution for less money in 2008.

High-definition simply refers to video with a greater number of pixels, making
images sharper and more lifelike.

Full high-definition video features 1080 pixels by 1920 pixels, progressively
scanned. As a guide, this means high-definition DVDs feature five times the
detail of regular DVDs.

But buying full HD technology has been confusing, with some consumers buying
products with lower specifications by accident. That should be helped this year
with the introduction of a logo (a tick) to certify a product delivers full
high-definition vision.

Education campaigns by the free-to-air channels, which all offer HD broadcasts
now, will also help, as will the campaign by Foxtel preparing for its mid-2008
launch of four HD channels.

As for high-definition DVDs, the war between the Blu-ray and HD-DVD formats is
still raging, though Blu-ray is clearly winning the battle in Australia.

If a format does not claim ultimate victory soon, we may see the emergence of
another technology to rule them all.

Warner Bros has developed a technology called Total HD, which allows a DVD to
feature Blu-ray content on one side, and HD-DVD content on the other. The
company has yet to release the technology though, perhaps as it waits to see
whether the war will end in the near future.

TiVo

IT HELPS millions of Americans skip TV commercials and find new shows to watch
daily and it's coming to Australia.

TiVo, above, is a digital video recorder launched in the US in 1999 that lets
users record TV shows to a hard drive, like a computer, so they can pause or
rewind live broadcasts or simply save shows for later.

The set-top box, popularised in shows such as Sex and The City, also lets users
record entire TV show seasons or any shows featuring a certain actor, and
suggests TV shows a user might like based on their preferences.

While Foxtel's digital video recorder, the iQ, is leading the DVR pack in
Australia, Channel 7 plans to shake things up in 2008 after doing a deal with
TiVo to bring the device to Australia and New Zealand.

It's not yet clear how the Australian TiVo will work. Its success will depend on
whether Seven can secure TV guides for Foxtel programming and that of its
free-to-air rivals, but this is a gadget with great promise.

Roaming internet

WANT to get broadband at home but don't want to pay for a phone line connection?
Mobile phone companies have recognised this problem and are making mobile
broadband a lot more attractive.

Don't think this means huddling around your mobile phone and typing emails with
a numeric keypad. All five mobile phone companies now offer internet plans that
use mobile phone networks and connect to your PC.

For example, 3 Mobile is enticing customers with a free USB modem and 1GB of
downloads for $14.50 a month, while Vodafone recently launched its offer of a
free USB modem, right, with 5GB of downloads a month for $39.

You can also use these mobile modems when travelling, making them handy gadgets.
Expect to see greater competition this year as phone companies vie for the
growing laptop-toting market, and more travellers' faces buried in laptops at
cafes, airports, hotels and everywhere in between.

eBooks

AMAZON launched its big eBook hope, the Kindle, late last year and Australian
bookseller Dymocks followed shortly afterwards with its electronic reading
device, the iLiad.

Like a portable computer, an eBook reader displays text on its screen and lets
you flip pages, make notes, save bookmarks, look up words in its dictionary and
even download new titles. However, its screen is more like a printed page than a
flickering computer screen, making it easier on the eyes and the gadget's
battery.

These eBook readers are far from mainstream at the moment, with the Kindle
launched in the US for $US399 ($455) and the iLiad, bottom right, retailing for
a whopping $899 in Dymocks, but with increased support in the form of cheap book
downloads and a growing library of titles, the eBook has the potential to find a
market this year.

PlayStation Home

SONY'S PlayStation 3, top right, is one highly capable games console, able to
entertain you with games, videos, photos, music, the web, downloads and more.
But one thing it was due to boast by now is a virtual online community.
PlayStation Home has been in development since 2005. Each user represents
themself with an avatar and, like Second Life, users can then roam virtual
environments, making virtual friends and enemies as they talk to others via text
or voice chat, and even share music.

PlayStation Home will also have places of interest such as virtual movie
theatres and shopping malls, as well as players' houses which they can decorate
as they wish.

Beta testing for this new community is due to begin in the first quarter of this
year, so PlayStation 3 users should keep their eyes peeled and controllers
poised.

GPS phones

IF YOU missed out on the GPS phone, above, trend last year, you will be given
plenty of chances to catch up in 2008.

Nokia already wowed us with the new Nokia N95 8GB in December -- a faster,
sexier version of its breakthrough navigating phone with an added 8GB memory
inside. But the company has more on the cards for this year.

Recently revealed in Finland, the N82 mobile phone is due to arrive early this
year. It is a sleek, silver candybar phone with raised buttons and a 2.4in
screen. More importantly, it also boasts a 5-megapixel camera with Carl Zeiss
lens, autofocus and Xenon flash, Assisted GPS navigation, an MP3 player, wi-fi,
Bluetooth, FM radio and HSDPA connectivity.

It won't be the only GPS-enabled mobile phone launched this year, but reports so
far indicate it might be one of the smallest and the slickest.

Green gadgets

GREEN has certainly become the new black, with everyone from celebrities to
corporations supporting the call for cleaner, more efficient and more
Earth-friendly technology and practices. Expect to see that trend affect more
gadgets this year, in many ways.

Nokia, for example, will launch 3110 Evolve, above left, a phone featuring a
cover made largely of renewable materials, and coming with an energy-efficient
charger and packing that is 60 per cent recyclable. Fujitsu will introduce a
laptop with a plastic case made from corn.

You should also expect to see many more technology recycling campaigns aimed at
reusing parts of discarded mobile phones, computers and other electronics. A
growing list of programs is available at the Planet Ark website
RecyclingNearYou.com.au.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              949 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                    The Woman (Al Bawaba formerly Al Mar'a)

                                 July 16, 2013

GADGETS & GIZMOS

LENGTH: 1475  words


KEEPING TABS
SOME 'SMART' TABLETS FOR THE MULTI-TASKING YOU

Acer Iconia

Acer unveiled the second generation Acer Iconia B1 with a new pure and simple
design, increased performance and additional 3G(2) data connection option,
setting a new standard for a tablet targeted at young or new users or families
looking for an additional tablet for their children. The Iconia B1 is also ideal
for busy individuals seeking a convenient mobile companion.

Google Nexus 7

For the woman on the go, here's a tablet that's a handy companion. Thin, light
and portable, the 7-inch tablet has an all-day battery life. With up to 32GB
storage and the option to add mobile date, you can take even more of your
favourite content with Google Play with you anywhere.

Samsung Galaxy Note 8.0

It is all set to 'move you'. Say hello to the new Note 8.0, your everyday
companion in the dos and don'ts of life. With well-connected nimble performance
and the natural feel of a S pen, it's perfectly sized to always be there with
you, at a moment's notice. Scribble a thought, sketch out a concept, organise
your ideas and express your creativity wherever inspiration may strike.

Ipad Mini

"There's less of it, but no less to it," goes the tagline for the new iPad Mini.
It has everything you love about the iPad - the beautiful screen, fast and fluid
performance, Face Time and iSight cameras. Plus think of the thousands of
amazing apps you can download. Another 'up' in your favour is the 10-hour
battery life. And at just 7.2 millimetres, it's pencil-thin and unbelievably
light. Got any questions to ask? Just ask Siri!

Sony Tablet P

It has a dual screen for maximum mobility while being convenient and easy to
use. Which also means more can be done on the go with two 13.9 cm (5.5") touch
screens, 1GB RAM, MicroSD card storage, ultra light and compact design, Wi-Fi
and 3G. Check it out!

SMART CHOICES
A LIST OF SMARTPHONES FOR WOMEN ON THE GO...

Samsung Galaxy S4

They are asking you to make your life richer, simpler, and more fun. Get a load
of the Airview feature that enables users to preview and scroll through e-mail,
control private photo gallery, music, or video clips and navigate the internet
hovering with fingers above the screen without the need to touch it. Moreover,
Galaxy S4 LTE employs two new features namely the smart pause and smart scroll,
the front-facing camera for eye tracking. A video can be paused by looking away
from the screen, a page can be scrolled by tilting the screen up or down while
looking at it up or down, right or left.

Nokia Lumia 925

The Nokia Lumia 925 introduces a metal design and showcases the latest PureView
camera innovation, new features and third party applications coming to the
range. The Nokia Lumia 925 includes the most advanced lens technology and next
generation imaging software to capture clearer, sharper pictures and video,
including the best low light images. It also features the new Nokia Smart Camera
mode, coming as an update to all LumiaWindows Phone 8 smartphones.

Samsung Galaxy Note II

The Samsung Galaxy Note II provides the perfect viewing experience with a large
5.5" HD Super AMOLED display. It offers better clarity and a 16:9 screen ratio -
perfecting all viewing experiences. The innovative design of the Galaxy Note II
includes a bigger screen while maintaining a slim body to fit just right in your
hand. Built with a 1.6 GHz quad-core processor and 3100mAh battery it empowers
to keep your mind at ease as you unleash your creativity.

Sony Xperia ZR

Here comes a sleek and durable smartphone with the highest level of
water-resistance for filming in Full HD underwater. The Sony Xperia ZR Android
smartphone offers leading technology and content with a 4.6" HD Reality display,
13 megapixel fast capture camera and Qualcomm® SnapdragonTM S4 Pro quad-core 1.5
GHz processor.

Google Nexus 4

With your favourite Google Apps, an amazing Photo Sphere camera, cutting edge
hardware, and access to your favourite entertainment on Google Play - Nexus 4
puts the best of Google in the palm of your hand. Nexus 4 comes with the latest
version of Google Now to bring you just the right information at just the right
time. The phone comes with a high- performance 8MP camera and takes stunning
Photo Sphere images, letting you capture every detail of the world around you.

LG Optimus G Pro

LG Optimus G Pro is your personal share machine, helping you stay in the moment
with an immersive and expansive display, camera features that capture the
essence of a memory, processing power ready to fuel unparalleled experiences,
and on-device interactions like nothing you've ever seen before. Featuring a
screen so expansive, colours so accurate, and images so dazzling on a 5.5" Full
HD IPS Screen for Optimal Viewing of 1080p Video, Optimus G Pro delivers an
on-device immersive cinematic viewing experience. When there are no words, there
is the 13 MP Full HD camera.

iPhone 5

The new iPhone 5 sports a remarkably slim design which makes room for a larger
display and a faster chip. And also ultra-fast wireless that doesn't sacrifice
battery life. The four-inch retina display is cool and so is the 8MP camera.
With the new A6 chip, just about everything you do on iPhone 5 is noticeably
faster - up to twice as fast compared with the A5 chip. And it measures a mere
7.6 millimetres thin and weighs just 112 grams. It sure is an i-World after all!

THE BEST LAPTOPS IN THE MARKET - CHOOSE THE ONE THAT DEFINES YOU!

GAME CHANGERS

Dell XPS 13 Ultrabook

Dell's first Ultrabook is definitely one of the most talked about product of the
year with its stylish ultra-thin design. It offers users the option of Intel
Core i5 2467M or Intel Core i7 2637M, and comes with other basic specifications
like 4GB RAM and a 13.3" HD display. Quite economical in cost Dell has done a
great job - creating a perfect combination of high-end features, long lasting
performance with a stylish sleek exterior.

Apple MacBook Air 13-inch

It is called the 'ultimate everyday notebook' powerful enough to carry you
through the day. With the latest Intel Core i5 and i7 processors, up to 60 per
cent faster graphics, and faster flash storage, MacBook Air packs a lot of
features into an astonishing 2.38 pounds. Since space-saving flash storage
leaves room for a bigger battery, you can devote more time to the things you
enjoy most. Things like browsing the web, editing photos, and watching videos.

Chromebook Pixel

Nothing can be more confusing than choosing a good laptop, and if you are the
one who fusses even over the colours and the smallest feature then you're on
your own! Google's new touchscreen Chromebook Pixel has the highest pixel
density (239 pixels per inch); packed with 4.3 million pixels, the display
offers sharp text, vivid colours and extra-wide viewing angles. A touchscreen
laptop running Chrome OS, The laptop is meant to be a high-end device for the
power users and is definitely a must have.

Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13

It's versatile alright! We are talking of the Lenovo IdeaPad 13 that combines
the productivity of an UltrabookTM with the intuitive touch experience of a
tablet; the 13.3-inch Yoga 13 will give you the ultimate in versatility. Convert
between four modes to make the most of Windows 8 - any way you want, any time
you want.

Acer Aspire S7 Series

The Acer Aspire S7 Series has been hailed as the thinnest and lightest
Ultrabooks. As thin as a smartphone, the S7 is an iconic combination of r and
beauty. Taking advantage of the touch benefits associated with Windows 8, the
touch-enabled screen on the 13.3"S7 can be laid back flat 80 degrees, and the
image orientation reverses for easy touch-and-show sharing. Despite its
ultra-thin design, the Aspire S7 packs powerful technologies, including 3rd
generation Intel Core i5-3317UB or i7-3517U processors and solid state drives in
a RAID 0 configuration for extremely fast read/write times and quietness.
Power-packed, we must say!

Apple MacBook Pro with Retina Display

It's the world's highest-resolution notebook display. With over four million
pixels on the 13-inch display and over five million pixels on the 15-inch
display, the Retina Display on the MacBook Pro is an incredible engineering
feat. Other top- of-the-line features? All flash architecture, the fastest
mobile processors (the OS X Mountain Lion) the MacBook Pro with Retina Display
has everything you'd ask for from a notebook. To sum it up, it's thin, light and
powerful!

Samsung Series 9

It is super-slim at .51" thin and amazingly lightweight at 2.49lbs. The Series 9
is striking to look at, but it also sets a premium performance standard. With
extremely fast start-up speeds and nearly instant resume from sleep, the Series
9 lets you get even more done. The Series 9 isn't just a laptop, it's a game
changer. From the very moment you open the Series 9 be prepared to savour the
experience of the wow factor.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 931


                  Copyright 2013 United Press & Publishing LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              950 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

Moto G: The best budget smartphone money can buy

BYLINE: Naushad K Cherrayil Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 626 words


Dubai

Motorola's Moto G is the best budget smartphone in the market that can compete
with high-end devices and is worth every penny.

I will not say it is very perfect but it has everything what an expensive phone
can do. Motorola has proven how a high-quality phone can be made at a
budget-friendly price.

The 4.5-inch IPS display has a resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels which translates
into 329 pixels per inch.  It is still higher than iPhone 5S' 326 pixels per
inch.

The screen is very bright, the text and images are ultra-clear. It is powered by
1.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 400 processor with 1GB of RAM and 8GB of internal
storage. Out of the 8GB, only 5.5GB is available for users and it does not have
a microSD slot to increase the internal storage capacity.  Motorola gives 50GB
of Google Drive storage facility free for two years apart from the 15GB of free
cloud space for every registered user

It comes with Android 4.3 Jelly Bean out of the box and can be updated
immediately to Android 4.4.2 KitKat operating system.

The main advantage of this device is that it runs on stock Android and no
overlay of custom interface like found in other high-end smartphones.

The back is made of polycarbonate with curved edges and rubberized matt finish.
It is a bit heavy compared to others in the market and weighs 143 grams.

On the right side of the device houses the power and volume rocker buttons while
the 3.5mm headphone jack is on the top and the micro USB port is at the bottom.

The missing features are NFC, 4G LTE and wireless screen mirroring.

The two apps - Motorola Assist and Migrate - bundled into the Moto G is very
useful.

The Assist helps users to silence their device during sleep hours and only
selected contacts and multiple rings can go through. It can also silence the
phone during meeting by referring to your Google calendar.

Migrate lets users transfer their contacts, messages, settings from your old
phone. It is easy but only works with Android phones.

It is not a game heavy phone as it has a mid-range Adreno 305 GPU. But users can
play FIFA 14 and Real Racing 3 with settings turned to medium and not high.
Multi-tasking is very good and browsing heavy sites was easy with no lag.

The biggest disadvantage with this device is the camera. The 5MP camera with LED
flash light is mediocre.

The camera app is developed by Motorola. The app is very basic and by flicking
the left of the screen brings the menu dial. Flicking from right gives access to
gallery.

The menu is simple to use and has HDR mode, flash on/off, switch between
widescreen and normal, turn slow motion video, panorama, geotagging and silent
mode. No mode to adjust the ISO and exposure settings.

The camera takes decent snaps in decent daylight conditions. In bright daylight
conditions, the colours look washed out as in low-light conditions.

In burst mode, the camera can take as many shots as possible till the memory
finishes. The camera struggles to focus in macro shots or when pushed to its
low-light conditions

It can capture videos at 720p resolution and the videos are decent in daylight
conditions. It captures and playbacks MPEG4, H.263 and H.264 format at 30 frames
per second.

The 1.3MP front-facing camera captures pictures and videos at 720p.

Regarding connectivity, it has 3G, WiFi and Bluetooth 4.0.

The 2,070mAh non-removable battery is pretty small compared to others. It gives
a full day of use for moderate users and Motorola hasn't added any power-saving
features apart from the standard battery-saver mode of the operating system.  In
video playback test, the device lasted for around eight hours. The battery is
pretty standard but there are apps on the play store like the Snapdragon Battery
Guru which is very good to save power. It is priced at Dh799.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2014 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              951 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 6:16 PM GMT

Google Home is the voice-controlled gadget that wants to take over your house;
Along with the Pixel and Pixel XL, the tech company launched a new
voice-controlled internet home speaker

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 173 words


Google doesn't want to just be on your phone or your laptop - it wants to invade
your home as well.

At an exclusive event in San Francisco this evening , the tech company revealed
its Google Home speaker.

The internet-connected speaker will answer any query you have - from football
scores to the news headlines and the weather.

It uses Google's smart assistant to control things like light controls and
thermostats or music streaming services to carry out scores of tasks.

The speaker, which will come in a range of colours to match home decor, uses
artificial intelligence to learn about the user and get to know their needs,
likes and dislikes.

Amazon has recently launched its own Echo speaker in the UK , which offers many
of the same features. However, Google was quick to point out that its entire
back catalogue of technology - like YouTube, Google Assistant or Google Play -
are added in to make it easier to use.

It's going to launch at $129 in the US along with a free six-month trial of
YouTube Red. And will be available on November 4.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              952 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            February 29, 2016 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Phones to watch

SECTION: GAME ON;NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 446 words


Film and TV award season is upon us, and if you want to watch footage and films
on a smartphone, pick one of these models...

MICROSOFT LUMIA 950 £419.99, from www.microsoftstore.com RUNNING on Windows 10,
this phone could easily double up as a PC. In fact, the Continuum feature, when
combined with a keyboard, external monitor, mouse and Microsoft Display Dock
effectively turns the device into a regular computer. However, with a 5.2-inch
WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up to a
larger monitor.

HUAWEI P8, £299.99, from www.carphonewarehouse.com THIS phone certainly looks
pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, in addition to looking sleek and
glamorous, it's packed with quality too. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display
works a charm, and if you do want to adjust the hues, you can use the phone's
Emotion UI function which lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to
warm.

IPHONE 6S PLUS, £619, www.fromapple.com LIKE an actor who walks away with an
Oscar every year, it's hard to top the appeal of an iPhone - and it'd be
impossible to not include the latest Apple model in the best screen awards. The
iPhone 6s Plus is a thing of beauty. It comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD display
and 192080 pixel resolution. Yet, when it comes to this model, it's not really
about the specs but the ease of use.

GOOGLE NEXUS 5X, £299, from www.store.google.com OH, what a phone! From the
moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the colours on the wallpaper, you
just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, this
smartphone (smart in both senses of the word) really does offer up a wonderful
display. The 5.2-inch full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are
super sharp. As for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright
lights.

MOTO X FORCE, £499, www.motorola.co.uk CLUMSY people unite! There's finally a
phone that, no matter how many times you drop it, won't have to live with the
indignity of having a cracked screen. Motorola's X Force comes with the claim
that it has 'the world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be
watching films through annoying cracks. Its display also packs a powerful punch
and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display with 540ppi.

SONY XPERIA Z5 PREMIUM, £599, www.sonymobile.com GIVEN Sony produce great TVs,
it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone focuses on ensuring its display
is of the highest quality. When you take into account its ppi is 806 (its
competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this isn't the
market leader in screen display.

¦ PRICES above detail sim-free phones.

Contracts available for all models.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2016 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              953 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                           February 27, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Phones to watch

SECTION: SATURDAY EXTRA;FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 446 words


Film and TV award season is upon us, and if you want to watch footage and films
on a smartphone, pick one of these models...

MICROSOFT LUMIA 950 £419.99, from www.microsoftstore.com RUNNING on Windows 10,
this phone could easily double up as a PC. In fact, the Continuum feature, when
combined with a keyboard, external monitor, mouse and Microsoft Display Dock
effectively turns the device into a regular computer. However, with a 5.2-inch
WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up to a
larger monitor.

HUAWEI P8, £299.99, from www.carphonewarehouse.com THIS phone certainly looks
pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, in addition to looking sleek and
glamorous, it's packed with quality too. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display
works a charm, and if you do want to adjust the hues, you can use the phone's
Emotion UI function which lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to
warm.

IPHONE 6S PLUS, £619, www.fromapple.com LIKE an actor who walks away with an
Oscar every year, it's hard to top the appeal of an iPhone - and it'd be
impossible to not include the latest Apple model in the best screen awards. The
iPhone 6s Plus is a thing of beauty. It comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD display
and 192080 pixel resolution. Yet, when it comes to this model, it's not really
about the specs but the ease of use.

GOOGLE NEXUS 5X, £299, from www.store.google.com OH, what a phone! From the
moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the colours on the wallpaper, you
just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, this
smartphone (smart in both senses of the word) really does offer up a wonderful
display. The 5.2-inch full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are
super sharp. As for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright
lights.

MOTO X FORCE, £499, www.motorola.co.uk CLUMSY people unite! There's finally a
phone that, no matter how many times you drop it, won't have to live with the
indignity of having a cracked screen. Motorola's X Force comes with the claim
that it has 'the world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be
watching films through annoying cracks. Its display also packs a powerful punch
and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display with 540ppi.

SONY XPERIA Z5 PREMIUM, £599, www.sonymobile.com GIVEN Sony produce great TVs,
it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone focuses on ensuring its display
is of the highest quality. When you take into account its ppi is 806 (its
competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this isn't the
market leader in screen display.

¦ PRICES above detail sim-free phones.

Contracts available for all models.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2016 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              954 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           February 27, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Phones to watch

SECTION: SATURDAY EXTRA;FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 446 words


Film and TV award season is upon us, and if you want to watch footage and films
on a smartphone, pick one of these models...

MICROSOFT LUMIA 950 £419.99, from www.microsoftstore.com RUNNING on Windows 10,
this phone could easily double up as a PC. In fact, the Continuum feature, when
combined with a keyboard, external monitor, mouse and Microsoft Display Dock
effectively turns the device into a regular computer. However, with a 5.2-inch
WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up to a
larger monitor.

HUAWEI P8, £299.99, from www.carphonewarehouse.com THIS phone certainly looks
pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, in addition to looking sleek and
glamorous, it's packed with quality too. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display
works a charm, and if you do want to adjust the hues, you can use the phone's
Emotion UI function which lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to
warm.

IPHONE 6S PLUS, £619, www.fromapple.com LIKE an actor who walks away with an
Oscar every year, it's hard to top the appeal of an iPhone - and it'd be
impossible to not include the latest Apple model in the best screen awards. The
iPhone 6s Plus is a thing of beauty. It comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD display
and 192080 pixel resolution. Yet, when it comes to this model, it's not really
about the specs but the ease of use.

GOOGLE NEXUS 5X, £299, from www.store.google.com OH, what a phone! From the
moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the colours on the wallpaper, you
just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, this
smartphone (smart in both senses of the word) really does offer up a wonderful
display. The 5.2-inch full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are
super sharp. As for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright
lights.

MOTO X FORCE, £499, www.motorola.co.uk CLUMSY people unite! There's finally a
phone that, no matter how many times you drop it, won't have to live with the
indignity of having a cracked screen. Motorola's X Force comes with the claim
that it has 'the world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be
watching films through annoying cracks. Its display also packs a powerful punch
and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display with 540ppi.

SONY XPERIA Z5 PREMIUM, £599, www.sonymobile.com GIVEN Sony produce great TVs,
it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone focuses on ensuring its display
is of the highest quality. When you take into account its ppi is 806 (its
competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this isn't the
market leader in screen display.

¦ PRICES above detail sim-free phones. Contracts available for all models.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2016 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              955 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                            February 26, 2016 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Phones to watch

SECTION: THE GUIDE;FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 446 words


Film and TV award season is upon us, and if you want to watch footage and films
on a smartphone, pick one of these models...

MICROSOFT LUMIA 950 £419.99, from www.microsoftstore.com RUNNING on Windows 10,
this phone could easily double up as a PC. In fact, the Continuum feature, when
combined with a keyboard, external monitor, mouse and Microsoft Display Dock
effectively turns the device into a regular computer. However, with a 5.2-inch
WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up to a
larger monitor.

HUAWEI P8, £299.99, from www.carphonewarehouse.com THIS phone certainly looks
pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, in addition to looking sleek and
glamorous, it's packed with quality too. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display
works a charm, and if you do want to adjust the hues, you can use the phone's
Emotion UI function which lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to
warm.

IPHONE 6S PLUS, £619, www.fromapple.com LIKE an actor who walks away with an
Oscar every year, it's hard to top the appeal of an iPhone - and it'd be
impossible to not include the latest Apple model in the best screen awards. The
iPhone 6s Plus is a thing of beauty. It comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD display
and 192080 pixel resolution. Yet, when it comes to this model, it's not really
about the specs but the ease of use.

GOOGLE NEXUS 5X, £299, from www.store.google.com OH, WHAT a phone! From the
moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the colours on the wallpaper, you
just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, this
smartphone (smart in both senses of the word) really does offer up a wonderful
display. The 5.2-inch full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are
super sharp. As for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright
lights.

MOTO X FORCE, £499, www.motorola.co.uk CLUMSY people unite! There's finally a
phone that, no matter how many times you drop it, won't have to live with the
indignity of having a cracked screen. Motorola's X Force comes with the claim
that it has 'the world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be
watching films through annoying cracks. Its display also packs a powerful punch
and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display with 540ppi.

SONY XPERIA Z5 PREMIUM, £599, www.sonymobile.com GIVEN Sony produce great TVs,
it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone focuses on ensuring its display
is of the highest quality. When you take into account its ppi is 806 (its
competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this isn't the
market leader in screen display.

¦ PRICES above detail sim-free phones.

Contracts available for all models.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2016 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              956 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 25, 2016 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Phones to watch

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 446 words


Film and TV award season is upon us, and if you want to watch footage and films
on a smartphone, pick one of these models...

MICROSOFT LUMIA 950 £419.99, from www.microsoftstore.com RUNNING on Windows 10,
this phone could easily double up as a PC. In fact, the Continuum feature, when
combined with a keyboard, external monitor, mouse and Microsoft Display Dock
effectively turns the device into a regular computer. However, with a 5.2-inch
WQHD screen and 564ppi (pixel per inch) there's no need to hook it up to a
larger monitor.

HUAWEI P8, £299.99, from www.carphonewarehouse.com THIS phone certainly looks
pretty, but just like the Oscar nominees, in addition to looking sleek and
glamorous, it's packed with quality too. The 5.2-inch, 1080p Full HD Display
works a charm, and if you do want to adjust the hues, you can use the phone's
Emotion UI function which lets you adapt the colour temperature from cold to
warm.

IPHONE 6S PLUS, £619, www.fromapple.com LIKE an actor who walks away with an
Oscar every year, it's hard to top the appeal of an iPhone - and it'd be
impossible to not include the latest Apple model in the best screen awards. The
iPhone 6s Plus is a thing of beauty. It comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD display
and 192080 pixel resolution. Yet, when it comes to this model, it's not really
about the specs but the ease of use.

GOOGLE NEXUS 5X, £299, from www.store.google.com OH, what a phone! From the
moment you turn on the Google Nexus 5X and see the colours on the wallpaper, you
just know you're in for a treat. Produced in conjunction with LG, this
smartphone (smart in both senses of the word) really does offer up a wonderful
display. The 5.2-inch full HD display screen has 424 ppi and the colours are
super sharp. As for the 12.3mp camera, it's been created to deal with bright
lights.

MOTO X FORCE, £499, www.motorola.co.uk CLUMSY people unite! There's finally a
phone that, no matter how many times you drop it, won't have to live with the
indignity of having a cracked screen. Motorola's X Force comes with the claim
that it has 'the world's first shatterproof display', which means you won't be
watching films through annoying cracks. Its display also packs a powerful punch
and there's a 5.4-inch AMOLED Quad HD display with 540ppi.

SONY XPERIA Z5 PREMIUM, £599, www.sonymobile.com GIVEN Sony produce great TVs,
it's not surprising its Xperia Z5 Premium phone focuses on ensuring its display
is of the highest quality. When you take into account its ppi is 806 (its
competitors are around the 400-500 mark) it's hard to argue this isn't the
market leader in screen display.

¦ PRICES above detail sim-free phones.

Contracts available for all models.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2016 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              957 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                            August 2, 2011, Tuesday

Webdoc, In Between a Social Network and a Social Tool

BYLINE: Mark Gibbs

LENGTH: 482 words


For once, I'm not sure how to pigeonhole the product I'm focused on today:
Webdoc, a curious hybrid of an online digitalscrapbook and a social media
service.

To create content on Webdoc you sign up for a free account using a regular
registration process or via Facebook or Twitter authorization and then complete
your profile details. You can invite friends via Facebook, Twitter or email and
search for friends already on the service ... all of the usual social network
building stuff that we've seen in scores of other sites.

The meat and potatoes of Webdoc are the multimedia documents you create and
distribute via social media and email.

The default document size is 500 pixels wide by 340 pixels long. While you can
increase the length of the document, the width is, for some reason, fixed.

There are controls for changing the document's background, adding text and
lines, embedding links, including images from local capture devices (though OS X
support via Flash doesn't seem to work) as well as from uploads, Google, Fickr,
Facebook, and your own library on Webdoc; embedding video from a number of
services including YouTube,Vimeo, and Hulu; adding audio from Soundcloud, and
using Webdoc's "Apps" which are simple active widgets such as countdown clocks,
Google Maps displays, ratings widgets, and so on.

What's really impressive is that the service's Web interface uses only HTML,
Javascript, cascading style sheets, and SVG ...

not a sniff of Flash or Java at all.

You drop any of these elements onto a document then customize them (define
links, change colors, and so on) and organize their layout (both X-Y location
and Z-order). The result can be quite elegant though the limited window width is
an issue.

When you're done you can save your creation (you can make the document private
or public) then push it to Facebook and Twitter or email it.

When someone comes to see your Webdoc presentation they will see it "in" your
account ... with your picture, other documents, stats on your followers ...
pretty much the kind of display you find on other social services. The focus
isn't the document itself but rather it's social context as related to you.

Although you can embed Webdoc documents in Web sites, as of writing the company
doesn't provide any option to remove their own branding on the document frame
(perhaps this will come in a future premium subscription option) and the fixed
width sizing limits design options.

So, bottom line: Webdoc is, in some ways, a social network in its own right but
if creating Webdoc documents isn't your motivation there's no reason to be
there. As an adjunct to other social media services it has huge potential but it
is fairly complex and time consuming enough to not be too useful to the average
user. In summary, technically, Webdocs is really impressive but where and how it
will fit into the broader context of social media is hard to say.




LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2011 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              958 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Nexus wins despite its looks

BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH, TECHNOLOGY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 779  words


Google's new tablet packs a punch with games and graphics

GOOGLE'S new 7-inch Nexus tablet computer looks the complete winner.

A fast processor good enough for gaming, a stunning fine-resolution screen,
wireless charging, the latest Bluetooth protocols, and Near Field Communication
for advanced connectivity on a relatively inexpensive tablet is a line-up that's
hard to beat.

You may not like the Nexus 7 when you first see it. It does look squarish and a
bit drab. But there's not much else you can say that's negative. And the
positive experience begins when you pick it up.

For starters, it's light. At 290g for the WiFi versions or 299g for the 4G LTE
cellular version, it's lighter than Apple's competing 7.9-inch iPad Mini but has
a superior screen resolution: 1200x1920 pixels at 323 pixels per inch versus
768x1024 pixels at 162ppi.

That could change if Apple updates the Mini later this year, but for now the
Nexus 7, a Google-designed tablet built by Taiwanese manufacturer Asus, reigns
supreme.

The Nexus 7 case is thin, narrow enough to be held comfortably in the palm, yet
offers decent real estate at the top and bottom for gripping in landscape mode,
which invariably is what you use for watching video. Unlike the Samsung S3
models, you won't mistakenly trigger the back or home buttons while holding it.

On the downside, the Nexus 7 doesn't have a slot for a microSD card, so you
can't augment the 16Gb or 32Gb of internal memory on board. The Nexus 7 too has
fairly ordinary cameras: a 5 and 1.2 megapixel rear and front-facing cameras.
Pictures are OK but colours can look a little dull and washed out.

The micro USB charging slot, however, offers versatility. It supports SlimPort:
you can attach a USB to HDMI connector and mirror tablet content to a HD TV.

The hallmark of the Nexus 7 is performance. It has a fast and modern quadcore
Snapdragon S4 Pro processor. The AnTuTu benchmark which tests CPU and graphic
capabilities returned a score of 18174, an 80 per cent improvement on the
Samsung Galaxy S3 8-inch tablet we reviewed last week. The latest Samsung and
HTC smartphones seem among only a handful of devices that perform better in
AnTuTu.

The Nexus 7's performance is evident when you load and play games such as Real
Racing 3. When we tried it out, there was no lag when steering; the tablet was
responsive to twists and turns, and no glitches. And watching video was a great
experience. The crispness and detail of 1080p full HD was certainly evident.

The Nexus 7 has a not-so-huge 3950 millampere hour fixed battery and, given it
needs to drive a big processor and high-definition screen, I was sceptical about
battery life. We achieved just over six hours of battery life watching video
stored on the device, at 75 per cent brightness. Battery life is reasonable at
least.

Software and content is increasingly important to tablets. The Nexus 7 is the
first Android device to run the latest upgrade: Jelly Bean 4.3.

The upgrade isn't stunning but there are a few new features. Windows Phone 8 has
a feature called Kids Corners which lets users set up restricted profiles so
that their children can use selected apps with no access to parents'
confidential files or accounts.

A similar feature is now available on Android. Under Android 4.3, parents can
set up profiles for each family member, or a business can configure a tablet so
that each staff member can login with a different username. These users only use
pre-designated apps and cannot purchase with Google Play.

Bluetooth Smart Ready sees Android become more compatible with new types of
connected devices such as pedometers and health monitors. Android's graphics
have received a software overhaul with OpenGL ES3.0 high-performance graphics. A
demo app shows you what you would see with and without it and the improved
detail is noticeable.

Google uses the vanilla, or unmodified Android, in contrast to a manufacturer's
modified Android. This has advantages and disadvantages. You can upgrade when
Google releases a new version and not wait until a manufacturer produces its
own. On the other hand, I miss some of the rich content and features that
Samsung offers through its TouchWiz Android user interface. HTC similarly offers
an improved strain of Android.

Overall the, Nexus 7 is a classy tablet with well-designed hardware, a great
screen, and the most up-to-date Android available. It is well priced and should
be popular with those seeking a small form-factor tablet.

PROS

Fast quadcore processor fit for gaming

Great high-resolution display

First tablet with Android 4.3

CONS

No micro SD card slot for extending storage

Average camera resolution

Fairly plain design

PRICE FROM $299

RATING 8/10

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              959 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                      October 15, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Xolo Intros Android Based Play Tab 7.0 At Rs 12,999

BYLINE: Prasid Banerjee, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 251  words


The Play Tab is poised to compete with the Google Nexus 7.

Tuesday, October 15, 2013: Xolo added to its tablet portfolio today with the
all-new Xolo Play Tab 7.0. The Indian smartphone maker has reportedly done quite
well in the country and has introduced an array of smartphones and tablets. The
Play Tab 7.0 is priced at Rs 12,999 and is available at retailers all over
India.

The Xolo Play Tab 7.0 is powered by the Nvidia Tegra 3 quad core processor and
sports a 17.7-cm (7-inch) display, which offers a 1,280 x 800 pixel resolution.
It has a 2 mega pixel front camera and a 4,000 mAh battery. Further, the device
has 1 GB of RAM and 8 GB of internal storage. Unfortunately though, it has
neither voice calling nor 3G connectivity support. It runs the Android 4.1 Jelly
Bean operating system.

"As Xolo continues to deliver on its promise to bring differentiated technology
to discerning consumers, we're replicating the success we've achieved in the
smartphone category now in tablets. Xolo Play Tab 7.0 marks the first tablet in
the Xolo Play category of products, powered by NVIDIA Tegra. Similar to Xolo
Play T1000 smartphone launched in July, the Tab delivers similar entertainment
now on a bigger 7-inch screen," AndroidOS quoted Sunil Raina, business head at
XOLO as saying.

The Xolo Play Tab is a competitor to the Google Nexus 7 (2012), which is going
to be a tough one to beat for the domestic smart device maker. Moreover, the
Nexus 7 is available at a mere Rs 9,999 on Flipkart for its 16 GB version.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2013 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              960 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Sony Gears Up To Take On Moto G With Its Xperia G Smartphone

LENGTH: 208  words


If Sony adds an apt price tag to the device, the phone could be a Moto G killer!

Friday, May 23, 2014: The hugely popular Moto G smartphone is soon going to have
some competition from Sony. According to reports, the Japanese electronics giant
is gearing up to launch its Sony D2403 (Xperia G) smartphone in the same price
range as the Moto G. Although the pricing of Sony's smartphone isn't known yet,
the device is expected to lie in the same range as the most popular smartphone
ever by Motorola.

The device is a 11.1-cm (4.4-inch) device with a display that gives 884 x 540
pixel resolutions. This is much lower than the Moto G's 720 pixel display. But,
the Xperia G is superior in terms of imaging quality. The Sony device has an 8
mega pixel rear facing camera that can shoot full-HD videos and has flash, HDR,
autofocus and face detection capabilities. The Moto G, on the other hand, has a
5 mega pixel sensor alone.

Sony will need the pricing for this device to be perfect in order to offset the
Moto G's dominance since its launch. Along with the Moto E, these make for the
most sold smartphones ever from Motorola. Reports say that Sony should be
pricing is around $180 to $210, in order to give the once Google-owned company a
run for its money.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              961 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday

Sony Xperia P

BYLINE: Seow Tein Hee

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Test

LENGTH: 557 words



o $688 (without contract)
o Dual-core 1GHz processor
o Google Android 2.3 operating system
o 4-inch LED-backlit LCD display
o 32GB internal storage      Name a Sony product and you will usually find
yourself enamoured with its fine design. At least, that was how I felt when I
stole a first glance at the Sony Xperia P, which is exclusively available from
SingTel from Friday.

The second Sony smartphone for this year is not that much different from its
earlier sibling, the Sony Xperia S. But once you hold the newcomer, the
differences become obvious.

At 122g, the Xperia P is 22g lighter and just as compact. The rear retains the
same curved design, which fits nicely in one's hands.

The transparent strip just below its display holds the back, home and menu
icons. In the Xperia S, the same transparent band was an indicator for the
buttons above it.

The micro-USB port is wide open, which made it easy to plug in the cable but I
mistakenly tried to force the micro-USB cable into the mini-HDMI port next to
it.

Power and volume controls are on the right side, with the volume controls oddly
positioned bang in the middle. At one point, I wanted to increase the volume and
ended up hitting the power button instead and switching off the phone.

The unibody design is definitely pleasing to the eye, but the downside is that
you cannot remove the battery. Like the Apple iPhone 4S and Nokia Lumia 800, it
uses a micro-SIM card, a growing trend among the latest smartphones. It takes
effort to pry open the plastic cover of the micro-SIM card slot.

Smartphones with quad-core processors are becoming common, but here, a modest
dual-core 1GHz processor runs the show, working in tandem with Google Android
2.3.

It served up a smooth and fluid performance with Sony's customised user
interface. However, load more apps and multiple Web pages and it may struggle to
keep up with the extra tasks.

On the surface, the Xperia P does not look very different from its larger
sibling. But right below the 4-inch screen is Sony's new WhiteMagic display
technology. Most LCDs or liquid crystal displays come with red, green and blue
subpixels that light up simultaneously to produce a white pixel. The Xperia P
has a fourth white subpixel that does the job.

Its tight screen resolution of 960 x 540 pixels give it a density of about 275
pixels per inch. I was impressed by the clarity of high-resolution movies played
from YouTube on the device. The display seemed brighter in direct sunlight. But
at maximum brightness, it may be too glaring.

In theory, lighting just one subpixel reduces the display's power consumption.
So it would be wise to choose 'power saver mode' instead of 'bright'. It seemed
to extend the battery mileage to nearly a day. This was useful since I was
stressing the device with data-hungry apps such as Twitter, Facebook and
WhatsApp.

The 8-megapixel camera is weak. In so-so lighting conditions, picture noise was
significant and images were grainy.

This phone impresses with its bright display but is marred by poor button
placements and a weak camera.

teinhee@sph.com.sg

HOT
o Attractive design
o Easy to handle
o Bright and clear display

NOT
o Micro-USB and HDMI port located too near each other
o Oddly positioned power and volume buttons
o Poor camera performance

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -- PHOTO: SONY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              962 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                          December 12, 2012 Wednesday

LG Nexus 4 coming to India in January 2013

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Dec. 12 -- LG's hot-selling Nexus 4 smartphone is expected to make its
India debut in January 2013, according to a source. The Nexus 4 is easily one of
the most awaited Android phones in India and LG has so far been tightlipped
about the phone's India plans.

Our source also informed us that the LG Optimus G smartphone with
voice-activated power camera is also gearing up for its India launch. The
Optimus G boasts a 13 megapixel camera which a user can instruct to take snaps
by talking to it, plus a 4.7-inch screen with a sharper picture quality than
both the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy S III.

The source, however, did not reveal any details about the price of the Nexus 4
or the Optimus G in India.

The Nexus 4 is the first phone to come with Google's latest Android 4.2
operating system.

The Nexus 4 is the first phone to come with Google's latest Android 4.2
operating system and has been collaboratively designed by LG and Google and was
launched at a price of $299, without contract.

The Nexus 4 features a 4.7-inch True HD IPS Plus display with a resolution of
1280-by-768 pixels, supported by Zerogap Touch technology. The screen is scratch
resistant, and is protected by Corning Gorilla Glass 2. The phone sports an 8
megapixel camera. The Nexus 4 is armed with Qualcomm's Snapdragon S4 Pro
processor with 1.5GHz Quad-Core Krait CPUs, and 2GB of RAM.

Nexus 4: Key specifications

- Chipset: Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor with 1.5GHz Quad-Core Krait CPUs

- Operating System: Android 4.2, Jelly Bean

- Network: 3G (WCDMA), HSPA+

- Display: 4.7-inch WXGA True HD IPS Plus (1280 x 768 pixels)

- Memory: 8GB / 16GB

- RAM: 2GB

- Camera: 8.0MP rear / 1.3MP HD front

- Battery: 2,100mAh Li-Polymer (embedded) / Talk time: 15.3 hours / Standby: 390
hours

- Size: 133.9 x 68.7 x 9.1mm

- Weight: 139g

- Other: Wireless charging, NFC Published by HT Syndication with permission from
The Kashmir Monitor. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              963 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Apple's latest must-have

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 709  words


The latest version of the iPhone went on sale this week boasting more than 100
new applications, including video chat

APPLE unveiled a next-generation iPhone yesterday that features video chat, can
shoot and edit high-definition quality video, and has a crisper resolution
screen.

``We are going to take the biggest leap since the original iPhone,'' Apple chief
executive Steve Jobs said as he showed off the iPhone 4 at Apple's Worldwide
Developers Conference in San Francisco.

The iPhone 4 will go on sale on June 24 in Britain, France, Germany, Japan and
the United States, and will cost $242.39 for the 16-gigabyte model and $364.19
for the 32GB version.

The touchscreen smartphone, which comes in black and white versions, will be
available in 18 other countries in July and 24 more in August.

The iPhone 4 includes more than 100 new features including a front-facing video
camera to allow for video-conferencing between iPhones, a better still camera,
an improved battery and a screen with significantly higher resolution.

To demonstrate the video chat program, called FaceTime, Mr Jobs, dressed in his
trademark black turtleneck and blue jeans, called up Jonathan Ive, an Apple
product designer, and held an iPhone-to-iPhone video conversation.

The iPhone 4 can also shoot and edit HD video.

Randy Ubillos, Apple's chief architect for video applications, displayed an
iMovie for iPhone video editing program available from Apple's App Store.

Mr Jobs touted the higher-resolution screen as a major leap forward.

``There has never been a display like this on a phone,'' he said.

The 3.5-inch screen is the same size as on previous models, but features 326
pixels per square inch, four times more pixels than the earlier iPhones.

``There is a magic number, around 300 pixels per inch, that is the limit of the
human retina,'' Mr Jobs said.

``We are over that limit.

``That's going to set the standard for display for years to come.''

The improved battery life allows for 40 per cent more talk time, Mr Jobs said,
and the iPhone 4 -- at 9.3mm -- is 24 per cent thinner than the previous model,
iPhone 3GS.

The iPhone 4, which runs on Apple's A4 processor, features a five-megapixel
camera, an improvement on the previous three-megapixel camera.

Users will also have the option to use Microsoft's Bing as an internet search
engine in addition to Google and Yahoo! Google remains the default search
engine.

Mr Jobs joked that some of the attendees at the conference may have seen the
iPhone 4 previously ``because there have been a few photos around''. Technology
blog Gizmodo obtained a prototype of the iPhone in April from a 21-year-old man
who found it in a California beer garden -- where it had been lost by an Apple
software engineer -- and published details of the device.

Apple launched the iPhone in 2007 and has sold more than 50 million as it
battles Google's Android platform, the Blackberry from Canada's Research in
Motion and others for the fast-growing market.

Before displaying the latest iPhone, Mr Jobs said that more than five million
digital books have been downloaded since Apple began selling its iPad tablet
computer two months ago.

Mr Jobs, who received a standing ovation as he walked on stage to address the
more than 5200 software developers attending the conference, said the 8500
applications developed for the iPad have been downloaded more than 35 million
times from Apple's App Store. Apple has sold more than two million iPads since
it went on sale in the United States in early April and in nine other countries
late last month.

Mr Jobs said that 225,000 applications for the iPhone and the iPod Touch were
currently available and that five billion applications had been downloaded from
the App Store as of last week.

The new iPhone received positive reviews from analysts, although most of the
features were known already because of the Gizmodo leak.

Altimeter's Michael Gartenberg said Apple has ``raised the bar once again by
offering next year's technology at last year's prices''.

``They are the first ones to make video chat easy and that will drive the
sales,'' Mr Gartenberg said.

Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi said the iPhone 4 ``keeps Apple ahead of the
competition'' by ``driving software and hardware innovation hand in hand''.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              964 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  EFYtimes.com

                       August 1, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

LG Chromebase All-In-One PC Running Chrome OS Now Available @Rs 32,000

BYLINE: Saurabh Singh, EFY News Network

LENGTH: 252  words


The LG Chromebase (Model 22CV241) features a 54.61-cm (21.5-inch) full-HD IPS
display with a 1920x1080 pixels resolution and a viewing angle of 178-degrees.

Friday, August 01, 2014: South Korean electronics major LG has launched its
Chromebase all-in-one (AIO) PC (Model 22CV241) in India at a price tag of Rs
32,000. The Chrome OS based AIO PC was first introduced ahead of the CES
tradeshow.

The LG Chromebase (Model 22CV241) features a 54.61-cm (21.5-inch) full-HD IPS
display with a 1920x1080 pixels resolution and a viewing angle of 178-degrees.
It is powered by a fourth-generation Intel Celeron processor coupled with 2GB of
RAM, and a 16GB SSD. It sports a 1.3MP 720p webcam. The AIO PC comes with
built-in 5W speakers. Connectivity options include: HDMI, USB 2.0 (x3), USB 3.0
(x1), and LAN (Ethernet). Just like the Chromebook line, LG's new AIO PC comes
bundled with Google products such as Gmail, Drive, Search, Maps, YouTube, Play,
Google+ and Hangouts. It supports Chrome Web Apps from the Chrome Web Store.

"We are pleased to launch the LG Chromebase computer here in India. The
specialty of this computer is that it represents a successful combination of
simplicity, power and great design, and all types of users can operate it very
easily. LG Chromebase is the wave of the future for desktops and we are
expecting its wide adoption not only at home, but especially in schools, hotels,
call centres other business settings," Soon Kwon, MD, LG Electronics India was
quoted as saying during the launch.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2014 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              965 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

Launch pad: Micromax Bolt, Josh Fortune, MTV Volt

SECTION: HARDWARE

LENGTH: 290 words


(##include msid=4006719,type=11##)?(##include msid=4006719,type=11##)

Micromax Bolt A35

The A35 is the first phone from Micromax's Bolt series of budget-friendly
Android smartphones. Even at this low price, the A35 has a 4-inch capacitive
touchscreen, 1Ghz processor, expandable storage, 2MP rear/VGA front camera,
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS and 1,500mAh battery.

It also comes with a new 'Flash Transfer' app that makes it easy to share
photos, videos and songs with other devices over Wi-Fi. The phone runs Android
2.3 with access to both Google's Play Store and Micromax's own app store.
Micromax claims that the phone offers 4.5 hours of talktime on a full charge.

Josh Fortune 9

Josh Mobiles, an Indian brand offering budget smartphones, has launched the
Fortune 9 -- the first Android phone to come with 1GB of RAM at this price.
Other hardware includes a 1Ghz single core processor, expandable storage up to
32GB and a 1,650mAh battery.

The phone has dual SIM slots, runs Android 2.3 with full access to Google Play
Store for apps and comes with a 4-inch touchscreen (320 x 480 pixels). You also
get dual cameras (3.2MP + VGA), Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS connectivity.

MTV Volt

This dual SIM 6-inch phablet with a screen resolution of 854 x 480 pixels is a
result of a tie-up between MTV and Swipe Telecom. It has 3G and comes with a
TV-player that offers onthe-go access to MTV. The device weighs a hefty 239
grams, runs Android 4.1 on a dual core 1Ghz processor, 512MB RAM and 4GB
internal storage (expandable via microSD card).

You also get an 8MP rear camera with flash, 1.3MP front camera and a huge
3,200mAh battery that Swipe claims is good enough for 8 - 10 hours of talk time.
The price includes a flip-cover.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              966 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

LG, Google launch Nexus 4 smartphone with Android 4.2

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Oct. 31 -- Google in association with LG has announced the launch of
the much-rumoured Nexus 4, the newest smartphone in the Nexus line-up from
Google. The smartphone will be available starting next month in select markets.

The Nexus 4 smartphone is being made by LG Electronics and features an update to
Google's Android 4.2 system, also known as Jelly Bean (Android 4.2 is a new
flavour of Jelly Bean).

The Nexus 4 features a 4.7-inch True HD IPS Plus display with a resolution of
1280-by-768 pixels, supported by Zerogap Touch technol-ogy. The screen is
scratch resitant, and is protected by Corning Gorilla Glass 2. The phone sports
an 8 megapixel camera.

It will be available to purchase in both an 8GB version and a 16GB version on
Google Play starting November 13.

The Nexus 4 is armed with Qualcomm's Snapdragon S4 Pro processor with 1.5GHz
Quad-Core Krait CPUs, and 2GB of RAM. Nexus 4 comes with the latest Google apps.
The latest version of Google Now is built-in.

"This is the first time we collaborated with LG to build a Nexus device," said
Andy Ru-bin, Senior Vice President of Mobile and Digital Content at Google.

Nexus 4 is sold unlocked and is GSM/HSPA+ compatible so it will operate on more
than 200 network providers worldwide. It will be available to purchase in both
an 8GB version and a 16GB version on Google Play starting November 13 in the US,
UK, Canada, Germany, France, Spain and Australia. Offline availability in
Europe, Central/South Americas, Asia, CIS and the Middle East will begin from
the end of November.

A 16-gigabyte model of the Nexus 4 will sell for $199 with a two-year contract
to buy phone service and Internet access from T-Mobile. A contract-free version
is available for $299 with 8 gigabytes of storage and $349 for the 16-gigabyte
model. Google is touting the Nexus 4's wireless charging capability as a major
selling point.

Nexus 4: Key specifications

- Chipset: Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor with 1.5GHz Quad-Core Krait CPUs

- Operating System: Android 4.2, Jelly Bean

- Network: 3G (WCDMA), HSPA+

- Display: 4.7-inch WXGA True HD IPS Plus (1280 x 768 pixels)

- Memory: 8GB / 16GB

- RAM: 2GB

- Camera: 8.0MP rear / 1.3MP HD front

- Battery: 2,100mAh Li-Polymer (embedded) / Talk time: 15.3 hours / Standby: 390
hours

- Size: 133.9 x 68.7 x 9.1mm

- Weight: 139g

- Other: Wireless charging, NFC

Besides, Google also announced the launch of the larger Nexus tablet, which is
being made by Samsung Electronics Co. and features a 10-inch display screen,
about the same size as Apple's top-selling iPad.

The Nexus 10 tablet with 16 gigabytes of storage will sell for $399. That's $100
less than the comparable version of the latest iPad. The Nexus tablet will go on
sale in the Google Play Store starting November 13 in the US, UK, Australia,
France, Germany, Spain, Canada and Japan. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any query with respect to this article
or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              967 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             March 22, 2004 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Online Art Searches? Tools Make The Engine

BYLINE: DOUG STANLEY, dstanley@tampatrib.com

SECTION: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 610 words


By DOUG STANLEY

dstanley@tampatrib.com

Specialty search engines can be especially useful when you're looking for photos
or graphics to spruce up a multimedia project or if you merely want to take an
eclectic visual journey across the Web.

There are a number of search tools for finding photos, drawings, animations and
other images. Some are adjuncts of the major search engines and others are
independent.

Type in anything - say, the name of a city - to find matching images. Searching
for "Tampa," for example, returned shots of tourists, landmarks, aerial photos,
pictures of ships and what looked like the inside of a hotel room.

Before using an image downloaded from the Web, be sure to ask permission from
the owner, particularly for copyrighted material.

Most sites have offensive-content filters that you can turn on or off, but
filters aren't perfect, and there always is the chance you'll see something you
would rather not. Let's take a look at some useful sites:

* Google Images - images.google.com - Claiming an index of more than 425 million
images, Google says its image search is the most comprehensive on the Web.

Advanced features allow you to specify image size, file format, Web site and
color, black-and-white or gray scale.

* Picsearch - www.picsearch.com - Among the advanced features is the ability to
search for images by six categories of size, from very small (1 to 50 pixels) to
very large (800 pixels or more).

Picsearch touts itself as family friendly and doesn't provide an option for
turning off offensive-content filters. The site doesn't seem to do a
significantly better job than its competitors at screening potentially offensive
shots.

* AlltheWeb - www.alltheweb.com - Claiming it searches more than 3 billion Web
pages, AlltheWeb features many of the same types of custom search options as its
peers.

One nice feature for people who have Web sites is the ability to search only for
images with transparent backgrounds.

* DevilFinder Image Browser - images.devilfinder.com - Though the others in this
roundup display thumbnail images that double as links to Web sites where those
images appear, DevilFinder takes a decidedly different approach.

This experimental search engine displays 12 to 72 photos in full size on a
single page. Search results can be slow to load, but the mishmash of images
displayed together makes for some interesting viewing.

The Lowdown On Gas Prices

If the price at the pump is siphoning off more money than you can bear, you
might be able to save a few bucks by looking at GasBuddy.com for the cheapest
gas prices.

GasBuddy is a portal to more than 170 sites providing recent prices at stations
from coast to coast and Canada. The information is gathered by volunteers and
posted on the Web.

Anyone can look up or submit gas prices. The site also offers a free membership
that includes access to an online fuel log for calculating and graphing personal
gas expenses.

E-mail Connection Errors

Having trouble accessing your e-mail after installing a firewall? Usually,
tweaking a setting does the trick.

Software firewalls sometimes need to be told which programs can have full access
to the Internet.

Finding the setting to tweak will vary with the firewall you use. For McAfee
Personal Firewall Plus, right-click on the McAfee icon by your system clock,
then click Personal Firewall. Click Internet Applications and verify that your
e-mail program has full access to the Net. If it doesn't, right-click on the
program's name and click "Allow Full Access."

For past columns by Doug Stanley, go to tech.tbo.com

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PLUGGED IN BUSINESS & TECHNOLOGY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2004 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune


                              968 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

Lenovo launches first consumer Chromebooks

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 371 words


The world's largest PC maker has taken the wraps off two new notebooks that
ignore Microsoft in favor of Google's lightweight virus-free operating system,
Google Chrome OS.

Neither the N20 nor the N20p are going to be giving IBM's Watson supercomputer a
run for its money any time soon in terms of speed or power.

Both Chromebooks use Intel Celeron processors, supported by up to 4GB of RAM and
16GB hard disks. However, in terms of cost ($279-$329), portability -- they
measure just 295 mm x 212 mm x 17.9 mm (11.6 in x 8.34 in x 0.70 in) and boast
an eight-hour battery life -- and ease of use, they have very few competitors,
except for other Chromebooks.

While other types of computers are struggling in the market as consumers go for
tablets, Chromebooks are bucking the trend. Despite only being available in a
handful of regions including North America and selected European territories,
2.1 million Chromebooks shipped in 2013, and, according to ABI Research, that
number will rise to 11 million annually within the next five years.

And while price is clearly appealing -- with the exception of Google's own $1299
Chromebook Pixel, none of the models currently on sale, Lenovo's included, costs
more than $350 -- thanks to the fact that the devices use web-based applications
and cloud storage, they are extremely fast and essentially virus free. Very
little software is actually stored on the computers themselves, everything is
online and is being constantly refreshed, improved and updated by Google.

Acer, Asus, HP, Samsung and Toshiba already offer Chromebooks and while Lenovo
has been making the devices for classroom use, the N20 (set to launch in July)
and the N20p (launching August) are the company's first Chromebooks built for
consumers.

In terms of specs, the N20 is very similar to what's already on offer. As well
as the aforementioned processor and RAM, it has an 11.6-inch 1366x768 pixel
screen, a 1-megapixel webcam, two USB ports, HDMI and a memory card reader and
will cost $279.

However, for an extra $50, the N20p is a little different. It comes with a touch
screen that can be rotated back up to 300° (like the company's Yoga devices) so
that it can be put in and used in some very interesting positions.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2014 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              969 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)

                             April 7, 2015 Tuesday
                                  HOUSE & HOME

WiFi and more pixels on the next Moto 360

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 268 words


The successor to the Moto 360 smartwatch will have WiFi connectivity and a
higher-resolution screen, according to Phandroid.com.

The specialist website is relaying leaks on the Google Play Developers Console
and on social network Weibo on an upcoming Android Wear device codenamed Smelt.

Said to have a screen with 360x360 pixels compared to the Moto 360's 320x290
pixels, the mystery smartwatch will reportedly come with WiFi as well as
Bluetooth, and it will be available with a wider selection of materials for both
the case and the strap. This next-generation Moto 360 is expected to launch
before the end of 2015.

A stylish smartwatch

Introduced in spring 2014, the Moto 360 marked a turning point in the evolution
of the emerging smartwatch market thanks to its round and elegant design, a far
cry from the more "geeky" appearance of earlier models. More in line with
traditional wristwatch style codes thanks to its steel case and leather strap,
the Android Wear gadget paved the way for a new generation of smartwatches such
as the LG Watch Urbane and the future Huawei Watch, which was presented at
Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and will go on sale later this year.

The Moto 360 also stands out for the extensive customization options available
through the Moto Maker online interface, which lets users select their case
color, case size, strap and screen wallpaper.  Similar to those offered by car
brands, Motorola's configuration tool is currently the most advanced provided by
any tech manufacturer, and the customization options will almost certainly carry
over to the follow-up to the Moto 360.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.


                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews
                              All Rights Reserved


                              970 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday

The news in 5 minutes

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 779 words


TOP OF THE NEWS

Economy grows 1.3%

SINGAPORE'S economy grew by a slightly better than expected 1.3 per cent last
year, up from an earlier 1.2 per cent estimate, led by sectors such as
biomedical manufacturing and construction.

Ex-drivers to plead guilty

THE four former SMRT bus drivers from China charged with instigating last
November's illegal strike will plead guilty, just a fortnight after claiming
trial.

Lawyers said they changed their minds after prosecutors indicated the sentence
they will seek from the judge.

WORLD

Mystery hotel death

THE gruesome discovery of a young Canadian tourist's body in the water tank of a
Los Angeles hotel has cast the spotlight on the seedy history of the 86-year-old
establishment, which has hosted a few serial killers.

Xi's first overseas visits

FOR his first foreign visit since becoming President, Mr Xi Jinping has chosen
to go to Russia, followed swiftly by a trip to South Africa. The choice of
destinations hints at the Chinese leader's desire to firm relations with
emerging market economies in a bid to counter the US pivot to Asia.

Peace talks gather pace

PEACE talks between the government and ethnic groups in Myanmar have been
gathering momentum. The delicate process has been spurred on by a change in
attitude within the government, which increasingly sees ethnic groups as
partners instead of enemies, experts say.

Google's senior vice-president of Chrome and apps Sundar Pichai with the
Chromebook Pixel, which boasts Intel chips and screens  tailored for rich
graphics, in San Francisco on Thursday. -- PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS

Google unveils laptop

IN A direct challenge to Apple's MacBook, Google has launched a touchscreen
notebook computer targeted at high-end PC users.

The Chromebook Pixel computer, which combines tablet and laptop technology, has
been released in the United States and Britain at prices starting at US$1,299
(S$1,600).

OPINION

Go slow on defence tax

SINGAPOREANS should remain at the core of government policy, but measures such
as the proposed defence tax on foreigners and permanent residents could come
across as being against foreigners.

HOME

Changi charter flights

CHANGI Airport is planning to team up with travel agents to offer charter
flights. The goal is to launch new routes with six to 12 charter flights per
destination a year. Destinations could include Sapporo and Okinawa in Japan.

Safety lapses at 27 sites

SAFETY inspectors imposed stop-work orders at 27 sites after stepping up checks
late last year.

Firms were also given fines totalling more than $350,000 by the Ministry of
Manpower.

Fewer shops selling ivory

FAR fewer shops are selling ivory in Singapore than a decade ago, research from
two wildlife groups suggests. Experts say the country could be bucking a global
trend that is seeing a rising demand for elephant tusks - but warned that their
trade may be moving underground or online.

MONEY

Languishing home sales

THE anaemic high-end property market is still languishing as foreign buyers flee
the market in the wake of the string of cooling measures. New analysis by R'ST
Research has identified almost 500 completed but unsold homes in districts 9, 10
and 11.

SPORT

Match-fixer's double life

FOR the last 18 months in Singapore, Slovenian Admir Suljic, whose arrest in
Italy was hailed as a breakthrough in the fight against match-fixing, was an
expatriate with a lucrative job and a luxurious apartment in the heart of the
city.

His other job was to act as a "broker" between match-fixing syndicates in Asia
and Europe.

SATURDAY

Showcase S'pore's virtues

SINGAPORE'S best kept secrets are its virtues. The city-state should showcase
them to reboot its brand, says our By Invitation writer Parag Khanna.

Housewife Krisbelle Anand grooming her dog Poppy at Art Of Pets Grooming School
where she attended a seven-month course. She  has invested $6,000 in grooming
tools, courses and a certification exam. -- ST PHOTO: CHEW SENG KIM

LIFE!

More D-I-Y groomers

MORE Singapore dog owners are picking up grooming techniques from professionals.
Last year, over 300 signed up for a one-day class at Prestige Grooming Academy,
a 50 per cent increase since 2006. Art Of Pets had about 40 sign up, up from
about 20 in 2009.

Observers foresee more local indie acts following in the Great Spy Experiment's
footsteps and topping the online music chart. -- PHOTO: MUHAMMAD FIRDAUS MOHD
NOOR

Great Spy tops iTunes

THE Great Spy Experiment made history this week, when their new English-language
album became the first by a home-grown band to top an iTunes Store download
chart. Litmus was released on Monday and peaked at No. 1 on the album download
charts of the Singapore version of iTunes.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              971 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     September 15, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Google Android One smartphones vs Motorola Moto E

LENGTH: 193  words


Google today launched the first set of Android One Smartphones in India. These
Smartphones namely Micromax Canvas A1, Spice Mi-498 Dream Uno and Karbonn
Sparkle V come with stock Android interface and are priced at INR 6399 in India.

At this price point, the smartphones will pit against Motorola's Moto E which
brings almost similar specs on table at a slightly higher price of INR 6,999.
Here we compare the specifications of the Android One smartphones with the Moto
E.


SPECIFICATIONS KARBONN SPARKLE V/ MICROMAX    MOTOROLA MOTO E
AND FEATURES   CANVAS A1, SPICE DREAM UNO
DISPLAY SIZE   4.5 inch                       4.3 inch
SCREEN         None                           Corning Gorilla Glass 3
PROTECTION
DISPLAY        480 x 854 pixels               960 x 540 pixels
DENSITY
PROCESSOR      1.3-GHz, Mediatek quad-core    1.2 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon
               processor                      200 dual-core processor
RAM            1 GB                           1 GB
INTERNAL       4 GB                           4 GB
MEMORY
EXPANDABLE     32 GB                          32 GB
MEMORY
PRIMARY CAMERA 5-megapixel with flash         5-megapixel
FEATURES       FullHD video recordingZoom     HD video recordingZoom
FRONT CAMERA   2 megapixel                    N/A
ANDROID OS     Android 4.4.4 KitKat           Android 4.4.4 KitKat
CONNECTIVITY   2G3GWi-FiBluetoothGPRS/EDGE    2G3GWi-FiBluetoothGPRS/EDGE
SIM SUPPORT    Dual SIM                       Dual SIM
BATTERY        1700 mAh                       1980 mAh
PRICE          INR 6,399                      INR 6,999

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              972 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Lava launches second-gen Android One pixel V1, priced at Rs 11,350

BYLINE: Komal Mohan

SECTION: MOBILES

LENGTH: 168 words


NEW DELHI: Google has launched its next generation Android One smartphone with
Lava Pixel V1. The phone has been priced at Rs 11,350, approximately Rs 5,000
costlier than the three first generation Android One phones, which were launched
last year.

The smartphone will be exclusively available on Flipkart Monday onwards.

The new Android One smartphone features a 5.5-inch HD (720x1280p) IPS display
which comes with Asahi Dragon Trail Glass protection to guard against minor
scratches.

Lava pixel V1 is powered by a 1.3GHz qcta-core processor with 2GB RAM and 32GB
internal storage (around 25.47GB is usable). The phone features a microSD card
slot to expand storage.

The smartphone sports a 13MP rear camera with flash. It has a 8MP front-facing
camera for selfies. The earlier version had 5 MP and 2 MP cameras respectively.

The dual-sim phone supports 3G, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, FM radio and GPS. It packs
2,650mAh battery.

Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>

And like us on Facebook >>>

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              973 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday
                             Print & First Editions

Phones in the frame;
IMAGING | The expert view

BYLINE: Terry Lane

SECTION: GREEN GUIDE; Livewire; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 605 words


REVIEW

OLYMPUS PEN E-PL8

Price: $882 street price with 14-42mm lens

THE LOWDOWN

This micro four-thirds camera from Olympus has a 16-megapixel sensor in a
compact and pretty body. Inside it has the workings of the Olympus E-M10 MkII.
It is a cosmetic upgrade of the E-PL7 with an emphasis on style aesthetics and
self-portraiture. The LCD can tilt down under the camera and point forward. In
this orientation the camera displays touch controls for focus, shutter and movie
start/stop. The tiny kit lens is brilliant, keeping the unit compact without any
mechanical or optical compromise. The 28-84mm focal length (film equivalent)
provides a decent wide angle and short telephoto ideal for portraiture.

LIKE

The image quality is as we expect from Olympus - good white balance and
exposure. The camera is nicely made and feels substantial in the hand. Images up
to ISO2500 are usable with noise obvious at only high ISO speeds.

DISLIKE

The absence of an electronic viewfinder is perplexing at this price.

VERDICT

The E-PL8 is apparently aimed at the fashion-conscious smartphone users who are
impressed with the choice of various colours of faux leather skins and straps
and who think they might like the better quality to be had from an
interchangeable lens camera with a bigger sensor and better image stabilisation.
And because phones are selfie devices then the camera has to conform. The E-PL8
is a fully featured camera, and to use all its functions it is essential to copy
the full user manual from the supplied disc. Also consider the Olympus E-M10
MkII, a seriously superb camera with a proper viewfinder that costs only $40
more.

Google launched the new Pixel phones this month and they went straight to the
top of the DxOMark rankings of best smartphone cameras that money can buy. And
in this case it is a lot of money.

The Aussie dollar has pushed the least expensive flagship phones over $1000, but
do not despair. Have a look at the DxO ranking table on its website. If you
don't need the latest and best for bragging rights, there are bargains to be
had.

Google's Pixels start at over $1000 but the superseded Google Nexus 5X phones
can be had for about $400. DxO rates the Nexus 5X and 6P (which have the same
camera) the same as the iPhone 6s Plus and above the iPhone 6s.

The still-available Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge gets the same camera rating as the
new iPhone 7, but is half the price. And the Sony Xperia Z5 also rates with the
iPhone at half the price. (The prices here are for outright purchase from online
discounters, not from telco shops or on plans.)

Many phone makers use Sony camera components so the differences in performance
will be the result of internal processing.

Right now we have a Google Nexus 5P and an iPhone 6s side by side, and both
produce fine photographs and videos. They both shoot 4K ultra-high-definition
video, but have different default camera apps and the iPhone's is better because
it has exposure compensation adjustment with the slide of a finger. There are
third-party camera apps for Android, but none is as elegant as the iPhone
default. On such small differences the deal may be done or broken.

You may have noticed an Apple TV advert called The Human Family, which is a
montage of photos and videos taken with an iPhone 6s, but you might have missed
the disclaimer at the bottom of the screen: "Additional software and equipment
used." They don't say what. But it is a warning that the advertisements are as
much about the skill of the professionals who take the photos as about the
qualities of the cameras. That is where DxOMark, the industry reference, is so
helpful in making a choice.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              974 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      October 4, 2016 Tuesday 6:16 PM GMT

Google Home is the voice-controlled speaker that wants to take over your house;

Along with the Pixel and Pixel XL, the tech company launched a new
voice-controlled internet home speaker

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 204 words


Google doesn't want to just be on your phone or your laptop - it wants to invade
your home as well.

At an exclusive event in San Francisco this evening , the tech company revealed
its Google Home speaker.

The internet-connected speaker will answer any query you have - from football
scores to the news headlines and the weather.

It uses Google's smart "Assistant" to control things like light controls and
thermostats or music streaming services to carry out scores of tasks.

The speaker, which will come in a range of colours to match home decor, uses
artificial intelligence to learn about the user and get to know their needs,
likes and dislikes.

Amazon has recently launched its own Echo speaker in the UK , which offers many
of the same features. using Microsoft's Bing search engine

However, Google was quick to point out that its entire back catalogue of
technology - like YouTube, Google Assistant and Google Play - are added in to
make it easier to use.

It's going to launch at $129 in the US along with a free six-month trial of
YouTube Red. And will be available on November 4.

Unfortunately, Google has no plans to launch Google Home in the UK at this time,
but the company said it hopes to make it available in the future.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              975 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Google Earth allows computer users to join hunt for Fossett: Satellite imaging
program boosts search for aviator: Nevada state proves to be aircraft graveyard

BYLINE: Dan Glaister, Los Angeles

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 552 words


For a moment on Sunday, rescuers in Nevada searching for the aviator Steve
Fossett thought they might have found what they were looking for. Reporters were
summoned to Minden-Tahoe airport and a helicopter was scrambled to check out a
possible sighting of the wreckage of a single-engine aircraft.

But 30 minutes later the helicopter crew reported back that the wreck was not Mr
Fossett's plane but the debris from an old US navy crash.

"Once again you had your hopes raised and dashed just as we have," civil air
patrol major Cynthia Ryan told reporters. "This search is big, it is frustrating
and it is exhausting, physically and mentally."

But as the search for the 63-year-old enters its second week, rescuers have
received help from an unlikely source: Google Earth. The satellite imaging
program has released new, up-to-date images of Nevada which, through a
collaborative system run by Amazon called Mechanical Turk, enables individual
users to search from their homes and notify rescuers in Nevada of potential
leads. The system's creators say the plane Mr Fossett was flying would appear as
an object about "21 pixels long and 30 pixels in wingspan".

But rescuers assembled in the western Nevada desert close to the California
border are becoming increasingly frustrated. A second wreck was found on Sunday,
but again it was not Mr Fossett's plane.

"We're finding them left and right. Nevada is a graveyard," Kim Toulouse, a
spokesman for the Nevada department of wildlife, told the Associated Press.

There are 129 known crash sites in Nevada, but officials estimate that over the
last 50 years more than 300 small planes have disappeared in the state.

The false alarms highlight some of the difficulties facing rescuers as they comb
17,000 square miles of wilderness.

At least six old crash sites have been discovered since Mr Fossett went missing
on September 3. He set off in a two-seat Bellanca Citabria Super Decathlon from
the private airfield of hotel magnate Barron Hilton for a three-hour trip. The
plane was one of a selection at the ranch owned by the grandfather of Paris. Mr
Fossett and his wife, Peggy, were due to leave the ranch after his flight.

An experienced survivalist who was the first person to circle the globe in a
balloon, Mr Fossett left no flight plan, instead departing with the words: "I
head for the south." It is believed that he took the flight to scout for
locations for an attempt on the land-speed record.

On Sunday, rescuers changed tactics, focusing the search on a 50-mile area
around the ranch's airstrip because most crashes occur within that radius.
"We've got close to 100% covered, at least in some cursory fashion," Mr Ryan
said.

Ms Fossett remained at the ranch, waiting for news of her husband. "The mood is
very sombre, but very focused," county sheriff Joe Sanford said. "These are the
best search and rescue people we have. We are going to find Mr Fossett and we
are going to bring him home."

Later, Tim Evinger, Ms Fossett's spokesman, said: "The outpouring of help from
around the world has been extraordinary. More than anything else, Steve Fossett
believes in achieving success through calculated, meticulous planning and
organisation. And it is that spirit which permeates his team. Our hopes are high
and I am confident of a successful resolution to the search."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              976 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THESE ARE THE 'DROIDS YOU ARE LOOKING FOR;
Why spend £400 on a mobile when you can buy a gorgeous, powerful Android phone
for much less? Matt Bingham taps away at fiveTEST BENCH Mid-budget Android
phones

SECTION: DRIVING;FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 967 words


BEST FOR WANNABES

SAMSUNG GALAXY S III MINI

£299

The Mini is a 4in version of the Galaxy S III that preserves the look and feel
of the 4.8in original. It has a similar display, though the resolution is lower
at 480 x 800 pixels. You get much of the tech found in its big brother: the
Android 4.1 operating system, known as Jelly Bean (see panel, below right), S
Voice voice control and an FM radio. The Mini has a 5Mp camera and 8GB of
memory, with support for SD cards up to 32GB. The 1GHz chip is slower than the
quad-core chip in the full-fat S III, and the phone feels far less snappy to
use. There are preset home screens and apps for smartphone newbies - one for
social networkers, another for avid emailers and so on. The Mini doesn't feel
like a bargain, though, as you can now buy the real deal, the S III, for £399.

Verdict Good, but overpriced in this company. *** samsung.co.uk

BEST FOR BUILD QUALITY

MOTOROLA RAZR i £320

For a quality feel in the hand, pick up the RAZR i. Not only is it almost
exactly the size of an iPhone 5 (the screen is a little larger at 4.3in), it
looks and handles much like Apple's pricier device, thanks to its Kevlar and
aluminium casing. The display is not the highest definition at 540 x 960 pixels
but it is bright and colourful, while its widescreen aspect ratio works well for
viewing films. It has 8GB of memory and supports cards up to 32GB.This is one of
only two phones in Britain to employ an Intel chip (the other is the San Diego):
it runs Android 4.0, known as Ice Cream Sandwich, as fast as any top-end
handset. Android phones can be "skinned" - the basic software adapted and apps
pre-loaded by makers. Motorola has added some improvements, such as home screen
"bubbles" that you tap to display extra information.

Verdict The best mid-size Android phone. **** motorola.co.uk

BEST FOR SCREEN

GOOGLE/LG NEXUS 4 £239

Just a year ago, cheap smartphones were really cheap. Not just in price but in
quality and appearance too. Compared with top-end mobiles, the displays were
small and of low resolution, software ran slowly and cameras were generally
poor. But new Android handsets have almost closed the gap. Take the Nexus 4,
made for Google by LG, which has a 4.7in screen with a resolution of 768 x 1,280
pixels. That's only a fraction smaller than the class-leading Android phone, the
Galaxy S III. The display looks great too: sharp and bright with good contrast.
Nexus products are showcases for Google's software and the Nexus 4 comes with
the latest, 4.2 version of Android Jelly Bean. Its fast Snapdragon processor
loaded web pages, apps and games in a trice - there really is little missing
when you compare the handset with more expensive phones. The Nexus 4 has
near-field communication and wireless recharging built in too. The sacrifices
you make for the price are in the 8Mp camera, which is nothing special, and the
low-ish 8GB memory (with no card slot to upgrade it). The phone also feels light
compared with metal-bodied handsets. Don't let your friends hold it, though -
you won't get it back.

Verdict A big-screen, high-tech bargain. ***** play.google.com/store

BEST FOR LOOKS

SONY XPERIA J £189

Sony supplied this year's Bond phone, the Xperia T seen in Skyfall, and will be
hoping some of the magic rubs off on the T's baby brother. The Xperia J looks
great, with a curved back, solid build and shiny metal highlights. The 4in, 480
x 854-pixel display is bright and high contrast. But in use this Android 4.0
handset feels slow and stuttery, with button presses on the virtual keyboard
taking ages to register, apps sluggish to load and the 5Mp camera frustratingly
slow to launch. It also has just 4GB of memory, half of which is taken up by the
operating system (although it does support memory cards up to 32GB). On the
upside, Sony's Walkman music app is a great improvement on the standard Android
player, adding a graphic equaliser and other sonic tweaks.

Verdict Send this one back to Q, Bond. ** sonymobile.com/gb

BEST FOR VALUE

ORANGE SAN DIEGO £180

Aside from the Motorola RAZRi, Britain's only other Intel phone is an exclusive
for the Orange network. The San Diego runs Android 4.0 on an excellent 4in
display that packs an impressive 600 x 1,024 pixels. It has the most built-in
memory on test at 16GB, but has no card slot to add extra. The camera is 8Mp.
Taking photos, browsing the web and opening apps were all accomplished without
noticeable lag. So how can Orange keep the price so low? The San Diego looks
like an iPhone 4 or 4S but feels nothing like it. It's light in the hand and
made entirely from plastics. There's not much on the phone's skin - just a few
Orange apps, such as one for the company's two-for-one cinema ticket promotion.
Still, as long as you can live with the build and are happy to be on the Orange
network, this is a bargain.

Verdict A neat phone. Just don't drop it.  **** orange.co.uk

KNOW YOUR ANDROIDS

ICE CREAM SANDWICH

The RAZRi, Xperia J and San Diego all run versions of Android 4.0, also known as
Ice Cream Sandwich. Unveiled more than a year ago, it improved on earlier
systems by allowing you to place apps in folders and resize them, and to use
shortcuts to take photos, respond to calls and other tasks. Sony promises to
upgrade the Xperia J to Jelly Bean; Motorola says an upgrade is in the works but
has not set a date; Orange has not announced one.

JELLY BEAN

Android 4.1 and 4.2 are both known as Jelly Bean. The S III Mini runs 4.1, which
revised the Ice Cream Sandwich version of notifications and added more powerful
camera software. Android 4.1 also has Google Now, which claims to anticipate a
user's search and calendar needs by monitoring their past behaviour. Android 4.2
has a better keyboard and a panoramic camera function. There is no timetable yet
for the Mini to upgrade to 4.2.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              977 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            October 1, 2015 Thursday
                               Australian Edition

GOOGLE THE UNSTOPPABLE

BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1023  words


TECH Despite security concerns about Android, the company that became a verb has
just showcased a bevy of new products

Google Android has been under attack. Concern about security, malware and a lack
of privacy for users of the operating system has sullied its regard. But that
hasn't stopped the Mountain View, California, giant. It has carried on. There
are now 1.4 billion Android devices around the world, Sundar -Pichai, Google's
surprise choice as chief executive, boasted this week at a launch event in San
Francisco.

And by year's end there will be more Chromebooks in US schools than all other
types of devices combined, Pichai says. More than 10,000 US companies use
-Android, as does the US Army, he adds, and Google Play Music has more than one
billion users.

This week Google had much to share. Two months ago founders Larry Page and
Sergey Brin reorganised the tech giant, creating a new parent company called
-Alphabet and appointing Pichai, born in India in 1972, to the top job at Google
, throwing in a redesigned logo for good measure.

This week Google showcased a bevy of new products, including two Nexus phones,
two Chromecast streaming devices and a Pixel C tablet with a magnetically
-attached keyboard.

And that was before we got to Marshmallow, and Google's plans to reach further
into our homes via its Chromecast device.

Google contracts other firms to make Nexus-branded phones on its behalf. Thus LG
produced a 5.2-inch Nexus 5x device while China's Huawei produced a
phablet-sized 5.7-inch phone. Both Nexus phones use the pure form of Google's
new Marshmallow operating system, unadulterated by manufacturers' own apps and
tailoring of code.

Many people like the pure form of Android. It is always the latest version of
the operating system, with Google regularly pumping out updates. Both phones
feature the new USB Type-C ports we saw early this year on Apple's 12-inch
MacBook. These ports allow for fast data transfers and fast-charging devices.
You can buy adaptors to connect other devices such as external hard drives.

Both Nexus phones have fingerprint readers that Google calls Nexus Imprint.
They're installed on the back of the phones and, from experience, I can attest
to the speed at which they can grant access to a locked smartphone. Google says
the software can recognise a fingerprint in less than 600 milliseconds. However,
you'll have to get used to picking up your phone holding it on its sides and
supporting it with your index finger.

Also this week, Motorola, Huawei and Asus launched watches with Google's
watch-oriented operating system, Android Wear.

Much attention was given to Google's new tablet, the Pixel C, with its 10.2-inch
display. Its keyboard magnetically attaches to the tablet and charges
inductively from it, but can achieve two months of use without charging.

The Pixel C runs the new operating system Marshmallow and Google's biggest
announcements were software-related. While Google Marshmallow, also known as
Android 6.0, is an incremental update, in addition to fingerprint recognition it
adds a different way of granting apps permission to access data. Typically we
give apps carte blanche permission to access our data when we install them. Now
you have a choice about whether you really want a particular app to access all
your contacts. Hopefully users will make a more deliberative choice.

Among the new announcements was a power-saving feature called Doze that can put
your device into a sleep state when not in use. A motion detector decides this.
And App Standby helps -conserve battery life.

Now Tags, an extension of Google Now, automatically offers context-specific
prompts to assist your search for products. So if you find a restaurant using
the Yelp app, Now Tags prompts you to make a restaurant booking using the
OpenTable app or asks if you want to use your -favourite taxi app.

The Android app drawer remembers when and where you use apps, placing them at
the top of the app drawer when you return to the same time and same place. So if
you regularly use a transport app in the morning, it reappears at the top of
your app drawer when you are nearby.

Marshmallow comes installed on the new Nexus phones and rolls out on other Nexus
devices next week. Users of other phones have to wait until manufacturers
incorporate Marshmallow in their operating systems, probably next year.

Then there is Chromecast, the dongle some describe as Google's "Trojan Horse",
designed to allow the tech giant to penetrate deeper into your home. Chromecast
-allows you to attach entertainment devices and run programs on them, such as
Spotify on your TV.

Google aims to disrupt the connected audio speaker industry with a new device
called Chromecast Audio. It announced a family music plan that lets six people
use Google Music in the US for $US14.99 ($21.30) a month. That's due to be
available later this year.

You can get out an old speaker and attach it to Chromecast Audio's 3.5mm stereo
plug, and Chromecast can stream music to it from apps such as Spotify and Google
Music. If you have a series of speakers you can pump synchronised music through
each speaker in your home.

Chromecast Audio and a new version of Chromecast for TV are disk-shaped. They
work basically the same way. There's a port for a microUSB connection that
powers the device and, in the case of Chromecast, an HDMI connection out or for
Chromecast Audio, a stereo plug connection.

Google says the new shape will make it easy for Chromecast to dangle at the back
of a TV set and fit snugly behind a mounted TV. The new Chromecast devices
support dual Wi-Fi for faster streaming. But you won't see this in Australia any
time soon. We're not even among the top 17 countries listed by Google to receive
them. Maybe later this year. Given the US cost is $US35, we can expect
Chromecast to stay at about $50.

Marshmallow may be a soft -upgrade, but you get the impression Android is
getting much more sophisticated as we head towards the second half of this
-decade. But privacy and malware are still issues about which Google needs to
allay public concern.Chris Griffith travelled to San Francisco courtesy of
Huawei.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              978 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                             March 11, 2016 Friday

Gear Friday: An almost gr8 Mate by Huawei

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General

LENGTH: 634 words


Chinese tech mega vendor Huawei has pulled out all stops to compete with Samsung
and others in the Android market, and its latest Mate 8 smartphone is a great
leap forward compared to earlier models.

The Ascend moniker gone from the name, the Mate 8 packs new and much improved
hardware, including a very fast Kirin (no relation to the Japanese beer brand)
950 four by four core chip set made by Huawei subsidiary HiSilicon.

READ MORE:

bull Juha Saarinen: Keeping your phone secure, the Google way

bull Samsung"s Gear S2 is sleeker, simpler

bull Juha Saarinen: Nexus 6P offers welcome step up

One set of four cores run at up to 2.3 GigaHertz, the other at up to 1.8GHz. My
review unit came with 32 Gigabytes of storage and 3GB of RAM. The NZ retail
device will have 64GB of storage and 4GB of memory inside, oddly enough.

You can also slot in two SIM cards for the Mate 8, which could be handy for
roaming.

There"s also faster graphics, and while the Mate 8 on a per-core basis isn"t as
quick as say an iPhone 6s in benchmarks, working together, the processors make
for a very snappy and responsive device indeed.

This is a big phone, with a six-inch diagonal screen, measuring 157.1 by 80.6
millimetres, but it"s fairly slim at 7.9mm and not too heavy, tipping the scales
at 185 gram. It feels very well put together, as it should, being a pricey
premium device.

As with the Google Nexus P6, also made by Huawei, the responsive fingerprint
reader is at the back of the device, which takes a bit of time to get used to.

Huawei decided to keep the screen resolution at a relatively modest 1080 by 1920
unlike competitors that are at 1440 by 2560 pixels - and the Google Nexus 6P.

This matters less than the numbers suggest: the full HD screen looks good, has
the same resolution as Apple"s iPhone 6s Plus and fewer pixels to push means the
Mate 8 uses less power. Despite heavy use, the Mate 8 would often go a day and a
half between charges; the battery has a big, 4,000mAh capacity and charges in
just two hours with the beefy Huawei wallwart - and reaches 75 per cent charge
in just one hour, which is fantastic.

Mate 8 runs the latest Android 6.0 with bunch of customisations like motion
control to drive the phone. And, uh, knuckle control. You can swipe with your
knuckles to multitask two apps, draw an S to start video recording, but I found
the whole thing awkward and gimmicky.

The Mate 8 camera is strange: the specifications for the 16 megapixel unit with
a Sony sensor, phase and contrast autofocus, fast f/2.0 lens and optical image
stabilisation, manual exposure control and lots of other features suggest it
should deliver very good pictures and video.

Sony makes arguably the best digital camera sensors currently, and I"m not sure
what Huawei did in the Mate 8, because the pictures from the phone are on the
dull side, with slightly muted colours.

The autofocus was hit and miss, and the video quality isn"t amazing either - the
Mate 8"s camera struggles in the bright New Zealand sun, and blows highlights
quite badly. Maybe this can be fixed in a future firmware update, but for now
the Mate 8 camera lets the phone down - I actually preferred the
lower-resolution camera in the Nexus 6P in comparison.

Also odd: there"s no 4K video like on competitor devices, only 1080p at 60
frames per second.

Checking with Huawei revealed that the review units have older system software
and the company confirmed that an update is in the works that"ll improve picture
quality.

It"ll be interesting to see if the new software fixes the camera image quality -
and I will provide an update on this - and until then I"ll hold off on a final
verdict on the Mate 8.

The phone will cost $1,099 RRP once it hits the shops, which isn"t too bad, but
I"d want the camera to be up to scratch before forking out that much money.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              979 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                               Burnt Pixel Media

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.burntpixelmedia.co.uk

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Burnt Pixel Media offers a range of services to help businesses grow their
presence online. We believe that a good website combined with effective
marketing can make the difference between success and failure.  Although we have
a range of packages, each with their own price, we are able to offer a flexible
service allowing businesses to get a website within their own budget. We have a
development team that includes illustrators, coders, internet marketeers and
designers.  Burnt Pixel Media was founded by two like minded business men.
Austin Walters has a vast history of experience with Internet Marketing, Social
Media Marketing and Online Marketing Strategy. He is well established in South
Wales as one of the leading experts and has even been recognised by Google and
named a "Google Champion". Austin runs linkedin training workshops, Google Juice
bars and has a select handful of social media coaching clients.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              980 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Google phone is so smart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 70 words


GOOGLE says its new smartphone has been built with artificial intelligence.

The Pixel has Google Assistant built into its software, designed to understand
context.

At a demonstration in San Francisco, the Pixel was able to find details of a
restaurant that was mentioned in a text message - giving contact details, photos
and directions.

Google chief Sundar Pichai said: "We are evolving from a mobile first to AI
first world."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2016 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              981 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      October 5, 2015 Monday 10:33 AM GMT

Has YouTube come of age for modern advertisers?;
With direct buying, verification and measurement now likely to be allowed,
YouTube has become much more interesting to brands and advertisers again

BYLINE: Rob Fenton

SECTION: MEDIA NETWORK

LENGTH: 966 words


Youtube's move towards enabling users to buy directly from ads makes complete
sense. This is continuing trends initiated by Facebook and Instagram who are
allowing consumers to buy directly from editorial, news feeds and ads.

We're seeing a complete compression of the path-to-purchase journey that is now
taking place in just minutes, and increasingly on mobile. The move will allow
them to not only generate income from advertisers of typically high value items
where research starts with Google, but also brands wanting to drive impulsive
purchases via snappier news feeds.

This follows from news last month that YouTube is soon likely to succumb to
pressure and allow brands to use a raft of third-party video viewability
measurement and analytics tools can hardly come as a surprise.

The company already admitted as much last spring, when it quietly announced that
third-party pixel integration would be allowed. However, US food maker Kellogg's
fired the loudest warning shot to YouTube to get its act together in May this
year by pulling their ads from the platform, followed by their director of
global insights, Aaron Fetters, commenting on video ad spend: "If we can't
measure it, it's hard to justify the investment."

The battle lines between those who allow for such independent, third-party
measurement and those who do not had, up to this point, been clear for some
time. Every online publisher, apart from the big two - Facebook and Google -
allowed such tools to be applied to video ad campaigns.

However, even before getting to the stage of verification and campaign
performance measurement, the overall issue of defining viewability is a tricky
metric to calculate at the best of times. The Media Rating Council (MRC) defines
video ad viewability as when at least half of an ad's pixels are viewable for
two seconds or more. Based on this, viewability merely gives an ad a slim chance
of being seen rather than fully guaranteeing it. Not only this, according to a
study by Google, the average viewability for video ads across the web is 54%,
meaning around half of ads might not even be seen by consumers.

In this environment of questionable and uncertain value for advertisers, YouTube
only compounded its problems by refusing to allow independent transparency and
what this has meant is that it isn't presently considered as a traditional
online advertising channel. Despite this critical problem, it does still have
over 1 billion users, so it can't be ignored - there is still a huge audience of
consumers on offer. However, what has tended to happen is that YouTube has
become a dumping ground for small campaigns because neither brand nor
performance can be measured accurately.

There are a number of reasons why YouTube is undertaking this 180-degree turn.
Facebook's jump into video has had a huge effect, with Mark Zuckerberg's
juggernaut claiming that more videos are watched on his platform now than
YouTube's. Add in Facebook's Instagram, which is snapping up the youth mobile
audience and attracting increased video spend, and you've got powerful reasons
for why YouTube needs to be more advertiser friendly.

However, the biggest reason for this sea change relates back to YouTube's own
brand. On one hand, it is losing high-value customers, such as Kellogg's and
Unilever, and wants to win them back by becoming a respected publisher, like its
rivals are, thanks to their openness to verification. On the other hand, where
once, YouTube was a platform for funny animal videos, uploaded by anyone, it is
now moving towards being a premium publisher with more brand-focused content.
Recent reports have suggested that it is likely to focus on a mix of free and
ad-supported content, in conjunction with premium videos that sit behind a
paywall, by the end of year.

Related: Waking the sleeping giant: what YouTube did next

What does this change actually mean for advertisers? Simply put, YouTube's shift
can only be seen as positive. Increased transparency is both a more
brand-centric and customer-centric approach and can only mean clearer insight
into the performance of video campaigns. One feature, which is often overlooked,
but which is critically in its favour with this shift, compared with Facebook,
is that it is also evolving into a real-time streaming channel, where
advertisers will soon be able to broadcast live and pre-recorded brand content.

Overall, brands will be able to gauge the return on investment of video ads more
effectively and assess how consumers respond to their video content, which is
essential considering that seven out of 10 marketers expect video ad spend to
accelerate in the next 12 months. In addition, this transparency drive might
also mean lower costs for advertisers, or at the very least a clearer cost and
effectiveness ratio for any YouTube campaign.

From my own experience, any advertiser wishing to reach a young audience rapidly
will probably turn to YouTube, since a masthead on the platform can secure a
huge reach of the 15-25-years-old segment in a limited time.

With verification and measurement now likely to be allowed, YouTube, combined
with such a strong young audience, just became much more interesting to brands
again and this can only be a good thing for advertisers.

Rob Fenton is UK managing director of fifty-five

To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your
inbox,                                                sign up free for Media
Network membership                                              .

All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces
labelled "Advertisement feature". Find out more here.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              982 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      October 5, 2015 Monday 10:07 AM GMT

Has YouTube come of age for modern advertisers?;
With direct buying, verification and measurement now likely to be allowed,
YouTube has become much more interesting to brands and advertisers again

BYLINE: Rob Fenton

SECTION: MEDIA NETWORK

LENGTH: 956 words


Youtube's move towards enabling users to buy directly from ads makes complete
sense. This is continuing trends initiated by Facebook and Instagram who are
allowing consumers to buy directly from editorial, news feeds and ads.

We're seeing a complete compression of the path-to-purchase journey that is now
taking place in just minutes, and increasingly on mobile. The move will allow
them to not only generate income from advertisers of typically high value items
where research starts with Google, but also brands wanting to drive impulsive
purchases via snappier news feeds.

This follows from news last month that YouTube is soon likely to succumb to
pressure and allow brands to use a raft of third-party video viewability
measurement and analytics tools can hardly come as a surprise.

The company already admitted as much last spring, when it quietly announced that
third-party pixel integration would be allowed. However, US food maker Kellogg's
fired the loudest warning shot to YouTube to get its act together in May this
year by pulling their ads from the platform, followed by their director of
global insights, Aaron Fetters, commenting on video ad spend: "If we can't
measure it, it's hard to justify the investment."

The battle lines between those who allow for such independent, third-party
measurement and those who do not had, up to this point, been clear for some
time. Every online publisher, apart from the big two - Facebook and Google -
allowed such tools to be applied to video ad campaigns.

However, even before getting to the stage of verification and campaign
performance measurement, the overall issue of defining viewability is a tricky
metric to calculate at the best of times. The Media Rating Council (MRC) defines
video ad viewability as when at least half of an ad's pixels are viewable for
two seconds or more. Based on this, viewability merely gives an ad a slim chance
of being seen rather than fully guaranteeing it. Not only this, according to a
study by Google, the average viewability for video ads across the web is 54%,
meaning around half of ads might not even be seen by consumers.

In this environment of questionable and uncertain value for advertisers, YouTube
only compounded its problems by refusing to allow independent transparency and
what this has meant is that it isn't presently considered as a traditional
online advertising channel. Despite this critical problem, it does still have
over 1 billion users, so it can't be ignored - there is still a huge audience of
consumers on offer. However, what has tended to happen is that YouTube has
become a dumping ground for small campaigns because neither brand nor
performance can be measured accurately.

There are a number of reasons why YouTube is undertaking this 180-degree turn.
Facebook's jump into video has had a huge effect, with Mark Zuckerberg's
juggernaut claiming that more videos are watched on his platform now than
YouTube's. Add in Facebook's Instagram, which is snapping up the youth mobile
audience and attracting increased video spend, and you've got powerful reasons
for why YouTube needs to be more advertiser friendly.

However, the biggest reason for this sea change relates back to YouTube's own
brand. On one hand, it is losing high-value customers, such as Kellogg's and
Unilever, and wants to win them back by becoming a respected publisher, like its
rivals are, thanks to their openness to verification. On the other hand, where
once, YouTube was a platform for funny animal videos, uploaded by anyone, it is
now moving towards being a premium publisher with more brand-focused content.
Recent reports have suggested that it is likely to focus on a mix of free and
ad-supported content, in conjunction with premium videos that sit behind a
paywall, by the end of year.

What does this change actually mean for advertisers? Simply put, YouTube's shift
can only be seen as positive. Increased transparency is both a more
brand-centric and customer-centric approach and can only mean clearer insight
into the performance of video campaigns. One feature, which is often overlooked,
but which is critically in its favour with this shift, compared with Facebook,
is that it is also evolving into a real-time streaming channel, where
advertisers will soon be able to broadcast live and pre-recorded brand content.

Overall, brands will be able to gauge the return on investment of video ads more
effectively and assess how consumers respond to their video content, which is
essential considering that seven out of 10 marketers expect video ad spend to
accelerate in the next 12 months. In addition, this transparency drive might
also mean lower costs for advertisers, or at the very least a clearer cost and
effectiveness ratio for any YouTube campaign.

From my own experience, any advertiser wishing to reach a young audience rapidly
will probably turn to YouTube, since a masthead on the platform can secure a
huge reach of the 15-25-years-old segment in a limited time.

With verification and measurement now likely to be allowed, YouTube, combined
with such a strong young audience, just became much more interesting to brands
again and this can only be a good thing for advertisers.

Rob Fenton is UK managing director of fifty-five

To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your
inbox,                                                sign up free for Media
Network membership                                              .

All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces
labelled "Advertisement feature". Find out more here.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              983 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

PIXEL-PACKING MAN;
New 111-million pixel chip will map the night sky.

BYLINE: By TAMARA CHUANG; DANA POINT NEWS

SECTION: DANAPOINT; Pg. Cover

LENGTH: 497 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Bredthauer's new 111-million pixel will map the night sky.

FULL TEXT

If you want the world's highest-resolution digital camera, you'd better get to
know Richard "Dr. Dick" Bredthauer.

The Dana Point resident put 111 million pixels on a 4-by-4-inch chip, the most
ever on a single chip. That's like stitching together 20 photos taken with a 5.5
megapixel camera to create a huge image -- sans the grid lines.

While the chips won't find their way into a consumer camera anytime soon, such
high-resolution chips will let astronomers photograph wider swaths of the night
sky, allow scientists to take detailed shots of protein structures and encourage
Google to improve its map services.

"This is one of a progression of projects that really push the limits of
technology," said Patrick Myles, director of communications for  Dalsa
Semiconductor, the Canadian firm that built Bredthauer's chip. "When it comes to
this type of high performance, there's a really short list of who can actually
do it."

Most consumer cameras are in the 5-to-8 MP range. Professional cameras are up to
39 MP. Other high-resolution cameras, such as the 340-MP Megacam in Hawaii, are
made of several smaller chips stitched together. Stitching chips or images
together, however, is less accurate if the target is moving.

"The one place that can really use big images is astronomy," said Bredthauer,
59, whose resume includes making chips for a list of big-name cameras that snap
pictures in space -- the Hubble telescope, the Cassini Mission, the Mars
Pathfinder. "Astronomers know what they can do with it."

The new chip, which uses charge couple devices, is headed to the U.S. Naval
Observatory in Flagstaff, Ariz., and should be installed by year's end. It will
be used to take pictures of the night sky for an astrometry project to measure
the position and movement of stars, planets and other celestial bodies. Knowing
the position of celestial objects is an alternative to GPS navigation.

Charge couple devices (CCD) have long been Bredthauer's passion. He's worked in
the field since the 1970s when he was in graduate school and studied with the
man who set up Kodak's CCD lab. CCDs are a type of image sensor that converts
light into electrons. Compared to other camera chips, CCDs use more power but
have better light sensitivity. CCDs tend to be used in higher-quality cameras
and telescopes.

After 25 years of working for other people and watching his varied aerospace
employers move out of Orange County, Bredthauer started  Semiconductor
Technology Associates seven years ago in San Juan. He works with 7 employees,
including wife, Ginny, the chief executive, and two sons and a daughter.

BIG CHIP: Dr. Richard Bredthauer, Dana Point resident and president of the San
Juan Capistrano company Semiconductor Technology Associates, Inc. has designed
the world's highest resolution, 111 megapixal, CCD imaging chip. The 4-inch
square chip sells for $80,000, and was developed for the U.S. Navy.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2006 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              984 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                                October 19, 2016

Netflix Booms, But Two Other FANG Stocks Hit Buy Points

BYLINE: ED CARSON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 546 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/NFLX-EC.jpg

Netflix (NFLX) shares gapped higher on Tuesday soaring above a buy point in a
consolidation going back to early December. Meanwhile, two other FANG stocks,
Facebook (FB) and Google parent Alphabet (GOOGL), moved back above pivot points
Tuesday, while Amazon (AMZN) continues to trade near all-time highs.

Netflix

Netflix shot up 19% to 118.79 on Tuesday, well above a 111.95 buy point. The
internet TV giant reported much-better-than-expected third-quarter earnings and
subscriber growth Monday night.

Netflix added 3.57 million new streaming video subscribers, vs. its forecast for
2.3 million. All but 370,000 were outside the U.S. For the fourth quarter,
Netflix sees a net customer gain of 5.2 million, with 3.75 million outside the
U.S. and 1.45 million domestic.

Netflix's original shows, such as "Stranger Things," helped drive subscriptions.

IBD'S TAKE: While Netflix is the streaming media king, Domino's Pizza also is
getting a slice as America decides to "Netflix and chill." The pizza chain
reported booming earnings growth Tuesday, and Domino's CEO Patrick Doyle told
IBD his outlook for the industry.

Netflix CEO Reed Hastings also said that Google YouTube and Facebook pose more
of a threat for customers' screen time than Amazon Prime Video.

Wednesday update: Netflix shares extended gains, rising 2.6% to 121.87 on the
stock market today.

RELATED:

5 Takeaways From Netflix Earnings Surprise, Stock Surge

Alphabet

Alphabet also had a strong day. Shares rose 1.8% to 821.49, hitting a record
high in strong volume and once again clearing an 813.98 buy point. Shares have
been moving sideways for more than two months, finding support recently at the
50-day moving average.

Alphabet got positive reviews for its new Pixel smartphones. That should help
the Pixel handsets make inroads, especially with Samsung, which uses the Google
Android operating software, reeling from its Note 7 overheating fiasco. The
Apple (AAPL) iPhone 7 is likely to be the biggest holiday beneficiary, though.

Alphabet reports earnings on Oct. 27. That will be a busy day for tech news.
Amazon also reports earnings on Oct. 27. Tesla Motors[ticker symb=TSLA ]and
SolarCity (SCTY) will unveil an integrated solar panel-battery storage-charger
offering that day. And Apple reportedly will showcase new Mac computers.

Wednesday update: Alphabet rose 0.7% to 827.09, hitting a fresh all-time high of
829.81 intraday.

Facebook

Facebook had a less dramatic move than Netflix or Alphabet, rising 0.8% to
128.57 on Tuesday in below-normal volume. But that did push Facebook slightly
above the 128.43 buy point, first crossed back on Sept. 6. Facebook had found
support at its 50-day line in recent days.

Facebook will report third-quarter results on Nov. 2.

Wednesday update: Facebook rose 1.2% to 130.11, with volume that was just above
average. Strong volume, indicating institutional buying, would be a welcome
sign.

Amazon

Amazon had the quietest day of all four FANG stocks Tuesday, advancing 0.6% to
817.96 in below-average trade.  Amazon is well extended from a proper breakout
and even 50-day line tests. Shares peaked at 847.21 on Oct. 6.

Amazon, like Alphabet, will report earnings on Oct. 27.

Wednesday update: Amazon rose 4 cents to 817.69.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              985 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                       March 30, 2015 Monday 08:34 AM EST

Acer Chromebook 15 review: Massive display, with mixed results overall

BYLINE: Bryan Lunduke

SECTION: REVIEWS

LENGTH: 1130  words


Click for image

Over the past few months I've had the opportunity to review two laptops. Both of
them being... rather beefy: the Chromebook Pixel and the Dell M3800. These two
machines are powerhouses - sporting extremely high-resolution screens and
high-end processors - with price tags to match. But then, this past week, the
delivery man dropped off an entirely different category of laptop: the Acer
Chromebook 15.

The model I have here is the CB5-571-C09S, sporting a 15.6-inch display (with a
1080p resolution), an Intel Celeron CPU (at 1.6GHz), 4GB of RAM, and a 32GB SSD.
All of which costs $350 retail.

I'm going to come right out and say it - I've had a difficult time figuring out
exactly how I feel about this laptop.

On the one hand, it has a huge display, the biggest of any Chromebook ever made.
It may not come even close to the resolution of Google's Pixel, which rocks
2560x1700, but the Acer's 15.6-inch screen makes the Pixel's sub-13-inch screen
look tiny by comparison. This is a big freaking laptop screen.

See also: What it's like living on a Chromebook Pixel, Part 1

The screen quality, it should be noted, is pretty nice. The viewing angles
aren't quite as good as the Pixel (or the Dell M3800's 4K display), but it's not
bad either. And, considering the massive price difference between the Acer and
those other laptops ($350 for the Acer vs. over $2,000 for the Dell and over
$1,000 for the Pixel), that reduction in quality is actually not as dramatic as
you might expect.

The guts of the machine (CPU, RAM, and hard drive) are all excellent... for a
$350 machine. If you sit down and compare the specs of this relatively
gargantuan-sized Chromebook against a Pixel, you will be disappointed. But when
you remember that you can buy three of these Acer laptops for the cost of a
single Pixel, things start to look (a lot) more interesting.

Is the Acer Chromebook 15 a speed demon? No. It isn't exactly decked out with
the latest and greatest i7 processor. But it's no slouch, either. In fact, I
very rarely experienced any sluggishness with this machine. Even with a large
number of tabs open and Google Play Music streaming some tunes in the
background, the entire system was peppy and responsive.

See also: Dell's Ubuntu-powered M3800 Mobile Workstation is a desktop destroyer

And, let's be honest, in a Chromebook that's really what you care about: lots of
Chrome tabs, background audio, and playing either a YouTube or Netflix HD video
clip. This little Acer (did I just call this mega-sized laptop "little"?) can
handle all of that without slowing down in the slightest.

The battery life is pretty solid as well. Acer claims around nine hours of
battery life. I drained the battery (from completely charged down to nothing) in
around eight hours. But that was fairly heavy usage with music playing in the
background the majority of the time (one does want to rock out while reviewing
hardware, after all). Eight hours of battery life on a gigantic 15.6-inch screen
seems really solid to me.

So, what's the problem? It sounds like I've just described a pretty doggone
great laptop at a super low price. If I stopped right there, purchasing this
Chromebook is a no-brainer.

But, instead of stopping there, let's talk about the build quality for a minute.

When I first unpacked the box, and pulled out this large white laptop, I was
struck by something... profound.

This machine is... profoundly plastic.

The model I have here is white. Solid white. With a subtle crisscross embossing
patterning covering the entire outside.

The plastic isn't the fancy kind of plastic, either. It's the kind of plastic
that many of my toys from the 1980's were made with. The kind where, when you
tap on it with your fingernail, it makes that distinct "just tapped on a plastic
toy" sound. In other words: it feels cheap.

When you open the lid and look at the keyboard, the initial impression is a
positive one. The keyboard is certainly full laptop-sized. Typing on the keys
feels good... for the most part. Typing aggressively on the keyboard - which I
tend to do - results in a sound not unlike banging on a small plastic drum. Or,
if you had an original Nintendo Entertainment System, the sound when you knocked
on the top of it. That "hollow plastic shell" sound. That's the sound that
banging on this keyboard makes. It's not loud, and it's not obnoxious, by any
means. But it sounds cheap.

That's a weird thing to say in a laptop review, I know. "It sounds cheap when
you tap on it." But it's true. And it's noteworthy. And it begins to make me
realize why this laptop is available at such a cheap price.

Also... the screen bends. A significant amount. And rather easily. If you open
the laptop (lift the screen up) and put just a small amount of pressure on the
bottom of the bezel around the screen, it bends noticeably. This issue seems to
pertain mostly to the display half. The keyboard half feels far sturdier and
doesn't seem to suffer from any bending or rigidity issues.

Interestingly, there are two things that do not feel quite as "cheap." The
trackpad (which has a good feel and a distinctive "click" to it when pressed)
and the speakers (which are large, with visible plastic grating covering them,
that produce quite decent sound for this price range of a laptop). Two
components that, often, even expensive laptops don't do well. So big high-five
to the Acer crew there.

So, to sum up: on the one hand, this laptop sports the largest screen on any
Chromebook and packs enough muscle to stand toe-to-toe with most other
Chromebooks. But, on the other hand, the build quality reminds you that you only
paid a fraction of the price that you would for a "premium laptop."

Would I recommend this laptop to someone? You know what... yes. Yes, I would.

If you want a Linux-powered Chromebook with a big freaking screen... this is the
Chromebook for you. I can literally put a Chromebook Pixel in front of the
Acer's screen and it doesn't even come close to blocking the view.

It's also an incredibly good deal. For $350, I could lug this laptop around with
me and not worry too much about banging it up. I could break one and buy an
identical replacement, and still have save several hundred dollars over buying a
Pixel.

So, yes. The Acer Chromebook 15 is a good machine with an interesting place in
the market. I'm glad Acer is making it and I can think of some people who would
truly enjoy using it for the price.

But what would really interest me is if Acer were to come out with a premium
version of this Chromebook. Made with metal instead of plastic. With a beefier
processor and more storage. But still, of course, keeping a huge (for a laptop)
15.6-inch screen, I could see that machine really turning some heads (including
mine). Even if it cost two to three times as much.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              986 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           October 15, 2015 Thursday

Launch Pad: Six hot gadgets launched this week

SECTION: HARDWARE

LENGTH: 533 words


Coolpad Note 3: This is the first phone in the price bracket to offer 3GB RAM
and a fingerprint scanner. Hardware specifications include 1.3Ghz octa core
processor, 16GB storage and a 3,000mAh battery. Weighing 150 grams, the phone
has a 5.5-inch IPS display with a resolution of 1280 x 720 pixels, 13MP primary
camera, 5MP front camera, dual SIM support, microSD slot for expansion, 4G
connectivity, WiFi and Bluetooth.

Moto X Style: This is the second variant of the Moto X series and it features a
5.7-inch IPS display with a resolution of 2560 x 1440 pixels. It weighs 179
grams, runs the latest Android 5.1 on a hexa core Snapdragon 808 processor, has
3GB RAM, 16/32GB storage and a 3,000mAh battery. The phone also boasts of
expandable storage, a 21MP rear camera with phase detection autofocus and 4k
video recording. Other features include a 5MP front camera, 4G, WiFi, Bluetooth,
NFC connectivity and a water repellent coating for protection against damage
from accidental splashes.

Micromax Lapbook: Micromax has marked an entry into mainstream laptop territory
with the Lapbook. It has traditional laptop form factor, 11.6-inch display and
comes pre-installed with Windows 10. Inside is an Intel Atom processor, 2GB RAM,
32GB storage & microSD slot (up to 64GB). Micromax says that the 5,000mAh
battery will give you up to 11 hours of battery life. Weighing just 1.3kg, the
Lapbook has dual USB 2.0 ports, HDMI, dual speakers, built-in WiFi and Bluetooth
for connectivity. It comes with Micromax's 7-day onsite service (product
repaired and delivered back in 7-days).

Google Nexus Phones: Google has launched both new Nexus phones; Nexus 5X (made
by LG) and Nexus 6P (made by Huawei) in India. Both phones have the latest
Android OS (6.0), a fingerprint sensor, a 12MP camera with laser autofocus and
USB Type-C port. Nexus 5X has a 5.2-inch full HD display and runs a hexa core
Snapdragon 808 processor, 2GB RAM, 16/32GB storage, 5MP front camera and a
2,700mAh battery. Nexus 6P features a 5.7-inch amoled display (2560 x 1440),
Snapdragon 810 processor, 3GB RAM, 32/64GB storage, 8MP front camera and
3,450mAh battery. In a first, Nexus phones will also be available offline.

Meizu M2: This mid-range smartphone from Meizu has a 5-inch HD display (1280 x
720 pixels) in a lightweight (131 grams) design. It is powered by a 1.3Ghz quad
core Mediatek MT6735 processor, 2GB RAM, 16GB storage and a 2,500mAh battery.
You get a 13MP rear camera capable of recording video in 1080p, 5MP front camera
and a hybrid SIM slot (use it for a nanoSIM or for microSD card). Connectivity
is taken care of with 4G, WiFi, WiFi Direct and Bluetooth.

GlobalSpace Solt: This company claims that their hybrid device is the first
3-in-1 tablet. You can use it as a tablet, laptop or a desktop (with a docking
station). It has a 10.1-inch display (1280 x 800 pixels), is powered by an Intel
Atom processor, has 2GB RAM, 64GB of storage and a 7,900mAh battery. It weighs
just 615 grams and comes pre-loaded with Windows 8.1. The magnetic dock adds a
keyboard with trackpad, 4 USB ports, Ethernet, a 500GB hard drive (optional) and
dual speakers. You also get 3G, WiFi & 5MP camera.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              987 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                            February 25, 2013 Monday

Boot up: Google hits florist, HTC's FTC charge, Samsung takes on disability, and
more

BYLINE: Charles Arthurguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1469 words

ABSTRACT

Charles Arthur and Josh Halliday: Plus what removing Captchas gets you, Android
reborn for hacking, Chromebook Pixel, and more

FULL TEXT

A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team

Interflora SEO Penalty Analysis 2013 && Martin MacDonald

[On Wednesday] evening, well known florist brand Interflora was wiped off the
face of the internet.  Well, in search marketing terms anyway...

Searching for the terms [Flowers], [florist], [flower delivery], [flowers
online] and hundreds of other related search terms yielded the interflora.co.uk
domain in first place - until yesterday afternoon.  Now the website does not
even appear for its own brand name.

Reflecting on Google's power: a case for regulation? && Tim Anderson's ITWriting

He's written a sort of list, prompted by Interflora's downranking:

9. Users of Google will be grateful that it attempts to improve the value of its
search results by reducing the influence of meaningless incoming links. On the
other hand, I find it difficult to understand why a user who typed "interflora"
into Google would not want to see the official site at the top of the list,
since it is a legitimate business and not in any sense malicious. Of course they
do in fact see this, judging from my own experiment minutes ago, but it is an
advertisement and not an organic link. The top organic link is not Interflora's
own site.

10. Pause for thought: what would be the effect on Google's business if it put
ads below organic search results rather than above?

11. The only rationale for (9) above is that Google considers it worth
inconveniencing its users (presuming you do not accept that it simply wants to
sell more ads) for the sake of the higher objective of penalising sites which,
in its view, breach its guidelines.

12. We all have a choice whether to use Google or not; but this choice is not
one that fixes the problem. The problem, rather, is the choice which our
customers or potential customers make, over which we have no control.

No. 10 is quite a poser.

Guardian launches new reader profile pages && Guardian Help

[This] week we'll be launching a new look for reader profile pages.

The changes will bring all your website activity and site preferences into one
place, which we hope will make it easier for you to find and to manage them.

Where "you" actually means "everyone else".

HTC America settles FTC charges it failed to secure millions of mobile devices
shipped to consumers && FTC

Mobile device manufacturer HTC America has agreed to settle Federal Trade
Commission charges that the company failed to take reasonable steps to secure
the software it developed for its smartphones and tablet computers, introducing
security flaws that placed sensitive information about millions of consumers at
risk.

The settlement requires HTC America to develop and release software patches to
fix vulnerabilities found in millions of HTC devices. In addition, the
settlement requires HTC America to establish a comprehensive security program
designed to address security risks during the development of HTC devices and to
undergo independent security assessments every other year for the next 20 years.

...the FTC's complaint details several vulnerabilities found on HTC's devices,
including the insecure implementation of two logging applications - Carrier IQ
and HTC Loggers - as well as programming flaws that would allow third-party
applications to bypass Android's permission-based security model.

Tweaking Android makes it buggy, it seems.

Samsung's Iill-conceived Apple VoiceOver suit stayed in Germany && AllThingsD

A Mannheim Regional Court on Friday ordered a stay of a Samsung suit against
Apple that alleges the iPhone maker's VoiceOver screen-access technology
violated its patent on display into speech data.

The mechanics of this particular spat and the court's ruling on it are bit too
byzantine to dive into here, but it's worth a look in broad strokes simply as an
example of just how low players are willing to stoop in IP battles like the one
between Apple and Samsung. So, in short: Samsung holds a patent on a feature
that allows devices to read aloud text to their users with the press of a
button. The company asserted that patent against Apple's accessibility features,
specifically VoiceOver which is specifically designed for anyone with impaired
vision. Caught in the middle: The blind, low-vision users, folks with dyslexia
and anyone else who might benefit from having what appears on their computer
screen described to them out loud.

Yes, this move by Samsung against Apple was a tactical one in a nasty battle in
which billions of dollars are at stake. Yes, it's just business. But it's
ill-conceived. Even leaving aside the ethics of asserting a patent against a
feature designed to help the blind, this is unwise. It's the PR equivalent of
punching yourself in the face. Samsung has now identified itself as a company
willing to accept the loss of accessibility for the vision-impaired as
collateral damage in its battle with Apple.

Bits v. Bytes: Follow the money && asymco

Horace Dediu:

the Pixel is a high-end product. It's priced at the top of the range of what a
laptop computer might cost (given the dimensions).  Perhaps it's part of a
pattern where Google will hone its hardware skills toward releasing a phone or
tablet it can call its own. Starting with a more traditional computer is
"easier" than trying to deliver on the more demanding smaller form factors.

And yet, the more obvious question is why would Google want to be in the
hardware business? Isn't being a web-focused company implicitly suggesting that
hardware is a commodity to be farmed off to perpetually impoverished and
violently abused OEMs?

The truth is quite different from this. Samsung currently makes far more
operating profit from Android phones than Google does from all its operations.

Oh, you knew that already?

F**K CAPTCHA && Harry Brignull

Brignull is a user experience designer and consultant:

Users were directed to the sign-up form direct from the homepage before they
could interact with the product. As you can see, there was a CAPTCHA at the
bottom of the form (powered by reCAPTCHA). With this design, they had a
conversion rate of roughly 48%. They then removed the CAPTCHA, and it boosted
the conversion rate up to 64%. In conversion rate lingo, that's an uplift of
33.3%! They replaced the CAPTCHA with honeypot fields and timestamp analysis,
which has apparently proven to be very effective at preventing spam while being
completely invisible to the end user.

Google's Android reborn as network-hacking kit && Wired.com

The folks at security tools company Pwnie Express have built a tablet that can
bash the heck out of corporate networks. Called the Pwn Pad, it's a full-fledged
hacking toolkit built atop Google's Android operating system.

Pwnie Express will be selling the cool-looking hack machines - based on Google's
Nexus 7 tablets - for $795. They'll be introduced at the RSA security conference
in San Francisco next week, but Pwnie Express is also releasing the Pwn Pad
source code, meaning that hackers can download the software and get it up and
running on other types of Android phones and tablets.

Very neat.

Google announces Chromebook Pixel: a premium Chrome OS laptop shipping next week
for $1,299 && The Verge

Google repeatedly told us how smooth and fluid it is to swipe through webpages
on the touchscreen on the Pixel, and how it would enable developers to target a
broader ecosystem for their apps by allowing their tablet and smartphone
creations to have the same experience on the web. If only it were true: the
touchscreen response is far from fluid, if Google's on-stage demos and our own
hands-on impressions are any indication.

Specifications v experience.

The agony of the fanboy && TechCrunch

John Biggs:

When you fail, fail gracefully. When WebOS died, fanboys were forced to concede
to the fact that their favorite thing in the world was a dud. A group of fans
rallied around the open-source version of WebOS and are still futzing around
with it, but like a legion of Betamax fanatics, they're worshipping at the feet
of a dead god. Move on. Be nimble and mentally malleable. Learn something new.
Still defending PHP to your dying breath? Go learn Python. Think iOS is a blast?
Swap your iPad mini for a Nexus 7. I do this quite often and it's very
refreshing. I learned that I loved Windows 8, for example, and that the Surface
Pro is great. I learned these things because I'm in a very special position, but
you (meaning MG [Siegler]), too, can at least go into the Microsoft store with
an open mind and come out potentially changed.

Here's hoping. A wise piece.

You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard

To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free
Delicious service.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              988 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                                October 23, 2009

Verizon Droid phone briefly unveiled on Motorola Web site;
Droid smartphone specs and photos leaked, then taken down

BYLINE: John Cox

LENGTH: 377 words


The world got an apparently unplanned preview of the Verizon Android-based Droid
smartphone when Motorola briefly postedonline the official Web pages describing
and showing the new device in depth.

The impression is that of an Android iPhone with a slider keyboard.

The pages were quickly yanked from the Web, but not before bloggers and new
sites quickly captured them. Slashgear even recorded their navigation through
the phone's 3-D simulation and posted it online.  Smartphone smackdown: Motorola
Droid vs. iPhone 3GS The leaked information confirms the rumors swirling around
the Droid (the name itself is licensed form George Lucas' Lucasfilms) since
Verizon's controversial TV ads debuted this week, quietly but pointedly mocking
a device dubbed the "iDon't" and promising that the Droid will do everything the
iDon't doesn't.

Here's what the leak revealed: * Almost identical in size to the iPhone: 2.4 x
4.6 x 0.5 inches; but quite a bit heavier at 6 oz. compared to 4.8 oz. for
iPhone.

* A big 3.7-inch diagonal capacitive touchscreen with haptic feedback, 854x480
pixel resolution; that compares to the iPhone's 3.5-inch multi-touchscreen with
480x320 pixels.

* Google Android 2.0, running on an unnamed 550MHz processor (though the
smartphone site The Boy Genius Report, which claims to have handled a Droid
prototype, says it's a TI OMAP3430); a batch of e-mail and PIM applications that
sync with Google's online services; and a range of improvements and refinements
over the original.

* Android's Webkit-based browser, speedier in Android 2.0, with support for HTML
5, which will allow the browser to store and run a range of code and user
information; it will support Adobe Flash 10.1 when that code is released next
year.

* Wireless connectivity via EV-DO Rev A 3G, Wi-Fi 802.11b/g, and Bluetooth,
along with GPS (there's also a micro USB port).

* 5-megapixel autofocus camera, with 4x digital zoom, and dual-LED flash.

* 1.400mAh battery, which Motorola says will deliver up to 6.5 hours of talk
time and 270 hours of standby. The iPhone 3GS promises up to five hours on 3G
and 300 hours standby.

* 6GB microSD card bundled, with an option for 32GB card when this capacity
comes to market in 2010.

* "Advanced speech recognition" features promised by Verizon



LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                       Copyright 2009 Network World, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              989 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                            June 19, 2013 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

FAB TABS

BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SECTION: SWITCHEDON; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 359  words


There's a new look to tablets these days, writes Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

TAB-BOOK Z160

LG, $1499

lg.com.au

****

Hybrid tablets will be hard to avoid this year, if Computex predictions prove
correct, and LG has one of the first and most compelling. The Tab-Book Z160 is a
Windows 8 computer with a vivid 11.6-inch screen, a powerful engine and a
generously sized, slide-out keyboard. Whether you can call the Tab-Book a true
tablet, at 1.25kg with a 1.9cm thickness, is debatable, but it's a highly
capable Ultrabook at minimum.

FONEPAD

ASUS, $329 (8GB)

asus.com.au

*** 1/2

Is even a 6-inch phablet too small for you? If so, Asus has a solution in its
mighty big phone, or reasonably small tablet, the Fonepad. This 7-inch
touchscreen device has a number keypad even Mr Magoo could see. As a tablet,
it's standard 7-inch fare, with a 1.2GHz chip and 1GB RAM running Google Android
Jelly Bean software. Its 1280 x 800 pixel screen is good from an angle, thanks
to In-Plane Switching technology, it offers space for a memory card to boost its
8GB memory, and the camera offers basic snapshots and video.

SLATE 7

HP, $199

hp.com.au

***

HP's first tablet computer may live in infamy, but its most recent attempts show
promise. The Slate 7 is the latest handbag/backpack-friendly tablet from the
world's biggest computer maker and it's easy to use, offers an untouched version
of Google's Android Jelly Bean software (v4.1) and all the apps you'd expect.
Its 7-inch screen is narrower than others and, at 1024 x 600 pixels, won't
impress with its clarity, but the unit chugs along capably with a dual-core
1.6GHz chip.

SAMSUNG GALAXY MEGA

Mobicity, $699.95

mobicity.com.au

****

Is it a tablet? Is it a phone? Samsung doesn't just blur but breaks the line
between the two with the Galaxy Mega, a 6.3-inch device that dwarfs its Note
smartphone. Despite its size, the 4G Mega is still quite usable as a phone,
provided you've got the space for a 199g, 16.7cm device. It delivers useful
widgets to fill the larger display, its keyboard is easier to navigate, and
taking a photo with its 8-megapixel camera is like capturing a TV screenshot. A
slower chip and less RAM hold it back.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              990 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 6, 2013 Wednesday

LG Optimus G;
By Seow Tein Hee / x1880 / 96929673 / teinhee@sph.com.sg

SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Technology

LENGTH: 490 words


Forget about the Google Nexus 4. Its more powerful sibling, the LG Optimus G,
has a much healthier stock level and is on sale here.

LG's newest flagship device has a more angular design, resembling a black glass
slab with a less rounded corner, looking somewhat like the blocky iPhone 5.
Packed densely into a compact chassis that measures 131.9 x 68.9 x 8.45mm, the
phone feels solid and sturdy. Its front and rear glass panels add to the weight
of the device at 145g.

The upside to this is that both panels are made with the sturdier and more
scratch-resistant Gorilla Glass 2, compared with the plastic back cover on
Samsung's Galaxy phones, and the scratch magnet on the rear of the iPhone 5.

Handling the Optimus G was a piece of cake, though the placement of its power
button on the right side of the phone, with the volume buttons on the left, took
some getting used to. At the bottom of the device is an easily accessible micro
USB port.

The 4.7-inch display does not waste any real estate space, with only a thin
black bezel on its side. Unlike the Nexus 4, which integrates the back, home and
recent applications short cuts into the screen, the Optimus G places them just
below the screen as three touch-sensitive buttons backed by LED lights.

Its True HD IPS+ panel handled the display job well, delivering clear and sharp
images with a screen resolution of 768 x 1,280 pixels and screen density of 320
pixels per inch. I was able to read fine text and view images perfectly clearly
under strong daylight, and its IPS panel also had a larger viewing angle that
allowed others to view the screen at a slight angle.

Its clean, unassuming Optimus 3.0 UI (user interface) complements the latest
Google Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system, with a dash of LG's own
customisation tossed in.

What really amazed me was the performance of the phone. Aside from some
innovative LG-only features (see other story), there were no visible lags when I
was using the device. Temple Run 2 was loaded in less than 6 seconds, and during
my playthrough, the fast and furious game reacted swiftly to my controls.
Webpages were also rendered quickly, aided in part by the Qualcomm Snapdragon
quad-core processor and the fast LTE speeds on the phone.

In the Quadrant and Geekbench 2 benchmark apps that measure overall performance,
the LG phone performed very well.

In the battery mileage department, however, Samsung phones still came up ahead.
When the Optimus G played a 720p video under intensive conditions, including
full brightness and volume along with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth activated, the phone
lasted slightly under six hours. Under a normal scenario, which involves the use
of WhatsApp, e-mail and social network apps, a full charge lasted for 15 hours
before a recharge was necessary.


o The LG Optimus G can be described as good, great and gorgeous. It is pretty
generous with its high-end hardware at an affordable price.  teinhee@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              991 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Electronics For You

                                October 1, 2016

Buyers' Guide - Estyle: How to Select the Smartest Smart TV in the Market

LENGTH: 1292  words


Ahalya Mandana is working as a freelance writer with EFY

After a long day's work, the best way to relax is probably to watch the latest
blockbuster, at home. Yes, the movie-watching experience at home has transformed
with TVs having gigantic screens, crystal-clear displays and terrific sound
quality. With smart TVs, you can connect your TV to a Wi-Fi network, download
the latest episodes of your favourite show and watch content that is stored on
your mobile phone, on the big screen. But how do you decide which smart TV to
invest in? This guide will help you choose the right one for your home.



Features to watch out for

Before we go ahead and show you our list of recommended smart TVs, let us
understand the important features of these devices and how these play out as you
begin to use these. This will enable you to compare and review TVs even outside
our recommendations list, and help you make the right choice.

One of the main features of smart TVs is that these have software platforms,
just like PCs and mobile phones. Let us take a look at each of these.

Android TV. This is one of the most popular platforms and gives you the freedom
to access Google Play store from your TV, to purchase apps and games. Different
manufacturers tie up with different platforms but Sony Android TVs are popular.
You can also control these TVs using TV SideView app that features voice search.
Google Cast allows media to be streamed to the TV, while gaming controllers from
Logitech and Razer let you have fun with console-less gaming. The best thing
about this one is the collection of apps.

Firefox OS. This is the one you will see with most Panasonic TVs. It has been
refreshed for 2016 with a new design that looks much better than the previous
version. It also comes with a barebones version of Firefox browser. The lack of
Google's Play store means it does not have as much content but it still wins on
the interface design side. The simple design is the winner for this one.

Smart hub (Tizen). This comes with Samsung TVs and is based on their Tizen
operating system (OS). It is decently customisable and does not clutter up much.
However, there are too many notifications as it tries to suggest apps for you to
use among other things. That said, it does have a decent app ecosystem and
features Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, Hulu, HBO Go/HBO Now, YouTube, Spotify
and Vudu depending on region. While not as good as the previous two, this OS
also offers split-screen view of watching TV while browsing, which now comes
with Android Nougat.

LG webOS. LG TVs feature this OS, and offer almost the same apps like Netflix,
Amazon and others. The user interface is jiggly and fast to the point that it
may be dizzying to some. But that should not be a problem once you get used to
it. It looks decent and is fast, but not as good as the previous three though.

Smart TVs to check out

Now that you know what to look out for, here is our recommended collection of
smart TVs.

Most affordable smart TV: Noble Skiodo 32SM32N01. This 81cm (32-inch) LED TV
comes with Wi-Fi/LAN connectivity. It allows you to stream videos from YouTube
and download shows from Netflix. It has a screen resolution of 1366768 pixels
and an impressive 178 viewing angle. It has three USB ports, so you can connect
a flash drive to the TV to watch movies with ease. It is available on Amazon.in
for Rs 15,199, which makes it one of the most reasonably- priced smart TVs in
the market.

Excellent screen resolution: TCL L43P1US 4K UHD smart LED TV. This 109.2cm
(43-inch) TV from TCL has a resolution of 38402160 pixels, which provides
extremely clear images. The 4K UHD screen resolution has four times the number
of pixels as other full-HD TVs. With Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, you can
easily connect your phone to your TV. It provides access to Android apps since
it runs on Android 5.1 OS. It is available on Amazon.in for Rs 31,990.

Great sound quality: Micromax 40 Canvas-S full-HD smart LED TV. This TV from
Micromax has 24W speaker output with dynamic sound reproduction. It has Wi-Fi
Direct connectivity, three HDMI ports and two USB ports. The 102cm (40.1-inch)
screen is a full-HD one, with a resolution of 19201080 pixels. Viewing angle is
178. It is available on Flipkart.com for Rs 29,989.

3D smart TV: LG 42LF6500 full-HD 3D smart LED TV. This is one of the more
affordable 3D smart TVs. LED screen size is 106.6cm (42-inch) and resolution is
19201080 pixels. It uses webOS 2.0 as its OS. With Smart-share feature, you can
share content wirelessly from other smart-devices, very easily. It also comes
with 3D conversion technology that promises to convert 2D content into 3D
content. However, do keep in mind that you will have to purchase good-quality 3D
glasses to be able to watch 3D content. The TV is available on Flipkart.com for
Rs 49,700.

Wide range of apps: Samsung UA40K6300AKLXL full-HD smart, curved LED. This smart
TV has a 101.6cm (40-inch) curved LED screen. Screen resolution is 19201080
pixels. Samsung TVs use Tizen OS. There are a wide range of apps available for
this OS. It has Wi-Fi connectivity, three HDMI ports and two USB ports, along
with a 3G dongle plug-and-play feature. It uses Dolby Digital Plus sound
technology with 20W speaker output. It is available on Flipkart.com for Rs
62,900.

There are so many TVs available in the market at the moment. But some of these
may have features that you find unnecessary. So, while selecting a TV, make sure
that it has the right kind of features as per your individual requirements.

Other features

Connectivity. Smart TVs usually connect to the Internet using a Wi-Fi network.
Sometimes, these may also have an Ethernet port for wired Internet connectivity.
Check which mode of connectivity the TV is equipped with to ensure that it is
suitable for your home.

The 3D experience. Many TV companies have advertised this feature in the past
few years. Coupled with 3D glasses, it promises to change your viewing
experience completely. However, movies and TV shows first need to be modified to
make these suitable for 3D TVs. Do keep in mind the fact that 3D content for TVs
is limited.

Screen size. TV screen sizes are measured using the diagonal length of the
screen. However, depending on the screen aspect ratio (for example, 4:3 or
16:9), the same diagonal length will refer to different screen areas. Most TVs
in the market have 16:9 aspect ratio, which refers to the ratio between the
width and height of the screen. Choose the right screen size according to where
you plan to install your TV, and how far you will be seated from it. This will
ensure a comfortable viewing experience.

Resolution. This is probably the most important feature of a television, as it
ensures that images displayed on the screen are clear. It is important to ensure
that the screen resolution is good, otherwise you may have a TV with a giant
screen but poor image quality. One of the best screen resolutions currently
available is 4K or ultra high-definition (UHD), which refers to a resolution of
3840x2160 pixels. Other resolutions include 1080p (1920x1080 pixels) and WUXGA
(1920x1200 pixels).

Viewing angle. This refers to the angle up to which you can view images clearly
on the TV before image quality drops. A higher value of viewing angle would be
preferable because it ensures that image colour quality does not get altered
when viewed from the side.

Speakers. Sound quality is also an important characteristic of a TV. To ensure
that your overall TV watching experience is of high quality, opt for a TV with a
good sound system. Speaker sound is expressed in watts (W). This corresponds to
a specific decibel (dB) value. 16W corresponds to 102dB and 32W corresponds to
105dB. Most TVs have a speaker output of 14W to 20W.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              992 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                            November 16, 2009 Monday

Big bets on Google Android

BYLINE: Jason Tan

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 472 words


DESPITE the dominance of Microsoft's operating system in the computing world,
Taiwanese electronics makers are placing bets on Google's Android, a rival OS
set to see greater momentum in the future.

Companies from computer makers Acer and Asustek to smartphone brands HTC are
expected to unveil more products on Android soon.

By year-end, users could see the debut of Acer's first smartphone running on
Android - the Liquid A1. Powered by a 768-megahertz Snapdragon processor, this
model sports a 3.5-inch touch-screen in 800 by 480 pixels high-definition
resolution, 256 megabytes of memory and a five-megapixel auto-focus camera.

Acer's popular Aspire One line of netbooks, meanwhile, is adding a dual-boot
version that will include both Windows XP and Android. The new Aspire AOD250
features a 10.1-inch display with 1,024 by 600 pixels resolution, Intel Atom
N280 processor, 160-gigabyte hard drive, 1GB RAM, six-cell lithium-ion battery
and wireless 802.11b/g network support.

"We're testing the waters with our dual-mode netbook," said Acer's chairman Wang
Jeng-tang in Taipei last month.

The company, he added, will introduce products running on other OSes as long as
there is user demand and the sales justifies the production costs.

"The price of bundling in Android is very low or even at no cost," Wang said,
adding that different OSes are suitable for different Web applications and that
Android is a viable alternative for computer users.

The Android platform requires less system resources, has instant switch-on
capability and long standby time and even features an application store called
Android Market.

HTC, Taiwan's smartphone maker which introduced the industry's first
Android-based smartphone, is not missing out on Android's potential, either. It
recently unveiled in Taiwan the first Android phone which comes with an embedded
chip to pay for public transport fares and transactions at convenience stores,
saving consumers from carrying the conventional transport IC fare card.

Called Tatoo, the model is expected to cause a stir among younger consumers, who
fancy mobile Internet browsing and enjoy mobile payment. It comes with a
2.8-inch screen, 3.2-megapixel camera and 3.5-millimetre stereo headset jack.
Users can even design and buy their own covers or search and choose from popular
cover designs.

The Tatoo also integrates Google's mobile services, including Google Maps,
Google Search and Google Mail.

Despite threats from rival OSes, Microsoft's chief Steve Ballmer seems unfazed.

Ballmer, who was in Taipei early this month for a one-day visit, told reporters
that his company produces "popular" software and it is going to enjoy continued
success. Windows has a high level of differentiation compared to rival products
and offers many applications, with ongoing innovation to win users' hearts, he
said.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              993 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 BusinessWorld

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

SPECIAL FEATURE: Celebrate! A BW Christmas 2014 Special;
Gifts for the gadget geek

SECTION: Pg. S5/2

LENGTH: 628 words


SMARTPHONES and tablets evolve by leaps and bounds every year. But only a
handful of them are endowed with the best and the most advanced features that
consumer electronics manufacturers can offer. Here are six devices that should
be on top of any tech-savvy Christmas wish list.

Samsung has pulled out all the stops in creating Galaxy Note 4, its flagship
phablet. The device packs a large 5.7-inch screen with a Super AMOLED technology
and an eye-popping resolution of 1440x2560 pixels. Its body, which is still made
of plastic, has been improved and it has a fingerprint scanner and a heart rate
sensor to boot. The stylus that has become the device's trademark has also been
enhanced. In terms of photography, the rear camera of the Note 4 with 16
megapixels (MP) and optical image stabilization captures great photos.
Software-wise, Note 4 includes a productive multi-window mode that makes
multitasking possible.

Perhaps the most anticipated device of this year is Apple's iPhone 6. It has
come to light having a larger 4.7-inch IPS LCD screen with a resolution of
750x1334 pixels. The Cupertino giant's device still has the premium, metal body
that makes it visually appealing and nice to hold. But it is thinner at 6.9
millimeters (mm). iPhone 6 retains its predecessor's Touch ID, a fingerprint
identity sensor, but contains a brand new barometer sensor. It also comes with a
camera, which has an 8MP resolution, a dual-LED flash and a phase-detection
autofocus that does not disappoint.

The flagship of the Japanese consumer electronics behemoth Sony, the Xperia Z3,
is a looker made of glass. It also features an aluminum frame and nylon corners.
But what makes Z3 a standout is its rugged build: it has an IP68 certification,
which means it is dust-tight and waterproof. Two other highlights of the Z3
consist of its 5.2-inch IPS LCD screen with a resolution of 1080x1920 pixels and
20.7 MP camera that captures sharp photos. The device has been beefed up
chipset-wise and has been equipped with a PlayStation 4 (PS4) Remote Play
functionality which allows users to play PS4 games.

When it comes to tablets, Apple's freshly released iPad Air 2 reigns. Though its
outward appearance has been left unchanged (the color options, however, now
include gold in addition to silver and space gray), inside, it has become more
powerful with its 64-bit A8X system on a chip. It has also been made thinner
than the iPhone 6 at 6.1 mm and lighter at 437 grams, but its 9.7-inch screen
still packs a resolution of 1536x2048 pixels. iPad Air 2, unlike its precursor,
has been outfitted with the TouchID fingerprint sensor and a bigger 8MP camera.

Google, for its part, has come up with a compelling tablet of its own. Enlisting
the help of the Taiwanese electronics company, HTC, the new Nexus 9 features an
8.9-inch IPS display with a resolution of 1536x2048 pixels. It has an
understated design and a potent performance thanks to its 64-bit Nvidia Tegra
K1. Having been made by HTC, whose devices are known for their audio quality,
the tablet also produces a rich sound. The Nexus 9 is the first ever tablet to
run the latest iteration of Google's Android operating system, the Android 5.0
Lollipop.

Surface Pro 3 is Microsoft's giant take on a tablet, which is marketed as a
replacement for the traditional laptop. Compared with its predecessor, the
Surface Pro 3 has a bigger, 12-inch screen, a higher display resolution of
2160x1440 pixels and a thinner profile, at 9.1 mm. Microsoft's tablet is
unbeatable when it comes to raw power on account of its robust Intel Haswell
Processors - Core i3, Core i5 and Core i7 - and 4GB or 8GB of random access
memory. The Surface Pro 3, in addition, has two 5MP cameras, a digital pen, and
an optional keyboard with mechanical keys.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              994 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Guide: Value for money

BYLINE: Mihir Patkar

SECTION: SCI TECH

LENGTH: 759 words


Are you in the market for a new phone, camera, tablet or convertible laptop?
These gadgets strike the right balance between price and performance...

CONVERTIBLE

Asus Transformer Book T100

Rs. 34,990

It took a long time coming, but the Asus Transformer Book T100 is the first
tabletnotebook hybrid Windows PC to give you good performance without breaking
the bank. The touchscreen is good to use from different viewing angles and
registers input well. At this price, the battery life is impressive too, lasting
for over 6 hours when connected to the dock and 3 hours in pure tablet mode. And
we love that it uses a standard microUSB connector to charge.

Of course, it all comes down to performance. Granted, this is not a great
machine - you can't use it for professional tasks like image editing or playing
video games like Crysis 3. But for regular usage, i.e. Microsoft Office,
Internet browsing, some light games, it gets the job done. And it's especially
good since you can detach the keyboard and read in bed or play Angry Birds.

However, the all-plastic build feels cheap and one of the buttons gave away.
Plus, the 32GB of internal memory is severely limiting, especially since Windows
8.1 eats up half of it.

Specs: 10.1-inch IPS touchscreen (1366x768 pixels) | 1.33GHz quad-core Intel
Atom BayTrail | 2GB DDR3 RAM | 32GB internal memory, microSD card up to 64GB |
USB 3.0, HDMI ports | Wi-Fi b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0 | 1.2-megapixel front camera |
Windows 8.1

TABLET

Asus Google Nexus 7 (2012 Edition)

Rs. 11,500 (32GB, WI-FI)

The 2013 edition of the Google Nexus 7 and the new iPad Mini are both fantastic
tablets, but they are not worth twice the price of the original Google Nexus 7.
It gets the basics right: a vibrant display with Gorilla Glass protection, a
strong processor that handles most games well, and the option to upgrade to the
latest version of Android. The Wi-Fi model even manages decent battery life. We
suggest going in for the 32GB version since there's no expandable memory card
slot in this one. And the 16GB isn't easily available either.

The Nexus 7 does come with only a front-facing camera though, so it's only for
video calls, not for photography. And be aware, Android does not have as many
made-for-tablet quality apps as you get on the iPads.

Specs: 7-inch IPS LCD (1280x800 pixels) with Gorilla Glass | 1.2GHz quad-core
Nvidia Tegra 3 processor | 1GB RAM | 16/32GB memory, no microSD slot | 1.2MP
front camera | Wi-Fi b/g/n, Bluetooth 3.0, microUSB, GPS | 4325mAh battery |
Android 4.4 KitKat

PHONE

Motorola Moto G

Rs. 12,499 (8GB) | Rs. 13,999 (16GB)

The Moto G has a sharp screen, protected by scratch-resistant glass, and a
processor that runs most games and apps well. It's got the latest version of
Android, v4.4 KitKat, and the interface is buttery smooth. Where the Moto G
shines is in battery life, lasting for 18 hours of average usage - among the
best we've got on a phone.

The camera on the back is decent, although it struggles to take usable photos in
low light. And while it has 720p HD video recording, the audio capture is poor.
But the Moto G's biggest restriction is in the internal memory, as you can only
get the 8GB or 16GB of built-in storage - there's no microSD slot. If you load
it up with your own multimedia and download a few high-def games, you'll run out
of space very quickly!

Specs: 4.5-inch IPS LCD screen (1280x720 pixels) with Gorilla Glass 3 | 1.2GHz
quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor | 1GB RAM | 8/16GB memory, no
micro-SD slot | 5MP rear camera, 1.3MP front camera, 720p HD video recording |
3G, Wi-Fi b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0, microUSB, FM Radio, GPS with A-GPS | 2070mAh
battery | Android 4.4 KitKat

CAMERA

Canon IXUS 255 HS

Rs. 10,000

The quality of the photographs taken with the Canon IXUS 255 HS is surprising
when you consider its price. It easily rivals cameras in the 15K-17K range. The
colours are pitch perfect, there's practically no noise, and it even performs
well in low light. In its macro mode, the IXUS 255 HS can go up close to an
impressive 1 cm distance. That 10x optical zoom will let you shoot anything far
away. And it even packs in WiFi connectivity!

The only issue we have with this shooter is that it doesn't offer much manual
control to the user. Apart from that, it's the perfect slim point-and-shoot to
carry in your pocket.

Specs: 12-megapixel CMOS sensor, 1/2.3-inch | 10x optical zoom (4.3-43mm focal
length) | F3.0-F6.9 Aperture | ISO up to 6400 | 3-inch screen, 461K dots | 1080p
FullHD video recording | Rechargeable Li-ion battery with 220 shots on a single
charge

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              995 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 26, 2015 Thursday

US Patent granted to Google Inc (California) on March 24, titled as "Key
management in smart pixel based tracking"

LENGTH: 227  words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va


United States Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent no. 8,990,172, on
March 24 2015, to Google Inc (California), titled as "Key management in smart
pixel based tracking"

Inventors:  Zhao; Haixia (Sunnyvale, CA)
Assignee:  Google Inc. (Mountain View, CA)

According to the abstract released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "The
disclosed subject matter can be embodied in a method that includes receiving
data comprising a user identifier associated with a user and a first set of one
or more key-value pairs. A key-value pair includes a key and a value that are
based on the user's access of a resource. The method also includes presenting,
via a user interface, a second set of keys to a content sponsor associated with
the resource. The second set of keys includes one or more keys corresponding to
the key-value pairs in the first set. The method further includes receiving,
through the user interface, one or more management instructions for managing the
one or more keys, updating the first set based on the one or more management
instructions, and storing the updated set and the user identifier associated
with the updated set in association with the sponsor."

The patent was filed on August 2, 2012 Application no. 13/565,419

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              996 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday

Pakistan: Samsung Google Nexus S [Preview]

LENGTH: 654  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 30 -- Samsung, which endow with low cost relatively comparable
phones with other companies, will now launch Samsung Google Nexus S Smartphone
in Pakistan soon, with pricing around Rs. 73,000. That's high - we agree, due to
a fact that same phone is going to see a launch in India for just Rs. 24,000.

The last Nexus version of Google Phone came from HTC but this time they have
trusted Samsung with hardware and the new Google Nexus S looks just as other
Samsung Phones.

The reason for Google to give their phone manufacturing task to Samsung would
probably be that Samsung has sold the most number of Android Phones which were
operated by Google. This device is set to be the next flagship phone sporting a
pure Google experience.

Running on Android 2.3 / Gingerbread sporting a subtly reworked user interface
design, and touting some potentially powerful new features, like near-field
communication compatibility.

Nexus S is boasting all the design leanings of Samsung's wildly popular Galaxy S
line, but packing them into a tighter, sleeker and faster package. Let's have a
preview to make you clear for Nexus S

Hardware configuration

It has the core hardware and software combination and this phone is blazingly
fast considering the animations, touch response and general frame rate on
everything seems to be cranked closer to the environs of the IPhone 4.

This phone consists of ARM Cortex A8 1GHz (Humming-Bird) processor core by which
you will experience zipping around on the handset with fluid and natural
feeling. 512 MB RAM adds the swiftness to Samsung Google Nexus S.

Display and User Interface

Nexus S has a Super AMOLED capacitive touchscreen of 16M colors measuring screen
4 inches with a resolution of 480 x 800 pixels. The touch input supports
multiple touch and its screen oleo-phobic which means that your fingerprints
embedded on the screen during typing would be wiped off within a second.

The UI has also been nipped and tucked all over the place, with icons and
navigational elements taking on more of a buffed glass feel. With proximity
sensor for auto turn-off and Three-axis gyro sensor makes this gadget good
choice for its display properties. When the phone goes to sleep, there's an
effect of an old cathode ray TV being switched off, and even something as
innocuous as the phone dialer has been refined.

Camera

Samsung Google Nexus S is equipped with an autofocus 5 MP camera that allows you
to take pictures in 2560 x 1920 pixels; it is also embedded with LED flash for
poor lighting conditions.

It supports geo-tagging and automated social network content posting. It is
capable of recording WVGA videos with a frame rate of 720p@30fps. There is also
a secondary VGA camera for video calling. Switching from the front camera to the
rear camera takes minimal hunting and pecking.

Memory

This phone has an internal storage capacity of 16 GB, but unfortunately there is
no support for additional expansion of memory though it doesn't have a slot for
an external memory card (Micro SD). However, it has a dedicated 512 MB for those
who like to multitask or play a lot games from Android Market.

Entertainment

Samsung Google Nexus S has integrated social networking, which will never let
you left alone and will always make you hang-out with your friends. It also
supports MP3/WAV/eAAC+/AC3/FLAC for audio and MP4/DivX/WMV/H.264/H.263 formats
for video entertainment. 3.5 mm audio jack is also built-in.

Connectivity and Battery life

It supports Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n; DLNA, 3G networks with HSDPA 2100 / HSDPA 900,
Bluetooth 2.1 with A2DP and many more other connectivity preferences. It works
on a Li-Ion 1500 mAh which can support GSM: 14h / 3G: 7h of talktime and GSM:
713h / 3G: 428h of stand-by time Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              997 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                       April 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

YouTube to provide 360-degree live streaming and spatial audio on its service
from today

BYLINE: John DiPietro

LENGTH: 802  words


From today, YouTube will start supporting 360-degree live streaming on its video
sharing service. Also, YouTube will support spatial audio for on-demand YouTube
videos. With this, YouTube has become the first video sharing website to launch
360-degree live streaming and spatial audio at scale.

Among the first videos to be shown in the more immersive format is this year's
live stream from music event Coachella. Selected performances from the festival
will be live streamed in 360 degrees. During the starting, spatial audio will be
available for on-demand videos and not live videos.

The feature is limited to Android smartphones used with headphones. Spatial
audio means playing the sounds the same way people actually hear. You Tube
explained that it is about letting you listen as you do in real life. In it,
depth, distance and intensity also play a role, said Neal Mohan, Chief Product
Officer for YouTube.

Google is already rolling out support for spatial audio elsewhere in its product
line, including for its VR platform, Google Cardboard. You Tube creators said
that all it takes to derive the benefit of the new feature is a camera that
supports the technology.

You Tube has also announced the support of 1440p 60fps resolution for live
stream on its service. Live streams at 1440p have 70% more pixels than the
standard HD resolution of 1080p. It will not only offer you a great experience
for the live 360 streams, but also benefit video game streams as well. The
second aspect will also benefit You Tube's Twitch competitor, You Tube Gaming.

No extra technology or headset is required to watch 360-degree live streams, as
they are available on any device, including desktop, tablet, iOS or Android.
This feature makes them more accessible than higher-end VR technologies
currently in development.

You Tube has been working with camera and software vendors to make support
possible for both 360 live streams and spatial audio.

According to a report from the TechCrunch, "Google had already been rolling out
support for spatial audio elsewhere in its product line, including most
importantly, for its VR platform, Google Cardboard. In January, it made it
possible for developers to support this option in their own apps, with updates
for the Cardboard SDKs for Unity and Android, for example. So it's not
surprising to see the technology being expanded on YouTube."

YouTube additionally announced today the support of 1440p 60fps resolution for
live streams on its service. Live streams at 1440p have 70 percent more pixels
than the standard HD resolution of 1080p, to give you an idea of the nature of
this improvement. This not only offers a great experience for the new live 360
streams, which are best enjoyed at high resolutions and high frame rates, but
will benefit video game streams, too. The latter will benefit YouTube's Twitch
competitor, YouTube Gaming.

In other news TheVerge reported, "Mohan's announcement arrives just one week
after Facebook unveiled its plans for expanding live-streaming and its own
design for a 360-degree camera, although it can't yet support the combination of
live and 360. The two biggest players in online video are racing toward the same
goal: completely immersive entertainment that transports the viewer to another
world. But they are taking strikingly different paths to get there."

For YouTube, Live 360 content is the gateway drug between what most people watch
today and the immersive era of virtual reality that is just getting underway.
"As a user, you don't need to do anything," says Mohan. Open the YouTube app on
your mobile device or launch it on the web and you're ready to go. "There is no
fancy technology to purchase or integrate." That's a not so subtle jab at
Facebook's Oculus Rift, which offers cutting edge virtual reality, but retails
for $599, not counting the $1,000 gaming PC that powers it.

In a statement provided to Techspective News, "YouTube announced that it now
supports 360-degree video for live streams, and spatial audio. Both of these
technologies have the potential to fundamentally change the video streaming
experience, and put you in control of experiencing the scene as if you were
physically there."

"What excites me most about 360-degree storytelling is that it lets us open up
the world's experiences to everyone. Students can now experience news events in
the classroom as they unfold. Travelers can experience faraway sites and
explorers can deep-sea dive, all without the physical constraints of the real
world," proclaimed Neal Mohan, Chief Product Officer for YouTube in a blog post.
"And today's kids dreaming of going to a basketball game or a concert can access
those experiences firsthand, even if they're far away from the court. What were
once limited experiences are now available to anyone, anywhere, at any time."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved
