
DATELINE: India


India, Oct. 19 -- iPhone 6 puts Apple back in the lead of cellphone wars, though
the high price - Rs53,500 for 16GB to Rs71,500 for 128GB - might be a deterrent
for buyers. Despite that, there is no doubt that this is the phone to have right
now, says KUSHAN MITRA

After spending a grand total of four days with the new iPhone 6, the first thing
one is amazed with is the feel of the phone. The tactile feel of the iPhone has
always been its advantage over all of its competition. The iPhone 6 feels nice
on your palm; the brushed aluminum lends a touch of class that plastic, no
matter how fancy it feels, lacks.

The iPhone 6 is bigger than the older iPhone 5/5S; the 4-inch display has given
way to a 4.7-inch display, yet remarkably despite the larger dimensions of the
phone, the iPhone 6 weighs just 129 grams compared to the 112 grams of its
predecessor. In fact, when handing the phone to users of large Android phones,
the first remark is not so much about the fabulous screen but the weight of the
phone.

Therefore, the overall look and feel of the iPhone 6 puts it ahead of the
competition; frankly the only Android devices that come close are some from HTC
and Sony. However, there is one slight downside to the iPhone 6: the camera lens
cover is not flush with the body. This is, however, a very small protrusion and
not a concern when you put the device in your pocket or face up on a table. But
it is noticeable when you run your hand down the back of the device.

But how is the iPhone 6 to use? The bigger 4.7-inch screen seems positively
small compared to giant 5-inch plus screens of the competition, but the fact is
that phones have been bloating in size for no rhyme or reason over the past few
years. Although Apple has finally surrendered to the bloat epidemic with the
5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, one can safely say that the iPhone 6 is by far and away
the best non-giant phone out there. In fact, other than the occasional 'mini'
variant of an Android phone, such as the Sony Xperia Z3 Mini, the iPhone is
pretty much in a class of its own.

The problem with bloating is quite simple: can you use most applications on your
phone with one hand? On the larger phones, using a single hand is becoming
increasingly difficult for many people, especially those with smaller hands.
Yes, the fact that you can use two sets of fingers to take full advantage of
multitouch screens is a great thing, but when you just want to type a quick
message, the ability to do it with your thumb on one hand while having a decent
grip on your phone is a challenge for some people.

Apple has changed the power button to the right side on the iPhone 6 and that is
the biggest single usability change from previous generation iPhones.

The iPhone's camera has never been the best in the business, but it has always
had good software, and every successive iPhone has had better image quality than
the preceding generation. Similarly with the iPhone 6, the eight megapixel
camera takes great images and videos.

The tendency of some manufacturers to put massive amounts of megapixels on
mobile phones is a bit peculiar given that most people post pictures on social
media platforms nowadays rather than printing them. That said, the quality of
images on the iPhone 6 is good enough to be used in a print magazine and replace
a point-and-click camera although not a decent digital SLR. In video mode, the
iPhone 6's iSight camera can capture full-HD 1080 resolution video at both 30
and 60 frames per second. It allows for slow-motion video capture and time-lapse
video as well - really cool features that should make it onto other phones one
day.

Apple's new iOS 8 is, however, only an incremental improvement on iOS 7; there
are certain changes such as predictive text during typing, a smoother flow of
graphics. But the real changes are under the hood, making applications load and
run faster. The other major change, given the form factor of this device, is
ensuring decent battery life. A fully charged iPhone 6 will survive the day if
one doesn't keep checking Facebook and Twitter every two minutes or so; use the
device sensibly and the battery will last the entire day.

Some other features of iOS 8, such as the integrated Apple Pay payment gateway,
may not be applicable in India in the foreseeable future - that depends on what
Raghuram Rajan thinks of it.

The problem with the iPhone 6, though, has nothing to do with its performance or
looks. It is the best-looking and definitely one of the best-performing pieces
of mobile hardware out there.

Apple has continued to maintain their desirability quotient, so there is no
doubt it will sell very well. Just as long as one does not buy the 16GB model.
The iPhone 6 comes loaded with some of Apple's top productivity applications
such as Numbers and Keynote. These are heavy applications, coupled with other
regular downloads, the 16GB model which kicks off the iPhone 6 range at Rs53,500
is pointless. The most viable model is the 64GB model at Rs62,500, which is a
lot for a phone. And the range topping 128GB model at Rs71,500. Well, that is
just a crazy amount of money for a phone. However, there is no doubt that this
is the phone to have right now.

WHAT HAS CHANGED

SIZE

iPhone 6 is bigger than iPhone 5/5S - the 4-inch display has given way to a
4.7-inch display, yet the iPhone 6 weighs just 129 grams compared to the 112
grams of its predecessor

POWER BUTTON

In the biggest single usability change, Apple has changed the power button to
the right side on the new iPhone 6

CAMERA

The eight megapixel camera takes great images and videos. Quality of images is
good enough to be used in a print magazine

SOFTWARE

New iOS 8 brings certain changes, such as predictive text during typing and a
smoother flow of graphics. But the real changes are under the hood, making
applications load and run faster

BATTERY LIFE

This phone will ensure a decent battery life. A fully charged iPhone 6 is likely
to survive the day depending on the usage

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

