

The finished Apple Inc. iPhone 6 will most likely look different, but it's
interesting to see how Smart Bezel could work.

Apple used to be the clear smartphone leader with its iconic iPhone series
thanks to a combination of outstanding hardware and software to match. Now,
Android-based phones are arguably as good, if not better, with the likes of the
HTC One, Sony Xperia Z and Samsung Galaxy S4, not necessarily in that order,
giving the once-unmatchable Apple a run for its money.

Apple, needless to say, is not sitting back on its haunches, and promises a
rivetting fightback with products that promise the moon.

The current position in the fight revolves around the smashing hit that Samsung
Galaxy S4 has become and everyone is waiting for what Apple will do to its next
in line smartphone - the so-called iPhone 6. Here is a peak at the dates and the
direction Apple may well have taken to beat rivals.

While the new model is being referred to as iPhone 6, it had briefly surfaced
some time ago as the iPhone Math - the screen is reportedly 4.8 inches. Also,
with HTC One having come up with an outstanding camera, iPhone too is playing
catch up and is reportedly targetting trotting out a special one of its own.

iPHONE 6 RELEASE DATE

The glimpse into the working of Apple Inc was given by Citi Research analyst
Glen Yeung who revealed that a 'big-screen iPhone 6' is likely to be launched in
first quarter of 2014.

iPHONE 6 SCREEN

Apple has been known for its high quality screens and it's going to be
interesting to see what it can do with the iPhone 6. According to Apple's
definition of a Retina display, it's one where you can't see the individual
pixels when used at a normal distance. In practice, by Apple's definition, it
means upping the resolution on a Retina screen is pointless. That doesn't mean
that Apple won't simply increase resolution to Full HD, in order to keep up with
the competition, but moving to a larger screen to justify more resolution makes
more sense.

Currently doing the rounds are the rumours that the iPhone 6 will have a
4.8-inch screen, which would make the phone similar in size to the Samsung
Galaxy S4 and the HTC One. At this screen resolution, Apple could then move to a
Full HD (1,920 x 1,080 resolution) or even go beyond.

iPHONE 6 STORAGE

In terms of storage, 64GB has been the top model for a couple of years, so we'd
expect the top model to now be 128GB. We know that Apple now has that capacity,
thanks to the recent launch of a 128GB iPad 4.

iPHONE 6 PROCESSOR

Judging what Apple will do with the processor is harder, but we'd expect an
updated model in the iPhone 6. Currently, the iPhone 5 has a dual-core Apple A6
processor, but a quad-core Apple A7, using ARM Cortex A15-based cores, sounds
plausible to us.

The latest information suggests that the Apple A7 processor is now being
finished by the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing company. Recent rumours have
suggested that the iPhone 6 processor will be manufactured by Intel, rather than
Samsung.

iPHONE 6 SMART BEZEL

One of the things that attracts people to the iPhone is its ease of use and
simplicity. However, iOS has barely changed since launch, so Apple could well
introduce new ways to interact with its phones in order to stay ahead of the
competition.

Patently Apple managed to dig up information on a new patent for a smart bezel.
This will use a secondary display system, which could be embedded around the
primary screen or even on the back of a device to provide new controls that
light up when needed.

iPHONE 6 CAMERA

One of the most important part of any smartphone is the camera, with people
generally preferring their phone over a compact camera. With the competition
putting a lot of effort into the quality of their cameras, Apple has slightly
fallen behind, with the iPhone 5's quality not matching that of the Samsung
Galaxy S4 or HTC One. Rumours also have it that the iPhone 6 may even get a
12-megapixel sensor, up from the 8-megapixel version on the iPhone 5.

Upping the sensor resolution can introduce problems with noise, though, as
there's less light per pixel. Apple will be keen to counteract problems like
this, so a lens with a faster aperture would make sense. Currently the iPhone 5
has an f2.4 lens, but an f2.2 or f2.0 lens would mean better low-light
photography.

iPHONE 6 PRICE

Apple typically, releases its new models at the same price as the old ones, and
we can't see it introducing a more expensive phone into this tough market. If
that holds out, then, and assuming that the 16GB model is dropped, we'd expect
the 32GB model to cost 529 (Rs 45,660), the 64GB model 599 (Rs 51,704) and the
128GB model 699 (Rs 60,335).

iOS 7

Apple is all set to unveil the new version of its mobile operating system, named
iOS 7, and has already put up banners with the number '7' at the venue.

Although incredibly innovative and easy to use when it was first launched, iOS
is now looking a bit outdated. Each update to iOS has felt like a tweak, leaving
the user interface static. Some would argue that iOS 6, which was introduced
with the iPhone 5, was actually a step backwards with Apple Maps proving to be
far worse than the Google Maps app it sought to replace.

While iOS has stood roughly still, Android has dramatically improved, providing
widgets to display information on homescreen. Windows Phone 8 has a cleaner
interface, with Live Tiles giving you up-to-date information from your apps,
even though user reaction has often been mixed.

HERE AND NOW

However, the iPhone 6 is still in the nebulous future, 6 months is equal to a
generation these days, and what the company is working on for the launch in the
near future includes the iPhone 5S - it is two to four weeks behind schedule,
says report. Yeung writes that while this will not affect the launch date of the
model, it will result in supply shortage for the model in September.

While Citi Research does not expect many hardware announcements at WWDC 2013,
speculation is rife that Apple will launch the iPhone 5S and a cheaper iPhone at
the event, with launch date rumoured as being June 20, 2013.

