

More than two years since Apple shifted its focus to larger-screen iPhones
(4.7-inch and 5.5-inch models), 26% of U.S. iPhone owners still use handsets
with 4-inch screens, according to a December survey by Consumer Intelligence
Research Partners.

The Chicago-based research firm said 110 million iPhones were in use in the
fourth quarter in the U.S., up from 100 million in Q3 and 78 million in the
year-earlier period.

Of the 110 million iPhones in use last quarter, 74% were iPhone 6 or 6 S model
handsets, CIRP said. They included 62 million iPhone 6 and 6 Plus units and 19
million iPhone 6 S and 6 S Plus units. The remainder (29 million) were mostly
4-inch iPhone 5 C and 5 S models.

Apple continues to sell the iPhone 5 S, a model that hasn't changed since its
introduction in September 2013.

What isn't known is how many of the current users simply prefer a 4-inch handset
over the larger-screen models and who's leaning toward upgrading. Apple is about
to find out.

Apple is expected to introduce a 4-inch handset, dubbed the iPhone 5 SE, at a
product launch event next month. The iPhone 5 SE is rumored to include Apple's
latest A9 and M9 processors, an NFC (near field communication) chip for Apple
Pay, support for always-on Siri activation, and the iPhone 6's camera system, 9
to5 Mac reported.

The iPhone 5 SE likely will be introduced at a media event on March 15 and be
available in retail stores on March 18, 9 to5 Mac said. Besides the new
smartphone, Apple is rumored to be debuting its next-generation iPad Air tablet
and new Apple Watch software and wristbands next month.

Apple isn't expected to refresh its flagship smartphone lineup, with the iPhone
7, until this fall. That handset is expected to be thinner because of the
removal of the headphone jack and have a larger screen because of the removal of
the physical home button. Replacing the jack will be Bluetooth capability for
wireless headsets. As for the home button, the phone will use a
pressure-sensitive screen.

Robert W. Baird analyst William Power on Tuesday reiterated his outperform
rating on Apple stock with a price target of 130 after conducting a survey about
iPhone 7 demand. Apple stock rose 2.8% to above 96 in the stock market today,
but it's still down 23% from a seven-month high near 124 touched in November.

"Based on our latest online survey, 7% of respondents claim they plan to
purchase the iPhone 7, which is actually above the 4% planning to purchase the
iPhone 6 in our February 2014 survey," Power said in a research report. "An
additional 14% are maybes vs. 13% two years ago."

Baird surveyed 1,000 people in a U.S. online poll.

"Notably, interest was greatest among recent iPhone purchasers, reflecting the
ongoing upgrade opportunity," Power said. "We view the results as directionally
positive, particularly given the recent growth concerns."

About 21% of iPhone 6 and 6 S owners plan to purchase an iPhone 7, the survey
showed. That compares with 18% of iPhone 5 S owners and 10% of iPhone 5 and 5 C
owners who plan to purchase the iPhone 7, Power said.

Investors are concerned about Apple's growth prospects, especially with iPhone
sales poised to fall for the first time on a year-over-year basis this quarter.

Also Tuesday, UBS analyst Steven Milunovich maintained his buy rating on Apple
stock, with a 12-month price target of 120.

And Drexel Hamilton analyst Brian White on Tuesday reiterated his buy rating on
Apple stock, with a price target of 200.

"With a recent earnings reset, a new iPhone cycle on the horizon with the iPhone
7, the ramp of Apple Watch, the potential for increased levels of cash paid out
to shareholders and new geographic opportunities (e.g., India), we believe Apple
represents one of the best values in the tech world," White said in a report.

