

Apple defended against reports that its largest iPhone bends easily in people's
pockets, saying warping is "extremely rare" through normal use.

Since going on sale last week, Apple said only nine customers had contacted the
company about a bent iPhone 6 Plus - the larger and more expensive of its two
new iPhones.

Apple said both the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus had passed a series of tests meant to
check the products' strength and durability through everyday use.

The technology company said the new iPhones were made from a custom grade of
anodised aluminium, tempered for extra strength.

Apple said the phones also featured stainless steel and titanium inserts to
reinforce points of high stress.

The company said it was addressing reports that the new iPhone 6 Plus was
bending when people sat with the phone in their pockets. Videos of people
bending the jumbo-sized iPhone with their hands quickly made the rounds on
social media.

The company's response differs from the apology it provided on Wednesday US time
after withdrawing a software update because of complaints from users that the
new version of its operating system was disrupting cellular connectivity and
disabling the TouchID fingerprint reader.

Apple apologised for causing a "great inconvenience" to users. On Thursday, it
released a new update of its iOS 8 software designed to fix those issues and a
variety of other problems.

The company said its latest update also corrected a bug that affected apps
working with Apple's HealthKit repository for health and fitness data, a
much-anticipated new feature of its operating system.

Apple noted that less than 40,000 iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus devices were
affected by the faulty software during the one hour that the company had
released the update.

In the past, Apple has sometimes remained defiant against customer complaints
about a new product.

Most famously in 2010 when it introduced the iPhone 4, then-CEO Steve Jobs
struck back at complaints that the phone had a flawed antenna design, causing
connection problems. He said the complaints were blown out of proportion and
mocked the media frenzy as "antennagate". For the past two days, "#bendgate" has
been a trending topic on Twitter.

Apple pointed to five different tests that new iPhones go through in the
development process, including what is known as "pressure point cycling test"
when it applies substantial force on the display and enclosure hundreds of times
while the phone is held by the sides. Apple said this ensured the iPhones can be
bent and pressed at reasonable force throughout their life.

Another process is called the "sit test", which simulates sitting on a hard
surface with the phone in the back pocket of a pair of tight jeans. Apple said
it runs the phones through thousands of cycles testing the phone in different
positions.

The iPhone 6 Plus with its 5.5-inch display is the largest iPhone that Apple has
ever produced. Despite the larger surface area, the iPhone 6 Plus is only 7.1
millimetres thick, compared with 7.6 millimetres for the iPhone 5S and 8.97
millimetres for the plastic-encased iPhone 5C.

The company said it had sold more than 10 million of its latest iPhones in its
first weekend of availability amid supply shortages and demand for scalped
iPhones in Asia. The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus set a record for first weekend sales,
eclipsing last year's mark of nine million units when the iPhone 5S and 5C went
on sale.The frenzy around iPhones is nothing new for Apple, but the company
prepared more than usual this year after it increased screen sizes to satisfy
consumers who have sought bigger-screen iPhones for years.

