

NEW DELHI: Seems Apple is changing its India strategy. For the first time ever,
the US-based technology giant has discontinued its two-year older models in
India. Apple iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and older models have disappeared from the
company's India website.

This comes just hours after Apple launched its brand new iPhones -- iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus, at an event in San Francisco, California.Apart from the newly
launched iPhones, the listing on Apple India's website currently shows iPhone
6s, iPhone 6s Plus and iPhone SE. While iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus launched in
India last October, the company launched iPhone SE globally in March this year.
The smartphone was launched in India in April 2016.Incidentally, while the
discontinuation of older models is a first for India, Apple has been following
this practice in the US for past many years. Even though Apple has removed
iPhones older than two-generations from its India website, these models will
likely continue to be available on third-party e-commerce websites and retail
stores in India.Along with the discontinuing the older models, Apple has also
given a storage bump to its last year's iPhone models - iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s
Plus. These models will no longer be available in 16GB and 64GB versions. The
new storage options available in these iPhones are 32GB and 128GB.Apple,
however, has retained the 16GB model in iPhone SE, which will continue to be
available in 16GB and 64GB storage options. As for the all-new iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus, these will come in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB variants.The new iPhones
will launch in India on October 7 and will have a starting price of Rs 60,000.On
the specifications front, the iPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch display with 3D
Touch, whereas the iPhone 7 Plus has a 5.5-inch Retina HD display (again, with
3D Touch). Running iOS 10, both smartphones are powered by a new, Apple-designed
quad-core A10 Fusion processor. The company claims that the new CPU is 40%
faster than its predecessor - A9, which powers the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s
Plus.Apple iPhone 7 has a 12MP iSight camera with 6-element lens, f/1.8
aperture, high-speed sensor, 4K video recording and a Quad-LED two-tone flash.
On the other hand, the iPhone 7 Plus has dual 12MP rear cameras (one wide-angle
with f/1.8 aperture and other telephoto with f/2.8 aperture for depth-of-field)
along with Quad-LED flash.Another new feature hitting the iPhone models is water
and dust resistance. Both smartphones have a new Home button which is now
touch-sensitive and uses a new Taptic Engine for better response.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

