

Jan. 5 -- China-based U-Way Corporation issued the following news release:

U-Way has introduced newest iPhone 6 case Qi Wireless Charging ANTI-IMPACT
SHIELD for iPhone 6 (Model No.: IP6-00203), which fully certified by Apple MFi &
WPC Qi. The case is fully compatible with all Qi wireless chargers, it can be
simply put on the Qi wireless charger to charge up, cord free!

The dual layer protection with impact-resistant design case made by high quality
TPU+PC material, it providing a protective barrier against scratches and drops,
also the soft touch and light-duty case provides protection from minor bumps and
scratches while maintain its sleekness and tactility.

The sweet point of this product is the special design detachable Qi receiver
clip in the bottom which allows easily to be pulled out and using Lightning
cable for sync/charge alternatively.

This slim casing simply clip onto the iPhone 6 phones for a perfect fit with
precision machine cut-outs for the camera, power button, volume buttons and
ports, it allow full access to all the features and functions of the iPhone 6
without the hassle of untangling charging cables.

The case is so slim, lightweight and form-fitted that they add little no weight
to the iPhone 6 whilst providing great protection from everyday use, extra
thickness with soft TPU corner gives your iPhone 6 more shock absorbent. The
case customization on color are available.

Apart from it, U-Way are pleased to announce another 2 battery cases models for
iPhone 6 as follows:

1. Qi ANTI-IMPACT Power Case for iPhone 6 (Model No.: IP6-00214). A battery case
built-in 1650mAh features with Qi wireless charging function on the go, cord
free.

2. ANTI-IMPACT Power Case for iPhone 6 (Model No.: IP6-10202). A battery case
built-in 2600mAh battery as backup power bank when in need.

These external backup power bank cases special designed for iPhone 6 which
allows extend your iPhone 6 battery power through the day, or wireless charging
on the go!

These cases featuring Micro USB sync-through function that you can sync/charge
your iPhone 6 simultaneously without having to take the case off. The mesh
design at the back provides best feels when handling.

Both these cases features flexible Lightning connector design allows adjust
slightly at 6 degree for easy installation. With one click of button to indicate
battery level and begin to charge the iPhone 6, press once again to stop
charging.

Apple MFi approved ensures three models of these quality and compatibility,
tested to be compatible with IOS operation system and following updates.

Source: U-Way Corporation

