

Vodafone Qatar has officially launched the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
smartphones in the country. An exclusive midnight event at the Villaggio Mall
saw "hundreds of people" showing up at the company's store to own the latest
smartphones from Apple.

Vodafone Qatar has officially launched the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
smartphones in the country.

An exclusive midnight event, which saw "hundreds of people" showing up at the
company's store located at Villaggio Mall, marked the moment, which Vodafone
Qatar said, " everyone was eagerly waiting for".

Those who have pre-ordered online and wanted to be some of the firsts to pick up
their favourite handset, in addition to others who wished to purchase an iPhone
6 or an iPhone 6 Plus on the spot, joined the Vodafone team for the chance to be
part of a memorable event.

Timed with the launch, Vodafone launched great data offers to both postpaid and
prepaid customers who are purchasing an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus allowing them
to enjoy Qatar's newest 4G network, Vodafone 4G. Additionally, ten lucky
customers won their mobile phone bill paid for an entire year.

At the event, Vodafone announced that all new and existing Vodafone Red postpaid
customers will get to enjoy unlimited local data for 12 months with their new
iPhone. The 12 months of unlimited data with the iPhone 6 is available on all
Red plans, M, L, XL and VIP.

Postpaid customers, who are not on a Red plan, would also receive 15GB of local
data per month for a period of three months, for free.

Furthermore, Vodafone Prepaid customers will receive 6GB of local data for free
for three months while those who are moving their existing non-Vodafone number
to Vodafone Prepaid will get unlimited local data for 90 days, for free.

Vodafone Qatar Chief Commercial Officer Marc Norris said: "We are very proud to
have launched the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in Qatar. We were extremely happy
to see a great number of people joining us in celebrating this event, held
exclusively at Qatar's most popular mall- Villaggio. We have timed the launch
with a fantastic data offer to both our new and existing Postpaid and Prepaid
customers in order to guarantee a most enjoyable experience, on Vodafone 4G, as
soon as they activate their handset."

