
ABSTRACT

Despite wide publicity over a problem, Apple said only nine customers had
contacted the company with a bent iPhone 6 Plus.

FULL TEXT

Social media channels have overflowed in the past week with commentary on
whether Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus bends under pressure, particularly in a pants
pocket.

It turns out that actual complaints to the company, at least so far, are much
less prevalent.

''With normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six
days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone
6 Plus,'' Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, said in a statement.

The statement comes after some early adopters complained that the new iPhone 6
Plus, which is significantly larger than previous generations of the iPhone, was
permanently bending from simply being carried in a pocket for long periods of
time.

After one new iPhone 6 Plus owner on Tuesday complained that his phone warped
after sitting in his front pants pocket during a long drive, the story was
quickly picked up by technology blogs and news outlets.

Lewis Hilsenteger, who runs Unbox Therapy, a YouTube channel dedicated to
showcasing the latest tech hardware, filmed himself straining to bend an iPhone
6 Plus with his bare hands. The video has been viewed more than 25 million times
in less than two days.

As Apple has grown bigger and more successful, it has also become a bigger
target for criticism. The company says it sold more than 10 million iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus smartphones over the first three days of release, a record for the
company.

Some of the attention is self-inflicted, however.  In the past week, Apple
released a software update to the iPhone that was supposed to fix some early
bugs in an updated version of its mobile operating system, iOS 8.

The update made some users' phones unable to make or receive calls and also
rendered the touch identification technology software useless, according to
reports.

Apple quickly withdrew the software update about an hour after it was released
on Wednesday.

On Thursday evening, Apple issued another update to its operating system, along
with an apology. Fewer than 40,000 iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus users were
affected by the previous faulty update, according to Apple.

