

The iOSphere this past week wondered at the prospect of iPhone 6 with a
Supercharged Siri, an all-knowing, all-doingsoftware entity that will manage
your iOS life for you. Eventually, probably in iOS 9, Siri will offer
psychotherapy.

The Bummer of the Week was a confused, and confusedly reported, rumor that Apple
is negotiating with carriers to raise the iPhone 6 price by $100. Why Apple
would need carrier by-in to price its smartphone was unclear. The rumor resulted
in something rarely seen: cheers for the carriers, who according to the Wall
Street analyst who floated the context-less rumor, were supposedly resisting the
hike.

Bloggers and tech websites also eagerly sifted through anonymous photos of
third-party phone cases, "specially designed for the iPhone 6," and bigger
batteries that, although they could be for any smartphone, if you think of them
as being for the iPhone 6, show that the iPhone body would have to be larger,
too.

It's simple really.

You read it here second.

iPhone 6 will have "supercharged" Siri This is less a rumor than a hope. It's
based on listing the various ways in which Apple's Siri voice assistant lacks
certain features found in rivals, such as Google Now and Microsoft's
just-announced Cortana, and looking at some Apple acquisitions.

Neither technique really guarantees what we'll see in Siri with the next release
of iOS.

This latest comparison is a Slashgear post by Chris Davies, who uses the space
to mainly rehash and link to various earlier Slashgear posts on this general
topic.

As did many others, Davies points again to Apple's recently disclosed
acquisition of Novauris Technologies, a startup created by Dragon Systems
co-founder James Baker, which reportedly is working on an automatic speech
recognition system that runs partly on the client device and partly in the
cloud.

"Local speech processing is one of the elements that rivals to Siri have cited
as key advantages," Davies claims. "Rather than waiting for server-side
analysis, for instance, Intel's Jarvis voice control can do it on the wearable
itself."

The other elements of the "supercharged" Siri would be a personalized calendar,
via Apple's acquisition of Cue, integration with the Shazam audio database for
music recognition, and a Siri API, which would let third-party app developers
tap into Siri. Apple is "believed to be readying" this, according to Davies.

Davies seems to be borrowing the API stuff from a TechCrunch post by Darrell
Etherington, who in turn is, openly, borrowing from a subscription-only original
article, "Apps Emerge as Key Battleground in Mobile Search," at The Information,
a high-profile news startup focusing on the technology business.

That article, as Etherrington notes, looks at Siri as part of a larger analysis
of the evolving mobile search/app integration space. As such, Siri is likely to
become "smarter" and more capable - relating apps, calendars, and personalized
information to tasks carried out on behalf of the user, sometimes in cooperation
with third-party apps or online services.

In that sense, Siri becomes a growing part of the end-user "infrastructure" of
Apple iOS users, analogous to Apple's extension of iOS location services by
means of the iBeacon software framework for Bluetooth Low Energy radios on iOS
devices, opening them up to interacting with third-party BTLE beacons,
notifications, and apps and other content.

As a human-machine interface, Siri is a work in progress, and there's no
indication that Apple has given up on it or made it a lesser priority.

iPhone 6 will be $100 more expensive than the iPhone 5s Business Insider's Jay
Yarrow thinks Apple is "too focused on profits."

That's his conclusion, in a blog post titled "Apple Reportedly Wants To Raise
The Price Of The iPhone By $100," about a claim put forward by Jefferies stock
analyst Peter Misek. According to Yarrow's post, Misek says, "Our checks
indicate Apple has started negotiating with carriers on a $100 iPhone 6 price
increase. The initial response has been no, but there seems to be an admission
that there is no other game-changing device this year."

"Because the iPhone is the only phone that matters this year, carriers may cave
and give Apple the price bump it wants," Yarrow concludes. This strikes The
Rollup as a fundamental misunderstanding of Apple's relationship with the
carriers. About 70 percent of Apple's iPhone business is transacted mainly
through carriers and some retailers.

There's a lot about this relationship that's not clear. In general, the
conviction is that mobile carriers pay Apple something close to the full retail
price of each iPhone, which they then sell to subscribers for less, if the phone
is bought with a two-year contract: the starting price iPhone 5s is $199, with a
contract, for example. There are additional costs for the carriers: as part of
the deal, Apple requires carriers to commit to TV and print advertising, set up
an "exclusion zone" around the iPhone display space to keep other products
further away, and dedicate customer service staff specifically for Apple
products, at least according to this July 2013 article in The Telegraph, which
examined Apple's terms with European carriers.

As importantly, Apple apparently requires a "minimum order quantity" or MOQ from
carriers, which seems to be a percentage of their total subscriber base. (See
Horace Dediu's analysis of this at his Asymco blog).

None of this suggests that Apple negotiates the iPhone "price" with carriers.
They can negotiate, or try to, the amount of the "subsidy" - the difference
between what the carriers charge their subscribers for an iPhone and what Apple
charges the carriers. So far, they've been willing to pay that, because of the
phone's popularity and because of the data usage patterns of iPhone users - they
use a lot, and if they're on LTE, they use even more.

Yarrow seems to assume that Apple simply intends to raise by $100 the price of
whatever the iPhone 6 turns out to be. "But really, for a company with $150
billion in cash, adding $100 to the price of its phone seems like a move that's
too focused on profits," he declares.

"This seems like a strange move for Apple," Yarrow writes. "At a time when its
rivals are going down in price, Apple wants to go up." But then he undermines
his own argument by noting that "Samsung's phablet, the 6-inch Galaxy Note 3
sells for $100 more than its 5-inch Galaxy S5."

UPI's Ananth Baliga wrote a story based on the same Misek Note To Investors, but
added one detail missing from Yarrow's account.

"According to the note the extra cost will be split between the customer and
carrier, with each asked to pay $50," she says.

"The iPhone 5S is currently sold at a subsidized rate of $200 with a standard
two-year contract. If the price increase were to take place, customers would
have to pay $250 for the new phone."

It remains very unclear whether, or how, Apple will extend the iPhone portfolio
in 2014. It currently has two models, the flagship 5s and the lower-priced 5c,
both with 4-inch diagonal screens. Many people are expecting two new iPhones by
the end of 2014, both with screens larger than that. But would that mean Apple
does away with the 4-inch display completely? Would a 4.7-inch iPhone become the
new "5c" and a 5.5- or 6-inch iPhone the new "5s?" Or do both phones migrate to
a 4.7-inch screen and a new, third model offers a 5-inch-or-larger screen, at a
price hike?

And what, actually, is strange about charging more for a phone that's more
expensive to produce, if consumers see, and are willing to pay for, added value?

iPhone 6 will have 4.7-inch screen, as revealed by anonymous third-party phone
cases Thank heavens someone is tracking the trends in Purported iPhone 6 Cases.

And why? Because "Purported iPhone 6 cases suggest design changes," according to
the CNET post by Don Reisinger.

"Photos of purported iPhone 6 cases have popped up on the Web and seem to show
features that have been rumored over the last several months," he announces.

"The cases, made by an unidentified third-party and specifically designed for
the iPhone 6, feature the same design in a few colors," he reveals. "They come
with a screen opening of 4.7 inches and a new location for the power switch from
the top of the iPhone to the side. The cases also include rectangular volume
controls on the opposite side of the power button. An opening for Apple's logo
and another for a camera are also in the cases."

Reisinger gets this from 9to5Mac, which got it from the French site
NoWhereElse.fr, which in turn picked up from the Japanese Mac fan site, Mac
Otakara.

NoWhereElse's Steve Hemmerstoffer exhibits an almost compulsive attention to
details, measuring and annotating everything and drawing conclusions. The
assumption behind all these posts is that companies making money selling
protective cases for iPhones have an interest in getting accurate information so
they can pre-design and manufacture cases for the Next iPhone before anyone
else.

Here's the Google translation of part of the research and analysis from
NoWhereElse: "Designed on the basis of information obtained from a source kept
secret, these shells are supposed silicone perfect fit an iPhone 6 with a screen
measuring 4.7 inches diagonally. Wishing to avoid that these data may allow a
more props to manufacture their own products, my contact was unfortunately not
want to give me the exact dimensions of these hulls ..."

Makes perfect sense to us: secret sources, alleged or purported photos, no exact
dimensions. No, you know, facts. The perfect rumor.

iPhone 6 will be bigger because photos show bigger batteries It was busy week
for Hemmerstoffer's NoWhereElse blog, which was also the source of photos
supposedly showing the batteries for the iPhone 6. The batteries are bigger than
the batteries in today's iPhones, therefore the Next iPhone must be bigger, too.

To lend credence to this imagining, the post notes that (via Google Translate of
the original French) "End of March, Aaron Lee and Joseph Tsai of Digitimes
claimed Apple would at already placed orders with suppliers of batteries under
the production of its future iPhone 6, according to Hemmerstoffer. "Imagine a
picture that you was passed earlier in the morning seems to confirm the rumor
launched by the Taiwanese website ...The photo in question is supposed to
introduce ourselves batteries or to equip the next iPhone. These batteries could
of course have been designed for any other smartphone but admit for a moment
that my source is telling the truth ..."

Wait. What? "These batteries could of course have been designed for any other
smartphone?"

But we can get past that, by admitting - for a moment - that his source is
telling the truth. Why would he lie, right?

"In examining these batteries more closely, you will actually realize that a
mysterious metallic elements missing from current models has been integrated
alongside the + and - terminals whose positioning has also been slightly
modified," Hemmerstoffer notes. "A hole was drilled at the end of this new
element, I guess it will fix the battery housing of the device." So by examining
the mysterious details, we can see that these batteries that could be for any
smartphone are indeed different from the battery in the current iPhone.

"Assuming that the batteries that have led me to write this article are indeed
intended to supply the iPhone 6, it could therefore be effectively presented in
approximately three months either in the month of July ... Wait & See ..."

If we all just waited and saw what Apple actually announces for the 2014 iPhone,
life would be so much simpler.

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for "Network World."

Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnww Email: john_cox@nww.com



