

Apple is preparing to unleash a new camera which will be the best ever seen on
an iPhone, rumour mill churners have claimed.

Although we don't yet know whether the must-have mobile will be called the 6s or
7, there has been a slow drip of information leaking out from behind Apple's
iRon curtain - including the picture above, which allegedly shows the box of the
larger "plus"model.

The latest rumours suggest the camera is due for a "major revamp".

It will be upgraded from 8 to 12 megapixels, allowing Apple fans to take photos
of a much higher resolution than ever before.

The camera is also expected to enable 4K video recording, making it one of the
first phones to feature this super detailed video format.

"The benefits of 4K video recording include compatibility with the latest
consumer television sets, improved stability and clarity, as well as benefits
during post-production editing," wrote the ever-reliable Apple site 9to5Mac.

The new iPhone is also expected to feature a front-facing flash to allow
selfie-obsessed people to take pictures of themselves in dim light.

However, there is some debate about how this will work.

"While some industry watchers have speculated that code in iOS 9 betas indicates
that Apple will add a front-facing LED flash to the new iPhones, sources say
that is not the case," 9to5Mac added.

"Instead, the new iPhone's display will take cues from Snapchat and Photo Booth,
lighting up with a quick white screen when the shutter button for the front
camera is pressed.

"Front-facing panorama shots and slow motion video in 720P are also likely to
make it to the front camera this fall."

The iPhone will be released at a glittering event on September 9.

Here's what we know about the highly-anticipated mobile so far.  Apple iPhone 7:
Price

If the rumours of a smaller, cheaper iPhone 6C are true then it's unlikely that
Apple's main iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than past variants.

Most experts reckon the new iPhone will start at £539 for a 16GB model,
effectively taking the place of the current iPhone 6 - which will see an
incremental drop in price.

If true, we could expect other models with larger storage - 64GB and 128GB most
likely - to stick with the £619 and £699 prices. Apple iPhone 7: Release date

We'll see it officially revealed on September 9.

Both the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 5S were revealed in September and Apple has no
reason to change its strategy. It will look to take advantage of Black Friday
sales and the run up to Christmas.

Alongside the iPhone 6S, Apple is also expected to reveal the iPhone 6S Plus and
potentially an iPhone 6C . Apple iPhone 7: Camera and design

A big clue about what to expect from the iPhone 7's camera was discovered by
developer Hamza Sood inside the iOS 9 code.

The code includes support for a front-facing camera flash - something currently
unavailable on any existing model of iPhone.

Hamza tweet 1

What's more, the code also reveals the next iPhone will be able to run FaceTime
at full 1080p high definition. Currently, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus can only
manage 720p defintion.

Apple is clearly targeting selfie-mad snappers who prefer the front-facing
camera to the rear-facing one.

In terms of design, the iPhone 6 was a big change from the iPhone 5S and it's
unlikely Apple will redesign the appearance two years running.

Having said that, both Samsung and LG have embraced curvy screens with the
Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge and the LG G Flex 2 respectively.

It's unlikely Apple will follow suit but then the world's most valuable company
has frequently had a problem with bending phones .

And yet, the latest set of rumours suggest that Apple will be introducing a
brand new colour into the mix. We're expecting the usual space grey, silver and
gold options but how about...pink?

A set of images appearing on Chinese social media appear to show a fully-formed
2015 iPhone with a pink case.

Apple usually refers to this colour as "Rose Gold" when it's talking about the
Apple Watch - so it could be producing this new version of the iPhone to match
its smartwatch.

Screen size is perhaps the most contentious issue. Some rumours have suggested
Apple will reveal three handsets this year , each with a different screen size.

Alongside the 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch upgrades to the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, some
rumours have suggested a smaller iPhone 6C could be revealed with a 4-inch
screen.

If true, it would give Apple a "budget" option to appeal to those who don't want
to fork out for the larger phones. Apple iPhone 7: Specs

Because the new iPhone will arrive with Apple's iOS 9 software and an upgraded
processor, it will offer even more power and better efficiency.

According to a report from Reuters , Apple's arch-nemesis Samsung will be
responsible for building 75% of the new processor.

Likely to be called the A9 chip, the new beating heart of the iPhone will be
smaller than the previous iteration - allowing engineers to cram even more
transistors onto the silicone.

At the moment, we don't know what kind of battery the iPhone 7 will use - but at
least there's now a Low Power Mode built into iOS 9 to help it last even longer.

So far, Apple has resisted updating the random-access memory (RAM) of its
smartphones, but some sources expect the new model to have at least 2GB of RAM
on the clock.

iPhone 7 Concept

Will you buy an iPhone 7?

See our pick of the best 5 contract deals on the iPhone 6 here , plus find out
how to buy a second-hand handset, or sell your current device for more.

