

Every day, new details about the iPhone 6 find their way onto the internet.

Today, pictures were leaked claiming to be from inside the Chinese factory
assembling the iPhone 6, showing detailed measurements, schematics and behind
the scenes information.

This week we've seen some of the most detailed images yet of both the 4.7" and
5.5" versions of the Apple's next generation smartphone.

So as the tech giant's biggest launch of the year draws near, here's a roundup
of everything we know - and think we know - so far.Will there be more than one
iPhone model?

We're expecting Apple to release two models of iPhone 6 with 4.7" and 5.5"
screen sizes - though it's not certain they'll both be released at the same
time.

Pictures apparently leaked to French website Igen from within the Chinese
factory assembling the iPhone 6, show detailed measurements and specifications
of two distinct models - with the iPhone 5s included for comparison.

There's been talk of a delay between the two versions - either because of delays
in the supply chain, or as a deliberate move to prevent competition between the
devices when they hit stores.

There'll be the usual storage capacity and colour option. While it's thought the
space gray/black and white/silver colourways will remain, the fate of the gold
version isn't certain.

There's also speculation that the super-strong sapphire crystal display will be
reserved for a premium, more expensive model.

What size iPhone 6 would you buy?  When will it come out?

We're expecting an announcement event on September 9th, with iPhones hitting
stores soon - perhaps as soon as a week or two after. Though initial estimates
suggested the release date wouldn't be until mid-October.

If the rumours of a staggered release for the two models are correct, we can
expect to see the larger version about a month later.What will the new iPhone
look like?

feld volk 2

The iPhone 6 is expected to have a more rounded body than the 5S - with a design
that harks back to the original first-generation iPhone.

An alleged schematic leaked today suggested the new phone will be 7mm thick -
and the 4.7" model has a codename of N56.What new features are we expecting?

The  iPhone  6 will feature a new super-fast WiFi chip and an improved Touch ID
fingerprint sensor, according to reports.

It will also feature  Apple's  next generation A8 processor, which should give
the  smartphone  a huge performance boost, according to tech website Venture
Beat

Apple's new device is also expected to have a vastly improved camera, with a
13-megapixel sensor provided by  Sony  .

There's also speculation that the phone's new Lightning connector cable will
work either way up - at both ends.

The iPhone 5's cable was Apple's first charging cable that would work regardless
of which way round you put it in - and it's thought they've come up with a
solution for how to make the USB end reversible too.

The new screen - on the 4.7" version, at leasty - is thought to have a higher
resolution than previous models.

The Retina screen on the current iPhone 5S has a density of 10.5 pixels per mm.
The 1704x960 display suggested by Feld & Volk would be a much sharper 16 pixels
per mm.

feld volk iphoneWill the battery life be better?

Photos have emerged purporting to show the new iPhone's batteries.

The leaked pictures show batteries with whopping 1810 and 2915mAh capacities.
That's much bigger than the current iPhone 5S battery, which is just
1560mAh.Will it have Sapphire glass?

The inclusion of Sapphire glass on the iPhone 6 has been the subject of
speculation ever since a video purporting to be the phone's screen appeared on
YouTube.

leaked iphone display

Analysts have inspected Apple's supply chain and say it's unlikely that all of
the phone's unprecedented production run will feature the near-indestructible
crystal displays.

Would you be put off buying an iPhone 6 if it didn't have sapphire glass?How
much will it cost?

Apple's pricing is usually kept fairly well under wraps - you can never tell
when they're going to pull a surprise price drop.

But if we base it on last year's pricing, the model with the smallest capacity
(16GB for the 5S) will cost £549, the next up (32GB) £629 and the biggest
storage (64GB) £709.

If Apple upgrade the maximum storage to 128GB as is rumoured, it's likely
they'll make the minimum amount 32GB.

That's all based on the current screen size - we're expecting the price to shoot
up for the 5.5" version, perhaps even more for the "premium" version with
Sapphire glass.

Will you get the iPhone on launch day?

iphone 6 rumors

