

The iPlasticPhone rears its glossy head and the iOSphere shivers. Also this
week, don't listen to Tim Cook about display size; the unanticipated
consequences of iPhone 6 Wi-Fi location tracking; colorful correction and
balance; the Secret of SIM.

You read it here second.

__________ "If Apple were to have indoor GPS tracking on the iPhone 6, there
could be some concerns over privacy. Users would have to choose whether they
want their friends to know they are in the bathroom and how long they have been
in there."

~ Rick Berke, Auto-oMobile, highlighting a heretofore unanticipated consequence
of Apple's mobile location mania.__________ iPhone 6 will have a plastic body,
and here's the photo that proves it In another rumor coup, the blog at Tactus, a
mobile accessory maker, presented a photo that purports to be of an iPhone with
a plastic case.

"Well, it looks like it features an all uniform plastic polycarbonate shell -
very different to the iPhone 5?s sleek aluminum look, but still modern and
covetable," according to the blogpost.

[IPHONEYS: The iPhone 6 and iPhone 5S edition] Here's the published photograph.
And it's a bit underwhelming to be sure. To the Rollup, it looks dated somehow.
Perhaps because the glossy plastic body in the Tactus image is a throwback to
the iPhone 3GS, which was announced in June 2009.

According to Tactus, the phone using this plastic shell measures 0.35 inches
thick, 4.72 inches long and 2.44 inches wide.

That's slightly thicker and wider than the iPhone 5; slightly thinner, longer
and wider than the iPhone 4.

"I've also heard on the grapevine that the alleged budget iPhone will have an A5
processor like the iPad Mini with a 32nm diecast," according to the post. "It's
also rumoured it will have a 3.5-inch retina screen, much like the 4S, but not
as big as the iPhone 5 - a few more pennies saved with that compromise! It's
also likely to have a handy 5MP camera, again like the iPhone 4!"

Finally, the blog predicts the iPlasticphone will go on sale Oct. 15...for $300.

Essentially, you'd be paying $300 to get an iPhone 3GS exterior, released in
2009, with an iPhone 4S interior, released in 2011. The main differences would
be the 4S processor shifted to a 32 nm process from 45 nm, to boost performance
and draw less power, and the Lightning docking port, though there could be a
bunch of other changes internally, if Apple took this direction. There's no
indication in the blogpost whether this phone would support LTE.

In the U.S., the iPhone 4S is currently offered with a two-year contract for
$99, though it's priced at $549 with no contract; the older iPhone 4 is still
$450 with no contract, but $0 with a contract. It's difficult to know whether
shifting to plastic from milled aluminum for the case would actually slash the
retail price of the iPlasticphone by $350.

There's been speculation that Apple is or should be creating the cheaper phone
to compete with the flood of cheap Android phones in markets like India and
China. How would consumers view an iPhone that offers what is, in large part, a
2-year-old hardware platform? Would the 32 nm A5 fully support the next OS
version, iOS 7, or would users be unable to make use of features like Apple Maps
Flyover?  Would Apple decline to support LTE in order to save costs?

None of those sound like attractive tradeoffs.

iPhone 6 could still be a larger-screened phone no matter what Tim Cook says The
following three statements are all from the same blogpost, by GadgetInsider's
Adam Majewsk, the order of their appearance" -1 "Apple Still May Release
Large-Screened iPhone 6 in the Future" (the headline) -2 "Apple CEO Tim Cook was
coy with regards to the possibility of an iPhone 6 with a 4.5-inch screen or
larger..."

-3 "Cook simply said that Apple isn't ready at this point to release such a
device."

If you read them in a different order - 2, 3, 1 - you get a clearer idea of how
completely unclear the blogpost is.

In fact, Cook did not say what Majewsk says he said. Cook's actual words were:
"My view continues to be that iPhone 5 has the absolute best display in the
industry....Our competitors have made some significant trade-offs in many of
these areas in order to ship a larger display. We would not ship a
larger-display iPhone while these tradeoffs exist." [for complete details see
"Apple's Cook resets 3 popular, and wrong, Apple rumors"]  Majewsk eventually
paraphrases Cook's comment, but he can't just leave it there. "Despite Cook
gravitating towards the possibility of a foreseeable future without a
large-screened 'iPhone 6', all is not lost for such a device...," Majewsk
concludes. "Who knows, maybe that could happen as early as next year, but as far
as this year is concerned, chances look slim of Apple releasing a jumbo-sized
iPhone to compete with other big names and their similarly big devices."

So depending on when you think "iPhone 6" will be announced, it could have a big
screen. Just not in the foreseeable future.

So it would be in the unforeseeable future. Which Majewsk has foreseen. Like he
says, who knows?

"iPhone 6 May Let Your Friends Know You're On The Can!"

Our subhead for this section is taken directly from the headline to a blogpost
by Rick Berke, at Auto-oMobile. It almost speaks for itself.

Berke sort of eases into the topic, from somewhere far in left field, beginning
his post thusly: "when it comes to leaks and rumours Apple are heading the list.
Now details have come out about different patents involving anti-crash
mechanisms which would make the ultimate touchscreen."

But that's the last time he talks about anti-crash mechanisms and the ultimate
touchscreen. Instead he abruptly changes gears to focus on Apple's March 2013
acquisition of the "indoor GPS company WiFiSlam....so that they could improve
their [Apple's] failed map app."

Berke notes that WiFiSlam's website described its app as being able to "Allow
your smartphone to pinpoint its location (and the location of your friends) in
real-time to 2.5m accuracy using only ambient WiFi signals that are already
present in buildings."

Two-and-half meters is just over eight feet. That's the radius of the circle
around the radio, yielding an area of about 50 square feet. A radio's location
falls into an area of about 50 square feet.

Technically, WiFiSlam is not a GPS company, because it doesn't primarily make
use of signals from satellites in geostationary orbits. Indoors, or even in
dense outdoor urban areas, GPS signals can be hard to acquire or hold. WiFiSlam
uses data linked to the known locations of thousands of stationary Wi-Fi access
points, sometimes supplemented with GPS data, to create a real-time awareness of
individual mobile devices with always-on Wi-Fi radios. By linking real-time
location with user identity, WiFiSlam creates a platform for software developers
to create personalized data services and actions tailored to where you are.

Berke could have gone on to explain or at least talk about the algorithms used
to plot the indoor location, or the location data APIs and frameworks, or other
technical matters. But instead he cuts right to the chase with a practical
example.

"This means that the app could help your friends to keep track of what you were
doing down to the last couple of meters," Berke writes. In case you don't
understand that, he explains further. "This means that they would know what part
of a café you were in, even this happened to be the bathroom."

"If Apple were to have indoor GPS tracking on the iPhone 6, there could be some
concerns over privacy," he warns darkly. "Users would have to choose whether
they want their friends to know they are in the bathroom and how long they have
been in there."

This seems a bit obsessive, even by the standards of the iOSphere.

iPhone 6 camera will have advanced color correction and balance The roots of
this achievement are found within four Apple patent applications - not awards -
which the US Patent and Trademark Office published this past week, as covered by
PatentlyApple.

Reading this lengthy post one forms the general idea that Apple wants to improve
some aspects of image capture and processing on iOS devices. But how the new
inventions will do that remains a mystery for those of us lacking degrees in the
relevant scientific disciplines.

Take for example Patent Number Two, "Alleviating Dominant Color Failure in
Automatic White Balance Using Histogram Trimming."

Dominant color failure has not been, to date, the subject of outraged online
forum postings, of petitions, of rantings that go viral on YouTube, or of U.S.
Senate committee investigations.

So what does it mean? We'll let PatentlyApple explain: "More specifically,
Apple's invention relates to methods, devices and computer readable media for
implementing novel dominant color alleviation techniques for color balancing are
described. The techniques take advantage of unique properties of 2D image data
histograms accumulated in a chromaticity space, along with other factors such as
estimated scene lux and knowledge of plausible scene illuminant white point
values within the chromaticity space. The accumulated 2D image data histograms
may be refined and "trimmed," such that the resultant image data passed to an
auto white balance solution has much less influence from the dominant colors in
the image, even those that overlap the plausible scene illuminant color region.
The described techniques provide for white point estimates that are much less
prone to dominant color failures."

We still don't know what it actually means, beyond the white point estimates
being much less prone to dominant color failures.

Once this breakthrough filtered out into the iOSphere, plenty of bloggers were
willing to draw even larger conclusions while knowing even less.
KnowYourMobile's Clare Hopping instantly realized that PatentlyApple had
experienced Dominant Rumor Failure by not drawing the obvious conclusion.

"The iPhone 6's camera may be the most advanced white balance yet, colour
correction and colour balance," she wrote, with almost unbalanced enthusiasm.
"More iPhone 6 patents have been leaked, relating to the camera of the device.
Patently Apple revealed the iPhone 6 would include a much more advanced camera
than its predecessor devices."

But the patent Website doesn't mention "iPhone 6" or "iPhone 5S," no doubt
because the patent applications apparently don't mention them either.

iPhone 5S nano-SIM tray revealed..and it is unchanged from the one in the iPhone
5 Based on new photos posted by Japanese parts shop Moumantai, MacRumors' Erick
Slivka notes astutely that "what is said to be" the nano-SIM tray of the iPhone
5S is "reportedly identical in shape to those used on the iPhone 5."

No news is good news, apparently.

Slivka slips in a caveat.  Actually, two caveats. The first is that the photos
show the Moumantai iPhone 5S SIM trays in gray and bronze-gold colors, although
it is possible that the photos may show somewhat inaccurate colors given
expectations of slate and silver as seen on the iPhone 5.

Secondly, "It is, however, difficult to place too much stock in these SIM tray
photos, given that they are identical to the current design and that third-party
versions in various colors are prevalent."

So no news is, actually, bad news.

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network
World.Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com



