

Surging demand for Apple's iPhone 6 will increase Telstra's domination of the
mobile market and win it an extra $500 million in revenue, according to Morgan
Stanley Research analysts.

But Vodafone Australia and SingTel-Optus are also gearing up in expectation that
Apple's latest smartphone will be a hit, thanks to its larger screen.

Morgan Stanley Research predicted the iPhone 6 would help Telstra get an extra
465,000 mobile customers during the 2015 financial year. This would bring its
total subscriber numbers to 16.5 million by June 30, 2015, compared with the 9.4
million at Optus and 4.96 million at Vodafone Australia today.

The company used an online survey of 2000 mobile users in August to test how
customers felt about their mobile networks and the Apple iPhone 6.

"Respondents tend to think that Telstra's service is too expensive [but] despite
a higher price, user satisfaction is highest for Telstra followed by Optus and
Vodafone," the report said. "Only 25 per cent of the Telstra users believe
switching to another operator could enhance their user experience, compared to
36 per cent of Optus users and 50 per cent of Vodafone users."

The report said 45 per cent of iPhones in Australia used Telstra's network,
followed by 27 per cent on Optus and 26 per cent on Vodafone.

Morgan Stanley predicted the iPhone 6 would help Telstra gain another 5 per cent
of the iPhone market, which in turn "could add $300 million to $500 million [in]
additional mobile revenue".

Telstra's gains would come at the expense of its rivals.

Optus' market share would remain flat, while Vodafone's share would drop 6 per
cent if the iPhone 6 comes with a 5.5-inch screen as expected, Morgan Stanley
predicted.

But the investment bank said its forecasts could be wrong if Optus or Vodafone
launched an aggressive pricing war, because both companies are closing the 4G
coverage gap with Telstra.

Other analysts also put caveats on the potential gains Telstra could make from
the iPhone 6.

Bank of American Merrill Lynch's Sameer Chopra said Telstra's success would
partly depend on its rivals offering entry-level prices of about $80 a month or
more. He also said Apple's iPhone 6 would be a positive for Telstra if it used
the 700MHz band of electronic spectrum the company bought for $1.3 billion and
will switch on in 2015.

Telstra has historically done better than other carriers from the launch of new
iPhone models, which almost always hits the market in the first half of the
financial year.

"In three of the last four years, Telstra has added significantly more
subscribers in the first half versus the second half [of the year] and we
believe much of this change is due to the launch of the latest iPhones," Mr
Chopra said.

Not all new iPhone models have been a hit with Australian users. While still
broadly popular, Apple's iPhone 5s and 5c got a lukewarm reception compared with
the hype for the models that preceded them, as they were seen to offer little
more than older models. This let Korean handset maker Samsung fill the gap and
win customers over with its popular devices.

"However, the data from our survey suggests that Apple's new iPhone 6 could see
this trend turn around," Morgan Stanley Research said.

