

After getting burned by a quick price drop on Apple's first iPhone when it
debuted in June 2007, I vowed to never be an "early adopter" again.What a
difference seven years makes. The cult of Apple lives again.I upgraded Friday to
a brand-new iPhone 6 after spending the last three years with an iPhone 4s. I've
watched with a tinge of jealously as Apple launched the iPhone 5 in 2012 and
then the iPhone 5s last year, but resisted upgrading until now. I'm older and
wiser, so I wasn't among the faithful who waited in line at the Apple store. I
just had UPS deliver the phone to my house.Setting up the new iPhone was easy,
with most of the time coming from backing up my old one, which I hadn't done for
a couple of months.

Loading the backup copy on to my 128-GB iPhone 6 took about 30 minutes using the
Lightning cord connected to my home Mac. I transferred almost 5 GB of music,
almost 70 apps and more than 450 photos, along with various books and
documents.First, the jump in display size and the camera upgrades were
definitely worth the price of upgrading for me. The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch
display, about 34 percent bigger than the iPhone 4s display.The bigger display
just makes everything look better, with photos almost bleeding to the left and
right edges of the screen. There's more room for timeline updates in Twitter and
Facebook. And I now have two-that's right, two!-extra rows on the home screen
for apps.The keyboard, too, is much easier to type on with the larger screen. If
there's one drawback, it's a little harder to reach the "back" button on most
apps. I have fairly average-sized hands, but it's a stretch to get to the "back"
button if you're trying to use the phone with one hand, especially the right
hand. Apple has a workaround called "Reachability" for this problem where you
can double-touch the home button, but I couldn't get it to work half the
time.The iPhone 6 has a 8-megapixel main camera and a 1.2-megapixel FaceTime
camera for videoconferencing and "selfies." There's not a whole lot new on the
camera front, other than some software additions for face detection and exposure
controls.I did enjoy playing around with the slow-motion video feature, which
looked great when I captured our 6-month-old crawling on the floor and enjoying
his Jumparoo activity center.Other things that will take some time to get used
to for iPhone 4s users are the power button on the right side and the headphone
jack at the bottom. With the iPhone 6's larger size, it makes sense for the
power button to remain within easy reach, but after seven years of it being at
the top, it still feels strange. I don't know why the headphone jack was moved
to the bottom, although that's not a new development if you're upgrading from an
iPhone 5 or 5s.I can't say I was a fan of Touch ID, Apple's biometric
fingerprint reader used to unlock the phone and pay for purchases. I'm not
paranoid enough or interesting enough to need hard-core security measures, but I
did want to set it up for iTunes purchases. Apple supposedly lets you do that,
but it made me enter a passcode each time. I'm not sure if this is a bug or a
feature.After the first full charge, I got more than 36 hours of use out of the
iPhone 6, with most of it on the Wi-Fi network at my house over the weekend.
Much of the power consumption for me came from checking Twitter, the messaging
app GroupMe, fantasy football apps, music and reading online news sites. I
drained the battery completely on Monday afternoon by streaming video. It took
about 90 minutes to get back to a full charge.The new version of Apple's mobile
operating system, iOS 8, includes a handy look at power consumption by app. It's
a good way to check your most-used apps and see which ones aren't worth keeping
on your phone anymore. Under the iOS 8 upgrade, new iPhones bought in the past
year also are eligible for a free suite of Apple's productivity apps, including
Keynote, Numbers, Pages and iMovie.This is my fourth iPhone since 2007; I had
AT&amp;T service for the first two iPhones and Verizon for the next two. In
Oklahoma City, I haven't had a problem with service from either carrier.With the
iPhone 6, I'm now on Verizon's LTE high-speed data network, a considerable
upgrade from the 3G data network on my iPhone 4s. It's not as good as going from
a dial-up modem to broadband, but it's close.If you've got an older model iPhone
, upgrading to the iPhone 6 is definitely worth it. But if you already have an
iPhone 5 or 5s, I'm not sure the new features make much sense unless your phone
contract is expiring. Most iPhone 5 users will probably be fine with the new
version of Apple's iOS.

