

Patent filings by Apple itself showing the concept of a wrap-around screen
consuming the entire iPhone have fueled somedesign concepts. One comes from
Nickolay Lamm and Matteo Gianni, who put forth this curved-exterior iPhone 6
concept that some have speculated would be less susceptible to cracks if real.

[IPHONEYS: The iOS 7 edition] Another design from Lamm, on behalf of
MyVoucherCodes, envisions a plastic, possibly translucent, budget iPhone. Rumors
have persisted that Apple will roll out cheaper iPhones, particularly to appeal
to people in poorer countries, though Apple executives such as Senior Vice
President of Marketing Phil Schiller have pooh-poohed such talk.  One theme
running through the new concept designs is ever more streamlined touchscreen
capabilities.

Federico Bianco envisions -- in a nearly 4-minute video -- what iOS 7 could mean
for the iPhone 5S, iPhone 6 and iPad 5, including the ability to tap into apps
and controls (such as quick replies and airplane mode) from the lock screen.
Bianco shows a way to double tap on widgets, such as the music player, to
provide quicker access to them. He also displays a way to reset widget controls,
such as volume, in a more streamlined manner.

[IPHONEYS: The iPhone 6 and iPhone 5S edition] Separately, this Arthur Reis
concept design includes a "touch anywhere" home button on the iPhone 6 that
works across the bottom of this thinner-than-current Apple smartphone. Reis also
works in a 12mp iSight camera.

While designers foresee more sensitive touch capabilities, Yanko Design
emphasizes sturdiness in its latest concept design, noting: "One of the reasons
why many people buy a fender for their iPhone is that the back surface tends to
scratch pretty easily, especially in the iPhone 5. Designer Matt Hughson
envisions the iPhone 6 to come designed with an integrated aluminum outer frame,
which creates a protective lip for the front & back of the phone. This provides
improved protection for your screen & camera."

Finally, this mysterious iPhone X, from Bob Freking, boasts a 1.8GHz quad-core
AX CPU, 4GB of RAM and 16mp iSight camera.

Freking goes with a 4.8-inch screen, wireless charging and NFC support. And
whoa! A $1,200 price tag!

Bob Brown tracks network research in his Alpha Doggs blog and Facebook page, as
well on Twitter and Google +.



