

Surging demand for Apple's iPhone 6 in September will grow Telstra's domination
of the mobile market and win it an extra $500 million in revenue, according to
Morgan Stanley Research analysts.

But Vodafone Australia and SingTel-Optus are also gearing up in an effort to
ride expectations that Apple's latest smartphone will be a hit thanks to its
larger screen. Morgan Stanley Research predicted Apple's iPhone 6 would help
Telstra get an extra 465,000 mobile customers during financial year 2015. This
would bring its total subscriber base to 16.5 million users by June 30, 2015
compared to the 9.4 million at Optus and 4.96 million at Vodafone Australia
today.

The company used an online survey of 2000 Australian mobile users in August from
alphawise to test how customers felt about their mobile networks and the Apple
iPhone 6.

"Respondents tend to think that Testra's service is too expensive [but] despite
a higher price, user satisfaction is highest for Telstra followed by Optus and
Vodafone," the report said. "Only 25 per cent of Telstra users believe switching
to another operator could enhance their user experience compared with 36 per
cent of Optus users and 50 per cent of Vodafone users."

The report said 45 per cent of iPhones in Australia used Telstra's network,
followed by 27 per cent on Optus and 26 per cent on Vodafone.

It predicted Telstra would get up to 5 per cent more of the iPhone market, which
in turn "could add $300 million to $500 million [in] additional mobile revenue."

However, Telstra's win in the iPhone market would come at the expense of its
rivals. Optus would remain flat while Vodafone Australia would lose 6 per cent
if the iPhone 6 comes with a 5.5-inch screen as expected, Morgan Stanley
Research claimed.

But the investment bank said its forecasts could be wrong if Optus or Vodafone
launched an aggressive pricing war, as both companies are closing the 4G
coverage gap with Telstra.

Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Sameer Chopra said Telstra's success would
partly depend on its rivals offering entry level prices of around $80 a month or
more.

Telstra has traditionally been the biggest winner out of every Apple iPhone
launch, which usually hits the market in the first half of the financial year.
"In three of the last four years, Telstra has added significantly more
subscribers in the first-half versus the second-half and we believe much of this
change is due to the launch of the latest iPhones," BAML said.

Apple's iPhone 5s and 5c devices underwhelmed shoppers because it was seen to
offer little extra on top of older models. This let Korean handset maker Samsung
fill the gap and win customers over with its popular devices.

"However the data from our survey suggested that Apple's new iPhone 6 could see
this trend turn around," Morgan Stanley Research said.

Predictions that Apple's iPhone 6 will feature a new 5.5-inch screen compared
with the 4.7-inch screens that are currently on sale are key to the product and
market's success, it added.

Optus and Vodafone Australia see the iPhone 6 as a chance to improve their
falling subscriber bases and sign customers onto newly created mobile services.
Optus has its My Plan range while Vodafone Australia has its Red Plans.

Optus has a "Smartphone Alerts" website where customers sign up to get the
latest information on new devices such as Apple's iPhone 6, while Vodafone
Australia does the same with its "Start the Buzz" service.

But Telstra, Optus and Vodafone Australia are all locked into strict contracts
with Apple that forbid them from talking about, marketing or even acknowledging
the existence of the iPhone 6 before its official launch.

All three declined to comment on the record about anything relating to Apple's
iPhone 6 when contacted by Fairfax Media.

