

BEIJING -- Apple is facing a potential setback in China, one of its biggest and
fastest-growing markets, after the much-anticipated introductions here of the
new iPhone models were delayed.

On Wednesday, Apple told China's three big state-owned mobile service providers
that it would not release the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in mainland China on
Sept. 19, when sales start elsewhere. The carriers had already booked
advertising campaigns for the phones.

The move set off consternation among Apple's partners in China, as well as with
consumers who had been eagerly awaiting the introductions. Apple did not explain
the delay, executives at the carriers said, but it appeared the phones had not
received approval from Chinese regulators to go on sale.

The Chinese leadership and the state-controlled news media grew wary of foreign
technology providers after revelations last year by Edward J. Snowden of
American cyberspying. In July, CCTV, the main state-controlled television
network, broadcast a report saying that the iPhone could represent a threat to
China's national security. The accusations were promptly rejected by Apple.

Apple's staff in China appeared to have been caught off-guard by the last-minute
change of plans, with one executive saying on Wednesday that all of the
company's stores in Beijing and Shanghai had been preparing for sales to begin
on Sept. 19. The executive spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Representatives of Apple told the Chinese mobile carriers only that ''there are
some details which are not ready,'' according to a sales manager at China
Telecom, who declined to be named. ''Apple completely let us down without prior
notice,'' the manager added.

Apple declined to comment on Wednesday, as did representatives for China's three
main mobile carriers, which also include China Mobile and China Unicom. Apple's
Chinese website carried a statement saying only that the date of the iPhone 6's
availability would ''be updated soon.''

News reports in China on Wednesday said the iPhone 6 had not yet been approved
by the Ministry for Industry and Information Technology, which must sign off on
the technology of devices like smartphones. No approval for the iPhone 6 could
be found on the regulator's website on Wednesday.

Initially, Apple tended to release new iPhones in the China market many months
after they had been released elsewhere. That changed last year, when Apple
started sales of the iPhone 5S and 5C models in China on Sept. 20, the same day
as in the United States and other major markets.

In January, Apple began selling iPhones through China Mobile, the country's
dominant mobile carrier. It had previously reached sales agreements with the
country's other two biggest carriers.

Greater China -- including the mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan -- is Apple's
fastest-growing major market and is the company's third-biggest globally, after
the Americas and Europe. Apple reported sales of $5.9 billion in greater China
from April to June, a 28 percent increase from the same period a year earlier.
By contrast, sales in other regions grew 1 to 6 percent. Greater China accounted
for 16 percent of Apple's total revenue in the three-month period, up from 13
percent a year earlier.

Apple was quick to respond when it was singled out by the CCTV report in July,
which said an iPhone function that allowed a user's location to be tracked could
put state secrets at risk.

''We appreciate CCTV's effort to help educate customers on a topic we think is
very important,'' Apple said in a statement responding to the report, rejecting
accusations that the company tracks users' locations. ''We want to make sure all
of our customers in China are clear about what we do and we don't do when it
comes to privacy and your personal data.''

''Apple has never worked with any government agency from any country to create a
back door in any of our products or services,'' the statement said. ''We have
also never allowed access to our servers. And we never will. It's something we
feel very strongly about.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/11/business/international/release-of-
iphone-6-delayed-in-china.html

