

AUSTRALIANS will pay 20 per cent more than United States customers when the new
iPhone 6 is released next week.

Apple yesterday launched two big-screen iPhones to tackle the phablet threat, a
tap-and-touch payment system to kill your wallet and a wearable -device it hopes
will rule them all.

The details of the new -iPhones have been widely leaked, but there were some
surprises including the name of the biggest phone in the Apple family, the
iPhone 6 Plus.

The iPhone 6 is a 4.7-inch phone and the iPhone 6 Plus is a 5.5-inch phone and
both allow Apple to follow the market trend of bigger is better.

The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus will both have NFC (near-field
communication), a wireless communication system some Android phones embraced
years ago that enables people to pay for goods with a tap-and-touch of their
phone at shop checkouts.

The payment system begins in America in October, but there are no details yet of
when it might be released in Australia and what banks, credit cards and
merchants will be involved.

After years of rumours that Apple was working on a wearable device, the Apple
Watch also was finally unveiled yesterday.

The device will come in two sizes, a 38mm and a 42mm watchface, and three
models, all of which have interchangeable bands, and will target consumers
across a wide range, from those wanting an activity tracker to those looking for
an upmarket timepiece.

The latest iPhone range goes on sale here from September 19, with Australians
set to be slugged harder than anywhere else in the world.

Prices for the iPhone 6 start at $869 in Australia compared to $707 in the US.
The iPhone 6 Plus will retail from $999 in Australia and $816 in the US.

Australian customers can pre-order the new phones from tomorrow. While an
Australian price for the Apple Watch has not yet been announced, it will retail
in the US from $349.

Consumer group Choice spokesman Tom Godfrey said: "While this isn't the most
excessive example of the Australia Tax, it highlights yet again Australians are
face digital discrimination.""Apple needs to justify why it continues to take
larger bites out of Aussie wallets," he said.

