

Apple said Monday that it sold more than 10 million iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
models over the first three-day weekend, a new company record. Apple previously
said first-day orders topped 4 million.

The new models, unveiled earlier this month, are available in the U.S.,
Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and
the U.K. and will be available in more than 20 additional countries on Sept. 26.
The new iPhones will be available in 115 countries by the end of the year.

Watch more: Features of the New iPhone 6 Models

"Sales for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus exceeded our expectations for the launch
weekend, and we couldn't be happier," said Apple CEO Tim Cook, who had presented
the new devices earlier this monthalong with others. "We would like to thank all
of our customers for making this our best launch ever, shattering all previous
sell-through records by a large margin. While our team managed the manufacturing
ramp better than ever before, we could have sold many more iPhones with greater
supply, and we are working hard to fill orders as quickly as possible."

Some Wall Street observers had projected sales of around 10 million for the
first weekend, compared with about 9 million for the iPhone 5S/5C launch in
September, which included China. The new models have been delayed in China.

See more: The Apple Watch

Cowen & Co. analyst Timothy Arcuri said the strong first-weekend trends "are
further confirmation of our thesis this product cycle and its overall set-up are
different from previous sell-the-news launches." He added: "We continue to
expect unprecedented upgrade sales over the next several quarters as 6/6+ allow
Apple to both upsell its core high-end customers and to target high-end Android
switchers."

He added: "We continue to believe our above-Street iPhone 6/6+ units [estimates
of] 118 million near-term are potentially very conservative."

Email: Georg.Szalai@THR.com Twitter: @georgszalai


