

Apple hasbegun preorders of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6+ smartphones from 12:01 am
on October 7, reports Gulveen Aulakh in New Delhi. Sales of the devices start 10
days later. Retailers and carriers are finalising payment & data bundling
offers.

Large format retailers are busy lining up easy payment options while top
carriers Bharti Airtel and Reliance Communications are finalising data bundling
offers as Apple begins pre-orders of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones
from 12:01 am on October 7, and starts selling them 10 days later.

Apple will sell the smartphones from October 17 in three storage variants
through its official distribution partners Redington, Ingram Micro and Rashi
Peripherals. The 4.7-inch 16 GB iPhone 6 will cost . 53,500, the 64 GB storage
variant ` will come for ` . 62,500, while the 128 GB has a price tag of ` .
71,500, according to Redington's website. The 5.5inch screen iPhone 6 Plus will
be priced higher than its smaller counterpart with the 16 GB variant priced at
`. 62,500 and the 64 GB model costing `. 71,500. The 128 GB variant is the most
expensive, at ` . 80,500.

"The devices will be available at all leading modern trade stores and retail
outlets across India," Ingram Micro said in a statement on Monday. Infibeam, the
sole authorised online retail partner of Apple for iPhones in India, said that
it will begin taking pre-orders of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus online, for
deliveries on October 17.

Interestingly, the prices for iPhone 6 are the same as those of the iPhone 5S
launched last year, the 16 GB variant of which helped Apple cross the 1
million-mark in India iPhone sales within its financial year ended September
2014, for the first time ever.

Some retailers that ET spoke to said that they have received a rush of inquiries
for the latest devices which it launched in the US on September 9, even as Apple
is yet to decide on the stocks that will be given to each of the retail chains.
Some caution that limited stocks -thanks to continuing strong global demand and
start of the devices' sale in China on October 17 \xAD may leave many aspiring
buyers disappointed.

"We've been getting inquiries since the US launch and this time, pre-orders are
beginning 10 days in advance, which is a big surprise be

cause usually pre-orders in India are limited to 3-4 days that we've seen in the
past," said Himanshu Chakravarti, CEO of The Mobile Store, India's largest
retail chain with 450 stores selling mobile phones.

The long pre-order period, some say, is aimed at cornering a chunk of buyers in
the premium segment as Diwali approaches. Recent weeks have seen a slew of
launches in the high-end segment, with Sony launching its flagship products
Xperia Z3 and Xperia Z3 Compact last week at .

`51,990 and .

`44,990, respectively. BlackBerry launched its Passport smartphone a week back
for .

`49,990 while Samsung introduced the Galaxy ALPHA smartphone for .

`39,990, and is scheduled to launch the Galaxy Note 4 before Diwali.

To push Apple sales, The Mobile Store will offer EMI scheme to buyers who use
credit cards to make the purchase, and it is also planning to accept pre-booking
of the iPhones at its retail stores for a token amount which could be as low as
a few thousand rupees, Chakravarti said.

Satish Babu, founder of Chennaibased retail chain UniverCell, said that the
demand has been "very good, irrespective of the bending issues or grey market
pricing", but added that Apple had not confirmed the number of units that will
be given to the larger retailers. The technology major may offer fewer stocks to
India since it faces far higher international demand and also since the company
will on October 17 begin selling the iPhones in China which is a much bigger
market compared to India, say sector watchers.

"Stocks will be very low," said a top executive at another large retailer on the
condition of anonymity. He added that an expected sales fore

cast would be done this week after which stock will be decided a few days before
October 17.

Despite a number of smartphone launches before Diwali, sector trackers feel
Apple is best placed to capitalise on the festive demand in the premium segment.
"They (Apple) will take a large share of the premium smartphone segment, without
doubt," said Chakravarti.

Mobile phone service providers Bharti Airtel and Reliance Communications, which
had partnered with Apple during the launch of the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C last
year, will also sell the new models through their offline and online stores,
bundled with some data plans.

People aware of the plans of the telcos said that the companies were firming up
staggered payment options and financing schemes from banks for consumers who
would be lining up to buy the smartphones despite the ongoing tussle between
online and offline retailers.

"For a quarter (the iPhone) sales will jump, because of EMI schemes," said
Sanchit Vir Gogia, founder CEO at Greyhound Research.

He, however, added that sales would dwindle after a quarter or two and would not
be dramatically high, like in the US where Apple sold 10 million in the first
weekend, since the market in India will be limited to Apple users, many of who
are still not ready to move beyond the iPhone 5S.

"We spoke to about 400-450 iPhone users, did a small study and we found that
60-70% of iPhone users are not comfortable moving on. First, the iPhone 6 Plus
is too big, it bleeds into the iPad Mini. Second, many don't find anything
revolutionary different in the new devices," he said.

