

The iOSphere was assured this week that it now knows the details of one of the
Next iPhones, though this one is saidto be not the iPhone 6 or even the iPhone
5S but the "budget iPhone 5," or iPhone 5B.

Blurry photographs, later removed, of "leaked" iPhone components provided the
excuse for confident declarations that the Next iPhone will be way smaller than
the iPhone 5. Because, you know, the leaked components are smaller. The
connection is obvious.

Finally, the Next iPhone, or one of them anyway, is going to $300 cheaper than
the Next Samsung Galaxy S. Which means the Next iPhone also will have to be
pretty close to $300 cheaper than the current iPhone 5. Plastic may not be
enough to get us there. Could Apple be planning on introducing slave labor to
the supply chain? Or becoming a nonprofit?

You read it here second.

__________ __________ iLounge's Jeremy Horowitz declared this week that he has
ended all speculation about what the long-but-vaguely rumored "budget 'ready for
China' iPhone" will actually look like.

[ RELATED: US wants Amazon, Apple, BlackBerry, Google and Microsoft to get a
grip on mobile security, privacy concerns ] In "New Details On Apple's Budget
iPhone 5," Horowitz confidently writes that "unless something major changes
between now and its release, we know pretty much what the new low-end iPhone
will look like, thanks to reliable sources."

No need to know more than that: sources; who are reliable. And the Reliable
Sources have told him that the future is plastic.

"Yes, it will be made substantially from plastic," he reveals. "This new model
is actually a cross between the iPhone 5, fifth-generation iPod touch, and...
wait for it... the iPod classic. Yes, really. It will have a 4" screen, like the
iPhone 5, a bottom like the latest iPod touch, and a shape that's most similar
to the iPod classic."

So the iPhone 5B will be just like three other devices. Only completely
different.

The dimensions will be just smidgins larger than the iPhone 5. "From the front,
the new iPhone looks almost identical to the iPhone 5 -- the same exact shape,
with the same sensor, camera, and button arrangement." It will have a 1136 x 640
display.

"The circular volume buttons of the iPhone 4, 4S, and 5 will shift to elongated,
pill-shaped designs closer to the iPod touch and iPhone 3G/3G."

And "the most significant change Apple will make is in the curves." Instead of
the vertical curved corners of the iPhone 5, the iPhone 5B corners will curve
downward and inward. "In summary, the budget iPhone will look a lot like an
iPhone 5 from the front, an iPod classic from the side, and an iPod touch 5G on
the bottom," Horowitz summarizes.

Assuming that Horowitz's reliable sources are in fact reliable, his opening
sentence suggests that this budget iPhone is only targeted at the Chicom market,
or possibly other emerging overseas economies. He made that point in another
post a few days earlier: The "'low-cost' plastic-bodied iPhone, which is being
developed with China Mobile in mind. ... A budget iPhone model would help sales
in populous but underdeveloped countries to grow."

Horowitz doesn't say what a budget iPhone means, pricewise. But fortunately the
iOSphere hates an information vacuum and other rumors appeared, almost like
magic ...

In an "article" that reads more like a transcribed opium dream, Kristin Dian
Mariano, in the International Business Times, "reports" that the "upcoming
iPhone 6 may cost less than rival Samsung Galaxy S4."

In other words, one unannounced product may cost less than another unannounced
product. Of from another perspective, one unannounced product may cost more than
another unannounced product.

And the basis for this Dramatic Insight? "New rumours claimed that Apple is
considering revising its pricing strategy, especially for the iPhone, in order
to compete with companies offering low-priced devices such as Samsung."

Not all that new: The iOSphere has been billowing with rumors that Apple will or
should create a lower-priced iPhone for years.

"The upcoming iPhone will probably cost around $300 less than its rival,"
Mariano confidently assures us. Currently, Apple lists the price of an unlocked
16GB iPhone 5 at $649; Samsung's site links to Best Buy, which offers the
unlocked Samsung Galaxy S III (storage not indicated) for $700, midway between
the 16GB and 32GB iPhone models.

Mariano doesn't really explore how Apple could cut the price of the iPhone by
nearly 50%, though there is a reference to a months-old news story, by The Wall
Street Journal, that claimed "Apple is seriously considering releasing a
low-priced iPhone" by substituting a plastic body for an aluminum one. Though,
if memory serves, that story was actually about designing a different,
lower-priced iPhone model [cf. Horowitz, op. cit.] that would be offered with
the high-end iPhone.

Other options, not mentioned by Mariano, are introducing slave labor in the
supply chain; or becoming a nonprofit corporation.

But somehow it will get done. Because "Apple executives were alarmed that the
company is losing its dominance in the market."

Alarmed. Shaken not stirred. Panic-stricken. And no wonder. "Consumers are
paying attention to smartphones with affordable pricing but offers great
features and performance." There are products on the market that are ... Less
Expensive Than Apple's.

But NPD Group just reported that in Q4 2012, Apple umm dominated the U.S.
smartphone market: its share was 39%, down 2 points from Q4 2011. Samsung's
share jumped to 30%, up from 21% in the year-ago quarter. And the top-selling
five smartphone models in the U.S. for Q4 were, in order, iPhone 5, Galaxy S
III, iPhone 4S, iPhone 4, Galaxy S II.

The IBT post "seems like a bit of a wild stab in the dark, if we're honest, as
it appears to be an assertion primarily based on the fact that several sources
have recently claimed Apple will offer a lower-priced iPhone," writes Paul
Briden, at Know Your Mobile, nicely summarizing how rumors are born and nurtured
in the iOSphere.

"Apple may well be reconsidering its pricing structure but is likely doing so
only to offer lower-end options too," Briden writes. "We doubt very much if it
will abandon its premium structure entirely."

Still. Never underestimate what alarmed executives can do when gripped by panic.

The iOSphere thrilled when sites like SlashGear discovered on the French tech
site NoWhereElse.com (or NME as its fondly called) "photos of what appear to be
next-generation iPhone parts ... with suggestions of the iPhone 5S and even an
iPhone 6 on the way within the year," as Chris Burns breathlessly described the
revelations.  And not to keep anyone in suspense, here's one of the photos as it
appears now on NME.  To say this is "blurry" doesn't quite do justice to the
extent of its formlessness. Frankly, our best guess is this is a repurposed
closeup of a zombie's eyes sockets just before he sinks his teeth into you.

Not even the iOSphere could call this a "purported photo." In a notably
convoluted sentence, Burns writes, "This set of photos comes from a tipster
speaking with NME that they've subsequently said has requested that the photos
be blurred out." According to the Google translation of NME's original French
language post, the source of the photographs "contacted us to let us know that
he regretted having shared these photos and wish for us to remove our article.

Regret? In the iOSphere? How ... quaint.

In any case, Burns manfully soldiers on, aided if only marginally by the
original photo (with the corresponding iPhone 5 part superimposed) as it first
appeared on NME. "Since these photos of the innards of devices are essentially
blurrier already than we'd care to think about, let's have a look and see what
we can see."

The answer is much clearer than the photos: not very much. NME says the new
parts are the "block speaker" for the iPhone 5S and iPhone 6. And sure enough,
they look different from the "block speaker" component of the current iPhone.

"The information surrounding these components it scant, with the supplier only
suggesting that they've gotten their hands on Apple-bound bits and pieces,"
Burns admits, in the kind of understatement that's a hallmark of iOSphere
rumoring.

"What we're seeing here is something that's exciting only because of the
ever-so-slight but telling differences between these and past Apple components,
these suggesting a new device or a new setup in the near future," according to
SlashGear's Burns.

He is, apparently, easily excitable.

Yet Burns can't and doesn't actually tell us what is "telling" about the
differences. You take a picture that purports to be of a part for the Next
iPhone. Then you take a picture of the corresponding part in the existing iPhone
. Compare, conclude, blog. Even if the conclusion amounts to, "Yep: it's
different."

TechRadar's John McCann boldly goes where Burns doesn't. Despite headlining his
post "Blurry shots fail to instill confidence in iPhone 5S and iPhone 6 leaks,"
McCann is confident enough to draw very specific conclusions. "The speaker
module which is apparently meant for the iPhone 6 appears to be significantly
smaller than the one destined for the iPhone 5S, suggesting Apple will
dramatically reduce the size of its flagship handset once the 5S is out of the
way," McCann declares.

It's simple: a smaller part means a smaller iPhone!

"At the moment we've not gotten solid information on any physical changes to the
next-generation versions of the iPhone or iPad," the more cautious Burns
concludes.

But don't worry: something will be changed.

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for Network World.
Twitter: @johnwcoxnww Email: john_cox@nww.com



