

With the recent release of the iPhone 6s (and the 6s Plus version as well), you
might be wondering whether to leap on the Apple bandwagon, or whether you should
get a Samsung Galaxy.

It's the age-old battle of technology that crops up every time Apple or Samsung
release a new phone, and Incahoot Deals have got their own take on it below.

So, where to start? If you're like us, you'll be after the best deals possible
on your phone whilst still being fairly up to date in terms of technology.

Sure, the older models of both the iPhone and Samsung Galaxy are considerably
cheaper, but if you're after something newer and better why not explore getting
an iPhone 6 or a Samsung Galaxy S6.

Previously the flagship Apple smartphone model up until the iPhone 6s was
released very recently.

As such, it's come down in price but it's still a strong contender for being the
phone of choice for a lot of people who want to look stylish and have a great
amount of technology.

The pros

It's only 6.9mm thin - ideal for looking stylish and avoiding looking like
you're some kind of 80s throwback.

The 8MP rear-facing camera can be used as a decent substitute for a normal DSLR
camera.

Fingerprint scanner technology - always handy for when you can't be bothered to
type in your passcode.

Upgradable operating system in the form of iOS, which can be updated to 9.1 as
of time of writing.

The cons

The iPhone 6 does have some flaws, and one of those is the fact that it has 1 GB
of RAM. However, Apple have optimised the phone's performance so that it doesn't
feel clunky or slow.

The battery is smaller than the Samsung battery, giving you 14 hours of talk
time or 50 hours of music play.

See the best deals on the iPhone 6 from Incahoot Deals here.

If you're looking for something just as sleek as an iPhone but you'r e not a fan
of Apple, then a Samsung Galaxy S6 might be the way forward for you.

The pros

Has a massive 3 GB of RAM, ensuring that the S6 zips along quickly with all the
apps and anything that you might want to do.

Its 16MP rear-facing camera which blows the iPhone 6's camera out of the water.

The battery is also significantly better than the Apple iPhone battery, giving
you 17 hours of talk time and 49 hours of music playing time, so you can spend
longer on your Galaxy chatting to your mates

The cons

Signs of wear and tear like scratches look a lot worse than on the iPhone.

It also feels more vulnerable thanks to the glass backing which, whilst it does
make it look sleek, does also give it a sense that it could shatter quite easily
if accidentally dropped.

It's also bigger and chunkier than the iPhone 6, so one-handed use can be a bit
awkward with the Galaxy S6.

See the best deals on the Samsung Galaxy S6 from Incahoot Deals here.

It's a tough choice to make, as both phones have redeeming features and there
are some downsides to them both but for different reasons.

If you're looking for something stylish, then we at Incahoot Deals recommend the
Apple iPhone 6 because it's got more style and taste to it than the Samsung
Galaxy S6 has.

Whilst the S6 has taken a leaf out of Apple's book about design, it just doesn't
look as good as the iPhone 6.

If you're after something more tech-friendly and powerful, then we at Incahoot
Deals recommend the Samsung Galaxy S6.

Either way, whichever phone you decide to get, you're going to end up with a
great piece of technology.

