

I have been using Apple Music a fair amount, although last week spent time
catching up with podcasts I had missed while friends were here. During the week,
a number of local users who connect to the internet at home via True were
complaining that Apple Music was connecting badly. I had a look in iTunes on the
Mac and found that "For You" -- perhaps the most significant part of the service
-- would connect, but no music was being played. I also tried the Radio
stations. While Beats 1 connected, the Classical and Alternative music stations
connected but would play no sound (like "For You").

I switched to the iPhone and the results were similar, so I turned off Wi-Fi and
tried with DTAC 4G: perfect. Apple Music and all the radio stations worked as
they should. Suggestions were made that True was using proxy settings not
configured properly for Apple Music. Apple was contacted. Representations were
made to True. The service came back piecemeal and by the weekend users had all
features. Time to subscribe to another service provider.

Around the time that Apple Music went live, updated iPods arrived. The iPod
shuffle had new colours; the iPod nano was given a Lightning port as well as the
colour makeover. Neither, however, was able to connect to Apple Music. The
completely revised iPod touch can, however. I have been trying a 128GB iPod
touch for the last few weeks and love it.

The device has had a complete makeover and it now sports the same 64-bit
processors as the iPhone 6 -- the A8 and M8 -- albeit slightly detuned. The A8
runs at 1.1GHz per core. There are also differences in camera specifications. At
88g, the iPod touch is smaller and lighter than the iPhone 6 (129g). A friend
who is permanently attached to an iPad mini picked it up and asked why there was
no iPhone this size. It fits in the hand (and the pocket) really nicely, plays
all the music I have and it takes really good photographs.

I made some direct comparisons with the iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and the iPod
touch. There was little difference in the images each was able to produce. I
tend to use the iPhone 6 for a lot of photography these days, with the iPhone 6
Plus as an alternative, as it is particularly good for movie clips with video
stabilisation. I tried the nimble iPod touch for a few days and found it
well-suited to street shots, to portraits and to classroom work. Like the iPhone
it has slow-motion video, burst mode, time-lapse video and can create
high-resolution panoramas as well as normal video and photo formats.

Controls are familiar to users of iOS devices, but I do not understand why the
screen Off button is on the top of the device (like iPads) while the iPhones
have it on the right side. This caused me (left-handed) problems relearning how
to take screen shots with the new iPhones. I prefer design consistency. Another
missing feature, which I have on the iPad and iPhones, is Touch ID fingerprint
access. Initially I kept trying to unlock the device with my fingers, showing
how much I rely on fingerprint ID.

The lack of a carrier signal should not be a problem for many users,
particularly those in cities. A friend links his iPad mini to AIS Wi-Fi in
Bangkok malls, or via a Samsung phone when the Wi-Fi is unavailable. Likewise, I
have been running the iPhone 6 Plus without a SIM card and use the iPhone 6
Personal Hotspot when needed. I was able to do the same with the iPod touch. At
home, I connect all of the devices to my home Wi-Fi.

Like the new iPod shuffle and iPod nano, the iPod touch comes in 6 colours:
silver, gold, space grey, pink, blue and (Product) red. The pricing makes this
an attractive alternative, particularly when compared to iPhones here, which are
24,900 baht (16GB), 28,900 baht (64GB) and 32,900 baht (128GB). Equivalent iPod
touch prices are 7,200, 10,900 and 14,500 baht. There is also a 32GB model for
8,900 baht.

With iCloud and iTunes syncing I was able to put all of my images from Photos on
the device quite quickly as well as documents for Keynote, Numbers and Pages.
With the adaptors I have, I can run presentations from the iPod in the same way
I do from the iPhone or iPad. I also installed iA Writer, so I can synchronise
writing between Macs and iOS devices, making sure I have the information I need
all the time.

I picked up an Apple Watch last week and am trying it out currently. Next week,
I will outline some of what I have found.

