

The newfangled iPhone 6 models envisioned by creative designers around the world
probably won't find their way into productsfor the holidays this year, but at
least you have the new iPhone 5S and 5C to satisfy you for now.

[MORE: iPhoneys - The iPhone 5S & 6 edition] Here's a rundown of the latest
(watch a slideshow version): *This concept from Iskander Utebayev (video by Ran
Avni) shows a smartphone with a wrap-around screen  -- perhaps not far-fetched
since Samsung reportedly has something along these lines in the works for 2014.
Questions remain about how such a device would work, such as how a user would
avoid accidentally cranking the volume up while grasping the sides of the phone,
but we have a feeling there's plenty of time to work out such kinks.

*Fuse Chicken, a smartphone accessories company, let fly an iPhone 6 design
concept as part of a successfully funded Kickstarter marketing campaign for an
all-in-one charger/syncer/stand/dock cable for iPhone 5/C/S. Their vision: An
iPad Air-like iPhone with a 4.9-inch touchscreen, 40% thinner body than the
iPhone 5S, a 64-bit A8 processor, an ultra-thin 1mm screen bezel, a 5mp Facetime
camera and more.

*Not all concepts are about bigger-screened iPhone 6 models: This version from
designer Arthur Reis and videographer Ran Avni shows a 4.2-inch screen with full
HD display, a 12mp rear camera, a speedier A7X processor and a 2X faster GPU,
and better speakers. This design shows a phone 1.1mm thinner than the iPhone 5S
and 20% lighter. And yes, it would come in gold!

*This design from Set Solution boasts a 3D camera, wireless charging, 4.8mm thin
body, 4.7-inch screen, plus a creepy animal/person at the end of the video.

*New gold standard from designers Martin Hajek and Steve Hemmerstoffer (of
French blog www.nowhereelse.fr). This model boasts a 4.8-inch screen in a
tighter package than the iPhone 5S.

*This big but thin (5.3mm) iPhone 6 design from Nikola Cirkovic (out of Serbia)
was posted on the site GrabCad.  *This sleek black design from Adrian Valenzuela
at Gdeluxe.com conjures up thoughts of the Samsung Galaxy Nexus smartphone.

 The designer describes the phone as having a clean slate of glass, no physical
buttons and a smooth edge all around.  The phone would always be "juicing up
energy in your hand" for wireless charging simplicity.




