

With Apple's iPhone 6 Plus on back order online, many Apple fans waited for
hours Friday morning outside stores, hoping to get their hands on one of the
jumbo smartphones when retail sales started.

An IBD survey of 110 customers outside the Apple Store in Reston, Va., Friday
morning found that 73% were there to buy the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus. The other
27% were looking to get the 4.7-inch iPhone 6, which is still larger than the
4-inch iPhone 5 series phones. Both handsets went on sale Friday in the U.S. and
nine other markets.

The iPhone 6 Plus costs $100 more than the iPhone 6, which starts at $199 with a
two-year wireless contract. Analysts say that the larger phone is likely to have
a higher profit margin because the additional bill of materials is projected to
be less than $100.

Also good news for Apple's profits, customers are leapfrogging the entry-level
models with 16 gigabytes of data storage for models with 64 GB and 128 GB.

Apple stock, however, fell a fraction Friday.

Of the 110 customers surveyed at the Reston, Va., Apple Store, 62% were buying
64 GB iPhone 6 series phones, 18% wanted 128 GB models and 20% wanted 16 GB
models.

Dennis Shanta of Reston said that he needs a 128 GB model because of all the
high-resolution photos and videos he takes with his phone.

"You take a few minutes of video a day, and the storage fills up fast," he said.
Plus those photos and videos are likely to stay on his phone or in Apple's
iCloud because he rarely downloads them to his personal computer.

With the iPhone 6 Plus, some people will ditch their tablets for the big-screen
phone, or "phablet."

"I can get rid of my iPad and put my iPhone and iPad together," said Nino
Miftarovski of Leesburg, Va. "It's perfect."

Asked about Apple's upcoming smartwatch, the Apple Watch, due out in early 2015,
most are undecided on whether to buy one. Of the 110 people surveyed, 46% are
undecided, 36% say that they won't buy one and 18% say that they will. Among the
undecided, many people said that they wanted to check out the product in stores
first or get more pricing info. Apple says that the smartwatch will start at
$349.

Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White said that he expected "supply-chain
constraints around the iPhone 6 Plus to hold back big sales numbers this
weekend."

