

Carolyn Archer

carolyn.archer@news-mail.com.au

THE wait is over and after months of speculation, leaked images and rumours, the
latest offering from Apple has been launched, but it seems in Bundaberg, Apple
has lost its shine.

During a rock star reveal, Apple went all out to launch not one but two phones,
the iPhone 6 and the larger iPhone 6 Plus, which will be available in Australia
on September 19.

Apple then backed it up, launching its first wearable technology, the Apple
Watch, which is expected to hit our shelves from early 2015.

And while Bundaberg retailers have taken a steady stream of pre-sale orders,
Android technology devices, especially Samsung phones, appear to have the lion's
share of the Bundaberg market.

Support for Apple among the NewsMail's Facebook followers was few and far
between and Bundaberg Telephone Company manager Curtis Baldwin said the interest
hasn't been at the level of the iPhone 5 release.

"There was less hype, but we've still taken pre-orders all day," he said.

"The two sizes are of interest.

"But there are a lot more options for Android phones users."

Mr Baldwin said superior coverage and splash resistance were important features
the iPhone couldn't claim.

"We get people coming in and the first thing they say is "~it needs to work in
rural areas'," he said.

"We don't know yet whether the iPhone 6 will have the rural tick, which means
it's recommended for rural areas."

But Mr Baldwin still believes there will be stock shortages and recommends
people get in early if the want to be amount the first to get their hands on the
new iPhone.

One key feature of the devices will be Apple Pay, a contactless payment
technology which will allow iPhone 6 or Apple Watch users to pay in an easy,
secure, and private way.

While the technology won't be immediately available here, Apple Pay will be
available in the USA from next month and work is underway to take it worldwide
in the near future.

The iPhone 6 comes in gold, silver or space grey and will be available in
Australia for $869 for the 16GB model up to $1129 for the 128GB model.

The iPhone 6 Plus also comes in gold, silver or space grey and will be available
for $999 for the 16GB model up to $1249 for the 128GB model.

But colours and price won't concern many of the NewsMail's Facebook followers,
who are in no hurry to rush out and get an iPhone 6.

Angela Koy said Apple need to greatly improve upon things like battery before
she goes back to iPhone.

"I just made the switch to a Galaxy S5 this week," she said.

And Molly Veronica Ormonde shared her view. "I have been an Apple fan since day
one, but once my contract is up, I think I will be going with Samsung or HTC."

