

Competition in the highend, largescreen smartphone market looks set to be fierce
over the next six months due to the muchawaited arrival of the Apple iPhone 6
and Samsung Galaxy Note 4.

Smartphone sales in Thailand are likely to hit 14 million units this year in a
market worth 100 billion baht, making the country one of the world's most
attractive smartphone markets, said Jarit Sidhu, senior analyst of IDC Thailand.

Thailand has topped Southeast Asia's iPhone sales for two consecutive years.

Apple Inc late on Monday announced Oct 31 as the Thailand launch date of the
iPhone 6, its first foray into the bigscreen smartphone realm which is currently
dominated by South Korea's Samsung.

Local mobile operators have announced they will allow people to order the new
iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus on Oct 24 on their websites.

Apple said it sold 10 million iPhone 6 and iPhone Plus models in the first three
days of availability.

Samsung has high hopes of selling up to 15 million units of its new Galaxy Note
4 in the first month of global release. In comparison, Samsung sold 10 million
units of the Galaxy Note 3 in the first two months of availability and shifted
11 million Galaxy S5 units within the first month.

Mr Jarit said the two largest smartphone makers in the world were focusing on
premium smartphones instead of tablets, the market for which continues to shrink
as largescreen smartphones eat up their market share.

Wichai Pornpratang, vicepresident for IT and mobile communications at Thai
Samsung Electronics Co, said it had allocated an extra 20% budget for marketing
to promote the Galaxy Note 4.

The additional marketing budget is aimed at promoting its new S Pen technology,
which lets users write, draw and even paint with accuracy.

Some surveys in Thailand show 40% of respondents prefer phones with larger
screens, while another 40% prefer digital pens.

Mr Wichai said Samsung would retail its Galaxy Note 4 here on Saturday at 25,900
baht.

"We expect smartphones with over fiveinch screens to be a highgrowth segment,"
he said, adding that such models were expected to contribute 17.8% of overall
smartphone sales this year.

