

The biggest iPhones ever, with new and improved sensors. A new mobile-payment
system with Apple's pedigree and a promise to protect your financial data. A
camera with a long list of gee-whiz features such as 240-frames-per-second
video. And, coming next year, an Apple Watch that aims to upend the fledgling
market for wearable technology - and that starts at $349 and requires an iPhone
to work.

It's hard to avoid superlatives when talking about a company that lays claim to
creating the most revolutionary consumer product in a generation - the
smartphone - and that boasts a world-leading market value of nearly $600
billion.

Apple execs certainly don't try. I'll leave it to someone else to count, but CEO
Tim Cook used the word amazing a truly amazing number of times Tuesday at the
Flint Center for the Performing Arts in Cupertino, Calif., a 2,700-seat venue
with historic resonance for Apple. Cofounder Steve Jobs was there in 1984 when
Apple unveiled its pathbreaking personal computer, the Macintosh.

Has Apple announced something as significant with the Apple Watch, the company's
long-anticipated leap into wearables? That seems unlikely, especially as Apple's
phone-linked watch follows its archrival Samsung's. But so does the suspicion
that Apple has finally jumped the shark - an annual refrain from some critics -
by placing a large bet on what looks mostly like a luxury device.

With its piles of cash, Apple has invested heavily in its latest hardware and
software, once again seeking to build on what Cook called "the most loved
smartphone in the world." Some of the results at least qualify as amazing with a
small a. A few highlights:

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Once again, a new iPhone will sell for $199 to
$399, depending on how much memory you buy. But when the 4.7-inch-screen iPhone
6 goes on sale Sept. 19, it won't just dwarf the 4-inch iPhone 5C and 5S. It
will be accompanied by an even larger, 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, for $100 extra at
each step. (In each case, Apple's price is based on a contract subsidy from a
wireless carrier - no-contract prices will likely start about $600.)

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus will each come with a new sensor, a barometer, that can
estimate your elevation based on air pressure, and an improved motion sensor
that will work even when the device is asleep, a tweak designed to preserve
battery life for smartphones that increasingly double as health and fitness
monitors.

"It will track how many steps you take, how many stairs you climb, things like
that," said Tim Bajarin, president of San Jose's Creative Strategies Inc. and a
longtime Apple analyst.

Bajarin was wowed by the new phones' larger screens, which Apple made even
thinner to limit the increased weight. The 6 weighs in at 4.55 ounces, just six
-tenths of an ounce more than the 5S.

Bajarin expects the new iPhones to make a splash as soon as pre-sales begin
Friday. "There's a lot of pent-up demand for a larger iPhone," he says.

Apple Pay. Apple is venturing into a crowded field with its new mobile-payment
software, Apple Pay, but it comes with a significant advantage: the iPhone's
built-in fingerprint-sensing technology, which it introduced last year to the
iPhone 5S.

Apple announced few details on Apple Pay, which it said would arrive next month
as an update to its new iOS 8 operating system.

"It's so easy to lose your card or have it compromised," Cook said. Apple Pay
will apparently solve that problem by withholding financial details, sending
merchants one-time codes instead.

Apple Watch. Apple focused considerable energy on the watch's user interface,
and it showed in the demonstration. Its main controls are handled by twisting
and pressing the crown rather than trying to touch a tiny screen precisely.

Bajarin called it "extremely well-designed" but said the jury will remain out
until it hits the market.

"Its success will be based on how software developers embrace it and create
applications for it," he said.

jgelles@phillynews.com

215-854-2776 @jeffgelles

www.inquirer.com/consumer


