

Dubai: iPhone fans in the UAE are being urged to be wary of counterfeit gadgets
that are being sold in the markets.

The Telecommunication Regulatory Authority (TRA) issued a series of advisories
on Tuesday, cautioning consumers against falling prey to fraudsters selling fake
iPhones.

Cheap imitations of Apple's latest offerings - iPhone 6 and 6 Plus - have hit
the market, with many consumers complaining of being duped.

TRA said in a statement that its officials conducted an investigation into
reports of illegal and counterfeit iPhone 6 handsets on sale in the UAE.

"As a result of the investigation, a series of counterfeit iPhone 6 handsets
have been confiscated from various locations across the UAE. Based on the
investigation, the TRA has issued a series of recommendations to the public to
generate awareness of the trade of such illegal devices and to prevent their
purchase," a TRA official said in a statement.

With the demand for the new iPhones reaching a frenzy, the fraudsters selling
fake iPhones are having a field day.

"This move from the TRA is part of the strategy that seeks to prevent the sale
of unlicensed goods and protect the interests of the consumer. The raids come
following the increasing demand from the UAE public for the iPhone 6 handsets,"
said the official.

A leading mobile phone dealer in Dubai's wholesale market for electronic goods
in Deira confirmed that the marked has been infested by fake items and consumers
need to be extra cautious.

"We are aware of the situation and how people fall for these fake iPhones. In
fact, it's not just fake iPhones, counterfeit copies of most brands are
available in the market and it is a cause for concern. People should be aware
that if the deal is too good to be true than there is something fishy," said
Tayyab Bajwa, Sales Manager of Engelberge Electronics.

Highlighting what to look out for while buying an iPhone, another retailer said:
"A counterfeit product will never be the same quality as the original one, if
you look closely it becomes obvious. Always ask for an original receipt and
warranty when buying the phone and also ask to open the box."

Men trying to sell mobile phones on the streets of Deira and Bur Dubai is a
common sight and authorities have urged the public not to purchase any goods
from strangers on the street.

