

As the days shorten, so does the iOSphere's patience. But we may only have to
wait 25 days before our agony is over andthe Next iPhone(s) is revealed.

Also this week: speculation about Apple's A7 processor powering the iPhone 5S or
6, whatever. In brief: it's better; Jimmy Lin's revelation; and how to
understand flex cables when you don't really understand them.

You read it here second.

___________"This [photo of an iPhone home button flex cable] features a much
longer [flex] connector to the motherboard than before that could mean that the
button is being used to transmit data. With that in mind, it's not a massive
stretch to imagine that the home button could indeed house the fingerprint
scanner that tech-site rumours suggest will be on board the handset."

~ Jonathan Leggett, USwitch, demonstrating that in the absence of any real
technical knowledge about smartphone components, all you need is a stretchable
imagination to know what's happening.__________ iPhone 5S, 5C, or 6 or some
combination, to be announced September 10 Tuesday, September 10 is the latest,
and most specific, date embraced by the iOSphere for Apple's announcement of the
Next iPhone, or iPhones. Depending on...well, your overall mental condition, you
might be expecting the iPhone 5S, the lower-priced 5C, or both, or even the
iPhone 6.

The September 10 date was first revealed by Ina Fried, in a blog post at
AllThingsD.

It could have been a one-sentence post: "Apple is expected to unveil its next
iPhone at a special event on Sept. 10, sources told AllThingsD." The rest is
basically filler. Fried didn't say how many sources or identify them in any way.

Veteran Apple watcher Jim Dalrymple, at his blog, The Loop, had a typically
laconic response to Fried's claim: "Yep."

In the past, the iPhone has been released one to two weeks after its
announcement.

Henceforth, the New iPhone will probably overshadow other historical events that
took place on September 10, including: 422 - St Celestine I begins his reign as
Catholic Pope; 1608 - John Smith elected president of Jamestown Virginia colony
council; 1776 - George Washington asks for a spy volunteer, Nathan Hale
volunteers; 1924 - Leopold & Loeb found guilty of murder; 2008 - the Large
Hadron Collider at CERN, described as the biggest scientific experiment in
history, is powered up in Geneva, Switzerland.

Researching the iOSphere reveals a range of analyses that shed light on how and
why Apple might price a lower-cost iPhone "5C." See "Pricing a low-cost iPhone:
How 'cheap' is cheap?"  iPhone 5S will have an improved processor, the A7 This
rumor has been kicking around since Apple announced the iPhone 5 last year with
the A6 chip. This time, a stock analyst is adding expectations and speculation
about what an "A7" chip will actually be like.

The analyst is Ming-Chi Kuo, of KGI, who predicts that the upcoming iPhone 5S
will have a new system-on-chip that will use ARM Ltd.'s latest instruction set,
faster memory, and be 20% more "efficient" than the A6.

Kuo's note to investors this week was picked by a range of tech sites, including
AppleInsider.The A6 was the first Apple SOC to have Apple-designed custom cores,
an architecture dubbed Swift, rather than using cores designed by ARM. From
AppleInsider: "Kuo believes Apple's upcoming A-series silicon to be based on the
latest ARMv8 architecture. In comparison, the A6 was built on a custom ARMv7
setup that doubled number crunching and graphics speeds, while shrinking die
size by 22 percent."

He expects that the new SOC will include faster memory, LPDDR3 RAM, compared to
the LPDDR2 in the A6. "The increased bandwidth will allow Apple to maintain a
relatively small amount of dedicated memory" though "Kuo expects the A7 to carry
the same 1GB of on-die RAM" as the A6.

Currently Apple's chips are 32-bit. "Kuo notes that there is no clear evidence
indicating whether the A7 will support 32-bit or 64-bit processes, but says he
'would not be surprised' to see 64-bit support this year."

Which is what stock analysts say instead of "I have no clue."

iPhone 5S revealed by Jimmy Lin Unless you're a fan of '90's Taiwanese pop music
or international car racing, or have a short memory, your reaction is probably
the same as The Rollup's: who the heck is Jimmy Lin?

He is, according to both CNET and the rather gushing Wikipedia entry, a
Taiwanese singer, actor, professional race crr driver, and entrepreneur. But his
real claim to fame for the iOSphere is that he gets his hands on Apple products
before they're announced.

Last September, shortly before the iPhone 5 announcement, he posted pictures of
himself using the phone, and listed a range of its features.

This week, CNET Asia found Lin's Weibo post that shows two photos of what appear
to be a plastic "iPhone 5C."

"If you have any doubts about the veracity of the iPhone 5C, well, put those
doubts to rest," CNET's Aloysius Low confidently assured readers. "Former teen
Mandopop idol and current race car driver Jimmy Lin has leaked it on the Chinese
version of Twitter, Weibo.

One photo has Lin holding up the phone, showing the back. Another compares the
white plastic 5C with a white iPhone 5.

The latter picture shows the plastic phone having, overall, the same size as the
iPhone 5, possibly a bit thicker. The body has rounded edges rather than the
flat metal banded sides of the most recent high-end phone models.

There you have it: straight from a Taiwanese singer, actor, professional race
car driver, and entrepreneur. And you can check one of his music videos.

iPhone 5S/6 flex cables "hint at fingerprint scanner" As is often the case in
the iOSphere, the headline promises more than the blogpost actually delivers.

The headline at USwitch: "Exclusive: iPhone 5S / iPhone 6 flex cables leak, hint
at fingerprint scanner."  According to USwitch's Jonathan Leggett, the UK-based
device repair service meandmyi.com sent a set of low-resolutions images of parts
purportedly from the iPhone 5S or 6.

There's no significant or at least noticeable changes in most of the parts
compared to their corresponding parts in the iPhone 5, according to Leggett,
though there's no indication that he has the technical background to actually
understand what he's looking at.

The one that does show a difference is the "flex cable for the home button."

"This features a much longer connector to the motherboard than before that could
mean that the button is being used to transmit data," Leggett says. Here's the
picture of the "new" flex cable for the iPhone home button. Sure enough, there's
a long cable.

And that could indeed mean Something.

"With that in mind, it's not a massive stretch to imagine that the home button
could indeed house the fingerprint scanner that tech-site rumours suggest will
be on board the handset," Leggett concludes. "And that's also tipped to feature
on future iPads and Apple's debut smartwatch. " This reminds the rollup of the
year-ago iOSphere thrill that "leaked" components showed that Apple was adding
an NFC chip to the upcoming iPhone 5, until someone who actually knew something
about components, and smartphones, pointed out that the component in question
could in no way be a NFC chip and was probably the "new touch and display
controller combination" to support the iPhone 5's expected new in-cell display
technology. [See "iPhone 5 will not have an NFC chip after all" in the August 31
Rollup.] The Rollup isn't a component expert either. But if you're expecting to
see a fingerprint sensor integrated with the home button, then any change to any
related component becomes "proof" of your expectation. Leggett would be on
stronger ground if he could actually explain why the longer cable is needed to
"carry data" and why it has to be longer to do so.

John Cox covers wireless networking and mobile computing for "Network
World."Twitter: http://twitter.com/johnwcoxnwwEmail: john_cox@nww.com



