

Free iPhone 6 units - including a staggering five on-the-house devices for
Customer No.1.

Osman Sultan with the first six customers of du for the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus
during the launch event at midnight on Saturday.- KT photo by Alvin R. Cabral

Dubai - As early as before 6pm on Friday, Apple fans queued at the du shop at
its head offices in Dubai Internet City, waiting and wanting to be the first to
get their hands on Apple's new devices.

The reward for the real early birds? Free iPhone 6 units - including a
staggering five on-the-house devices for Customer No.1.

Du Saturday officially launched the Apple iPhone 6 and 6 Plus at midnight on
Saturday to a throng of excited and anxious customers - an undertaking which
went well into the wee hours of the morning.

At exactly 12:00am, Osman Sultan, chief executive officer of du - together with
other senior officials from the company - handed out the first units of the new
iPhones to du customers who had pre-booked.

Amid the frenzy of the night, an Emirati man was the brightest star: he was the
first in line and for his efforts, was rewarded by du with five free iPhones
aside from the one he bought. And six was indeed the number to know; customer
numbers two to six also got a free iPhone each.

Joe Nassar from Abu Dhabi, who was among the "Magic Six", was visibly stunned by
what he just received.

"I waited for six hours... and I ended up with two iPhones. It's an amazing
surprise," he told Khaleej Times. Aside from the bragging rights he now has, he
says the free unit will go to his fiancée.

And as if all those sixes weren't enough, here's more: du is offering a
never-before-seen offer for its iPhone 6 customers - six months on the customer,
six months on du. Users who sign up for a Smart Plan or Emirati Plan starting
from Dh250 will see enjoy their monthly fees for even-numbered months for free.

"We've added a very new flavor... the customer is committed for a year, but we
will be paying for the six months," Ahmed Mokhles, executive vice-president of
consumer business at du, told Khaleej Times during the course of the event.

"This is a very competitive offer... and by far the best offer seen in the UAE,"
he added.

Mokhles also lauded the faster official arrival of the new devices to the UAE,
saying that this speaks volumes of how Apple now highly regards the country. For
the first time ever, there was only a gap of about a week between the US and UAE
launches.

"It is positioning the UAE as one of the global carriers within the strategic
view of Apple," Mokhles said. "It also ranks us [high] in terms of the
allocation of volumes."

"Apple's not only looking at UAE telecoms as a stand-alone industry; it's
looking into the entire ICT industry itself," he added, alluding to the fact
that the UAE indeed is a hub for technology and communications.

Mokhles stressed that the relationship between du and Apple is "beyond" a strong
partnership, and that both are looking into more ways to deliver the best
products and services to customers.

Asked if there are any more surprises of this magnitude from du within the year,
he simply said: "You can expect lots more."

Which means it isn't a bad idea to plan ahead and mark your calendar for du's
launch of the iPhone 7 - or whatever it will be called - next year. Maybe by
then, seven phones could be yours for the price of one. alvin@khaleejtimes.com

