

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus have landed in the UAE and you can either wait
one week and hope to get an official unit through du or Etisalat (stocks will be
very limited from what I've heard) or try your luck with the grey imports (but
be prepared to lose a kidney.) The good [...]
The post Hands on with the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus appeared first on
tbreak.ae.

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus have landed in the UAE and you can either wait
one week and hope to get an official unit through du or Etisalat (stocks will be
very limited from what I've heard) or try your luck with the grey imports (but
be prepared to lose a kidney.)

The good folks at JadoPado invited me to get a hands-on session with both the
new iPhones at their office earlier today and here are some quick thoughts on
how I feel about the two new phones from Apple after playing with them for a few
minutes.

1) I wasn't as impressed with the design as I've been with previous iPhones. The
antenna lines running on the back of the device spoil the look. I believe the
iPhone 6 would have looked much nicer without those.

2) The protruding camera bothers me and makes the iPhone 6 look like a device
that is not from Apple. Although it rests well on a flat service and won't rock
because of the camera unless you really make it to, it's something I never
thought I'd see in an Apple product. It's the attention to detail that had made
me a fan of Apple.

3) I got to play with the silver model and the white front is a bit too glossy
for my liking. I didn't see the gold version but I'm assuming it has a similar
front. This means that I'll probably end up buying the space grey.

4) The iPhone 6 Plus isn't as big and much lighter than what I was expecting it
to be. I've been using the Sony Xperia Z2 as my primary Android phone and the
iPhone 6 Plus isn't a whole lot bigger. I was set on getting the 4.7-inch iPhone
6 but playing with the Plus made be reconsider.

5) The camera on both the new phones is super fast. It would focus and snap on
objects faster than any other phone I've tested. While the pictures looked
pretty good on the smaller screen, I'll save my judgement on when I get my own
iPhone 6 and see them on the big screen.

So there you have it- some quick thoughts on the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.
Strangely after playing with them, I did not have the urge to go buy one
immediately. That doesn't mean that I won't buy one but I'll wait for the
official units to be released next week or ask someone going to the US/UK to
pick one up for me.

But if you're the kind who wants to have one right now then I suggest heading
over to JadoPado and placing your order fast. They have a very limited stock and
I doubt these units will stick around.

The post Hands on with the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus appeared first on
tbreak.ae.

