

It's that time of year again, the time when Apple computers gathers members of
the media to show off it's latest and newest line of products for the coming
year.

Apple's cryptic invitation mentions only the date of their September 9 media
event. [Provided to chinadaily.com.cn]

It's that time of year again, the time when Apple computers gathers members of
the media to show off it's latest and newest line of products for the coming
year.

This year, the event will be held on September 9 in the Fresco Arts Center in
Cupertino California, right where Apple is situated. This also marks a return to
the location where Apple co-founder Steve Jobs first announced the Macintosh
computer 30 years ago.

Shrouded in mystery, one can only guess at what the California-based company
will announce. Evidence and history point towards a brand new iPhone, rumors and
speculation call for a wearable device, no one will know until the unveiling on
Tuesday. We spoke with Canalys' China mobility analyst Wang Jingwen about what
Apple might have in store.

Of course, Tuesday is still a ways off; we can speculate all we want. Here are
five things that we expect will happen on Sept. 9.

Wearable Device

Wang expects the big reveal on Tuesday will be Apple's first foray into the
wearable computing space. She says that while it can't determined what the name
and what the final scope of the device will be, Apple is expected to pull out a
wearable, be it a fitness band or a watch.

A move by Apple into this space is heavily anticipated. Other brands such as
Motorola and Samsung have already announced and released smartwatch companion
devices for their phones.

Wang says that Apple's device could be similar to a companion device, one that
requires an iPhone to run.

A new iPhone or rather two iphones

Traditionally speaking, Apple has announced a new iPhone in it's September event
every year. Last year, they announced the iPhone 5c and iPhone 5s, the year
before that, the iPhone 5. This year, Wang says iPhone will announce the iPhone
6.

"We expect there will be two iPhones this year, a 4.7 inch screen model and a
5.5 inch screen model," said Wang.

Leaks of the new "bigger" iPhones have been slowly trickling out all summer.
Wang says that despite the unconfirmed nature of the leaks, they have been right
in the past and moving to bigger screens is something that can put Apple back
into competition with Android smartphone makers.

The upgrades and features of the 4.7 inch phone

As per new upgrades, Wang says the new iPhone, whatever it'll end up being
called, will sport new features that make it more power than the previous
generation.

Such features are unknown right now but history shows that there will at least
be a major software update. Apple is expected to release the eighth version of
it's iOS operating system with the launch of the new iPhone.

Samsung takes a bite out of Apple with Note 4
Huawei unveils phone, just days before iPhone 6 release

The 5.5 to be more powerful

While both new models are expected to be upgrades of the current set, Wang says
that there maybe a big difference between the 4.7-inch model and the 5.5-inch
model.

"I believe that we should watch for the differences between the 4.7 model and
the 5.5 model," said Wang. "The differences in the models won't just end at
screen sizes.

Wang expects the 5.5-inch model will be a bigger upgrade than the 4.7-inch
model. She says that the 5.5 may come with better hardware compared to its
smaller brother. She implies that the 5.5-inch model may be even more powerful
than the 4.7-inch version.

Apple to release the new phones with China being one of the first countries to
see a release

Last year, Apple released the iPhone 5c and 5s were released in China during the
first wave. This was the first time that China included among the list of
countries to receive the iPhone first. Previously Chinese Apple fans had to wait
longer periods of time before the device could be purchased on the Chinese
mainland. Wang says, this year, China will mostly likely still be part of the
first countries to receive the new device.

"China has become an important market for Apple and the iPhone will probably
release in China the same time it hits the United States," said Wang. "This
year, it'll be problem free, with the LTE issue being solved."

Last year, despite China being a launch country, Apple released an LTE free
version of the iPhone first in the country. LTE is a mobile broadband technology
that allows for faster downloads and Internet surfing.

However, Wang does warn that there maybe differences in release dates for the
bigger 5.5-inch iPhone and the possible wearable device. She expects the base
4.7-inch "iPhone 6" will launch first at the same price point as the iPhone 5s.
She says the 5.5-inch and the wearable will probably come some time later.

China Daily will be on-site at the September 9 Apple event in California. Check
back with us for more Apple and Technology news.

Samsung takes a bite out of Apple with Note 4
Huawei unveils phone, just days before iPhone 6 release

