

Excitement is building ahead of next week's expected iPhone 5 announcement. But
whether you rush out to buy the latest wonder- gadget or not, owners of earlier
iPhones and iPods will also benefit from the upgraded operating system.

Claire Rogers rounds up the rumours on Apple's latest phone.

--------------------

iFigures

Apple doesn't typically disclose sales figures but in a recent patent court case
with Samsung it revealed it has sold 85 million iPhones in the United States
alone since the device was first launched in 2007.

Each new iPhone model typically sells more units than all of the previous
versions combined.

Based on Apple's iPhones sales for the three months ending December 2011 (which
totalled 37.0 4million), there were more iPhones sold per day (377,959) than
people born in the world (estimates of the average birth rate vary between about
360,000 and 372,000 births per day).

Analyst firm Piper Jaffray estimates Apple will sell between 26m and 28m iPhone
5s.

Anyone's guess: Is this what the iPhone 5 will look like?

iPad mini

Gadget gossip also has it that Apple is working on an iPad Mini - with a
7.85-inch screen (the new iPad has a 9.7-inch display). Apple acolytes had
suggested this could be unveiled at the same time as the iPhone 5, but a later
introduction - perhaps in October - for any such device now seems more likely.

This week Apple all but confirmed rumours of a launch next Wednesday - September
12 - in the United States when it invited media to an event on Thursday. The
invitation teasingly has the date 12 casting a shadow in the shape of the number
5.

Size matters

Apple's high-resolution "retina display" iPhone screens are a big drool- card
for gadget lovers - but size also matters. The larger the screen the easier it
is to read emails, view photos and watch video. Samsung's latest iphone rival,
the Samsung Galaxy S III, sports a 4.8-inch high-definition display, leaving the
iphone 4s - with a 3.5-inch screen - well behind in the size stakes.

iPhone 4S: 3.5 inches

Samsung Galaxy S III: 4.8 inches

iPhone 5: Likely to have a 4-inch screen

. . . So does speed

High-end smartphones with quad-core processors - theoretically more capable of
handling multi-tasking and applications such as gaming than dual- core
processors - have begun to emerge, which begs the question will Apple follow
suit? Whispers are suggesting both yes and no, alternatively citing Apple's
desire to keep up with competitors and its previous strategy of not blindly
following rivals to the highest specs.

iPhone 4S: Apple A5 1GHz dual-core processor

Samsung Galaxy S III: 1.4GHZ Exynos quad-core processor

iPhone 5: Dual-core, dual core with extra graphics power, or quad-core?

Skin deep

The iPhone will be revamped, experts predict, with a new design, and leaked
pictures suggesting a two-tone brushed- aluminium backing, a smaller dock,
relocated headphone jack (from the top of the handset to the bottom) and bigger
speaker grilles.

On the scales

Rumours are the new iPhone has also slimmed down, with one report suggesting it
will measure 7.6 millimetres in thickness - making it one of the thinnest
smartphones around.

iPhone 4S: 9.3mm

Samsung Galaxy S III: 8.6mm

iPhone 5: Rumoured to be 7.6mm.

Souped-up software

The new iPhone will come preloaded with iOS 6, the latest version of Apple's
mobile operating system. Even if you're not planning to get to the iPhone 5, if
you have an iPhone 3GS, 4 or 4S, a second or third-generation iPad or a fourth-
generation iPod Touch, you'll be able to upgrade your software.

Snap snap

Don't expect dramatic change on the camera front - the rear-facing camera is
expected to remain the same at 8 megapixels, which is plenty. The front- facing
camera could get an upgrade to high-definition though, to give a better picture
for video calling and is reportedly being moved to above the speaker.

iPhone 4S: 8MP rear camera, lower- resolution 0.3 MP front camera

Samsung Galaxy S III: 8MP rear camera, 1.9MP HD front camera

iPhone 5: 8MP rear camera, HD front camera

Nfc chip

Technophiles have been poring over leaked photos of what is supposedly the new
iPhone, looking for signs it will have an NFC chip.

NFC stands for "near field communication", it's a technology that allows devices
to communicate wirelessly with others - so smartphones could be used like
contactless swipe cards, for example, to make payments.

iPhone 4S: No NFC

Samsung Galaxy S III: Has NFC

iPhone 5: Remains to be seen.

Faster broadband

It's not so relevant for New Zealand yet, but the next iPhone is rumoured to
support 4G LTE - which means faster mobile broadband. This will be of little use
until our telcos have 4G mobile networks up and running. Telecom is trialing a
4G service later this year but 4G networks are probably a few years away.

iPhone 4S: No 4G LTE support

Samsung Galaxy S III: Supports 4G LTE in some countries

iPhone 5: Likely to support 4G in some countries

IOS 6 key features include:

Bye bye Google Maps. Apple is introducing its own mapping app and showing
Google's the door as the two continue to fight for mobile device dominance.

Apple's voice-recognition technology Siri - previously only available for the
iPhone 4S - will debut on the iPad (the newest version only sorry folks) with
the launch of iOS 6.

You'll also be able to use Siri to fire up applications and movies, fob off
unwanted phone calls with the new Do Not Disturb feature, which lets you
automatically send text messages telling callers you'll phone them back.

Apple says using Facebook on your mobile device will be even easier thanks to
iOS 6. You'll be able to post to the social networking site straight from a
variety of apps on your device.

The iOS 6 also marks the debut of Passbook - an app that aims to keep all your
tickets, coupons and vouchers in the one place.

The web browser Safari also gets an upgrade with iOS 6. While browsing you'll be
able to save your tabs on one Apple device and pick up where you left off on
another (through iCloud).

Sources: Cnet, Samsung, Apple, Computerworld, TechRadar, Pocket Lint, PC World,
Associated Press, Washington Post, The Next Web.

Fairfax NZ

--------------------

CAPTION:

Ease of viewing: Apple's new iPhone will have a bigger screen than its present
model but not as big as Samsung's Galaxy S III, at right.

Picture: Reuters

iPad mini

