

Customers who pre-ordered Apple"s latest model iPhones are being left waiting as
telcos keep pushing back delivery dates.

Telecommunications companies say there is a shortage of supply in New Zealand,
but customers - some of whom have already paid for the devices - are questioning
why they were promised something if it was unable to be delivered.

A Parnell hotel manager was among Vodafone customers left waiting for a new
iPhone 6 64Gb handset. He has already paid for the device and has been waiting
10 days for its arrival.

Yesterday, he was told the wait could be up to 21 days for the latest gadget
from the US company.

"I looked at [Vodafone"s] website and I see that it has extended the seven days
to a possible 21 days and I just think that"s not on ... how can a company turn
around and say that to customers that have already pre-ordered?

"I"ve got an invoice sitting in front of me right now ... and I think that"s a
bit cheeky, too - I don"t even have the product in my hand yet it"s on my bill."

Another Vodafone customer who pre-ordered an iPhone 6 Plus on September 21 was
given an unspecified delay.

Vodafone compensated him $100.

A Vodafone spokesman said delays were due to high demand.

"The demand for the new iPhone has been at an all-time high, which for a small
number of customers has delayed the delivery time. We have apologised to those
customers, and we"re working hard to get their pre-ordered phones delivered.

"We"re keeping customers updated on the status of delivery."

New Zealand"s other mobile network operators, Spark - formerly Telecom - and
2degrees, also said there were delivery delays.

A 2degrees spokeswoman said: "2degrees has stock of the iPhone 6 available.
However, with demand for both models being high, supply is constrained at times.

"If 2degrees customers miss out on the handset they"re after, we"re taking
orders and will get a new device out to them as soon as it arrives."

A Spark spokesman said there were similar issues with its customers, but
referred the Herald to Apple, which had not responded by deadline last night.

iPhone 6 - why the wait?

Q: What"s the hype?

A: Tech giant Apple"s latest offerings are the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The
newest model iPhones have been credited for their increased size and range of
features - including clearer screen, longer-lasting battery and faster operating
system - and have already secured a cult-like following typical of Apple
gadgets.

Q: Why are they so hard to get?

A: Customers were able to pre-order the devices before they were released in New
Zealand on September 26. However, supply for some models has been scarce because
of high demand around the world, and customers are being told to wait longer.

Q: How can I get one then?

A: Typically, as with other highly sought after Apple devices, supply will take
a while to catch up with demand.

Click here to read Juha Saarinen"s hits and misses.

