

on revenues, earnings and iPhone sales in its fourth-quarter results, with an
optimistic outlook for the forthcoming holiday season.

On the same day that it launched its new Apple Pay digital payments service, the
iPhone maker reported $42.1 billion in revenue for the three months to September
27 against analysts' expectations of $40 billion.

Shares in the tech company rose 2.1 per cent to $99.76 during normal trading
hours and before the latest figures were released. When the numbers were
published after the bell investors piled in and the shares rose another 1.5 per
cent to $101.30.

Apple also enjoyed its best new iPhone launch on record, pushing sales of the
smartphone to 39.27 million in the September quarter. Sales of the iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus began last month and the latest numbers did not include sales in
China, its largest market outside the United States.

The only drawback was the iPad, which sold 12.3 million or 7 per cent less than
the previous quarter.

"Our fiscal 2014 was one for the record books, including the biggest iPhone
launch ever with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus," said Tim Cook, chief executive of
Apple.

"With amazing innovations in our new iPhones, iPads and Macs, as well as iOS 8
and OS X Yosemite, we are heading into the holidays with Apple's strongest
product line-up ever. We are also incredibly excited about Apple Watch and other
great products and services in the pipeline for 2015."

In a sign of confidence in that outlook, Apple said that it expected a range of
$63.5 billion to $66.5 billion in revenues for the current quarter.

Apple also said that it spent more than $20 billion on dividends and share
buybacks in the quarter, a significant escalation over the prior quarter, as it
comes under renewed pressure from Carl Icahn, the activist investor, to
distribute more of its cash pile.

Luca Maestri, Apple's chief financial officer, said: "Our strong business
performance drove earnings per share growth of 20 per cent and a record $13.3
billion in cash flow from operations in the September quarter. We continued to
execute aggressively against our capital return programme, spending over $20
billion in the quarter and bringing cumulative returns to $94 billion."

