

Globacom, Nigeria's national telecommunication carrier, has become the first
operator to officially sell the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in Nigeria. The
operator's flagship outlet was open at midnight on Friday, November 14, 2014,
offering buyers the opportunity to be among the very first Nigerians to own the
devices.

A number of subscribers kept vigil at Globacom's Gloworld till midnight when
Apple officially began the sale of authentic iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in
Nigeria.

Apple Regional Sales Manager for Africa, Paddy McManus, was on hand to witness
the sale of first set of the devices to Nigerians at the GloWorld, Adeola Odeku
outlet, Victoria Island, Lagos. He commended Globacom for the creativity of the
launch and the impressive turnout of subscribers.

"This is a very loud move from a loud network in Lagos. I am extremely
impressed. This is what usually happens all over the world when Apple is
launching its products. Nigerians are really great," McManus said.

On-air Personality, Folajinmi Akinsola, was the first person to own an authentic
iPhone 6 sold by a telecommunication network in Nigeria when he purchased the
phone at the Gloworld shop, immediately after it was officially unveiled at
12.05am on Friday.

Former beauty queen, Tobi Phillips, was the first Nigerian female to own an
iPhone 6, when she paid for the phone, which she pre-ordered.

Glo brand ambassadors like Flavour, Naeto C and Chee the Voice were on hand to
pep up the event. Flavour and Naeto C later joined the official Apple team to
present the devices to early buyers who kept vigil at the Gloworld shop to make
history.

At 11am on Friday, an Asset Manager with Arthur Steven Asset Management Limited,
Tunde Amolegbe, sauntered into the Gloworld shop to pay for his pre-ordered
iPhone and thereafter got a celebrity treatment from Glo brand ambassadors Wande
Coal and Waje.

Similarly, at the Gloworld shop located in the Ikeja City Mall, Managing
Director, Cita Petroleum, Thomas Ogunbangbe, was the first to pay for his
pre-ordered iPhone at the shop.

The story was the same in all Gloworld shops across the country, where
subscribers took delivery of their iPhones.

