

Samsung's much awaited and talked about Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge Smartphones
were launched recently as the company's new flagship devices. With these
Smartphones, the company finally brought about a major change in the design
language for its Galaxy S series smartphones.

While the phones tout a number of new elements in the design, some of these look
like they have been taken from arch rival Apple's Iphone 6. Samsung may deny,
but there are some striking aesthetic and other similarities between the two
flagships, be it the metal body or the built of the Galaxy S6 and the Iphone 6.

Here is how the Samsung Galaxy S6 strikingly resembles Apple iPhone 6.

Metal design

As for design, the Galaxy S6 has been designed from the scratch as the company
changed the very foundations by using metal and glass to define the phone's
body. However, the metal design and slender body turned out to look weirdly
similar to the iPhone 6. Well, we don't agree more that the Galaxy S6 is one of
the best and premium looking smartphones from the company, but it does also
looks similar to the iPhone 6.

Fingerprint set up

Samsung introduced the fingerprint feature with the Galaxy S5, but could not
impress many as soon it could be hacked. The company had made some changes to
the fingerprint to improve its performance on the Galaxy S6. As a result, the
new fingerprint set-up process looks very similar to Apple's.

Non-removable battery

There was a time when Samsung used to brag about the goodness of the removable
battery set up on its Galaxy S5 Smartphone, and it even released a video that
made fun of the wall-hugging Apple iPhone users. The video ad was about how the
Apple iPhone users keep looking for a charging point because they cannot change
or replace the battery of their phones. The company, however, seems to now have
taken a U-turn as the Galaxy S6 features a non-removable battery.

Lacks microSD card support

It is for the first time that a Galaxy S Smartphone doesn't support microSD
card. We know that the Galaxy S6 does not have a microSD slot, not that we
complain about it, but we surely also know that Apple iPhones don't come with a
misroSD card support. While this was one feature that differentiated the
company's Galaxy S Smartphones from the iPhone, the decision of giving it a miss
in Galaxy S6 makes it more similar to the iPhone.

