

Apple revealed Monday that its new iPhone 6s model set a new sales record,
moving more than 13 million units just three days after it was launched.

"Sales for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus have been phenomenal, blowing past any
previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history," Apple CEO Tim Cook
said in a statement. "Customers' feedback is incredible and they are loving 3D
Touch and Live Photos, and we can't wait to bring iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus
to customers in even more countries on October 9."

Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus went on sale on Friday in the U.S., Australia,
Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, Puerto Rico,
Singapore and the UK. The latest iPhone models will be available in 40 more
countries starting Oct. 9, including Italy, Mexico, Russia, Spain and Taiwan.

Read MoreApple&#039;s New iPhone 6s Features 3D Touch

Last year's new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models sold more than 10 million units in
their first weekend on sale, which was then an Apple record.

Apple unveiled its latest iPhone at a Sept. 9 eventwith Cook telling the
audience, "We have changed everything about these new iPhones."

The iPhone 6s comes with a new 3D touch feature that senses how deeply you press
the display, letting you "peek" into information on various apps without having
to open the apps themselves. The new iPhone also has an upgraded camera and the
ability to shoot in 4K video. The new iPhone also includes a "Live Photos"
feature that animates still photos by capturing the second-and-a-half before and
after the photo is taken.

The iPhone 6s, which was available for pre-order starting Sept. 12 before
shipping on Friday, also comes with Apple's iOS 9 operating system, which was
launched on Sept. 16.

Read MoreApple Sets Record With First-Weekend iPhone 6 Sales

The new iPhones come in silver, gold, space gray and rose gold. The 6s model
starts at $199 with a two-year contract and the 6s Plus starts at $299 with a
two-year contract.

Sales completed by Saturday will be included in Apple's 2015 fourth fiscal
quarter results and sales completed on Sunday will be included in Apple's 2016
first fiscal quarter results.

