


HIGHLIGHT: Bigger is better and Apple has finally realised this and given iPhone
users a product that may be low on novelty but high on improvements, reviewers
wrote.


Bigger is better and Apple has finally realised this and given iPhone users a
product that may be low on novelty but high on improvements, reviewers wrote.

Most reviewers say that the iPhone 6 is the best smartphone available or "ever
made," while the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus has been described as a "phablet" that
will give competition to Samsung Electronics's Galaxy S line of 'big' Android
phones.

"I think it's a terrific phone. In my view, it's the best smartphone on the
market, when you combine its hardware, all-new operating system, and the Apple
ecosystem whose doors it opens," Walt Mossberg wrote of the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 in
the tech blog Re/code.

Geoffrey Fowler, who reviewed the phones for the Wall Street Journal, said Apple
has "successfully addressed its size deficiency." Mossberg said the increase in
the screen size is a "catch-up" feature. But it is seen as a welcome change by
Fowler, who said the iPhone "felt stuck in a bygone era called 2012" before the
launch of the bigger phones. New York Times reviewer Molly Wood appreciated the
new "thinner, flatter and more rounded shapes" of both the phones. But she
pointed out that the sleek look comes at the cost of the phones feeling
"slippery." The improvements made to the operating system - the iOS 8 software,
and that to the camera were given a thumbs up by reviewers across the board.
However, most believed that Apple could have done more to enhance the battery
life of the phones. Joshua Topolsky, who reviewed the phones for Bloomberg, said
they were faster than their predecessors. "Apple will tell you that these are
the fastest mobile devices it's ever made, and it wouldn't be lying. These
phones scream," Topolsky wrote. Tech blog The Verge's David Pierce said the new
iPhone's camera was its standout feature, making it the "best smartphone on the
planet." The camera now allows faster image focusing and slow-motion video
recording. The new iPhone 6 goes on sale on Sept. 19 in the United States. Apple
said it received a record 4 million first-day pre-orders for the new phones,
double the number for the iPhone 5 two years ago. Apple shares were trading up
0.6 percent at dollar 101.46 in morning trading on the Nasdaq. For more visit:
www.businessworld.ie

