

As the Chinese mainland awaits the new iPhone 6, customers' frenzy over the new
smartphone has already bred a lucrative business for scalpers and smugglers,
leading many to question the irrational enthusiasm. Customs officers in
Shenzhen, Guangdong Province have seized more than 1,800 iPhone 6 and iPhone 6
Plus models. Among these, 200 were confiscated as illegally smuggled goods,
while the remaining 1,600 were taxed or returned, people.com.cn reported .
Apple's new products hit the shelves on September 19 in nine countries and
regions including Hong Kong, Japan and the US.

The new models are still awaiting final approval by mainland authorities. Miao
Wei, minister of industry and information technology, called for public patience
on Tuesday, many happy Apple fans in the Chinese mainland have been showing off
their new gadgets thanks to the grey market.People have tried a number of
ingenious ways of getting the products to the Chinese mainland. Customs officers
have caught several travelers trying to cross the border with iPhones hidden
inside packaging for other products, including tea and toothpaste, media
reported. A man was caught with eight iPhone 6s hidden in three layers of
underpants as he tried to pass into the Chinese mainland from Hong Kong on
Saturday. "One of my buyers waited for more than 24 hours at a store in the US.
She said most of the people in queue were Chinese, and many were scalpers who
would sell their iPhones right to US scalpers," Xiao Bai (pseudonym), a
Beijing-based iPhone 6 scalper, told the Global Times. An online video clip
showing a crowd of middle-aged or senior Chinese women waiting in line for the
iPhone 6 went viral on Wednesday. On Monday, two groups of Chinese customers at
an Apple store in New Haven, Connecticut even got into a violent conflict over
their places in line, with three later arrested, media reported. Many deplored
these scenes, criticizing the vanity that led to such behavior. "While many
appreciate the excellent user experience offered by Apple, for another large
part of the iPhone user base, the smartphone is just a social status symbol,"
said Xiao."It is such a shame to see the fights abroad but it is a vivid
reflection of the mindset of many Chinese: try to make small profits by any
means," Xiao said.For the past several days, the iPhone 6 has been on sale for
between 8,000 yuan ($1,303) and 9,000 yuan at Beijing's electronics hub
Zhongguancun. The price will likely drop to around 5,000 yuan by the end of this
year, as the new models are expected to be available at mainland Apple stores as
early as December, Xiao added.

