

APPLE yesterday launched a war on three fronts, with two big-screen iPhones to
tackle the phablet threat, a tap-and-touch payment system to kill your wallet
and a wearable device it hopes will rule them all.

Apple CEO Tim Cook, who took over after the death of Steve Jobs three years ago,
used the words "one more thing" that Apple fans have craved since first hearing
it at the launch of the iPad in a presentation that the Cupertino-tech company
sees as another potential turning point.

While the details of the new iPhones have been widely leaked, there were some
surprises including the name of the biggest phone in the Apple family: the
iPhone 6 Plus.

The iPhone 6 is a 4.7-inch phone and the iPhone 6 Plus is a 5.5-inch phone and
both allow Apple to follow the market trend of bigger is better.

The iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus will both have Near Field Communication, or
NFC, a wireless communication system that some Android phones embraced years ago
which enables people to pay for good with a tap-and-touch of their phone at the
check-out of bricks and mortar stores. The idea of using your phone at the
check-out is not new but Apple is hoping the deals it has made with American
Express, Visa, and MasterCard, the major American banks and a string of
retailers will be enough for Apple Pay to take off.

The payment system begins in America in October but there are no details yet
when it might be released in Australia and what banks, credit cards and
merchants will be involved.

After years of rumours that Apple was working on a wearable device, the Apple
Watch was also finally unveiled yesterday.

The Watch will come in two sizes, a 38mm and a 42mm watchface, and three models,
all of which have interchangeable bands and will target consumers across a wide
range, from those wanting an activity tracker to those looking for an up-market
timepiece.

The iPhones will go on sale in Australia from September 17, with prices for the
iPhone 6 ranging from $869-$1129 for a 16GB to 128GB phone and $999-$1249 for a
16GB to 128GB iPhone 6 Plus.

They will also be available from Telstra, Optus and Vodafone with preorders from
this Friday.The Watch will go on sale in the US early next year, with no word
yet on its Australian availability and pricing.

