
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Oct. 6 -- The latest model of the Apple mobile phone, the iPhone 6,
will hit the Indian markets Oct 17 with a price range of Rs.53,500 to Rs.80,500,
according to the company's distributors in New Delhi.

For the first time, Apple is introducing its pre-booking concept in India, by
which a person interested in buying the iPhone can go to any of Apple's
distributors, choose a model and pre-book.

Once that is done, a coupon will be issued that can be used to buy the actual
phone from the midnight following Oct 6.

For a 16 GB iPhone 6, the price has been fixed at Rs.53,500, going up to
Rs.62,500 for a 64 GB and Rs.71,500 for a 128 GB. For the iPhone 6 Plus, the
price will be Rs.62,500 for 16 GB, 71,500 for 64 GB and Rs.80,500 for a 128 GB.

"Customers can pre-order both models beginning Oct 7 at 12:01 a.m. at the major
retail outlets of the partners," said Ingram Micro, one of Apple's largest
distributors and partners in India.

Early September, Apple had unveiled two bigger screen versions of the iPhone,
the 6 and the 6 Plus, a new Apple Watch, touting it as a comprehensive health
and fitness device, and a mobile wallet called Apple Pay.

"What we didn't do was take the iPhone and shrink the user interface and strap
it on your wrist," Chief Executive Tim Cook had said at Applea??s splashy launch
event at the Flint Centre in Cupertino, California.

a??It's the most personal device we've ever created," he said of the new watch
with a traditional square watch face, calling it "a comprehensive health and
fitness device".

The Apple Watch pairs with the new iPhones to display notifications. It features
a magnetic charger, health and fitness apps and a crown that controls zoom and
scrolling with a twist. It also tells time.

Apple said it will sell three versions of the Apple Watch, including a sports
model and an 18 carat gold model called the "Apple Watch Edition". The Apple
Watch also comes in two sizes, one slightly smaller than the other.

Announcing its version of the mobile wallet Cook said: "We've created an
entirely new payment process, and we call it Apple Pay."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from SME Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

