

The headphone socket has been a mainstay of portable music players since the
days of the Walkman, with its roots in the telephone exchanges of the late 19th
century.

However, its days could be numbered. Last night in San Francisco, Apple unveiled
the iPhone 7, the first iPhone without a headphone socket.

The 3.5mm socket has featured on every iPhone since Steve Jobs launched the
first one in 2007. Since then, Apple has sold more than one billion of the
smartphones.

When Apple does something radical, other companies tend to follow. Philip
Schiller, the Apple executive in charge of marketing, said that the company
decided to scrap the headphone jack because it had "the courage to move on".

The iPhone 7 is to be sold with EarPods, Apple's standard earphones, which will
now connect to the device through its charging port. Apple AirPods, the
company's new noise-cancelling wireless earphones, will be sold separately, for
£159. They last for five hours on a single charge and can be recharged in their
carrying case. Apple will, however, appease the Luddites by including an adapter
that plugs in to the iPhone 7's charging port to create a standard 3.5mm
headphone socket.

The iPhone 7, with a 4.7in screen, and the iPhone 7 Plus, with a 5.5in screen,
will be available in the UK from September 16. The cheapest model will cost
£599. The new smartphones look like sleeker versions of their predecessors, the
iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. They come in black, silver, gold and rose gold, as
well as a new high-gloss jet black finish. Sir Jony Ive, chief design officer,
said that the new phones represented "the most deliberate evolution of our
founding design". The 12-megapixel camera on the iPhone 7 Plus has a wide-angle
lens and a telephoto lens. The single camera on the iPhone 7 features an optical
image stabiliser to prevent blurring from shaking hands and a high-speed sensor
for taking action shots, a lens that lets in 50 per cent more light and a more
powerful flash.

In addition, the new models feature longer battery life, louder speakers, faster
processors and graphics chips and both will be water resistant.

Both the iPhone 7 devices come with 32GB, 128GB and 256GB of storage, the latter
being double the amount of storage available in the original iPhone 6 series.

Key features AirPods Headphone jack scrapped; wireless headphones are sold
separately for £159.

Dual-lens camera Images are stitched together to create a photograph nearing the
quality of a professional SLR camera.

Battery life Two hours longer than iPhone 6.

Extra storage Cheapest iPhone 7 comes with 32GB storage.

