

Apple's hugely popular iPhone handsets routinely spawn avast array of
accessories -- notably cases and other protectors -- andtherecently released
iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus models are no exceptions.

Minnesota-based companies catering to this insatiable demandwere ready this
month when Apple revealed its new, larger iPhones.Boutique-style firms such as
RobbieMoto, Pad & Quill, Landmark& Lions and Twig Case Co. now have locally
handcrafted gear availablefor purchase or pre-order.

Apple fanatics soon will be able to get custom-painted iPhone6 or iPhone 6 Plus
handsets courtesy of a Winona company.

Richfield-based retail giant Best Buy said Wednesday it hasjoined the accessory
stampede with a new line of gadgetry add-ons thatis inspired by the apparel
collections of leading fashion designersAnna Sui, Nanette Lepore and Isaac
Mizrahi.

Among the smaller companies in the field:

Pad & Quill . Initiallyknown for book-like iPad cases consisting of wooden
frames and leathercoverings, this Minneapolis firm has recently expanded its
offerings toinclude a greater range of protective products.

Its iPhone 6 and 6 Plus products, now available for preorder,include
wallet-style cases with the wooden frames; different, framelesswallet cases
within which Apple handsets adhere; and a sturdybumper-style leather case that
incorporates a credit-card pocket.

Twig CaseCo . The iPhone cases by this Waseca firm arelargely made of a
paper-like substance called Richlite that feels a bitlike wood, and allows for
intricate engravings.

Twig isn't initially offering cases for new iPhone models,though, but is selling
iPhone 6 "Paperbacks" consisting ofbamboo-and-Richlite panels that stick to the
front and back of the newhandset.

Twig says this is an antidote to a slightly protruding iPhone6 camera lens that
annoys some owners. But the Paperbacks do notprovide the protection a case does,
it cautions.

Landmarks& Lions . This small, family-ownedMinneapolis company has adapted its
nautically inspiredleather-and-canvas iPhone wallets for the bigger dimensions
of theiPhone 6 and 6 Plus. The wallets have card slots along with the
handsetcompartment.

Byrd& Belle . Specializing in tech protectorsmade of wool and hand-dyed leather,
this Minneapolis company makes itsproducts to order based on the dimensions of a
buyer's device. FounderAngie Davis is likely to see an avalanche of iPhone 6 and
6 Plusorders.

Nedrelow . A maker ofdistinctive wool sleeves -- branded, appropriately enough,
"Sleeve" --Minneapolis-based Nedrelow recently added the new iPhones to its
listof compatible products, which include other phones as well as laptopsand
tablets.

Robbiemoto . Notable forits high-fashion, brightly colored wallets and cases for
phone users,this St. Paul-based company also assembles its products to order
basedon clients' devices.

Certain of its protectors, such as its Leather iPhone Wallets,are already listed
as iPhone 6- and iPhone 6 Plus-compatible on thefirm's Etsypage .

ColorWare .Renowned for high-quality (and high-cost) gadget paint jobs,this
Winona company colorizes older iPhone models, and it has the newApple handsets
in its sights.

"We are in the process of prototyping both phones,"spokeswoman Nicole Czarnomski
said.

Best Buy. The retailer's fashion-spawnedtech-accessory line will include laptop,
tablet and smartphoneprotectors -- including iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus cases
that are duein mid-October.

The accessories are intended to reflect the distinctive styleof each designer.
Mizrahi's technology add-ons are to be emblazonedwith "his iconic prints: polka
dots, stripes and exploded florals aremixed with vibrant hues of fuchsia,
lavender and gold," according to aBest Buy news release.

Best Buy's cases are not made in Minnesota.

