

One of the most hotly anticipated launches of the year - that of Apple's iPhone
6 and iPhone 6 Plus - is just around the corner. Vodafone today announced that
it will be offering both these products in store from Friday 24 October.

The iPhone 6 is the new version of iPhone that Apple is describing as being not
only bigger but "simply better in any way" than anything that has come before.
According to Apple, the iPhone 6 represents the perfect fusion of design and
function with "one continuous form where hardware and software function in
perfect unison, creating a new generation of iPhone that's better by any
measure."

Given the iconic status of the iPhone it is not surprising that interest has
been very strong in Malta, with Apple fans waiting eagerly to get their hands on
the iPhone 6 as soon as possible.

"Interest was evident quite a while back when the iPhone 6 was launched in other
countries, with Vodafone customers asking about its availability in our retail
outlets and call centre for the past weeks," said Luan Vella, Terminals Senior
Executive from Vodafone Malta. "As Vodafone Malta we are proud to be the only
Apple authorized reseller of iPhones offering a 2 year warranty on the phones in
Malta. This helps us provide our customers the latest technology accompanied by
the best service and offers on the Maltese Islands." He added that "With our
high speed and reliable network and our great value plans, Vodafone customers
can be assured of a great experience at great value."

Apple's iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus  are being launched for all Vodafone
customers in three different colours: grey, gold and silver

Vodafone customers can beat the queue by pre-registering their iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus from Friday 17 October at www.vodafone.com .mt. For more
information, visit one of Vodafone's retail outlets across Malta and Gozo, call
247 from a Vodafone line or 9999 9247 from any other line, or visit or log onto
Vodafone Malta's Facebook Page. For more information on the iPhone 6, please
visit: www.apple.com /iphone.

