

NEW DELHI: Amidst much fanfare and anticipation, Apple on Tuesday unveiled two
new versions of its flagship smartphone, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Both
smartphones will run on Apple's latest operating software, the iOS 8.

The iPhone 6 will be available at a starting price of $199 for the 16 GB
version. The price goes up to $399 for the 128 GB version. The iPhone 6 plus
starts at $299 for 16GB, $399 for 64 GB and $499 for 128GB.

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available in stores from September 19.
The pre-orders will begin from September 12. Apple plans to make the new
smartphones available in 115 countries by the end of this year.

While Apple CEO Time Cook introduced the new iPhones, Phil Schiller took to the
stage to go through the finer details of the products. Both smartphones come
with 'Retina HD' displays and ion- strengthened glass. While the iPhone 6 sports
a 4.7 inch screen, the iPhone 6 Plus will come with a larger 5.5 inch display.

The iPhone 6 is 6.8mm thin and the iPhone 6 Plus is 7.1mm thin. Both smartphones
boast of a new gesture for called 'reachability. This feature allows you to
double touch the home button and results in the whole display sliding down. This
is meant to allow the user to reach the top buttons.

Both iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will run on Apple's A8 64 bit chip. The new chip
is 13% smaller than the A7. According to Schiller, this translates into 20%
faster CPU and 50% faster graphics.

The new iPhones have the power button on the side. Apple has made 1.3 million
apps available on their new smartphones.

While Apple claims that iPhone 6 Plus has 24 hours of 3G talk time, the iPhone 6
is said to have 14 hours of 3G talk time.

Both phones have an 8MP camera with 'True-tone flash',. 1.5 micron pixels. The
cameras have an iSight sensor."

\xA0

With these new cameras, panoramas can be up to 43 megapixels. Schiller said that
face detection and blink/smile detection is better too. The iPhone 6 has
'digital' image stabilization, whereas the iPhone 6 Plus has optical image
stabilization.

The iPhone 6 Plus has a different User Interface. It also boasts of new keyboard
keys for cut copy and paste.

Apple CEO Tim Cook began the keynote address by stating, "It is great to be back
in the Flint Center." Flint Centre is the place where Apple first introduced the
Macintosh. "Today we are launching the biggest advancement in the history of
iPhone," he declared.

Ahead of the event, Tim Cook tweeted, "Looking forward to a great day in
Cupertino! Join us at 10am Pacific."

Analysts have said that the new iPhones are likely to help Apple to gain market
share against mobiles running Google Inc's Android platform by offering
something that Apple previously lacked - larger screens.

Apple has invited top fashion editors and bloggers in unprecedented numbers to
its launch gala as it tries to forge closer ties to the fashion world that may
prove crucial to the success of a wearable device.

Earlier this year Apple had given a glimpse of its latest operating software the
iOS 8. The iOS 8 offers 'HomeKit' options. HomeKit aims to set up a system that
lets an iPhone or iPad serve as the remote control of an entire household
outfitted with an assortment of digital appliances.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

