

iPhone users have given the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus the thumbs up. Since the
launch of Apple's latest version of the iPhone in September, the iPhone 6 has
earned more praise than criticism from consumers and analysts. Although the
changes from 5 to 6 are not dramatic, safer, lighter and faster, despite its
expanded girth, are some descriptions from iPhone 6 owners.

"It hasn't taken away any of the features, it has only enhanced them," says Ron
Yaros, a journalism professor at the University of Maryland. "It's everything
that I had in the iPhone 5 except it's more convenient and secure."

We took a closer look at the iPhone 6 and Plus, including a test drive at the
Apple store.

Here are the pros and cons that we found.

Size - Expanded screen, 4.7 inches for the iPhone 6 and 5.5 inches for the
iPhone 6 Plus, makes it easier on the eyes from scrolling through eBooks,
watching movies or online shopping. A major perk is the feel. "It's lighter and
thinner and plays well with keys and other things in my pocket," Yaros says. The
iPhone 6 is 6.9mm thick and weighs only 129g, while the larger 5.5-inch iPhone 6
Plus is 7.1mm thick and weighs 172g.

According to a sales specialist at Apple, Apple's decision to expand the screen
size was not ignited by its main competitor Samsung. "The iPhone 6 addresses
some market demands for a larger screen phone and obviously a very big phone. It
offers a better camera and better battery life," says Walter Piecyk, an analyst
with BTIG in New York who covers Apple Inc.

Safety With cyber and data security growing concerns, the iPhone 6 offers safety
upgrades including the TouchID censor where users can now lock and unlock with
their fingerprint. "It's not only a great thing privacy-wise but also makes
sending quick messages easier than ever," says Kelsey Knoche, a student at the
University of Maryland.

Speed Much faster than previous versions. Just try surfing the web - it worked
especially well with Safari.

Battery life - Battery life is important for most smartphone users, and the
iPhone 6 offers an additional four to five hours of battery life compared to
iPhone 5.

Camera and videos The iSight camera includes enhanced focus systems, and
two-tone flash. New video features include slow motion and time-lapse video
mode. "I feel more comfortable than ever using it as my main camera," says one
iPhone 6 owner.

Memory You now have a storage choice of 16 GB, or for HK$775 more, 64 GB or 128
GB. Christopher Caso, senior analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in New York,
calls the memory increase a "very shrewd move" from Apple. "For HK$775 more, you
get a 64 GB phone. You get more for your money," he says.

ios8 Allows access to features including the Apple HealthKit, and an iCloud
drive that works similarly to DropBox. The ios8 also allows users to sync their
Apple devices, so that iPhone users can answer phone calls on Mac or iPad.

Screen Although the screens feature retina HD, the screen is still breakable as
the much anticipated sapphire screen did not manifest.

"Like all iPhones, the screen is very breakable so I wish that was something
that had been more improved with this model," Knoche says.

Price Without a two-year plan, the iPhone 6 or plus ranges from HK$5,037 to
HK$6,587, not counting bells and whistles, such as HK$271 for a case in Apple
retail stores.

Lock/Unlock button The button has been moved to the right side of the phone, and
for long-time iPhone users, this takes some getting used to.

In the end, some consumers decided to snag the iPhone 6 simply because, well,
it's Apple.

"While the changes overall aren't huge, the little changes Apple was able to
make in making the 6 have been really great and I love the phone so far," Knoche
says. "And I love to have the latest model so that definitely played a part as
well."

