
DATELINE: CUPERTINO, Calif.


Apple CEO Tim Cook debuted Apple's first new product category Tuesday since the
introduction of the iPad tablet computer, showing off a new smartwatch along
with two iPhones and a mobile-payments offering built in to the new devices.

Apple's smartwatch - called simply the Apple Watch - has a new user interface,
with Cook declaring, "What we didn't do was take the iPhone and shrink the user
interface and strap it on your wrist."

It will come in three different basic forms: Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport and
Apple Edition, with the last one available in 18-karat gold; Apple Watch will be
a standard offering, while the Sport edition will be sturdier. The wearable
computer will be highly customizable, with different sizes for the watch face
and bands of different colors as well as leather and metal, with a starting base
price of $350. The device will go on sale in early 2015.

Users will interact with the Apple Watch through a dial on the side, using it to
scroll up and down and zoom in, or through its touch screen, which is made of
synthetic sapphire Apple has been manufacturing in Arizona. The device will have
access to Apple's voice-recognition technology Siri, allowing users to guide
through interactions with voice commands, and a series of gestures can help
control basic functions as well.

The watch - which must be used in tandem with an iPhone 5 or later - can record
users' vitals, with sensors detecting bodily actions such as pulse rate, and
record them with HealthKit, Apple software introduced earlier this year. More
functionality will quickly be on the way: Outside developers received access to
build apps for the watch through new software called WatchKit.

With its customizable form and different possible tasks, the Apple Watch can be
a different device for different users' needs, Cook said, calling it "the most
personal device Apple has ever created."

"I use mine to control the Apple TV, another team member uses his as a remote
for his iPhone camera," the CEO divulged.

Apple introduced two new iPhones that will function with its smartwatch:a larger
iPhone than before, the iPhone 6 Plus, along with the iPhone 6, which Cook
described as "the best phones you have ever seen." The iPhone 6 Plus will be 5.5
inches diagonal, a size in between a smartphone and tablet that has proved
especially popular in Asia.

"Today, we are launching the biggest advancement in the history of iPhones,"
Cook said.

One of the iPhone 6 smartphones' big advances is Apple Pay, a mobile-payments
offering that utilizes near-field communications to get rid of credit cards'
"outdated and vulnerable magnetic stripe," as Cook described them. Instead of
using physical cards, Apple's iPhone will connect to users' payment options,
while not storing credit card numbers or security codes.

Apple software leader Eddy Cue stressed the security and privacy of Apple's
payments option, which will link with American Express, Visa and Mastercard.

"Apple doesn't know what you bought, where you bought it, or how much you paid
for it," Cue said.

The service will work with 220,000 contactless machines in place at retailers,
along with Apple partners such as McDonald's, Walgreens and Disney.

The iPhone 6 screen will measure 4.7 inches diagonally, the same as the iPhone
5S. Both the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus will featureApple's "Retina"
high-resolution display. The larger form factor will give the iPhone 6 Plus a
larger battery and therefore longer battery life: Apple said the iPhone 6 will
have about 14 hours of talk time, in line with the previous iteration, while the
iPhone 6 Plus will have 24 hours of talk time.

Both phones will be offered in black, gray and gold. The smaller iPhone 6 will
have a price tag starting at $199 with subsidies from wireless carriers, ranging
up to $399 for a phone with 128 gigabytes of memory; the iPhone 6 Plus will
range from $299 to $499 with a two-year contract. Apple will begin selling the
phones on Sept. 19 in the United States and eight other countries, and wants to
roll out sales to more than 100 countries by the end of the year.

The two new iPhones will arrive with Apple's newest mobile operating system, iOS
8, which will roll out Sept. 17, marketing guru Phil Schiller announced. Apple
previously showed off the new features of iOS 8 at its Worldwide Developers
Conference.

