

AFTER all the fuss of Bendgate last week, you wonder if the bloke in charge of
the iPhone 6 sit test has been given a kick up that apparently insufficient bum.

If Bendgate passed you by, here is a summary. Apple sold lots of its new iPhones
and everyone was happy. Some of the people it sold them to sat on them, causing
their Apples to look more bananas and then nobody was happy.

OK, that's not quite right. LG, Samsung and others were happy that Apple wasn't
happy and took to Twitter with gusto to make hay while the sun of Bendgate did
shine.

There are a lot of things that can be said about smartphones that unfortunately
bend. Firstly, they shouldn't. Unwanted shape changing should never be a
feature. Secondly, you shouldn't sit on a smartphone in a way that might make
them bend.

Let's put the Bendgate debacle into context. Apple has sold millions of phones
since the launch of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus and only nine people have complained
that their iPhone 6 developed a kink.

One bloke uploaded a video of him bending his new iPhone 6 Plus but then
eagle-eyed doubters noted time discrepancies on his bendy iPhone, suggesting the
guy was bending time as well as matter.

Another self-appointed iPhone 6 Plus tester drove a BMW over an iPhone, proving
the phone didn't break when run over and that he's a sucker for expensive
brands.

It got to the stage where one technology reporter, describing his overly
generous buttocks in reassuring readers that the iPhone 6 Plus liked big butts
and he could not lie.

In the days that followed, while Apple rounded off an already bad week by
releasing a software patch that inadvertently stuffed people's iPhones, the
technology company invited some journalists into its iPhone testing lab.

Part of the testing involves putting the iPhone 6 Plus in the pocket of a pair
of skinny jeans worn by a designator sitter and recreating Romper Room - bend
and stretch and reach for the sky.

Apple's revelation that it submits its technology to extensive testing
prerelease is no surprise. I've seen a robotic hand at Microsoft test the
durability of the Xbox One controller to make sure it would survive rigorous
thumb action.

Maybe Apple need a robot like Microsoft's but one modelled on Nicki Minaj or Kim
Kardashian.

Maybe Apple needs to lead the campaign to ban skinny jeans. Maybe the only
surprising part from the land of an obesity epidemic was that whoever Apple
employed to sit on their iPhones apparently wasn't a heavyweight in the right
department.

A week is as long a time in business as in politics but things can easily
change.

The Wall Street Journalreported last week that Coke turned around a 10-year
slump when it started putting names and random words on its cans and bottles.

The furore of Bendgate will fade and people will either love or hate Apple
products depending on whether they already love or hate Apple products.

And if you think having a bent iPhone 6 Plus would be a pain in the bum, don't
do dumb things with smartphones.rod.chester@news.com.au

