

With its new iPhones, Apple added more than just bigger displays. But I suspect
those big screens will be more than enough to entice plenty of iPhone fans to
upgrade.

Apple began selling the new devices - the iPhone 6 and the jumbo-size iPhone 6
Plus - a little more than a week ago. I've been testing both and have liked what
I've seen so far. I've not had the phones long enough to test all their features
or Apple's claims about them, but I've used them long enough to get some strong
first impressions.

The most obvious difference between the new iPhones and their predecessors is,
of course, the size of their screens. The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch display, which
is about 38 percent larger than that in the iPhone 5s. The iPhone 6 Plus,
meanwhile, has a 5.5-inch display, which is about 88 percent bigger than last
year's model.

The new displays put the iPhones more or less in line with their Android rivals,
such as Samsung's Galaxy S5 and Galaxy Note 4, and allow them to much more
easily display text, photos and videos. Reading documents and emails on the new
models was a joy compared to reading them on my iPhone 5s.

Apple has tweaked iOS 8 to take advantage of the extra large screen on the 6
Plus. When users rotate the device so it's positioned horizontally, iOS will
rotate the home screen too. Inside particular apps, iOS will split the screen to
show more information. In the Mail app, for example, users can see both the list
of messages in their inbox and the full text of a particular message.These are
tricks Apple borrowed from the iPad, and they work well on the new phone.In
addition to their bigger screens, the new phones offer a revamped design, with
edges that curve right into the glass of their displays. And the new devices are
actually thinner than their predecessors, helping keep their overall size
down.I'm not a big fan of jumbo-size devices, so the iPhone 6 Plus still feels
too big in my hands. But thanks in part to its svelte shape, the regular iPhone
6 feels like it is just about the right size.The other significant advantage of
a larger phone is that it provides room for a higher capacity battery. Apple
claims that the iPhone 6 will provide up to 14 hours of talk time and the iPhone
6 Plus up to 24 hours, compared to just 10 hours on the iPhone 5s. I didn't get
a chance to verify those claims, but the iPhone 6 Plus did last through all my
tests without needing to recharge, despite not starting with a full battery.The
other big feature that sets the new models apart from their predecessors is the
ability to make wireless payments with the new Apple Pay service.

Borrowing yet another page from its Android rivals, Apple has included in the
new devices a near-field communications antenna, which is the standard method
for such payments. At special registers, users will be able to pay for items
with their credit or debit card accounts by merely pointing their phones at them
and touching the phone's fingerprint sensors.

Unfortunately, early adopters won't be able to use the new feature because Apple
isn't slated to turn on Apple Pay until sometime next month.

Apple has also upgraded the camera system on the new phones. One of their most
impressive features is a superfast new autofocus system. The camera appears to
take about half as much time to focus on subjects as that in the iPhone 5s and
can switch nearly instantaneously from macro to distance shots and back again.
The feature is particularly noticeable when shooting video, as it continuously
and quickly adjusts the focus without users needing to manually tap on the
screen.

The new phones will also shoot regular video at up to 60 frames per second and
slow-motion videos at up to 240 frames per second - up from 30 and 120 frames
per second, respectively, in the iPhone 5s - offering amazing new views of fast
action. Both also offer enhanced image stabilization, which is supposed to help
reduce jerkiness in videos and compensate for fast-moving subjects in pictures.
However, I wasn't able to tell much of a difference over last year's phone.

Many of the new phones' other features are less noticeable, but will likely
improve your experience with them. They have significantly faster processors and
support faster data rates over both Wi-Fi and cellular networks. They also
support Voice over LTE, a new standard for making voice calls that will finally
allow users of Verizon and Sprint iPhones to surf the Internet while talking on
the phone.

I liked what I saw of the new iPhones - particularly the regular iPhone 6. Big
screens may be old hat for Android users, but I think they're going to be a
welcome change for iPhone fans.

