

dna of technology

We take a quick look at all that has happened at the Apple event in San
Fransisco. And here's a sneak peak of the specifications, tentative prices for
the newly launched Apple devices: iphone 7, iphone 7 Plus, Apple Watch Series 2
and the Apple AirPods.

Everything you need to know about iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus

Apple CEO, Tim Cook unveiled the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus at an event in San
Francisco.   The company says, it's the "best iPhone" they have ever created.
Pre-orders begin on September 9 while the devices will ship on September 13 in
select countries. In India, the iPhone 7 models will launched on October 7.

Same old design

New iPhone 7 models looks very similar to the iPhone 6s. However, Apple has
ditched the headphone jack and instead, installed dual speaker grills on the
bottom of the device. The makers have also announced AirPods- the new wireless
earbuds and have also introduced two-new black finishes, called black, jet
(glossy) black apart from the silver, gold and rose gold color variants.. Apple
says that the new jet black finish is accomplished through an innovative
nine-step process of anodization and polish for a uniform, glossy finish. The
iPhones 7  and 7 Plus models are water resistant (IP67), offering protection
against spills, splashes and dust. The home button is now Force Touch sensitive
as well. Lastly, a second-generation fingerprint sensor is built into the new
Home button.

Multi touch display

The iPhone 7 sports a 4.7-inch LED Multi-touch display with a 1334X750 pixel
resolution at 326 ppi whereas the iPhone 7 Plus sports a 5.5-inch LED
Multi-touch display with a 1920X1080 pixel resolution at 401 ppi. The iPhone 7
comes with a Retina HD display that's 25 percent brighter than the iPhone 6S and
iPhone 6S Plus. Apple's Phil Schiller is confident in the quality of the iPhone
7 display and has touted it as being the "best display on any smartphone."

Faster processor

The new iPhones include a new A10 Fusion chip with a 64-bit embedded M10 motion
coprocessor. This chip is said to be 40 percent faster than the A9. Apple's Phil
Shiller stated that the new A10

fusion is 120 times faster than an original iPhone, saving a more battery.

Longest battery life ever

The iPhone 7 is said to have the "Longest battery life ever in an iPhone" and
lasts 14 hours when using WiFi and 12 hours on 4G LTE, while  the iPhone 7 Plus
lasts 15 hours on both WiFi and 4G. On average, it  lasts two more hours than
iPhone 6s and an iPhone 7 Plus last one more hour than the 6s Plus varient.

Ample storage

The company has scrapped the 16GB variant and added two new models, 128GB and
256GB for the new iPhones. The iPhone 7 and iphone 7 Plus will be available in
32GB, 128GB and 256GB storage variants.

Power packed camera

The iPhone 7 packs in a 12MP camera with quad-LED with True Tone Flash a new 6
-element f/1.8 aperture lens. It includes a new 7MP front facing camera. The
iPhone 7 Plus packs in a dual rear camera setup, out of which one sports a 56mm
telephoto lens and the other, a wide-angle lens. The devices also include
optical image stabilization (OIS). They include 4K video recording at 30 fps and
are capable of 1080p HD video recording at 30 fps or 60 fps. The iPhone 7 offers
a digital zoom up to 3x while the iPhone 7 Plus offers an optical zoom at 2x
along with a digital zoom of up to 6x.

The new operating system

The new operating system, iOS10 will be launched on September 13. The iOS10 will
have major improvements in Siri, Apple Music, HomeKit, Apple News, Apple Map and
will be compatible  iPhone 7, iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, iPhone 5s, iPhone 5, iPhone
5c, iPad Air 2, iPad Air, iPad 4, iPad mini 3, iPad mini 2, iPod touch
sixth-generation onwards.

Pricing and Availability

$649 (approx. Rs43,000) for the 32GB storage variant

iPhone 7 Plus starts at $769 (Rs51,000)

AirPods cost $159 (approx. Rs10,000) To be purchased separately

In India, base models of iPhone 7 likely to be priced from Rs60,000

Wireless AirPods @ Rs15,400

Nothing airy about these pods

Apple introduces AirPods, a pair of wireless headphones to complement Apple
products. The device will be available in India starting in late October.

To set up the device, open the charging case near your iPhone and double tap the
sensors on the side. AirPods set up with all the devices signed into your iCloud
account, including your iPad and Mac. The headphones can switch from a call on
your iPhone to listening to music on your Apple Watch.

The AirPods are equipped with Apple W1 chips, with dual optical sensors and
accelerometers in each AirPod that work with the W1 chip to detect when AirPods
are in your ear, so they only play when a user is ready to listen. Remove them
to automatically pause the music, or just remove one to have a conversation and
automatically resume when you put it back. Users can also access Siri with a
double taping the AirPods to select and control your music, change the volume,
check your battery life or perform any other Siri task. An additional
accelerometer in each AirPod detects when you're speaking, enabling a pair of
beam-forming microphones to focus on the sound of your voice, filtering out
external noise to make your voice sound clearer than ever before.

According to Apple, the ultra-low power Apple W1 chip operates at one-third of
the power of traditional wireless chips, enabling AirPods to deliver up to 5
hours of listening time on one charge while the custom-designed charging case
holds additional charges, for more than 24 hours of total listening time.

Pricing and Availability

The new Apple-designed wireless AirPods including charging case will be
available for Rs 15,400 beginning in late October.

AirPods require Apple devices running iOS 10, watchOS 3 or macOS Sierra to work

