

Sept. 20--TUPELO -- Jody Dill of Mantachie spent 16 hours waiting to buy the
bigger, better, faster Apple iPhone 6, getting to the AT&T Wireless store on
North Gloster Street Thursday afternoon at around 4 p.m.

The store opened at 8 a.m. Friday, and his long wait paid off, as he was able to
buy the sole iPhone 6 Plus available at the store.

"I wanted the white one, but I'm getting the black one today because I didn't
want to wait," he said.

But Michael Cox waited even longer than Dill for his iPhone 6.

The Pontotoc resident was first in line at the nearby Verizon Wireless store,
having secured his spot Wednesday afternoon.

Cox spent two nights keeping occupied playing video games, plugging into the
outside wall socket to keep charged. His wife, Kayla, even brought him food so
he wouldn't lose his spot.

The couple bought three iPhone 6 Plus phones. Michael kept one and the other
went to Kayla.

"It's an anniversary gift for her, plus it's her birthday next week," Michael
said. "So it's a double gift."

The other phone will go to Cox's employee.

Dill and Cox were among hundreds of customers from Northeast Mississippi --
joining millions of others nationwide -- getting Apple's latest iPhone
iteration.

Apple logged more than 4 million pre-orders for the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus when
they became available online last week. That's twice the volume Apple saw for
the iPhone 5. Analysts predict Apple will sell more than 10 million iPhones this
weekend, up from 9 million during the opening weekend for the iPhone 5s and 5c
last year.

Verizon manager Lori Anne Singleton brought Chick-Fil-A biscuits for the early
risers who waited in line. Her store, like AT&T and the nearby CSpire store,
brought all employees in to work, anticipating a rush of customers.

"This launch has been bigger than any of the previous launches," Singleton said.
"There was a lot of anticipation for it, a lot of buildup."

At CSpire, manager Molly Lovorn said employees were at the store starting at
4:30 Friday morning. The first rush of customers was taken care of within an
hour, and she said she anticipated a sellout before the end of the day.

"This was bigger than the iPhone 5 launch because it's the biggest enhancement
since the 4S," she said. "And the 4S was big because it was the first time that
we (C Spire) got to work with Apple to sell the iPhone."

The wireless carriers also were selling accessories like phone covers, opening
another revenue stream since the 6 is larger than the 5.

Verizon's Singleton said pre-orders for the 6, which started a week earlier,
were "pretty big" as well. With that in mind, she anticipated a large turnout
Friday and even bought Chick-Fil-A biscuits to feed the first few customers.

"We want to keep it festive, keep it fun," she said, as red and white balloons
decorated the Verizon showroom, which also had music playing in the background.
"This is a big day."

The iPhone 6, which measures 4.7 inches diagonally, costs $199 with a two-year
contract, while the 5.5 inch 6 Plus starts at $299. The phones offer sharper
displays, improved battery life and an upgraded camera, Apple has said. In
addition, the phones are equipped with Apple Pay, a mobile payments service that
allows users to buy items in stores with a wave of their phones.

dennis.seid@journalinc.com

___ (c)2014 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.nems360.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

