
DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, May 4 -- Apple won't release its next-generation iPhone until the
fall of 2016, so there are still months of development ahead. For the current
time, Apple's flagship iPhones are the iPhone 6s and the iPhone 6s Plus,
released to the public in September of 2015.

Though it will be several months before the new iPhone launches, rumors about
the device started trickling out in January of 2016. We've already gleaned many
details about the upcoming iPhone, giving us some information on what to expect
when it launches.

Since the 3GS launched in 2009, Apple has used an alternating "S" naming formula
to mark years where the iPhone does not receive a major redesign, saving its
numbered upgrades for years where design changes are introduced.

The next-generation iPhone is expected to be called the iPhone 7. 2015 marked an
"S" iPhone upgrade year that introduced new features such as an improved camera
and a better processor, but 2016 will bring an even-year upgrade that will
include an all-new iPhone design in addition to new features.

Apple will continue releasing two versions of each iPhone, so we can expect to
see an iPhone 7 and an iPhone 7 Plus in 2016. Apple is said to be planning to
stick to the 4.7- and 5.5-inch screen sizes it first introduced with the iPhone
6 and 6 Plus.

Apple is still working on finalizing the iPhone 7's body so we don't know
exactly what it will look like, but multiple rumors suggest it continues to use
a design similar to the design of the iPhone 6s.

It is said to have the same general shape, but it may have a camera that
protrudes less (though rumors currently disagree on this point).

Antenna bands across the back of the device have been removed, but are expected
to remain at the top, bottom, and sides of the iPhone.

Some rumors suggest Apple is aiming to make the iPhone 7 thinner, perhaps
through the removal of the 3.5mm headphone jack and the implementation of a
thinner Lightning port, but other rumors suggest the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will
have a body that is the same thickness as the iPhone 6s.

With no headphone jack, wired headphones will connect to the iPhone 7 using its
Lightning port and Bluetooth headphones will connect wirelessly.

Apple is rumored to be working on Lightning-equipped EarPods to sell alongside
the iPhone 7.

Apple may be planning replace the headphone jack on the iPhone 7 with a second
speaker for stereo audio, but there has been some contention over this rumor.

An image of a device said to be the iPhone 7 Plus has surfaced depicting a Smart
Connector on the back of the shell, suggesting that is another potential
feature, but it is not yet clear what it would be used for.

Internal specs for the iPhone 7 aren't yet known, but we can speculate Apple
will continue on its path of introducing more powerful, efficient devices with
each design iteration. The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are expected to include
next-generation A10 processors manufactured by TSMC.

There are rumored to be some distinguishing features between the iPhone 7 and
the larger-screened iPhone 7 Plus. The iPhone 7 may ship with 2GB RAM, while the
iPhone 7 Plus could include 3GB RAM, and there is said to be a different camera
system in the iPhone 7 Plus that uses two cameras instead of one.

The iPhone 7 will likely continue to use a standard single-lens camera as
multiple sources have said the dual lens camera is exclusive to the 5.5-inch
iPhone.

According to rumors, Apple may actually be planning to introduce two versions of
the iPhone 7 Plus -- one with a single lens like the iPhone 7 and a second with
a dual-lens camera system that offers DSLR-like image quality with 2-3x optical
zoom and improved performance in low light conditions.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

