

NEW DELHI: US-based tech giant Apple has launched its latest phones-iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus today and will be available in more than 25 countries beginning
Friday, September 16.

"iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus dramatically improve every aspect of the iPhone
experience, reaching a new level of innovation and precision to make this the
best iPhone we have ever made," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice
president of Worldwide Marketing.

"The completely redesigned cameras shoot incredible photos and videos day or
night, the A10 Fusion chip is the most powerful chip on any smartphone while
delivering the best battery life ever in an iPhone, and an entirely new stereo
speaker system provides twice the sound, all within the first water and dust
resistant iPhone," siad Schiller.

"iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus take the world's most popular camera and make it
even better with entirely new camera systems. The 12-megapixel camera includes
optical image stabilization on both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, and a larger
/1.8 aperture and 6-element lens enable brighter, more detailed photos and
videos, and a wide color capture allows for more vibrant colors with more
detail. iPhone 7 Plus features the same 12-megapixel wide angle camera as iPhone
7 and adds a 12-megapixel telephoto camera that together offer optical zoom at
two times and up to 10 times digital zoom for photos," the company said in a
statement.

Coming later this year, the dual 12-megapixel cameras also enable a new
depth-of-field effect, using both cameras on iPhone 7 Plus to capture images,
while sophisticated technology including Machine Learning separates the
background from the foreground to achieve amazing portraits once possible only
with DSLR cameras.

Additional Camera Advancements Include:

New Apple-designed Image Signal Processor, which processes over 100 billion
operations on a single photo in as little as 25 milliseconds, resulting in
incredible photos and videos;

New 7-megapixel FaceTime HD camera with wide color capture, advanced pixel
technology and auto image stabilization for even better selfies; and

New Quad-LED True Tone flash that is 50 percent brighter than iPhone 6s
including an innovative sensor that detects the flickering in lights and
compensates for it in videos and photos.

"The new custom-designed Apple A10 Fusion chip features a new architecture that
powers these innovations, making it the most powerful chip ever in a smartphone,
while also getting more time between charges with the longest battery life ever
in an iPhone. The A10 Fusion's CPU now has four cores, seamlessly integrating
two high-performance cores that run up to two times faster than iPhone 6, and
two high-efficiency cores that are capable of running at just one-fifth the
power of the high-performance cores. Graphics performance is also more powerful,
running up to three times faster than iPhone 6 at as little as half the power,
enabling a new level of gaming and professional apps," it said.

Both phones include support for up to 25 LTE bands, for the best worldwide
roaming in the industry, and LTE Advanced for three times faster data rates than
iPhone 6 at up to 450 Mbps.1 For customers in Japan, iPhone will now support the
leading FeliCa contactless technology, bringing the ability to use credit and
prepaid cards, including on iD and QuicPay domestic networks, and Suica, Japan's
dominant transit card issued by JR East, the world's largest transit operator.

The new iPhone comes with EarPods with Lightning connector to deliver incredible
sound, as well as a 3.5 mm headphone jack adapter that allows customers to use
old headphones and accessories.

New AirPods, Apple's innovative new wireless headphones, weave simplicity and
technology together to reinvent the wireless experience making headphones easy
to use. Featuring the new Apple W1 chip, AirPods have extremely efficient
wireless communication for a better connection, improved sound and
industry-leading battery life. AirPods harness the power of Siri, allowing you
to access your favorite personal assistant with just a double tap.

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come in a gorgeous design in silver, gold and
rose gold finishes and introduce two all-new black finishes, a beautiful black
finish that has an anodized matte appearance, and an innovative jet black finish
that has a deep, high-gloss look. The new jet black finish is accomplished
through an innovative nine-step process of anodization and polish for a uniform,
glossy finish. An entirely reengineered enclosure results in a water resistant
iPhone offering protection like never before against spills, splashes and dust.

The new iPhone features the brightest, most colorful Retina HD display ever in
an iPhone, now with a wide color gamut for cinema-standard colors, greater color
saturation and the best color management in the smartphone industry. An all-new,
advanced, solid-state Home button on iPhone 7 is designed to be durable and
responsive, and working in tandem with the new Taptic Engine, provides more
precise and customizable tactile feedback.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come with iOS 10, the biggest release ever of the
world's most advanced mobile operating system. iOS 10 introduces a huge update
to Messages that delivers more expressive and animated ways to message friends
and family, the ability for Siri to do more by working with apps, new ways to
interact with apps and even more places to use 3D Touch, beautifully redesigned
Maps, Photos, Apple Music and News apps, and the Home app, delivering a simple
and secure way to manage home automation products in one place. iOS 10 also
opens up incredible opportunities for developers with Siri, Maps, Phone and
Messages APIs, allowing customers to do more than ever with the apps they love
to use.

Pricing & Availability

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in silver, gold, rose gold and the
new black finish in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB models starting at $649 (US), and the
new jet black finish will be offered exclusively on the 128GB and 256GB models
from apple.com, Apple Stores, Apple Authorized Resellers and select carriers.

Through Apple's iPhone Upgrade Program, customers in the US, and for the first
time in the UK and China, can get an unlocked iPhone 7 or iPhone 7 Plus, with
the protection of AppleCare+, choose their carrier and have the opportunity to
upgrade to a new iPhone every year. The iPhone Upgrade Program is available at
apple.com and Apple Stores in the US with monthly payments starting at $32.3

Customers will be able to order iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus beginning Friday,
September 9, with availability beginning Friday, September 16, in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, UAE, the
UK, US Virgin Islands and the US.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in Andorra, Bahrain, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece,
Greenland, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, Isle of Man, Jersey, Kosovo, Kuwait,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Slovenia beginning Friday, September
23. iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will also be available to customers in India
beginning Friday, October 7.

The new Apple-designed wireless AirPods including charging case will be
available for $159 (US) from apple.com and Apple Stores beginning in late
October. All iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus models will include EarPods with
Lightning Connector and a Lightning to 3.5 mm Headphone Jack Adapter, also sold
separately at apple.com and Apple Stores, for $29 (US) and $9 (US),
respectively.

Apple-designed accessories including leather and silicone cases in a range of
colors will be available starting at $35 (US) and iPhone 7 Smart Battery Case
will be offered in black and white for $99 (US) from apple.com and Apple Stores.
Lightning Docks in several color-matching metallic finishes will also be
available for $49 (US).

Every customer who buys iPhone 7 or iPhone 7 Plus from Apple will be offered
free Personal Setup, in-store or online4, to help them customize their iPhone by
setting up email, showing them new apps from the App Store and more.

