

£99 with a £43.50 per month two-year contract at Vodafone ****

There's a definite sense of me-too about the release of the 5.5ins iPhone 6
Plus. Steve Jobs pointedly declared that "No one's going to buy" a big phone
back in 2010, yet here we find the Cupertino firm finally going head-to-head
with the likes of Samsung's Galaxy Note series.

Arriving alongside the iPhone 6 - Apple's other new flagship smartphone, which
measures 4.7ins - the 6 Plus is similarly specced, but boasts a better, full HD
display. Also, its bigger body allows it to house a larger capacity battery
which lasted almost two days-worth of regular use.

Both boast Apple's new A8 64-bit processor, 1GB of RAM, M8 motion coprocessors
and an 8MP rear-facing cameras. However, the 6 Plus benefits from superior OIS
(optical image stabilisation) compared to the iPhone 6 which makes do with EIS
(electronic image stabilisation).

The aluminium chassis and rear is a big nod back to the originally stylings and
feel of the very first iPhone. It looks very classy, although the handset has a
tendency to slip through your hands making a case something of a necessity. This
is largely due to the wafer-thin 6.9mm body.

The new larger size brings some design changes away from what we've come to
expect from Apple's handsets. The power button has been sensibly moved from the
top to the right-hand side, while a new iOS feature called Reachability drops
the top of the screen down with a double tap of the home button, allowing access
to the top of a page without having to stretch.

These features help, but the 6 Plus isn't a phone you can use one-handed, with
tasks such as taking a quick snap being rather cumbersome.

However, it was telling that in the seven days I've lived with the iPhone 6, I
rarely felt the need to grab my iPad. The 6 Plus is superb for watching movies
and reading books, and it's even fairly comfortable when working on word
processor documents, thanks to the extended keyboard.

In short, it could just as easily cannibalise sales of the iPad Mini as much as
compete with rivals like the Galaxy Note. The slight advancements in terms of
its processor and graphics are perhaps not enough to tempt iPhone 5S owners to
upgrade, but bigger does, to a large degree, mean better.

In this regard, the 6 Plus genuinely offers new functionability which is beyond
its predecessors.

