

Today: Apple shows off a new product, but the refreshed iPhone line will mean
more to the company's bottom line. Also: Intel shows off its next advances.

The Lead: iPhones are key to Apple revenue growth, Apple Watch adoption

Apple's debut event sparked a lot of talk about its smartwatch, the first new
device launched by the company since the iPad four years ago, but the company's
immediate future and the Apple Watch's success depend on the other gadgets
introduced Tuesday -- new iPhones.

In a highly anticipated event Tuesday, Apple CEO Tim Cook debuted the Apple
Watch and a mobile-payments attempt called Apple Pay, two new offerings the
Cupertino company hopes will grow revenues that have already exploded in the
past decade. The main cause of that growth has been the iPhone, Apple's
smartphone that was refreshed with two new offerings, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6
Plus.

The main focus was Apple Watch, a smartwatch that will work in concert with the
iPhone as long as the device is an iPhone 5 or newer. The device has a starting
price of $350 and offers an array of customizable features, with early reviews
proclaiming it the best smartwatch to arrive so far.

However, Apple will have to sell a lot of smartwatches to recognize a
substantial amount of revenues, and it won't be helped by the holiday shopping
season since the watch will not hit shelves until 2015.

The most optimistic forecast for watch sales that arrived ahead of the debut --
Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty's prediction that Apple would sell up to 60
million smartwatches in the first year -- would add more than 10 percent to
Apple's revenue total, but that's a very tall order. Bloomberg News points out
that only 2.8 million smartwatches were sold in 2013 , along with 13.6 million
fitness-tracking devices.

"If you believe in having a screen on your wrist, then this is the way to do it,
but the question is whether this is something people want," Andreessen Horowitz
partner Benedict Evans told Bloomberg.

However, the Apple Watch as well as Apple Pay could be helped by Apple's big
moneymaker, the iPhone, which makes up the majority of Apple sales and profits.
Apple introduced two larger iPhones on Tuesday, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus,
with the latter phone of the "phablet" variety, offering a 5.5 inch screen
between the typical dimensions of smartphones and tablets.

The larger screen is an important feature for Apple's growth in Asia, where the
phablet form factor has been extremely popular. Research firm IDC reported last
week that phablets will surpass laptops in 2014 and tablets in 2015 in terms of
shipment volume, underscoring the battle Apple is set to enter.

"That's a slam dunk," TECHnalysis Research analyst Bob O'Donnell told Mercury
News reporter Julia Love . "Most of the people things are doing with their
phones today really cry out for a larger screen."

Along with the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, Apple will continue to sell the
iPhone 5S and 5C at reduced prices, giving it a wider range of sizes and price
points that will be crucial as the company seeks further sales growth.

In return, iPhone adoption could lead to greater adoption of the new offerings
Apple introduced Tuesday.

"The iPhone acts as a critical bridgehead to acquire new customers, and as a
foundation for new ventures such as Apple Watch and Apple Pay," IHS analyst Ian
Fogg noted in an email Tuesday. "The more new customers Apple can win with the
iPhone 6, the greater the chance of success the company will have with Apple
Watch and Apple Pay."

Apple's stock fluctuated wildly during the event, though the general pattern
told the story: prices went higher while the iPhone was being discussed, then
fell when the Apple Watch made its debut. In the end, Apple topped $103 in
intraday trading but ended with a 0.4 percent decline at $97.99.

SV150 market report: Wall Street falls as Intel pitches its future

Apple's struggles contributed to a tough day on Wall Street , especially for
Silicon Valley tech stocks, which were also brought down by Intel and Google.

Intel couldn't find a boost despite showing off its next round of advances in a
Tuesday event at its Santa Clara headquarters. The chipmaker's annual event for
software developers focused mostly on Intel's attempts to break into wearables
and the so-called Internet of Things, while also including an ultrathin tablet
and wireless-charging technology. "My biggest take-away (was) just how serious
Intel is about mobility and the Internet of Things," analyst Patrick Moorhead
told the Mercury News. Intel shares fell 1.2 percent to $34.91 on the day.

Google continued to deal with issues in Europe, as the Mountain View search
giant's antitrust deal seemingly fell apart and former CEO Eric Schmidt looked
for clarification on the "Right to be Forgotten" ; Google declined 1.6 percent
to $591.97 on the day. Twitter fell 2.7 percent to $50.61 while facing threats
from a terrorist organization, and rival Facebook dropped 1.6 percent from
all-time highs to close at $76.67. As Apple broke into PayPal's payments
territory, parent company eBay sank 2.8 percent to $52.73. The Bay Area's merger
market stayed hot, with eBates getting $1 billion from Rakuten a day after
Berkeley organic foods company Annie's agreed to be purchased for $820 million .
After the bell, Palo Alto Networks released its earnings , showing a quarterly
loss of $32.1 million or 41 cents a share, on sales of $178.2 million,
exhibiting year-over-year revenue growth of 59 percent; shares gained to nearly
$93 in late trading after closing with a 0.8 percent decline at $89.28.

Up: GoPro, VMware, Symantec, SanDisk, Oracle

Down: SunPower, Workday, eBay, Twitter, Yahoo, Zynga, Pandora, SolarCity, Yelp,
Google, Facebook, EA

The SV150 index of Silicon Valley's largest tech companies: Down 13.7, or 0.84
percent, to 1609.6

The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index: Down 40, or 0.87 percent, to 4,552.29

The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average: Down 97.55, or 0.57 percent, to
17,013.87

And the widely watched Standard & Poor's 500 index: Down 13.1, or 0.65 percent,
to 1,988.44

Sign up for the 60-Second Business Break newsletter at www.siliconvalley.com .
Contact Jeremy C. Owens at 408-920-5876; follow him at Twitter.com/jowens510 .

