

Records say, Apple along with other major carriers, have sold out the larger
iPhone6 Plus, through their pre-order allotments.

Saturday, September 13, 2014: iPhone 6 has not marked success for Apple Inc.
only. American multinational telecommunications corporation, AT&T, has also
built its own records. Consumers tried to order new iPhones at a large scale as
pre-orders began after Friday midnight.

According to CNET, in a statement, AT&T Mobility CEO Glenn Lurie, cited, "This
is our biggest Phone, pre-order launch day ever." Some other sites have also
faced challenges as loading became a problem due to error messages. This kind of
slow-down is a clear hint that lots of phones have already been ordered.

Partnership between AT&T and Apple is a long-term one. The journey started back
in 2007 when the first iPhone's exclusive carrier was AT&T.; AT&T owned sole
rights on selling iPhone for three consecutive years. Later on, the right got
divided between AT&T and Verizon Wireless.

AT&T spokesperson Mark Siegel has told Re/code that iPhones' demand has raised
in comparison to past two years. Records say, Apple along with other major
carriers, have sold out the larger iPhone6 Plus, through their pre-order
allotments. All of them have maintained that this model will take longer
shipping time. In Verizon, 64GB iPhone 6 Plus is listed to be shipped by
mid-October. The same model will take shipping time of 35-42 days, as per AT&T.;
Apple says it will take three weeks to four weeks, which means before October
there is no hope.

But in comparison to other carriers like T-Mobile, Sprint and Apple's own store,
AT&T is doing relatively well in terms of online pre-orders. But this kind of
rush is nothing new to AT&T.; Sprint's website faced a temporary slow-down on
Friday mid-morning and an error message, "We'll be back", appeared repeatedly.
If someone tried to order the larger iPhone on T-Mobile, the message appeared
as, "Due to high demand, your Apple product may not be available for immediate
shipping. Once we are able to complete your order, you will receive a
notification when your product has shipped."

A new update, as reported by Re/code, says that an Apple representative has
announced that a new record has been set in the iPhone history, following the
overnight sales. Though the number of sales has not been confirmed by Apple, so
far. Apple has told Re/code exclusively, "Response to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus
has been incredible with a record number of preorders overnight." Meanwhile,
Sprint also termed the response as "strong" but they have also not released any
pre-order sales numbers.

