

Click for image

iPhone 6s users won't care that the iPhone 7 will be much faster. Its A10 SoC
that will power the iPhone 7 will be much faster based on projecting the
Geekbench3 benchmarks of the A10's predecessors by Primate Labs. On average, the
A10 could be 50% faster than the A9. But for most apps, iPhone 6s users won't
perceive the speed.

Benchmarks don't matter, Visual Reaction Time does

Benchmarks like the one run by Primate Labs below are useful for comparing
processors but not application performance. Benchmarks do not account for the
user's interaction with the device. The A10 performance projections were made
based on the average incremental performance improvement of A6 through A9.

How Visual Response Time was measured

YouTube game reviewer Mad Matt TV posted two videos showing speed comparisons
between the iPhone 6 Plus and the iPhone 6s Plus: one that compared the
execution time of various apps, and the other that showed the time for the
fingerprint reader Touch-Id to unlock both devices. There's no question that in
most tests the 6s Plus won, but except for a few apps, users won't perceive the
difference.

The chart at the top of the story compares the difference in load times of the
apps on the iPhone 6s Plus to its predecessor the 6 Plus. The comparison of the
performance of the iPhone 6 and 6s can be expected to be very close. The
difference is measured by comparing the completion times of the app load times
in the videos measured in hundredths of seconds. To give the response times
context , the red line represents the mean visual reaction time (331
milliseconds, or about one-third of a second; 331 milliseconds was cited as the
mean visual reaction time in a paper titled Comparison between Auditory and
Visual Simple Reaction Times in Neuroscience & Medicine.) Visual reaction time
is the time to perceive a visual stimulus and react, which researchers generally
peg at 300 to 500 milliseconds. If you want to explore this idea further, you
can test your visual reaction time on this website.

The performance differences in three apps were below the visual reaction time,
and two more were near the visual reaction time. Only three apps, Apple App
Store, Apple Maps and Angry Birds ran perceptively faster.

With a few exceptions such as high-end games, app developers don't build apps to
take advantage of the fastest, newest phones. Quite the contrary, they optimize
apps to run well on most phones shipped during the last two years. A recent
visit to Facebook's automated mobile testing lab showed how Facebook monitors
and tests new software releases to make sure that performance doesn't become
sluggish or battery draining.

+ ALSO ON NETWORK WORLD iPhone 7 rumored to feature fast-charging capability +

There is too much competition among app developers to let app performance drift
because users will uninstall the offending app and install a better performing
one like it. In most cases, the speed and performance differences between the
iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s are barely perceptible. The performance of the iPhone 7
compared to the iPhone 6s will probably be the same, meaning iPhone 6s users
will need other incentives than performance to upgrade.

Apple will need to offer other incentives to motivate iPhone 6s users to upgrade

The iPhone 7, like its predecessors, will be beautifully designed. The new
design and probably a new color will show that a user has bought the newest most
fashionable iPhone. Buying an iPhone 7 is a waste of money for iPhone 6s users
unless they have opted into the one-year upgrade plan when they bought the
iPhone 6s.

On Sept. 7, Apple will tout the A10's feature size shrink to 14-nm, faster clock
rate, and benchmarks, not the barely imperceptible app performance compared to
its predecessor. Apple isn't growing the number of users of its phones, so it
has to convince them to upgrade.

