

Apple CEO, Tim Cook has launched the new Iphone 6 devices (Iphone 6 and iPhone 6
Plus to the world yesterday.

With the new devices that echo a totally new design that is different from the
previous iPhones in the past and new added features to the iOS 8 operating
system Apple.Inc has confirmed that it is evolving and trying to innovate faster
than others could think.

This year Apple launched its first phablet in the market, the 5.5 inch iPhone
Plus. The phablet not only marks the first from Apple till date but also
supports landscape mode viewing, blurring the lines between a tablet and a
phone.

The phablet has been priced at starts at $299 for the 16GB and goes up to $499
for the 128GB variant  on two year contract. For contract free deal one would be
asked to pay $749 for the iPhone 6 Plus, which is priced higher than the
previous generation iPhone models in India

The Plus has been prices at INR 45,648 (a translation of $740 at an exchange
rate of USD 1.00 = INR 60.94) Do note that the prices will be more when the
handset will come to India.

Today we bring you whether you should wait for this plus sized phablet to land
in India in the middle of October this year for a purchase, or should you skip
this one. We bring you what the major publishing houses are saying about this
phablet .

Form factor

If you look at the form factor Apple has gone generic  with its curved sides
that makes it easy to hold and not-so premium looks. The thickness is 7.1 mm
which is less than the 10.3 mm HTC One Max (with a 5.9 inch display screen) and
Samsung Galaxy Note 4 which stands with 8.5 mm thinness with a display size of
5.7 inches. And the full HD display of 1920 x 1980 pixels resolution works the
magic.

This phablet isn't really easy to use with one hand but yes it is "definitely
easy to hold with one hand" and the rounded display feels great, opines
AnandTech.

"The larger screen provides a massive, meaningful improvement in user
experience," says Telegraph

Processor

On processor front there is a 64-bit A8 beast in the handset that is coupled
with a separate Motion processor and 2 GB RAM for faster processing. The 64-bit
processor debut on Apple phones last year and were able to kickstart revolution
on processors.

"But even despite the new processor, reasons to upgrade to the new iPhone over
last year are harder to find. The improved speed and graphics gains don't seem
as dramatic as last year's A7 on paper", says Cnet.

Camera

There is 8 megapixel camera on the new iPhones with true tone flash. Apple has
changed its bar like flash light for a rounded flash light. It has an aperture
of f/2.2 and supports 1.5 micron pixels. The iSight camera according to Phil is
a "next generation" camera with a focus pixel.

The core specs have been maintained as it is, while the company has prepped up
the sensors in the camera and added near features to the camera app.

The iPhone 6 Plus camera has got optical image stabilization (OIS). The first
samples from the camera that has come up are breathtaking. But, we will wait for
hands-on review of the camera of the new phone once it is available in stores.
(Look at the sample picture on the left side; Credit: PhoneArena)

What the OIS does to the camera is that it changes stabilizes the image
projected on the sensor before the sensor converts the image into digital
information. Thereby it offers better still images.

For video shooting there is continuous autofocus that promises better focus
throughout the video.  That means if your subject moved the image stabilization
and autofocus of the camera gets into action to keep the images in good 'focus
quality. So you are saved of unfocused, hazy looking images of your family when
planning an outdoor trip.

iOS 8

This has been the main focus of Apple this time. The Cupertino company has been
improving the iOS 8 even after its release in WWDC this year.

Besides boosting cloud security, Apple has added a lot of useful features to the
iOS 8. There is new keyboard and whatspp-like messaging service on the iPhones
(which definitely sounds impressive and ready to take on any free messaging
services).

iOS brings a number of improvements to the iMessage service to offer IM
apps-like interactive interface. Apple's messaging app now allows sending short
voice messages as well as small short video from within the messaging app, like
one does in apps like WhatsApp. Users 'can simply touch and hold the new
microphone button to record the message. Then swipe to send it.' In addition to
that, Apple has introduced the do not disturb feature in the group messaging.
Also, one can share multiple photos and videos at a time or can share their
location via messages.

Plus we loved the voice over LTE networks making your video chats better than
ever.  And yes, the main attraction is making voice calls possible over Wi-Fi
which Android have not been able to do other than an Android apps like
Talktatone, WiCall that supports voice call via Wi-Fi. On Android GTalk lets you
keep in touch with others. This particular feature will depend on support from
network provider.

The Health focus has been refined as the iOS 8 brings health based services
named Health app along with HealthKit API for developers.

Like the "Ok Google", Apple has included "Hey Siri" in the Siri voice assistant
making it easy for people to migrate from Android to iSO 8 this year.

Apple Pay

The mobile wallet has been given the shape of Apple Pay and have been integrated
with NFC and fingerprint scanner, so that you can make payments via NFC on using
popular gateway channels like Master card, Visa and American Express. Apple has
gone into agreements with retail joints, food joints to make it possible for
people to pay at wide payment points.

If you have the passbook app on your phone you can also make payments via this.
The app will let you click pic of your credit/debit card and add to the
passbook.

But be sure though the payment gateways are there in India, Apple has not
clarified anything about Apple Pay outside the US. Given this comes into India,
this will definitely motivate many to get the new iPhone Plus.

Verdict

If you've been waiting since the 5, crave a larger screen, or want to try Apple
Pay, the iPhone 6 handsets have it. Plus, you can't beat that excellent design.
But keep in mind that these new devices are more like evolutions from the
previous generation, and not exactly major leaps in the phone landscape, Cnet
says.

Telegraph correctly points out the features (software features) that Apple is
bring to the iPhone 6 Plus should have been on the iPhone 4 or 5 "to stop the
Android tide in its tracks." "Coming now, however, it simply reasserts Apple's
dominance ahead of the chasing pack. Samsung ain't taking over quite yet", say
the report.

Launch date in India

The handset is expected to come to India in the middle of October (17th October
confirmed by Apple) and is expected to come in two options of contract-free
phones and on-contract phones. We will bring you all the details and in-depth
review of the handset when it comes to India. Stay tuned to Dailybhaskar.com.

