

Nov. 3 -- US-based M&T Bank issued the following news release:

M&T Bank (NYSE: MTB) has enhanced its credit and debit card line-up by adding
support for Apple Pay.

M&T consumer credit card and M&T consumer and business debit card cardholders
will be able to use their iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus for everyday purchases
beginning today in hundreds of thousands of stores accepting contactless
payments, including major stores, restaurants, fuel and convenience stores, as
well as all Apple Store locations. Customers can also pay for goods and services
within apps using Apple Pay on iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2 and iPad mini
3.

"Apple Pay creates a new fast and secure way for M&T customers to pay," said
Mike Shryne, senior vice president of alternative banking for M&T Bank. "We
continue to see customers choose channels such as mobile to manage their
finances, and the enhancements we've made since introducing mobile banking four
years ago - including recently upgrading our apps and mobile banking websites -
reflects our efforts to invest in technology that improves the customer
experience."

Apple Pay provides strong authentication and security features that M&T
customers have come to expect. With Apple Pay, instead of using your actual
credit and debit card numbers when you add your card, a unique Device Account
Number is assigned, encrypted, and securely stored in the Secure Element, a
dedicated chip in iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2 and iPad mini 3. These
numbers are never stored on Apple servers. And when you make a purchase, the
Device Account Number, along with a transaction-specific dynamic security code,
is used to process your payment. So your actual credit or debit card numbers are
never shared by Apple with merchants or transmitted with payment.

At a store, cardholders can pay by holding their iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus near
a contactless reader with their finger on Touch ID and their transaction will be
authenticated. Paying for goods and services within an app is also as simple as
the touch of a finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out
lengthy account forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information.

For more information on M&T's card offerings, please visit: (www.mtb.com).

Source: M&T Bank

