

Last week we reported that Apple has Apple will skip the major festival season
sale in India.

After a huge round of sale of about 10 million Iphone 6 after launch, the
company was pushing the launch of its new iPhones, and is not likely to launch
the iPhone 6and Iphone 6 Plus before November. This push was expected as the
company was aiming to first deliver units of iPhones to markets where these are
high on demand.  But, this indicated that the company will miss the Diwali sale
season giving ample reasons to Samsung, Xiaomi, Nokia and others to feast upon
the sale season.

This week news is coming the Indian team of Apple wasnts to launch the iPhone 6
in India before Diwali sale season while the Parent Apple company is pushing the
launch further. "While the parent wants to delay the launch to early November
due to unprecedented demand for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in the US and the China
launch likely next week, the India team and distributors in the country want to
make the most of upcoming festive demand by launching it before Diwali", a
report in Times of India says today.

The intention to launch the new Apple phones before Diwali does seem justified
since this festive season is actually the beginning of three sale season in
India, beginning with Diwali. These are -  (1) Diwali in October, Chirstmas (2)
New Year in December end (3) since the GOSF online shopping festival was
organized in middle of December last year, we expect GOSF this year too in
December.

Around Diwali we have lot of launches and new products lining up for sale, and
to be able to get some share of this year end market one needs to be a part of
it. Here are the list of new launches or that happened recently or going to
launched very soon -

Xiaomi will get 1 lakh units of the Mi3 for Indian market for one flash sale.

Microsoft is expected to launch new devices in India tomorrow

Gionee has launched the all new CTRL VS4 in India today.

Google already going aggressive in the Indian market with the Android One

Datawind is ready to launch a new phone with bundled data pack around Diwali.

Sony is already in the market with Z3 compact and Z3 this season.

Huawei launched new phones and tablets for the Indian market this week.

Note 4 is also set to launch in India this Diwali

You must have also looked at the new iPhone-like Canvas 4 Plus A315 which made
way to two online stores this week.

And there are lot of other launches like the Idea Magna handsets, Karbonn
Titanium Wind W4, Galaxy Alpha, Champion Mobiles and more last week.

There is still no confirmation on the launch date for iPhone 6's India.

