

After two weeks of breathlessly covering Applecs new gadgets, we thought wecd
scrutinized the iPhone 6 Plus from every angle. But we didnct think to ask
whether it would be compatible with skinny jeans.

Over the past few days, several users have come forward claiming that their
coveted 6 Plus has started to bend. Most of the incidents arose after users sat
for an extended period of time with the phones in their pockets. People who wear
tight pants appear to be most at risk.

At first, the phenomenon was documented largely throughcTwitter posts topped off
with the hashtag c#bendgate.c But yesterday, Lewis Hilsenteger of Unbox Therapy,
an online technology show, put the rumors to the test. In the video ,
Hilsenteger demonstrates how his new 6 Plus warps under pressure from his
fingers.

cThis was painful to do,c he said. cMaybe this is enough information to push you
in the direction of buying the [iPhone 6]cover the 6 Plus.c

The iPhone 6 Plus, Applecs first cphablet,c vanished almost immediately after it
debuted in stores on Friday, forcing some who had spent hours in line waiting to
leave empty-handed. cThe phone, which measures 5.5 inches diagonally, has been
hailed for its light and thin feel, due in part to its aluminum shell. The
material is also famous for its malleability   we wrap leftovers in aluminum
foil, after all   so perhaps Apple should have braced itself for a more flexible
phone.

Still, some were puzzled that such a gaffe could slip past the valleycs
consummate perfectionist.

cIcm really surprised that this didnct show up at Apple before when they did
testing,c analyst Eric Virey of Yole Developpement, a French research firm, told
SiliconBeat.

But as Tech Crunch pointed out , finding flaw in Applecs latest gadget has
become a favorite fall pastime in the Valley. The tech news sitecalso noted that
reports of bending surfaced with the iPhone 5s and 5c.

A spokeswoman for Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Wecve put out calls to a few material sciences professors to hear their thoughts
on this phenomenon. Wecll report back as they respond.

Applecs new iPhone 6 Plus may bend under pressure, according to early reports
from users (Getty Images).c

