

The verdict is in: You can bend an iPhone 6 Plus. But unless you are really
trying to do it, it probably will be fine.

That's the conclusion coming out of phone warranty provider and durability
tester SquareTrade, which ran some basic bending "tests" this week on the iPhone
6 Plus at The Washington Post's request after reports circulated that the
5.5-inch phone is warping from the strain of being in people's pockets.

Apple itself on Thursday acknowledged that it has received reports of the phone
bending. But cases are "extremely rare." Out of the millions of phones sold,
Apple said a total of nine customers contacted the company about a bent iPhone 6
Plus.

Apple performs "rigorous tests throughout the entire development cycle including
3-point bending, pressure point cycling, sit, torsion, and user studies," a
spokesperson said in a statement. "iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus meet or exceed all
of our high quality standards to endure everyday, real life use."

SquareTrade's tests are worth noting, though they likely fell short of what
Apple did in its labs. For the first trial, SquareTrade asked two of the most
physically fit members of its office to try and bend some phones.

Employee Jessica Hoffman - a pianist who, like her colleagues, "considers
herself strong," the company said - couldn't make it budge, even when applying
direct pressure to the weakest part of the phone, near the volume buttons. But
her colleague Pace Lu, a bodybuilder and certified personal trainer who can
bench press 405 pounds, bent the phone "pretty easily" said Ty Shay,
SquareTrade's chief marketing officer.

"He tried with about half his strength; he could have broken it if he wanted
to," Shay said.

To judge the phone's durability in more routine situations, the company also ran
a "skinny jeans" test, to see if the device would bend under the strain of being
wedged in a tight pocket, a claim made by users on several Apple online forums.

SquareTrade sought out an employee wearing skinny jeans - in this case, Pourmeh
Sarram, who is 5' 10" and helpfully said that he has a 31-inch waist. Sarram
wedged the phone in his jeans pockets, then had him sit in an office chair for
30 minutes with the phone in his front jeans pocket - mirroring a situation that
a user described in a widely-circulated MacRumors post.

Sarram said this was "very uncomfortable." SquareTrade also asked Sarram to do
10 squats with the phone in his pocket. But none of these situations managed to
bend the phone in any way. (The company didn't try a test with the phone in the
back pocket, so we have no official test of what happens when iPhone meets
butt.)

So, yes, the phone can bend. But at least from these "tests," you really have to
be trying to bend it in order to do any noticeable damage.

That's not to say the photos of severely bent iPhones circulating under the
Twitter "#bendgate" hashtag on Wednesday were faked or doctored. But there's no
way to independently verify whether the phones really warped during normal use
or if people bent them purposefully and then claimed a defect. But at least for
SquareTrade, whose whole business is assessing the risk of phone damage, bending
is not something it thinks will happen often. And, Shay said, the company is
unlikely to add a bendability exercise to its normal battery of tests any time
soon.

"My opinion is that this is an edge case," he said. In looking through the
dozens of insurance claims already filed on the iPhone 6 Plus - yes, just a few
days after its launch, people have already dropped them on the sidewalk, or
immersed them in water - there have been no claims about bending.

Plus, Shay said, even the bent iPhone still worked. "I think this mostly
cosmetic damage, like scratching the case," he said.

But if it ends up being a common problem, Shay said that Square Trade would
"definitely create a bend test going forward."

