
ABSTRACT

Clunky though it may be, the term for big phones certainly fits Apple's iPhone 6
Plus.

FULL TEXT

It's time to make peace with ''phablet.'' Sure, the tech industry could have
come up with a prettier, less jarring way to refer to smartphones that are big
enough to be used as tablet computers. But phablets deserve their own
unforgettably descriptive name. They aren't simply large-screen phones. They are
a distinctly new type of computing device, a machine that is often more useful,
and more versatile, than either smartphones or laptops.

Phablets could even become the dominant computing device of the future: the most
popular kind of phone on the market, and perhaps the only computer many of us
need.

Now I've long been on the record as hating big phones. But this week I decided
to try using the latest one, Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus, with its 5.5-inch
display, as my primary, all-purpose computer - a machine for work, fun and
everything in between. I had to make occasional stops at my laptop to write
articles, but I ended up spending about 80 percent to 90 percent of my computing
time with Apple's big phone.

I didn't exactly prefer this lifestyle; if you've got the resources and patience
to buy a laptop, smartphone and tablet, go for it. But if an alien race swooped
down  and forced earthlings to use only a single computer, I'd choose the iPhone
6 Plus. If you're just looking for one machine for everything, a phablet like
this one isn't a bad way to go.

Apple doesn't use the P-word, but the 6 Plus, which goes on sale Friday, is
larger than the original Samsung Galaxy Note, the device that came out in 2011
and is generally credited as the first phablet. It's obvious why Apple had to
make a phablet, a device that its executives and fans had long made fun of.
Despite the awkwardness of holding a device as large as a cafeteria tray up to
your ear, phablets made by Samsung and other companies have become a huge global
hit. They are already more popular than laptops and desktops, and they'll almost
certainly start outselling tablet computers soon, too.

Their popularity might reflect the unimportance of the phone part of the
phablet: Who makes phone calls anymore? Instead, some market-watchers argue, a
significant number of the world's computer-obssessed population either can't
afford or can't manage a future in which we all own three devices: a PC, a
tablet and a phone. Lots of people want a single machine that can fulfill their
computing needs.

On the other hand, a phablet presents many trade-offs. Depending on the job you
have, there's a good chance it isn't nearly as comfortable for sustained work as
your PC.  Many of the tasks we call ''work'' usually require a great physical
keyboard, and obviously the iPhone 6 Plus doesn't have that.

What's more, though it is quite thin, the 6 Plus is about 27 percent taller and
32 percent wider than Apple's old flagship, the iPhone 5S. That makes it
something of a monster in your pocket; there were times this week when I reached
for my 5S and fell in love again with its seductively compact design.

Yet what it lacks in pocketability, the iPhone 6 Plus makes up for in usability
and accessibility. Your phablet, like your phone, is a machine you always have
with you, but like a tablet, it's got a screen big enough to let you accomplish
many more productive tasks. And unlike a laptop, it's instantly available. Pull
it out of your pocket and start working anywhere.

Over the last week I used the 6 Plus to do just about everything I normally do
with my phone and with my laptop. Every morning I would wake up, then slump into
my phablet-friendly office, also known as my bed, couch or any other
recline-friendly bit of furniture. There I would stare and tap at my screen all
day. This was sort of bizarre; my house is full of computers, and  I often had
to restrain myself from grabbing a laptop to get stuff done.

But I persevered, and soon I found myself falling into the habits of a
phablet-only life. I caught up with email, researched my articles, read lots and
lots of stuff on the web, worked with a few spreadsheets, and with the help of
an add-on physical keyboard, I even tried to write some of my articles.

I found that the 6 Plus has two advantages over smaller smartphones, and one
primary advantage over rival phablets. Compared with small phones, typing is
much easier. When you hold the 6 Plus with two hands in portrait mode - that is,
vertically - and type with your thumbs, there's a perfect fit.

Using the iPhone's built-in onscreen keyboard or an onscreen keyboard made by
Swype, I found myself jotting out emails much more quickly than I had on
traditional smartphones. Unfortunately, in landscape mode - holding the phone
horizontally - the effect was ruined; as Molly also found, the 6 Plus is much
too wide to type on comfortably.

The other obvious advantage over smaller phones is screen size. The 6 Plus's
display is big enough to transform activities that are a bit unpleasant on small
smartphones into tasks that are nearly comfortable to perform on a phone. These
tasks range from watching movies to reading documents to scrolling through
spreadsheets - anything where the display counts, and where you're eager to save
your eyes.

The 6 Plus's advantage over other phablets is also pretty obvious: It runs
Apple's iOS, an operating system that is still far more intuitive and
user-friendly than the interfaces that Samsung and other rivals have built into
their phones.

It's true that unlike Apple, Android phonemakers have added many extra software
features to take advantage of phablets' larger displays, including the ability
to run two apps on a screen at once. But I have found many such features
gimmicky; it's not often that I need to watch a video and sort through email at
the same time.

Also, app developers still devote most of their resources to creating the best
apps for iOS first.

One oft-mentioned risk of the 6 Plus, for Apple, is that the big phone will
displace sales of Apple's tablets. But the Plus could actually be a blessing.
Apple sells the 6 Plus to carriers for prices starting at $750; the
high-definition iPad Mini starts at $399.

But to customers who sign up for a cellular contract, the 6 Plus appears cheaper
than the iPad - it's just $299. In other words, if you choose a big iPhone over
an iPad, Apple will be selling you a more expensive device at a price that looks
cheaper. So that's the other big thing about phablets: They can make money for
tech companies.

