

iPhone 6

Get it:  If you must have the latest iPhone

Skip it:  If you're super happy with your current phone accessories

$650

Starts at $650; $200 with a two-year contract

What's there to say, really? The iPhone 6 is the latest flagship smartphone from
Apple and improves on the previous model in all the usual ways. It's lighter,
brighter and - for a twist - bigger than its predecessor. This phone has a
4.7-inch screen, a bit of a bump from the four-inch screen on the iPhone
5s.â[#x2c6][#x161]s is part of model name  It also has a faster processor and
new camera features that let you shoot in slow motion. New smartphone chips also
mean you can pay for things by tapping your iPhone against some card readers
(with fingerprint authentication, of course). There's also a nascent health data
program designed to help you track your fitness; that still needs some work.
Overall, the improvements make it well worth having to buy a new case for your
phone.

iPhone 6 Plus

Get it:  If you really love watching movies on your phone

Skip it:  If your pocket is your favorite place to keep your phone

$750

Starts at $750; $300 with a two-year contract

In this corner, weighing in at 5.5 inches is the iPhone 6 Plus, a godsend for
Apple fans who want to ditch their tablets. Apple's given the iPhone 6 Plus all
the bells and whistles it gave the 6 - payment chips, health data tracking and
faster performance - plus better battery life and software that makes shaky
phone videos look rock solid. The extra screen real estate also makes it great
for doing a little more serious work. For video watching and filming, the iPhone
6 Plus is wonderful. Still, it will stretch your pocket and your pocketbook.

Nexus 6

Get it:  If the screen is all that matters to you

Skip it:  If you want a big phone to shoot lots of video

$650

$250 with a two-year contract

The Nexus 6, the latest co-branded effort from Google and Motorola, is a monster
of a phone with a six-inch screen. It comes with the advantages of being as pure
a Google phone as you can get. It has Google's latest Android operating system,
Lollipop, and its layout has none of the annoying clutter that often plagues
other Android phones. This phone is powerful, has a gorgeous screen and is
seriously ready for all your video and work needs. It has some drawbacks as
well. While its screen is great for video, the phone doesn't have a great camera
to shoot with, especially as compared with others of its size and price. That's
not enough to mar an all-around great phone, but still worth considering.

HTC One M8

Get it:  If you want an all-around fantastic phone

Skip it:  If you want a status piece

$650

$200 with a two-year contract

The HTC One M8 is solid from stem to stern. Though a little heftier than other
phones of its size, this 4.7-inch-screened beauty boasts a nice body, a good
screen and strong performance. It also has front-facing speakers, which make it
easy to share music and videos without muffling the sound. Yet it doesn't have
standout features strong enough to lure dedicated iPhone or Samsung Galaxy users
into its fold. Even a nifty camera feature that lets users change the focus of a
picture after the snap doesn't lift it over the edge. Luckily, the HTC One M8
also has the unusual distinction of having both Android and Windows Phone
models, which gives users a little more flexibility than its rivals.

Lumia 635

Get it:  For a low-priced phone that's a good value

Skip it:  If you have to have the latest apps

$168

Free with a two-year contract

Microsoft doesn't get a lot of recognition for its phones, but the 4.5-inch
Lumia 635 is a standout in the field thanks to its relatively low price. Windows
Phone may not have a lot of converts, but for those who use a lot of Microsoft
products such as the Office suite, OneDrive or Skype, this phone offers a lot of
smart integration. It also has Cortana, Microsoft's answer to Siri, which works
a little more conversationally and smoothly than its Apple counterpart.
Microsoft suffers on the app front - the latest and greatest can take a while to
show up on its phones, if at all - but if you want a good phone at a low price,
give this one a whirl.

Galaxy Note 4

Get it:  If handwritten notes and scribbles are your thing

Skip it:  If you have a tablet

$750

$300 with a two-year contract

Another entrant in the phone-tablet hybrid world, the 5.7-inch Galaxy Note 4 is
looking not only to satisfy your need for both types of devices, but also to
supplant the old-fashioned notepad. It has a stylus to make doodles and quick
notes and an easy method for annotating. It's certainly not a device for
everyone - lots of people were happy to leave the stylus behind with the Palm
Pilot - but Samsung has smartly integrated some handwriting recognition and
other useful bits of software to make the extra accessory feel like more than an
afterthought. The new Galaxy Note, with its textured plastic case, feels a bit
cheaper than its competitors, but it packs just as much power and polish in its
software.

Droid Turbo

Get it:  If you want a super-powerful phone

Skip it:  If you're not on Verizon and don't want to be

$650

$200 with a two-year contract

Another Motorola phone, the Droid Turbo, is every bit as powerful as its name
suggests and scores high on marks for performance. The phone also has an
interesting, tightly woven fabric back, which makes it pleasant to hold. The
5.2-inch screen means that it, too, requires a little extra pocket room. In many
ways, the Droid Turbo is on par with its slimmer sibling, the Moto X, but edges
it out on power and battery life. The main drawback - or at least limiting
factor - of the Droid Turbo is that it's a Verizon exclusive. Sure, Verizon is
the nation's largest wireless carrier, but that still doesn't mean everyone's on
it; if you're thinking of gifting this phone, make sure your recipient is.

iPad Air 2

Get it:  For a top-of-the-line tablet

Skip it:  If you're not desperate for a tablet upgrade

$500

Just as it did for its phones, Apple applied the "thinner, lighter, faster"
method of upgrades to its super-thin iPad Air 2, which is thinner than a
standard pencil. The tablet also has a faster processor, Apple's TouchID
fingerprint scanner and a super-sharp screen. For all of its sleek beauty, the
iPad Air 2 doesn't surpass by leaps and bounds its predecessor, released just
last year. If you really want the fingerprint-reader technology -  something
parents in particular like for limiting screen time - then think about an
upgrade. Otherwise, while the iPad Air 2 is a great present to give to anyone
looking for a new tablet, it's not a must-have device.

Kindle Fire HD 7

Get it:  If you want a durable, high-quality tablet for less

Skip it:  If you want a full-fledged tablet

$140

For a tablet devoted to pure consumption, it's hard to beat the Kindle Fire
line. It's not exactly great for getting work done, but it does the trick if you
just want to sit back, unplug from work and take in some entertainment. Amazon
put this one through the wringer to make sure it can stand up to all of life's
daily tumbles - it has a kid-friendly version with squishy sides if you need
more cushioning - and produced a high-quality tablet for a low price. Of course,
that means the tablet is designed to keep you reading, watching and buying
things through Amazon - so buyer beware if you'd rather be on a different
platform. (Disclosure: Amazon chief executive Jeffrey P. Bezos is the owner of
The Washington Post.)

Surface Pro 3

Get it:  If you're looking for a tablet that can double as a laptop

Skip it:  If you want to use it more for play than work

$800

Microsoft's latest entry in the tablet market, the Surface Pro 3, has smoothed
out many of the growing pains that held it back in the past. The original
version felt too betwixt and between as it hovered between tablet and laptop;
the latest version is definitely a device on which you can do serious work. A
kickstand in back lets you angle the device any way you want, so you can work in
cramped airline seats or sit back and watch something with ease. The Surface Pro
3 is better for work than play, thanks to the apps that run best on it. But you
can't get any real work done without the $130  type cover (or keyboard), sold
separately, so figure that into the price.

