

Apple fans have leapt to the defence of their gadgets in the wake of reports
that a new iPhone suffers from a serious design flaw that means it bends under
the strain of being carried in users' pockets. Websites that review Apple
products have been quick to post images of competitors' phones showing that they
also suffer warping, while users have dismissed the critics as "conspiracists".

According to one site, Cult of Mac, the fact that the iPhone 6 Plus, the larger
of the two new models, bends when the frame is put under strain is nothing new:
"Some are deeming the new iPhones 'more fragile than expected', but the truth is
we've seen this problem almost every year," it reported last week. It posted
pictures of phones from rival brands, including the Sony Xperia Z1, the Nokia
Lumia 925 and the Samsung Galaxy S4, all apparently bent.

The claims have led to an online "bend-off" between rival camps. Unbox Therapy
posted a video of the iPhone 6 Plus being bent, then compared it with a Galaxy
Note 3 being put under the same pressure without similar warping.

Others questioned whether photos of the iPhone being circulated online were
genuine, or if they were really the result of everyday use - rather than a
concerted effort to bend the phone. One site suggested hipsters in tight
trousers were the problem. It put the phone through a "skinny jeans" test to see
if it would bend under the strain of being wedged in a tight pocket as well as
subjecting it to a 10-squat test. None of these situations managed to bend the
phone, it reported.

Apple has so far limited its response to criticism of the phone, saying it had
received nine complaints in the first six days. "With normal use a bend in
iPhone is extremely rare," the company said.

Bendgate, as the affair has inevitably been dubbed, has threatened to take the
shine off Apple's multimillion-pound launch of two new handsets - the iPhone 6
and 6 Plus. Both were hailed as triumphs when they were unveiled this month at
its HQ in Cupertino, California. Early reviews were overwhelmingly positive:
Stephen Fry, the writer and Apple aficionado, declared that the new phone was a
triumph : "I believe them to be the best and most beautiful mobile telecom
technology ever yet produced. So sue me if I'm proved wrong."

It follows a potentially more serious software fault experienced by some iPhone
users last week. Apple was forced to withdraw an update to its new operating
system, iOS 8, after it cut off the mobile network connection - in effect
turning the handset into a glorified iPod Touch. The error occurred on Wednesday
morning, when Apple released an update intended to address bugs in the first
release of iOS 8, installed on both new models and available free for most older
Apple devices. It withdrew the update after a few hours as error reports came in
and has released a software patch that should fix any crippled handset.

The two problems resulted in £12bn being wiped off the value of the company's
shares and drew criticism of Tim Cook's stewardship of Apple, with pundits
saying this wouldn't have happened during the reign of the late Steve Jobs. But
Jobs presided over an iPhone furore of his own in 2010, dubbed Antennagate, when
the radio receivers built into early models of the iPhone 4 could result in the
loss of mobile reception should the phone be gripped in a certain way. Jobs
famously told users they were holding it in the wrong way- but the company later
changed the antenna design and offered free cases that corrected the fault.

Hardware gripes and software glitches are by no means unique to Apple, of
course, but these are unusual missteps by a company that has grown to be one of
the most profitable in the world by offering a level of service and design
perceived to be a cut above that of its rivals. It has led to pundits claiming
we have passed "peak Apple" - the time when the company was at its zenith.
Punters, though, appear not to have read these reports. Even as Apple's troubles
piled up, it sold an estimated 3m iPhone 6 and 6 Plus handsets, on top of the
record 10m sales in its first weekend.

If you are having problems with iOS 8, download the latest patch by opening the
Settings app, opening the General sub-menu and tapping Software Update

