

iPhone 6 Plus leaves phones for dust 'Frankly I can't see how you would bend the
phone without deliberately setting out to do so.'

The iPhone 6 Plus.

H aving lived with the iPhone 6 Plus for a couple of weeks, I've concluded that
it is not really a phone. At least, that's not where its strengths truly lie.

My first impressions of the 6 Plus were connected to its size. It feels big in
the hand and yet doesn't. The weight (172 grams) is light enough to be hardly
noticeable. It's also remarkably thin. Indeed, the smooth edges and slim body
make you feel that it may slip out of your hands, but that quickly passes.

The build quality of the phone adds to the satisfaction in using it. You spend a
lot of time swiping left or right, so the curved edges makes this a more
satisfying tactile experience, an effect that is slightly lessened if you add a
case.

It's worth mentioning here the scaremongering that was "bendgate" (or #bendgate
on Twitter). I've taken the phone on the bus, in the car, shoved it down the
front pocket of my jeans and had it briefly under a pile of heavy books. Frankly
I can't see how you would bend the phone without deliberately setting out to do
so. As Consumer Reports in the US recently noted, bending takes as much force as
it takes to break three pencils - you have to work at it. Why would you subject
this expensive price of hardware to such treatment?

But it's not the iPhone's body I find most attractive The screen real estate
feels generous. I did wonder momentarily how I was going to fill all that
screen, or navigate around it.

Once you master double tapping (not clicking) the home button, everything is
quickly within reach. But it's in landscape mode that the 6 Plus really makes
the most of that big screen.

Mail is vastly improved with an inbox on the left and preview on the right. It
is easy to scan emails or swipe to delete, flag or access other options.

Messages are easy to handle too, scrolling through contacts on the left and
messages on the right.

In landscape mode even the home screen shifts around to place the dock down one
side so it's easy to tap. And other apps like Numbers or Pages are greatly
improved by an extended keyboard, and the ability to add other third-party
keyboards. I wrote half of this column in Pages on the iPhone while waiting for
various buses. A few apps I use regularly, like Facebook and Twitter, have some
ground to make up to use the screen to its fullest.

Generally all the functions of the phone are quick and responsive, especially
web pages and viewing images or video. Having succumbed to a spring cold last
week I spent a few days in bed watching television on the iPhone 6 Plus. The
screen is bright and detailed enough to make this enjoyable.

Apple have improved the camera, and there are some nice new features here. These
include the time lapse setting which turns even a trip to the supermarket into a
fun (if slightly obscure) nature documentary. The HD slow-motion video has also
become a family favourite.

When the iPad first came out I was one of those at first unconvinced that it
would find a place among my everyday technology. My objections were more about
purpose than the device itself. I don't think that feeling ever really left me
until the iPad Air was released, which seemed to hit the sweet spot between
being light enough and powerful enough to be truly useful. By the time the Air
arrived so much more could be done on a relatively small screen with a touch
interface. This development was made possible by the intimate meshing of form
and function by Apple, and the huge growth in useful apps.

In contrast the iPhone 6 Plus feels like something much more fully formed from
the outset - immediately a highly refined device. Yes, I felt far too
conspicuous every time I held the phone to my ear to make a call. But as I said
at the outset, being a phone is not really what this device is about.

gamblecr@gmail.com

