
DATELINE: Washington


Association of Western Pulp & Paper Workers has issued the following news
release:

Apple's response to a high-profile gaffe involving its iPhone software may be
more important than the glitch itself.

As the giant tech company scrambled to fix a software glitch that left some of
its new iPhones unable to make calls, some analysts said Thursday that Apple is
doing the right thing by quickly acknowledging and apologizing for the problem -
which it was slower to do with earlier iPhone problems.

"There's a certain perception that Apple has to get things right, and when they
don't, the whole company gets questioned," said Carolina Milanesi, chief of
research at Kantar Worldpanel. "But they came out and said `We apologize; we're
working 24/7 to fix it.' I think that's what matters."

Apple's stock fell nearly 4 percent Thursday, leading a broader decline in
technology shares, a day after the company was forced to withdraw an update to
its new iOS 8 mobile software because of glitches that primarily affected
customers who had purchased its new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models. The 6 Plus phone
has also been the subject of social media reports that its extra-large shell is
vulnerable to bending.

In a statement Thursday, Apple defended its manufacturing standards and said
bending "is extremely rare" with normal use of an iPhone. The company said just
nine customers had contacted Apple to report a bent iPhone 6 Plus since they
went on sale Friday.

Apple late Wednesday offered users a way to manually reverse the flawed software
update, known as iOS 8.0.1. In a statement, the company added, "We apologize for
the great inconvenience experienced by users, and are working around the clock
to prepare iOS 8.0.2 with a fix for the issue."

Cupertino-based Apple has said it sold a record 10 million of the new iPhone
models over the weekend, in what the company has called one of the biggest
product launches in its history. It also reported this week that nearly half of
all iPhone and iPad users had upgraded to the new software known as iOS 8.

That new software contains a number of new features and is more complex than
earlier versions of iOS, analysts said. Apple released the 8.0.1 update on
Wednesday to fix some flaws that were detected after iOS 8 was released - only
to find the 8.0.1 update created problems of its own. The new problems included
interference with calling and with a feature that lets people unlock their
phones with their fingerprint.

That's not uncommon, according to veteran tech analyst Ross Rubin of Reticle
Research. "All major companies have released fixes that they've had to pull
because of unforeseen side-effects," he added.

As for the bending issue, Rubin said the iPhone 6 Plus is "a large, thin device.
That's not to say customers should treat it gingerly, but it's still an
electronic product and it's an investment, and it should be treated as such."

Apple is held to a higher standard by many consumers, analysts said. But
Milanesi said she thought the company suffered more harm a few years ago, when
it was slow to acknowledge complaints about poor reception and dropped calls
that affected new iPhone 4 models when they were released in 2010. The company
eventually offered a fix for the problem, after then-CEO Steve Jobs initially
suggested users just needed to hold the phone differently.

"There wasn't any of that this time," Milanesi said. She noted that Jobs'
successor, CEO Tim Cook, had also taken responsibility and apologized for
initial problems with Apple's Maps software when it was first released.

Meanwhile, one analyst said Thursday's stock sell-off was more likely related to
broader market concerns than investor unease about the new iPhones.

"Earnings is what drives the stock the most," said Walter Piecyk of BTIG
Research. "It's too early to say what the impact's going to be, but it does not
appear to be something that would impact the company's ability to deliver on
earnings" in the next two quarters.

Apple said users affected by the software glitch can connect their phone to a
Mac or Windows computer and download a file to restore an earlier version of the
iOS 8 software.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

