

Apple has launched its first smartwatch as well as a new enlarged iPhone, called
the iPhone 6 Plus.

At a highly-anticipated event in California, CEO Tim Cook detailed the firm's
latest product innovations, which also included Apple Pay - designed to "replace
the wallet".



Confirming online rumours, the technology giant revealed its first steps into
the smartwatch market with the Apple Watch, and although the company would not
go into more detail on a launch date beyond "early 2015" confirmed it will be
priced at about £300.

"I am so excited and I am so proud to share it with you this morning. It is the
next chapter in Apple's story," said Mr Cook.

"Apple Watch is most personal device we've ever created. It is worth the wait."

The new iPhone 6 Plus comes with a 5.5-inch screen, compared to the four-inch
screen of the current generation iPhone 5s, while the iPhone 6, which is also
larger, now coming with a 4.7-inch screen. Both devices also have what Apple
call "ion-strengthened glass" screens.

Mr Cook called the handsets "the biggest advancement in the history of iPhone".

The larger of the two new devices, the 6 Plus, also allows for apps such as
Messages and Mail to be displayed in landscape orientation for the first time.

The firm also unveiled a new processor chip, the A8, which will be used to power
new apps and games. Partnerships with game studios including Disney and EA were
also confirmed on stage by Apple's Phil Schiller.

The Cupertino-based firm had been expected to announce two new iPhones, with
speculation and alleged leaks appearing online over the last few weeks.

The new iPhone devices will ship on September 19, with the company's new mobile
operating system, iOS 8, becoming available on iPhone 4s and above from
September 17.

Both new iPhones will ship on September 19, with the iPhone 6 starting at £539,
and the 6 Plus at £619.

Apple also announced its plans to enter the payment market.

Mr Cook said: "Our vision is to replace the wallet and we're going to start with
payments."

He also called magnetic strips on credit cards "outdated and vulnerable" before
introducing Apple's take on the area.

"We love this kind of problem. This is what Apple does best. We've created a new
payment process and it's called Apple Pay," he added.

The new software uses the fingerprint scanner on your phone and native payment
apps to allow users to pay for products by touching their iPhone to payment
outlets.

It uses near-field communication (NFC) technology, used in existing contactless
payments, and the company's own Passbook app to secure your details.

The Find My iPhone app would be used to track and suspend your account if the
device is stolen.

"We are not in the business of collecting your data", said Apple, confirming
that all Apple Pay transactions are not logged by the company.

Major retailers have already signed up to use Apple Pay in their stores,
including Toys R US and Staples.

Online, it is also possible to pay within some apps. For now, the technology is
just been introduced in the US.

The Apple Watch was described as a comprehensive health and fitness interface,
and the traditional watch crown, which Apple calls the Digital Crown, is used to
control the interface.

Mr Cook compared it to the innovation of the mouse on the Mac, and click wheel
on the iPod. The crown can be used to scroll through lists as well as zoom in on
images and maps.

A huge array of designs and straps were shown on-stage, before the audience rose
to give Mr Cook a standing ovation. "It's incredibly customisable", he said.

"The Apple Watch works directly with iPhone, but has its own native version of
iOS."

Rivals Samsung launched their first smartwatch last year, and currently have
several on the market. This is Apple's first piece of wearable technology and
also follows on from Google introducing their Glass headset, and Android Wear
smartwatches.

The Apple Watch has a flexible Retina display, and the screen can sense force
used when tapping it. Apple also confirmed that the device will come in two
sizes.

There are three collections of the Apple Watch - Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport
and Apple Watch Edition.

The new Apple Watch can be completely customised to suit the style of the user,
and also comes with Apple's voice assistant Siri. It will also work with Apple
Pay.

