

The eagerly-anticipated new iPhone model is incoming - and all eyes on are on
Apple for any potential updates regarding the forthcoming model's features.

Many have been left disgruntled by a rumoured loss of the headphone jack, but
luckily, a new rumour has emerged which people are VERY excited about.

According to the latest leaked images, Apple's next plus-size smartphone could
feature more internal storage than any of its predecessors - meaning more room
to download apps and store photos than ever before.

There have been rumours that Apple is planning to launch a 256GB model for some
time.

And now, a sheet outlining some of the key feature of the iPhone 7 Plus has
emerged on Chinese microblogging site Weibo, appearing to confirm the rumour.

The sheet clearly shows plans for a 256GB version of the device - doubling the
capacity of the largest iPhone 6s Plus.

This increase in storage is bound to go down well with Apple fans - after, all,
it's the same amount offered on the company's iPad Pro, costing an eye-watering
£739.

Revealed: Hack allows you to download Android apps for FREE

Recently, Apple has been facing issues in the form of the dreaded 'Touch
Disease', first spotted last week by gadget repair specialist iFixit.

According to reports, a growing number of customers have been sending their
iPhone 6 handsets in for repair after a grey, flickering bar appeared at the top
of their display.

Shortly after the appearance of this grey bar, the iPhone's touchscreen has
reportedly become unresponsive, rendering the device useless.

Apple and Netflix customers targeted by new scam

iFixit claims that the issue can be traced back to a structural design flaw in
the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus - meaning millions of handsets could potentially be
vulnerable.

Despite this revelation, it currently remains unclear how widespread the problem
is.

Several users have been left angry by their handset's vulnerability, with many
taking to the Apple website to report the issue.

