

After a month of waiting, US tech giant Apple Inc' latest iPhones have finally
arrived on the Chinese mainland.

Customers who had placed online orders for the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus waiting
in line outside the Apple store in Sanlitun, Beijing on Oct 17. [Photo provided
to China Daily]

After a month of waiting, US tech giant Apple Inc' latest iPhones have finally
arrived on the Chinese mainland.

Originally released in the US and other select markets in late September, the
iPhone 6 and 6 Plus mark the fourth official iPhone release on the mainland
since the iPhone 4.

On Friday morning, around 100 excited Apple aficionados were queuing outside the
company's flagship Beijing store in Sanlitun as its doors opened. Most had
ordered online and were there in person to enjoy the handover.

"I came all the way from Shijiazhuang (in Hebei province, around 260 km
southwest of Beijing) to pick up the phone," said one retailer surnamed Song.

"I bought an iPhone 6 and a 6 Plus. They are gifts to my wife. I got two, so she
can choose."

Chinese media reports said there had been customers waiting in line overnight in
Taiyuan, Shanxi province, and China News Service said many eager customers had
been seen waiting outside China United Network Communications Group Co Ltd
(China Unicom) stores across the country for the midnight release of the iPhone.

China Unicom even posted images of people waiting through the night on their
official Sina Weibo, the Twitter-like micro-blogging service.

The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus sold over 10 million units in their first weekend sale
in September.

Describing himself as an Apple "super fan", Liu Yi has queued up for every
first-day iPhone release since the product was launched in China.

He arrived at the Sanlitun store at around 7:50 am, but despite others being
ahead of him in the queue they had not registered and he was rewarded with being
the first buyer in the area to receive an iPhone 6.

"I come to the stores on launch day because I enjoy the festive atmosphere," he
said.

A recent graduate surnamed Tong, who was also at the scene but not in line, said
he was there just to enjoy the party atmosphere.

"I am here to join in the fun," said Tong, admitting that the only Apple product
he owns is a second-generation iPad.

"I have been a fan of Apple products for a long time and I frequently visit the
store[#xff0d]I just like the feel of the place."

Friday's Beijing launch was certainly a smoother and better affair than previous
years. During the launch of the iPhone 4s in 2012, for instance, fighting broke
out among scalpers and customers due to the high demand for the iPhone.

Despite launching a month later on the mainland, and the smaller crowds waiting
outside its stores than previous years, Canalys analyst Wang Jingwen said Apple
products are still as popular as ever in China.

Apple unveils iPad Air 2 with Touch ID to secure Apple pay
iPhone 6 and 6 Plus launched in China

"Consumers have learned different ways to purchase their Apple products, from
ordering online to ordering from retailers and carriers," said Wang. "Apple has
also put out information on where consumers can buy their iPhones."

Film industry worker Wang Kelu had ordered three iPhones online and arrived,
like many others, on Friday morning to pick them up in person.

"I also came to buy phones for my friends. I wanted other iPhone 6 Pluses, but
they didn't have any left so I guess I'll come back again tomorrow."

Apple's Friday launch came hot on the heels of a company product announcement on
Thursday in California which revealed new upgrades for the iPad Mini 3, iPad Air
2 and OSX Yosemite, as well as a software update for the Mac operating system.

Wang said that the arrival of the iPhone 6 Plus may hit iPad sales, given the
former's screen size is already close in size to a small tablet.

"Right now there are a lot of what we call phablets on the market in China, made
by domestic and foreign companies, such as Samsung and LG," said Wang.

"At 5.5 inches, the 6 Plus might turn away consumers from new tablet devices,
not just in China but everywhere."

"That said, right now there really isn't a competitor on the market to match the
iPhone 6 Plus."

Prices for the iPhone 6 start at 5,288 yuan ($860), and for the iPhone 6 Plus at
6,088 yuan.

Apple unveils iPad Air 2 with Touch ID to secure Apple pay
iPhone 6 and 6 Plus launched in China

