

Apple's iPhone 6 Plus arguably has one of the best cameras of any smartphone on
the market, and its size and popularity have prompted third-party manufacturers
to offer ways to improve how it takes photos.

The phone's size makes this more challenging than in previous iPhone iterations,
which is why options remain limited. But what is available now includes some
useful accessories.

One of the most dependable is the Olloclip, with a 4-in-1 lens system that
slides on top of the 6 Plus. Two larger lenses - a wide-angle and fish eye - can
each be unscrewed to reveal 10x or 15x macro lenses (18mm and 12mm focal
lengths, respectively). The focal length of the macro lenses is such that you
can zoom in on an insect.

Being dual-sided, it's also possible to slide a lens over for the frontfacing
camera to shoot selfies. If you have a case on your 6 Plus, you will have to
remove it first. Olloclip includes wearable pendants, lanyard and key chain in
the box to make it easier to carry around.

Another camera attachment to consider is the Lensbaby LM-10, which attaches to
the phone using a stainless steel ring with an adhesive back. Known for its
concept of a "sweet spot" depth-of-field, Lensbaby's free app works in tandem
with the lens to sharpen focus in one set area and blur the rest. Tap the area
you want to focus on and

the app increasingly blurs the rest of the image to create the unique effect.
The app also includes settings for exposure, metering, filters and video.

If propping up the phone on a tripod is what you have in mind, consider the Joby
GripTight Mount XL - designed for larger phablet phones like the 6 Plus. It can
either screw into a standard tripod or Joby's own lineup of GorillaPod tripods
for different angling. You can use this tripod without having to remove the
case.

A tripod can be made even more versatile with a remote control, and the Muku
Shuttr Remote is one that will work with the 6 Plus. It's small and lightweight
enough to be

carried around on a key chain or in a pocket. It pairs via Bluetooth, acting as
the phone's shutter button from a short distance, though not all photography
apps may be compatible with it. Some popular ones like Camera+ and VSCO should
work.

Some other accessories coming in 2015 include the Prynt, a case that turns the
phone into a Polaroid camera, and the Kula Bebe, a lens attachment that turns
standard photos and video into 3-D. If you're looking for a separate flash and
light source to use for your imaging ideas, consider the Nova Phone Flash as one
that could be portable and versatile enough to do the job. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015
Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

