

APPLE'S iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are now in shops.

Here's my verdict after I got an early go on them.

The two phones are identical but for screen size, battery and camera - so there
are some key points to consider.

At long last, this iPhone is WATER RESISTANT - and dustproof. This is good news
if you have had a skinful down the pub and drop it down the loo.

We tested the phone by putting it down the pan and I was able to call the Editor
right after - well, after I had washed it under a tap and towelled it off.

My builder mates also liked the sound of the dustproof feature.

The CAMERA is a key area where the Plus is vastly better than the 7 and
predecessors.

The "dual lens" means that for the first time you can zoom in without losing
quality.

One is a normal wide-angle lens and the other is "telephoto" - which takes snaps
the same as a 2x zoom.

To fit the zoom lenses found on normal digital cameras into a phone would mean
making it much thicker or having a bulge.

But I didn't have to worry about which one to use, as the Plus switches between
them as you zoom.

Both devices get a more detailed selfie camera. And the standard-sized iPhone
gets imagestabilisation - which stops shaking hands blurring a shot.

Controversially, both phones have NO HEADPHONE JACK. But Apple got it right
ditching the floppy disc and DVD drive so I will not bet against them just yet.

Also, there are headphones in the box with a lead that plugs into the lightning
socket, plus an adapter so that ordinary ones can be plugged in too.

But the future - if you can afford them - are the new breed of clever wireless
headphones, such as Apple's own AIRPODS.

They turn on as soon as you pop them in your ear, pause tunes when you take them
out and use a fraction of the power of normal Bluetooth headphones.

At £159, I think they cost too much unless you want the latest tech - especially
as other firms will soon start to make cheaper ones too.

I was disappointed there was no new DESIGN. Apple normally changes the design
every two years - and this is the third year without a revamp. The last was the
6 and 6 Plus from 2014.

But I was won over by the two new colours: "jet black" with a high-gloss finish
and "black" with a matte one.

Both look much sleeker than the drab space-grey they replace which, let's be
honest, was no one's first choice.

The jet black will top many people's list but it does pick up fingerprints.

Another key boost is the BRAIN. The new "A10 Fusion" processor is 40 per cent
faster than the one in the 6s and twice as speedy as the one in the No headphone
jack 6, making apps do stuff quicker.

BATTERY LIFE is also upped - the 7 lasts nearly two hours longer and the 7 Plus
another extra hour. That's partly because the new processor uses less power plus
there is a bigger battery in the space vacated by the headphone jack.

So SHOULD YOU UPGRADE? Compared to older models, the water resistance and - on
the Plus, especially - a better camera are key improvements.

If you have last year's model, can live without those and don't need the
slightly better battery and faster brain, stick with what you have.

But if you have a 6, 6 Plus or older then go for it.

The new phones will appear lightning fast and take better snaps. If you still
have the 5s model or older, you also get the bigger screen.

The other thing to consider is next year's iPhone - due ten years after the
first.

That is tipped to be a more radical upgrade, looking very different with more
new features.

The 7 costs from £599 to £799 and the 7 Plus from £719 to £789 depending on data
storage capacity.

Phones will be cheaper on two-year deals - for example, EE has them from £49.99
upfront.

The iPhone is one of the priciest phones around - to buy outright or on
contract.

iPhone 7 waterproof Perhaps hold on for a couple of months and networks should
lower prices a bit.

