

A customer at the Apple Store on Chicago's Michigan Avenue sets up his new
iPhone 7 Plus last month. Apple sold 45.5 million iPhones in the most recent
quarter.

SAN FRANCISCO - After stumbling in 2016, Apple is betting on a better year
ahead.

The Silicon Valley tech giant is forecasting a return to growth in iPhone sales
this winter, after a rare slump that dropped a wet blanket on Apple's revenue
and stock performance over the last three quarters.

The company is also set to unveil new Mac computers later this week, hoping to
boost lagging interest in a set of products that are symbolically significant
even if they're less financially important to the company than the iPhone.

Apple has been struggling with shrinking demand for its signature products at a
time when analysts say it's increasingly difficult for tech companies to come up
with dramatically new features. Many consumers are holding onto their old
smartphones and PCs for longer, seeing little reason to buy a new model that's
only slightly better.

One consequence: Apple sold 45.5 million iPhones in the quarter that ended in
September.

That was slightly more than the 45 million that Wall Street expected, but still
5 percent fewer than the 48 million iPhones it sold in the same period a year
earlier.

Still, analysts say consumers are showing renewed interest in Apple's latest
iPhone models. Based on early sales, Apple Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri
said, "We feel very good about the momentum of the 7 and 7 Plus."

The 7 and 7 Plus models aren't a radical change from the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus,
which were wildly popular when they were introduced two years ago.

But analyst Patrick Moorhead said the new phones have enough improvements,
including new camera systems, longer battery life and water resistance, to fare
better than last year's lackluster 6S and 6S Plus.

Apple could also benefit because many iPhone 6 owners may be ready to replace
their two-year-old phones.

The company only started selling the new iPhone 7 models last month, which means
it had less than two weeks of sales in the quarter. But Apple's revenue forecast
calls for sales of $76 billion to $78 billion in the December quarter. That's
higher than the Wall Street estimate, which was just under $75 billion.

Apple's forecast also represents a modest increase over the $75.8 billion in
sales that Apple reported for the December quarter last year, and it suggests
the company expects to beat last year's record of 74.8 million iPhones sold in
that period, which is traditionally Apple's biggest quarter for sales.

Reporting on its fiscal fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 24, Apple said revenue
declined 9 percent to $46.8 billion, while profit fell 19 percent to $9 billion.

Earnings amounted to $1.67 a share, compared with Wall Street estimates of $1.66
a share on revenue of $47 billion.

Apple ended its fiscal year with annual sales of $215.6 billion and profit of
$45.7 billion. Most companies would be thrilled with those numbers. But some
analysts warn Apple relies too heavily on a single product line, the iPhone,
which contributed nearly two thirds of Apple's revenue.

