

Apple has got into a pattern of tick-tock updates. One year, it's a redesign of
the handset, the next it's an incremental update. This year, however, the iPhone
7 knocked it out of kilter a little.

Sure, the iPhone 7 has killed off the 16GB version and done away with the
headphone jack, but is there anything that really marks the new handset as
different from its predecessors?

 Outside

 On the outside, there's little to distinguish the iPhone 7 Plus from its
predecessor, unless you opt for one of the new colours - black or jet black,
which is a fingerprint prone glossy finish.

Perhaps the most notable change from the iPhone is the one you can't see but
that people have been asking for for some time: it is now water resistant. The
iPhone 7 Plus comes with an IP67 rating, which means it is dust resistant and
can be submerged in up to one metre of water for up to 30 minutes.

 Inside

 On the whole the physical changes to the iPhone 7 Plus are minimal. On the
inside, it's a different story. The chip is an A10 Fusion, Apple's most powerful
yet.

It has four cores: two high performance, and two high efficiency. If you've got
an iPhone 6, it runs about 40 per cent faster according to Apple's estimates;
it's about 20 per cent faster than the 6s.

The graphics performance has also got a bump, which means if you plan on using
your phone for mobile gaming, you'll be less likely to see the stuttering and
frame rate problems.

 The camera

 The star of the iPhone 7 Plus is the rear-facing dual camera. One is a
wide-angle lens with an f1.8 aperture that will allow more light into your
shots, the other a 56mm zoom lens that gets you closer to the action.

Optical image stabilisation was introduced with the 6 Plus, and has now been
extended to the smaller handset.

The front-facing camera has been bumped up to 7 megapixels from 5 megapixels.
That gives you better resolution for all those selfies, should you need it.
There's still a little softness around the edges, but on the whole the images we
captured were crisp and clean.

 Headphones

 Of course, there is the removal of the headphone jack. On the one hand, you can
see the Apple designers' reason for wanting to ditch it. It takes up space that
can be better used elsewhere, and it means that audio technology can go into the
headphones rather than into the phone, and in theory, we should end up with
better sound as a result.

But on the other hand it also means you can't charge your phone and listen to
music on headphones unless you go for Bluetooth headphones, which aren't
everyone's cup of tea.

So now you are faced with either buying a pair of Lightning headphones that will
only work with your iPhone, investing in wireless headphones, or using the
frankly ugly adapter for your old headphones. The adapter is included for free,
but it is just begging to be lost - I almost lost it three times in the space of
two days - and you won't always have it to hand when you need it.

 Home button

 The headphone jack isn't the only thing to go. Apple has also got rid of the
physical home button, in favour of a touch-sensitive button that gives haptic
feedback.

On the whole, the removal of the click home button isn't that big a deal though.
There is talk that this is preceding the eventual removal of the home button
altogether, leaving the iPhone with an edge to edge display.

 Battery

 The final thing is battery life. That bigger, brighter screen will require a
bit more power and the iPhone 7 Plus delivers. In a few days of testing, the 7
Plus battery lasted a full day of heavy use - although that may deteriorate over
time. For now, it's impressive.

 The good

 The camera is the stand out here. The dual camera system means you can get
closer to the action without having to reply on digital zoom, which is never
worth the effort.

 The not so good

 No audio jack. Yes, we can use Bluetooth headphones, but there are some times
when the audio jack is needed.

 The rest

 The display is about 25 per cent brighter than on its predecessor, and the
iPhone 7 Plus makes the most of the extra screen space.

 The verdict:

 The camera on the iPhone 7 Plus is certainly a good upgrade, particularly for
those who find smartphone cameras sub-par. For those who made the leap to the
iPhone 6s Plus, the iPhone 7 Plus is not an essential buy. But that won't stop
you wanting it anyway. HHHH

