

Apple Inc. is forecasting better-than-expected holiday sales on demand for the
newly released, bigger screen iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus that chief executive
Tim Cook calls "off the charts."

Cook said the products are the fastest-selling Apple smartphones ever, adding
that the company is excited by initial results in China, where the new iPhones
rolled out on Friday.

Apple, in its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings report Monday, predicted revenue
for the 2015 first quarter of between $63.5 billion (U.S.) to $66.5 billion,
ahead of the $63.5 billion consensus estimate of analysts as compiled by
Bloomberg.

The company also said it topped expectations for sales and earnings in the
current quarter - but its shares rose only marginally in late trading, temp-ered
by a worse-than-expected drop in iPad tablet sales.

Apple said it sold more than 10 million units of the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and the
5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus in the first weekend after their launch in late September
and on Monday released its iOS 8.1 software update to bring the Apple Pay mobile
payment system to users of the devices.

Cook said hundreds of banks and many of the largest retailers have agreed to
support the payment system and the company is working to extend the service
around the world.

Apple has also launched its Apple Watch wearable device to go on sale in early
2015.

And the Cupertino, Calif.-based company last week unveiled a pair of new iPads
in an effort to reverse a sales decline, along with premium-priced Mac PCs.

Cook, in an earnings call, said Apple is entering the holidays with its
strongest product lineup - while analysts are looking beyond the September
quarter to gauge the full financial impact of the new offerings.

Cook said iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus demand have outstripped supply and helped
the company register fourth quarter sales of $42.1 billion (U.S.) and earnings
of $8.5 billion or $1.42 per share, versus consensus estimates of $39.96 billion
and $1.30 per share.

Apple's signature smartphones are the company's biggest source of revenue and
profit.

Shipments of iPhones reached a record 39.3 million units in the September
quarter to exceed the 38 million expected, while iPad sales were down 13 per
cent year over year, shipping 12.3 million versus forecasts for 13 million.

Mac shipments of 5.5 million exceeded the 4.75 million predicted to counter a
long-term global trend toward declining PC sales.

Over the previous 12 months, Apple reported revenue of $182.8 billion and $39.5
billion in profits. Cook said the year was "one for the record books."

"We had a really, really good quarter," chief financial officer Luca Maestri
said.

He also credited strong demand for the company's Mac computers and its online
app store.

Maestri said Apple is counting on interest in new iPad models coming out this
week and a partnership with IBM, which will create new tablet software for
business users, to help shore up tablet sales in the coming months.

Apple shares rose 1.2 per cent to $100.95 (U.S.) in extended trading. The
company declared a cash dividend of 47 cents per share payable on November 13.

With files from Star wire services

