

LG Electronics (LG) has unveiled its highly anticipated LG G5 smartphone, a
brand new design with not only a sleek, metal body featuring a slide out
removable battery but a modular design that gives a greater smartphone
experience. Complete with LG Friends, a collection of companion devices, the G5
can be transformed into a digital camera, hi-fi player and more.

Encased in a sleek all metal body design and slide-out battery to easily swap
out a used battery for a fully charged one in seconds, the LG G5 surpasses the
visual experience of its predecessor, the LG G4. First, the G5's 135-degree wide
angle lens lets you choose between standard or wide angle lens to get more in
the shot. Second, the Alwayson Display makes notifications just a glance away
with the time, date and more available anytime without waking the G5.

Third, the 3D Arc Glass featured in the smartphone's 5.3-inch display creates a
gentle curve and a smooth metal surface using Micro-Dizing techniques. Plus the
G5's camera and home button on the back cover are seamlessly integrated into the
main body without the use of insulation tape for strong signal reception.

LG's First Modular Type Smartphone LG's innovative Modular Type design gives the
LG G5 the ability to transform into a digital camera, hi-fi player and more all
while keeping its traditional removable battery in an all metal uni-body design
for the first time ever.

CAM Plus

The LG CAM Plus is a versatile camera module that can be attached through the
battery slot to deliver a comfortable grip and convenient control of a DSLR. The
LG CAM Plus provides physical buttons for power, shutter, record, zoom, LED
display and comfortable hand grip. It also offers intuitive auto focus and
exposure lock, features usually found on standalone digital cameras. When
attached to the LG G5, it provides an additional battery capacity of 1,200mAh to
allow for longer shooting times for more fun and enjoyment.

Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play

The LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play is an innovative portable Hi-Fi DAC audio player
developed in collaboration with B&O Play to meet the needs of those who seek to
enjoy top-notch sounds that have traditionally only been available through
high-end audio devices. LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play stands out for its simple
yet elegant Scandinavian design as well as premium sound technology. In addition
to the up-sampling technology that was embedded for the 32-bit Hi-Fi DAC on the
previously-introduced V10, the LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play actually supports
32-bit, 384KHz high-definition audio playback. LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play can
be used either as a module with the LG G5 or as a separate Hi-Fi DAC by
connecting to any smartphone or PC.

Always-on Display for Enhanced

Convenience The 5.3-inch QHD IPS Quantum display on the LG G5 offers an
Always-on feature, the first on an IPS smartphone display. First introduced in
the LG V10 as the Second Screen, the Always-on feature has been enlarged for the
main display to show time, date and battery status continuously, even while the
screen is in sleep mode.

To minimize power consumption, LG redesigned the display driver IC memory and
power management function so that the display's backlight only illuminates one
small part of the overall display, similar to the technology used on LCD TVs.
Thanks to this technology, the Always-on Display requires only 0.8 percent of
the battery's power every hour to operate.

Extreme Wide Angle Lens and Advanced UX

Reflecting LG's longstanding reputation as a leader in smartphone cameras, the
LG G5 has two cameras on the rear: one with a standard 78-degree lens and
another with a 135degree wide angle lens, the widest available in any
smartphone. The 135-degree lens on the LG G5 offers a viewing angle that is
approximately 1.7 times wider than those of existing smartphone cameras and 15
degrees wider than the human eye's field of view. The wide angle lens makes it
easier for users to capture more landscape, taller buildings or larger groups
without having to position oneself further from the subject.

The LG G5 features a collection of powerful photo effects including Pop-out
Picture, Film Effect and Auto Shot. Pop-out Picture combines images taken by the
standard and wide angle lens to create a picture-in-aframe effect. Film Effect
can apply nine different film emulators to an image while Auto Shot is an
enhanced camera UX which automatically captures the perfect selfie shot when a
face is recognized.

Diverse Range of Companion Devices

As part of the G5 ecosystem, LG is introducing a wide range of companion
devices, aptly called LG Friends, to deliver fun while providing a new mobile
experience far beyond traditional smartphone boundaries. 360 CAM The LG 360 CAM
is a compact 360-degree angle camera equipped with two 13MP wide angle cameras,
1,200mAh battery and 4G internal memory.

The LG 360 CAM can be easily connected to the LG G5 allowing users to easily
create 360-degree content. The LG 360 CAM provides a manual mode, 2K video and
5.1 surround channel recording on three microphones to help users effortlessly
create high-quality 360degree contents. Thanks to the partnership with Google,
images taken with the 360 CAM can be uploaded to Street View and YouTube360,
adding the fun of sharing creative contents with others. The images will also be
available to view on the LG 360 VR or other smartphones or devices that are
capable of 360-degree content.

