

Mobile chiefs of Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics made their debuts at
Mobile World Congress, the mobile industry's largest gathering held in
Barcelona, Spain, this week.

LG has usually launched its new phones after MWC but this year the company went
head-on with its local rival Samsung.

As much as their latest phones, presentations made by the mobile chiefs of both
companies grabbed a lot of attention from industry people and journalists.

Samsung mobile chief Koh Dong-jin

Samsung's mobile chief Koh Dong-jin, 55, is an engineer who has been involved in
the development of the Galaxy series from the beginning. He took the helm of the
company's mobile business division from his predecessor Shin Jong-kyun late last
year.

Unlike previous Samsung CEOs, he opened the speech with his own story, talking
about the earlier days when he entered the company 30 years ago and the
desperate efforts behind every Galaxy phone.

The latest Galaxy S7 comes with upgraded camera and battery features. Responding
to consumer demands, the phone has revived a removable battery slot and is now
waterproof.

Due to previously leaked images and rumors, Samsung had little surprises to
announce. But it used virtual reality during the whole show to impress the
audience.

Samsung's Galaxy Gear VR headsets were handed out for the attendants to enjoy an
immersive VR demo. Then, Facebook CEO Mark Juckerberg made an unannounced
appearance to tout the headset that uses Facebook's technology.

"The Galaxy S7 is a masterpiece. I'm confident its sales will exceed that of its
predecessor," Koh told reporters.

"Facebook considers virtual reality as the next generation communication
platform after photos and videos. Samsung also aims to become a pioneer in
offering new user experience."

While the Samsung mobile chief is a tech-oriented industry veteran, LG's Cho
Junho, 57, is more a businessman who has been behind the company's hit phones.

LG mobile chief Cho Junho

In the early 2000s, LG prevailed Samsung in the handset market. Then the U.S.
business chief led the success story of the Chocolate phone, which looked like a
chocolate bar, in 2004 and the Shine phone with metal body in 2007.

But LG's recent smartphones have been struggling, feeling the pinch from
high-end Apple's iPhone and Samsung Galaxy and Chinese budget phones.

In a move to buck the trend, LG, under Cho's leadership, has come up with the
G5, the industry's first modular phone.

When it comes to innovation, industry watchers are responding more positively to
the G5 than the Galaxy S7.

The G5, which has an accessory slot at the bottom, allows users to replace or
upgrade functions such as camera and audio independently.

The company also launched a virtual reality headset and other accessories,
including a drone controller to work with the G5.

"The G5 is the starting point of LG's revival. We will create our own fandom and
regain the global No. 3 title," he said at a press conference.

During the unveiling event, representatives from LG's global partners such as
Google, Qualcomm and Bang & Olufsen also joined to show their alliance for the
phone's success.

Admitting that two powerful companies -- Samsung and Apple -- are dominating the
market he pledged to break through the competition with the company's own
diverse products.

(

