
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, June 2 -- You probably wouldn't be able to tell at first glance, but
LG's new flagship smartphone, the G5 represents the most significant advancement
in smartphone design in almost a decade. During this period, processors have
gotten faster and more efficient, interfaces have gotten slicker and the app
ecosystem on the two major platforms has exploded in a way few would have
foreseen. But the sealed rectangular slab form factor that the original iPhone
turned into a gold standard has seen little improvement since 2007. LG has taken
that slab and hollowed it out to enable the addition of external modules that
could add extra functionality to the device. Whether this is the beginning of
the modular smartphone revolution we've been promised or just another false
dawn, remains to be seen.


 The G5 looks pretty much like every other smartphone in the market these days.
There's a 5.3-inch Quad HD LCD that occupies most of the front surface. The rear
features the unlock button integrated in classic LG style, now with an
integrated fingerprint sensor.
 The volume buttons are back on the left edge and the right side features a
hybrid dual SIM / microSD tray. The all-metal construction does elevate its
premium quotient and the dual camera setup at the back will definitely draw
attention, but beyond that it is hard to differentiate it from any other
Android-powered rectangular slab. Until you find an unobtrusive little button at
the bottom of its left edge.
 Pressing it ejects the chin of the handset, along with the battery. You can
then opt to fill the hole in the device with a module of your choice. For
instance, the Cam Plus module made by LG, which adds a hand-grip like you'd see
on a DSLR with integrated shutter and record buttons, a zoom wheel and 1200 mAh
of extra battery capacity. LG has a couple of other modules on offer and is
opening up the specifications for third-party developers to build their own, but
unfortunately we haven't been able to get our hands on any of them.
 The flagship phone demands a flagship processor and with the thermal throttling
issues of the Qualcomm's previous generation headliner relegated to the stuff of
bad dreams, the Snapdragon 820 will be the default pick for all manufacturers in
the premium space. The G5 is no exception, pairing four Kryo processor cores
with Adreno 530 graphics, 4 GB of RAM and 32 GB of internal storage.
 The only real competition for any phone equipped with an 820 chipset is another
phone with the same chipset and for those that couldn't care less about the
benchmarks, suffice it to know that in any configuration, it passes the tests
that matter with flying colours - multitasking fluidly, never stuttering or
hanging and running any app or game you can throw at it with consummate ease.
 The LCD display is extremely bright, pixel-dense and offers fantastic viewing
angles. There is only a single speaker at the bottom but it does get pretty
loud. The fingerprint sensor on the G5 is quite accurate and extremely quick.
However, getting used to the unlock button being on the rear takes a bit of time
and practise.
 The G5's achilles heel is its battery. 2800 mAh is toeing the extreme low-end
of acceptable battery capacity, but once you throw in the fact that this handset
has an always-on display, you basically have a phone that's going to be
constantly crying out for a plugpoint. In our testing, which constitutes fairly
heavy usage involving constant push notifications, streaming music, gaming and
browsing with brightness set to auto, we did not make it through a single day
without requiring a top up.
 The dual camera setup on the rear is one of the highlights of the G5. Unlike
previous implementations we've seen, the two lenses don't work together to
produce a better image but offer different capabilities instead. The primary 16
MP sensor is unaltered from the previous-generation G4 - which offered excellent
detail, fast-focusing and good low-light performance. It continues to deliver
similar performance, which is great, but unfortunately short of the new
benchmark set by Samsung's excellent Galaxy S7. The new 8 MP sensor is paired
with a fisheye lens with a much wider field of view. Obviously, the quality of
the photos produced by this lens is significantly lower, but it is very useful
when trying to frame landscapes or large groups of people.
 LG's camera software is top-notch, offering all the features you'd expect
without cluttering the screen with unnecessary visual elements. It also offers a
few interesting options to combine the results of the two lenses.
 The G5's modular design is inevitably going to be compared with Google's
Project Ara platform. While the latter is much more ambitious, LG can claim
credit for getting out the door with a device first.
 However, the point of a modular design is defeated without an ecosystem of
modules and it is hard to see third party developers being interested in
building such addons for a single device. Until then, the G5 has to be judged on
the merits of what is in the tin and that is a well built, capable smartphone
with a unique camera setup and a weak battery. And that package is not good
enough to challenge Samsung's Galaxy S7.
 However, if the modules do start to materialise, all bets are off.
 Price: [#x20b9]52,990
 Love: Performance, Camera, Design
 Hate: Battery

