

A PHONE THAT TURNS INTO A DESKTOP PC HP ELITE X3 www.HP.COM/UK The only Windows
phone on this page and the first phone HP has made since 2014, the Elite X3 is a
superpowered little device that's capable of transforming into a desktop PC once
hooked up to a television or monitor. Enabling this transformation is the X3's
top-end Snapdragon 820 CPU, bolstered by 4GB of RAM, which is more power than
you could feasibly ever need from a phone. That's hardware to write home to your
mother about, but with the dearth of apps on the Windows Store it could all be
for naught. It's big too, with a 6" screen you could eat your dinner off.

A PHONE YOU CAN CUSTOMISE LG G5 www.LG.COM/UK LG's new flagship handset is one
of the first modular designs to market, allowing you to remove part of the phone
to snap on new accessories to upgrade or add functionality. So far LG has shown
the G5 customised with a camera grip - which adds additional battery capacity as
well as shutter controls - and an audio-enhancing external DAC pack from Bang &
Olufsen. The LG G5 is essentially the Lego of phones, but even before you
consider the customisation options, it boasts an impressive set of features as
standard. The 5.3" handset has a USB Type-C connection and features a secondary
rear camera that allows for wide-angle photography. The screen never sleeps
either, always displaying the time.

A PHONE THAT CAN SENSE HEAT CAT S60 www.CAT.COM From the folks who built all of
those yellow trucks and diggers smashing around outside your office window comes
this rugged brick of a phone. Designed for use on construction sites, the bulky
Cat S60 boldy claims to be able to survive "military drop tests". The thing
looks like it could survive a nuclear blast, with its reinforced die cast frame
happily withstanding 1.8 metre falls on to concrete. This hulk of a phone is
also dustproof, waterproof to a depth of five metres, works with wet and gloved
hands and, strangest of all, comes with a built-in thermal imaging camera. Ideal
for checking insulation, or hunting for hot ghosts.

A PHONE YOU CAN DUNK IN THE BATH SAMSUNG GALAXY S7 EDGE www.SAMSUNG.COM The S6
is still one of the best phones available today, so it's unsurprising that
Samsung hasn't made radical design changes with their newly announced Galaxy S7.
There are two models, one with the familiar curved screen edges and one without.
Both have been improved by aesthetic tweaks that make the phone more comfortable
to hold, such as a smaller camera bump and a flush fingerprint sensor. Inside is
where you'll find the biggest changes. The higher-specced S7 Edge model has a
beefier processer, a longer lasting battery and a massively improved 12MP
camera. It's waterproof too, because the future will be wet.

A PHONE WITH A PSYCHIC CAMERA SONY XPERIA X SERIES www.SONYMOBILE.COM Rather
than announce a new flagship handset - that crown is still worn by the super
high-spec Sony Xperia Z5 - Sony instead revealed a trio of new mid-range phones
at this year's MWC: the Xperia XA, the Xperia X and the Xperia X Performance.
The latter is the most interesting of the bunch, a top-of-the-line phone with
boosted specs that rival the Xperia Z5. A super high-resolution 23MP camera
boasts what Sony is calling "predictive hybrid autofocus", which uses a mixture
of science and magic to predict where your subject will be before they actually
get there, leading to better focusing on moving targets.

