

SAMSUNG Electronics and LG Electronics unveiled their latest smartphones at the
Mobile World Congress industry show in Barcelona on Sunday, seeking to buck the
slowdown in industry growth.

Phone makers face another tough year in 2016 as subdued global growth and
persisting currency weakness in key emerging markets sap consumers' spending
power.

A push by Chinese manufacturers to expand overseas amid slowing growth in their
domestic market may also undercut margins further.

In a bid to recapture market share, Samsung launched two new versions of its
Galaxy S smartphone and brought in Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg for
a surprise appearance to tout the potential of virtual reality, prompting
hundreds of people to rush to the stage to record the moment.

LG, which lost money from its cellular business last year as its flagship
products struggled, introduced a modular design to its new G5 smartphones that
allows users to replace or upgrade functions, such as camera and audio,
independently. It also launched a virtual reality headset and accessories
including a drone controller to pair with the G5.

Analysts and investors cheered LG's features, which they said were different
enough to possibly revive sales, but were lukewarm about Samsung's offerings,
saying they only featured incremental upgrades.

"I think it's possible for LG's mobile business to recover on its new product
launch, since they delivered significant changes with the G5," said Seoul-based
HDC Asset Management fund manager Park Jung-hoon.

"The Galaxy S7, however, doesn't seem to be creating as much buzz," Park added.

Samsung shares were down 1.3 percent early yesterday, underperforming a 0.2
percent fall for the broader market, while LG's share price was up 3 percent.

Revamps could prove key to smartphone makers as 2016 shapes up to be another
tough year: researcher TrendForce expects the smartphone market growth to slow
to 8.1 percent from 10.3 percent a year earlier.

Margin pressures are also expected to intensify for the industry as Chinese
manufacturers seek to expand overseas to counter slowing domestic demand.

Samsung at the weekend said its mobile payments service, Samsung Pay, would
launch in China next month, a month after Apple launched its Apple Pay service
in the world's biggest smartphone market.

The company fell out of the top five in the world's top smartphone market last
year but hopes that its easy-to-use payments service will help it regain sales
momentum.

"The challenge you have got in the smartphone market is breaking through all
that sameness. From a design and functionality perspective, everything looks and
feels the same," Bob O'Donnell, the president of Technalysis Research, said.

"So the challenge is finding things that stick out."

