

LG Electronics Saudi Arabia, global leader and technology innovator in consumer
electronics, has showcased its latest innovations and cutting-edge technology at
the AMEX World Luxury Expo 2016. Hosted for the fourth year at the Palatial
Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh from March 30 to April 1, the event was inaugurated under
the patronage of Prince Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud.

LG, a platinum sponsor of the World Luxury Expo, showcased its latest luxury
masterpieces, and a selection of its high-end brands to ultra-affluent and
highly discerning audience. LG products showcased at the event included OLED
TVs, TWIN WashTM washing machines, modern refrigerators designed exclusively for
Saudi consumers, digital screens, and the first modular phone in the world LG
G5.

Known for their slim and light-weight designs, LG's OLED TVs adopt a technology
based on producing a special light that enhances the picture quality, in color
and in black and white, offering an exceptional viewing experience. LG also
showcased its TWIN WashTM washing machines, which offer users the option of
washing two loads of laundry simultaneously, in less time and with added
convenience. In addition, the exhibition visitors enjoyed the LG premium-design
refrigerators, which have an intricate design and a technology to keep food
fresh for longer. The compressor is energy efficient and is backed by a 10-year
warranty.

Visitors were also intrigued by the LG giant digital screens, given its high
definition and low energy consumption. It serves as an effective means of
interaction and communication between a company and its target audiences. On the
other hand, visitors were introduced to the distinctive features of the G5, the
wide camera, dual back cameras with separate lenses to capture different angles.
G5 is the first modular Smartphone in the world.

Eddie Jun, President of LG Electronics-Saudi Arabia, said: "We always take pride
in keeping up with the rapid development of home appliances, and strive to
introduce innovative solutions that meet the needs of our local consumers, and
offer them more convenience. We will maintain our pioneering position and will
boost our growth in the Saudi market by providing unparalleled, highly-advanced
solutions".

Salman Alsabban, Corporate Marketing Manager, LG Electronics Saudi Arabia, said
"we are proud to offer modern products that add value to Saudi lifestyles. As
usual, LG dazzled VIP guests with its luxury and state-of-the-art products that
are indispensable to any family searching for advanced technology and robust
designs."

Ahmad Al-Oraij, CEO of World Luxury Group, organizers of World Luxury Expo 2016,
said "the event highlighted the most prominent brands and luxury services
offered by different companies in Saudi Arabia, on top of which was LG
Electronics." - SG

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/23/145976602422.jpg

Prince Abdulaziz bin Ahmed bin Abdulaziz Al Saud with top LG Saudi Arabia
executives

