

LG is the first of the big Android handset makers to send out official press
invites to a launch event at February's Mobile World Congress (MWC) which is all
but certain to be the scene of the LG G5 phablet's unveiling.

One of the standout trends at this year's CES was the comparative lack of
innovation or excitement around the smartphones on show. This could be taken as
a sign that the handset is now a de facto part of the average person's life. Or,
that as car companies and smart appliances start to steal the limelight at the
Las Vegas trade show that handset makers are choosing to keep their powder dry
until February and the Mobile World Congress.

The invites sent out by LG suggest that it's definitely the latter. It is
promising that "Play Begins" at 2pm on February 21, and this is being taken as a
sign that its next flagship handset, the LG G5, will be making its debut at the
event.

The LG G4 was one of the best phablets of 2015 with a wonderful screen and
fantastic camera specifications; however, it lacked something in quality that
its closest rivals -- Samsung and Apple -- didn't.

This was due to LG's attempt to offer a phone with a removable battery -- a
great feature for anyone wanting to quickly reset a buggy handset or for
swapping a flat for a charged cell. Whispers suggest that LG wants to keep this
feature for the next phone, but integrate the battery into a sliding modular
shell so that the handset can be formed from quality materials.

Other rumors suggest that the G5 will use a dual rear-camera set-up -- two
16-megapixel lenses.

The 5.3-inch QHD display will be joined by a second strip display (think news
ticker) that could display notifications or, like with Samsung's latest flagship
phones, for playing and pausing video or for fast access to most commonly used
apps.

Also expect LG to add a fingerprint sensor to this handset; it is set to be one
of the defining smartphone features of 2016.

Most intriguing however is a report from Android Authority that suggests that
the handset's killer feature could be a smart slot that can be used for
connecting the phone to a host of peripheral devices from keyboards to VR
systems and beyond.

One thing that is a near certainty is that it will have a big focus on video
streaming. At the 2016 CES, LG announced that it was now in partnership with
Netflix to help the service break into new territories. In return, LG is getting
exclusive access to much of Netflix's content.

