

FROM being the first major-brand smartphone with a modular design to hit the
market, to being the first all-metal handset in LG's award-winning G series, the
LG G5 is-and can be-a lot of things.

This new flagship designed with ambitions to innovate, or, at least, dare to
change the way we look at the smartphones (a classic LG move, must we say), came
away as darling at the Mobile World Congress 2016 in February, besting Samsung's
Galaxy S7 and Xiaomi's Mi5, among others, to win the Best New Smartphone honors.
And with good reason at that.

Despite what might seem as a design that's unsexy, this daring model packs
eye-popping camera features, a perfectly proportioned size and weight that feels
great on hand, and, more important, fluid performance.

The moment we got our hands on this new shiny device, we skipped the undercards
and went straight for the main event by tinkering with its modularity, which is
easily its most interesting feature. Removing the detachable lower chin requires
two hands (one to press the recessed button at the lower left side to pop the
module, and the other to pull it out) plus, as we found out, a surprising amount
of force.

To say the ejection shouldn't be too easy to avoid unwanted disintegration is
fair, but for it to demand that much effort all but confirms the design still
has ways to go.

The 'Magic Slot' can be fitted with modules and peripherals called 'LG Friends'
that cater to various interests. For those who want to take smartphone
photography to the next level, there's the LG Cam Plus that transforms the
handset into a camera in terms of feel and performance, and adds control to the
model's impressive snapping power. Features include a dedicated shutter button,
a zoom dial and an additional 1,200 mAh on top of its built-in 2,800 mAh pack.

And since we're talking about its battery, the G5's registers 200 mAhs smaller
than that of its predecessor's. It can still get through a day of usage, but the
effects of the downgrade can certainly be felt, but is made bearable by
QuickCharge 3.0 technology, which juices up the handset to full in just around
80 minutes and can reach 50 percent as fast as under 30 minutes. Of course, if
all else fails, dried-out batteries of the modular-designed G5 can be swapped
with fully charged one in a jiffy.

Going back to the modules, audiophiles are sure to befriend the LG Hi-Fi Plus
that was made in collaboration with high-end Danish audio designer and
manufacturer Bang and Olfusen. This module features a 32-bit Digital-to-Analog
Converter, an amplifier and audio up-sampling of up to 384 kHz.

There are also stand-alone modules that do not need to physically slot into the
G5, like the Bluetooth-connecting 360 degree VR camera LG 360 CAM; the tethered
reality headset LG 360 VR and the multipurpose LG Rolling Bot.

Much like the G5's modular nature, its built and design are also unprecedented,
especially in LG's G series. Instead of going with plastic/leather of the G4,
the G5 is of metal build. While the change is an improvement over its
predecessor, it falls a tad short against its competitors in terms of premium
feel. The signature curve of LG's G series is also noticeably absent in this
latest flagship that takes some oomph in its style. The volume rockers have also
been relocated to the sides from the back.

But to be fair, the changes seems necessary for this radical device, as
function, after all, is what LG apparently set its sights on in designing the
G5. What we like is the fingerprint sensor with regards to reactive efficiency,
thanks to a thorough scanning process and its placement at the rear.

The power button is still at the back of the handset, like in the G4 and G3
before it, but now doubles as the sensor that turns an, otherwise, idle
stabilizing index finger in one-hand usage to a convenient unlocking mechanism.
Moreover, when you put the phone down at your desk, there's no need to lift it
to unlock the device because of a handy knock-code feature that only requires
the user to tap the screen in a personalized pattern.

More on usability: grip earns this device plus points. At 159 grams and 149.4 x
73.9 x 7.7 millimeters, the G5 offers just-right proportions. It carries a
5.3-inch IPS LCD display with a Quad HD resolution, quite smaller than the G4's
5.5-incher, but the reduced size is too paltry to be noticed even by your
average size junkie, especially with a much raved-about camera performance,
which brings us to our next point.

There's just about as much emphasis put on the G5's modular nature as to its
cameras. The handset comes off the heels of strong reviews for the cameras of
its LG siblings, the G4 and V10, and it's more than safe to say that the G5 runs
away with the torch. The new flagship is marked by a dual-camera set-up, which
takes a page from the V10's double front lenses. However, the G5's pair of eyes
is placed at the rear with a 16 megapixel sensor equipped with OIS and f/1.8
aperture and another that's an 8-MP sensor with f/2.4 aperture and wide-angle
135째 field of view (!). Of course, there's also a single 8-MP selfie camera up
front with f/2.0 aperture.

We don't disagree with those who say the G5's show-stealing camera game is its
strongest suit by turning in solid captures that come with excellent detail.
While the 16-MP main camera is more than capable of capturing images with the
clearest detail, the second rear camera is the one that has caught our eye with
its wide shots. And by wide, take this: its field of view spans 135째, while the
human eye sits to about 120째 to 124째.

Whether getting the complete picture of a beach with a shoreline's extended
stretch, or a concert's wide crowd, stage setup and night-sky backdrop, the
possibilities are endless with the G5. It's the dream scenario for those who
somehow always get cut-off in group photos-and a nightmare situation for people
who dread photo bombers.

The camera app offers the same extensive interface with the robust manual mode
making a return in the G5, to go with the casual photographer's auto-mode and
other interesting features such as the multiview that operates all three lenses
at once.

The songs of praise can be extended to the G5's software that operates on
Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow. LG's 'substance over style' mantra also runs across
the G5's refined performance department where users of previous LG models may
get caught off-guard. Gone is the app drawer and what's left is a much cleaner
and less intrusive interface. When not in use, the time, date and other
notifications are still viewable, thanks to the Always On display feature,
albeit one that's still a work in progress with small icons and illegibility in
the bright outdoors.

As for the specs, the G5's can keep up with the best of them. It features the
Qualcomm Snapdragon 820, Adreno 530 GPU and 4GB of RAM that translate to
silky-smooth animations and multitasking operations, without any visible lags.
What's more, the G5 includes a microSD card slot with adoptable storage that can
give a huge boost to its standard 32GB configuration.

All in all, it remains to be seen if the G5's modular design is just the tip of
the iceberg for the whole smart-phone industry or the entirety of a melting one.
But for all the forgivable fizzles of the G5's innovations, the sizzle of the
strengths of LG's newest flagship definitely leaves a much stronger impression.

