

Apple may claim that its iPhone 7 has "the best battery life ever on an iPhone",
but sometimes your best just isn't good enough.

According to tests by consumer watchdog Which? , the battery on the iPhone 7
doesn't last anywhere near as long as its three major Android rivals - the
Samsung Galaxy S7, HTC 10 and LG G5.

All four phones were put through their paces, first making a continuous call
over 3G until the battery ran out, and then accessing a regularly updating web
page over 3G.

In the interest of fairness, Which? ensured that the signal strength on each
phone was consistent, the screen brightness was set at the same level, and each
phone had been fully discharged and then charged before testing.

On the call test, the iPhone 7's battery reportedly lasted 712 minutes - less
than half the amount of time as the Samsung Galaxy S7, which lasted 1,492
minutes. The LG G5 lasted 1,579 minutes, and the HTC 10 lasted an incredible
1,859 minutes.

When it came to internet browsing time, the results were a lot closer - but the
iPhone 7 still came bottom.

The 615 minutes of battery life offered by the iPhone 7 is 25 minutes less than
its nearest rival, the LG G5, and 175 minutes less than the top-performing HTC
10.

In fact, the HTC 10's 3G internet browsing time was even longer than the iPhone
7's 3G call time... It doesn't make for pretty reading for Apple.

Which? said the main reason for the iPhone 7's poor battery life was its
comparatively tiny battery cell - measured in milliampere hours (mAh).

"The iPhone 7 has a 1,960mAh battery, whilst the HTC 10 has a 3,000mAh battery:
it should hardly be surprising that one battery nearly half the size of another
offers roughly half as much charge," it said.

This is likely to offer little solace to people who have forked out £599 and up
for a brand spanking new iPhone 7.

However, as Which? points out, battery life isn't everything when it comes to
picking the best phone. You can read our full review of the iPhone 7 here .

