

LG G5

$988 (without contract), available in April

The G5 is LG's first modular smartphone which allows you to add modules to the
device's bottom for more functionalities. These modules include the LG CAM Plus
camera grip and LG Hi-Fi Plus audio player.

On its own, this Android Marshmallow smartphone features a 5.3-inch touchscreen
display of 2,560 x 1,440 pixels, a 16-megapixel rear camera and an 8-megapixel
front-facing camera. It is powered by the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 820
processor with 4GB of system memory and 32GB of storage. A microSD card slot
offers up to 2TB in extra storage.

Tefal Actifry Express

$399

The Tefal Actifry Express cooks food at the optimal temperature of 180 deg C for
faster cooking while preserving the food's nutritional value.

It has an electric temperature sensor and comes with a handy snack basket for
items such as nuggets, fish fingers and croquettes. There are three convenient
preset menu functions for vegetables (15min), poultry (20min), and French fries
(30min). A manual timer function is also available.

Sony a6300

$1,479 (body only)

Sony's new flagship APS-C-sized mirrorless camera is finally here. The Sony
a6300 packs a newly developed 24.2-megapixel Exmor APS-C CMOS image sensor with
Sony's Bionz X image processing engine. It is able to shoot up to 11 frames per
second and offers 4K video recording in Super 35mm format.

It is also equipped with the world's fastest autofocusing (AF) system, according
to Sony. This system has 425 phase-detection AF points - the highest number of
AF points currently found in any interchangeable lens camera.

Lifetrak R420

$159

The Lifetrak R420 is a fitness tracker that allows you to measure your heart
rate by simply touching a button, or by using a heart rate monitor chest strap
(sold separately) for a more accurate reading.

It can also track your daily physical activities by measuring your steps taken,
distance walked and even workouts. Sleep is automatically monitored as well. The
R420 is water resistant to a depth of 30m and can last one year on a coin
battery, so you can wear it all the time.

Innergie PowerGear ICE 65

$89

If your petite Ultrabook is saddled with a big and heavy power adapter, the
Innergie PowerGear ICE 65 can help.

This 65W universal laptop power adapter weighs only 130g and takes up minimal
space at only 7cm high and 4.3cm thick. It comes with six power tips that allow
it to charge most laptops such as Toshiba, Asus, Acer, Dell, Lenovo and HP.

Furthermore, you can add the Innergie WizardTip ($19) to gain a USB port with a
2.4A power output to charge mobile devices while you charge your laptop.

New Balance Fresh Foam Zante v2

$169

Designed for runners with a neutral foot strike, the New Balance Fresh Foam
Zante v2 features an aggressive toe spring for quick transition during the gait
cycle. In other words, it is meant for speed.

The patterned mesh upper offers flexible support, while its bootie construction
provides an extremely snug fit. Yet, cushioning is still ample thanks to a newly
designed Fresh Foam midsole.

Compiled by Trevor Tan

