
DATELINE: New York



 Kansas: Sprint Corporation has issued the following Press release:



   This weekend, consider stopping by a local Sprint store for an exceptional
experience that will provide top-notch customer service, the opportunity to save
50% on most competitor rate plans and other fun, noteworthy promotions. Check
out the highlights below and make sure to visit your local Sprint store to learn
more about how #SprintSaysThanks.







     50% Off: With Sprint's super-fast LTE Plus Network, it's a great time to
give Sprint a try. Customers can save big on rate plans by switching to Sprint
and taking advantage of the biggest wireless offer in U.S. history. Customers
can switch to Sprint and get 50 percent off most Verizon, AT&T and T-Mobile rate
plans.1 In addition, Sprint will cover switching fees up to $650 per line.2



     LG G5: For a limited time, new and existing Sprint customers get a monthly
service credit equal to the cost of a second device monthly installment payment
when you get two LG G5 phones. That's right &ndash; a FREE LG G5!3



     Amazon Prime: Sprint is including a 12-month Amazon Prime membership with
the Amazon Better Choice XXL plan. Customers get 40GB of high-speed data to
share and unlimited talk and text &ndash; double the shared high-speed data of
Verizon for the same price.4 This offer is available to new Sprint customers and
current customers who switch to the Amazon Better Choice XXL plan. With Better
Choice Plans, customers get unlimited talk and text and choose the amount of
sharable high-speed data and the number of lines needed for their family.



     30 Day Guarantee: Now is the perfect time to try Sprint and its 30-Day
Satisfaction Guarantee.5 If you're not completely satisfied, Sprint will refund
your money. No gimmicks, it's that simple.



     Phoenix area stores: In the Phoenix area, Sprint stores will donate 10% of
accessory sales to the family of slain Phoenix police officer, David Glasser.
Select locations will also be serving shaved ice and ice cream throughout the
day. Follow @Sprint4Arizona for more information.



     Check out your local Sprint stores for more special deals and offers. For
example, some stores in the West region are offering $50-$100 activation credits
on new lines of service on Sat. May 28.







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

