
DATELINE: Barcelona


Silicon giant Qualcomm is enabling three of the big announcements at the annual
Mobile World Congress (MWC) this year, including the much anticipated Samsung
Galaxy S7, the modular LG G5 and the enterprise oriented HP Elite X3. These
devices are all powered by the new Snapdraon 820 processor, which Qualcomm
claims will usher in never before seen efficiencies in how data ecosystems and
speeds.

Steve Mollenkopf, chief executive officer of Qualcomm Incorporated, said
smartphone technologies were already spilling over into other fields and 5G will
be taking 4G to scale with a strong product perspective.

Cristiano Amon, executive vice president of Qualcomm Technologies and president
of Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT), said with Snapdragon 820 VR use cases will
become very real and future versions will even enable desktop scenarios. "The
importance of timing the audio and visual is very high in VR," added Mollenkopf.

Qualcomm is also ushing in the Snapdragon X16 Modem, which will for the first
time usher in Gigabit speed LTE, in the second half of this year. Peter Carson,
senior director of marketing, says while the first products will be Wi-Fi
routers by the end of this year, smartphones can be expected to run the modem in
the near future. "That is tougher because of the form factor and thermal
footprint," he says, adding that competitors are clearly playing catch up with
Qualcomm on LTE.

Meanwhile, Sony surprised everyone by announcing a bunch of new phones, the
Xperia X, Xperia X Performance, Xperia X Premium and Xperia XA. The Xperia XA
runs a MediaTek processor and might come to India as a budget offering, while
the Xperia X Premium apparently runs a Snapdragon 820.

The showstoppers clearly are the Samsung Galaxy S7 and LG G5 launched on Sunday.
The most crowds are lining up to see these two new phone. The LG G5 is clearly
the more innovative of the two ushering in the option of adding modular
appendages improve audio quality, camera results and battery life.

Lenovo, meanwhile, showcased the Vibe K5 and Vibe K5 Plus which can be expected
to hit the Indian market soon. The company is already the third largest
smartphone manufacturer in India along with Motorola and is expected to
strengthen its offering in the $150-range with these new phones.

One little-known device that could have a lot of promise is the Ozo 360-degree
camera from Nokia which will be the first professional grade VR camera. Price
upwards of $60,000, the cameras could find widespread use in the movie industry,
according to the Finnish technology company which is exploring new avenues since
selling its smartphone business to Microsoft. Given that Samsung beamed its
Galaxy S7 launch event on Sunday in VR, we can now assume that VR has finally
gone mainstream.

Trvel for this report was sponsored by Qualcomm

