

It features a 5.2 inch disaply, 1.14GHz octa-core processor, 2GB RAM, Android
6.0 Marshmallow OS, 16GB internal storage, 13mp + 5MP rear camera, 8MP front
camera, 2520 maAh battery and has 4G connectivity

LG Electronics India Limited (LGEIL), on Friday announced the launch of its
latest smartphone, LG X Cam in India. The X Cam is designed to deliver
exceptional value to those who want a smartphone with a unique feature such as a
Dual camera, that too at an affordable price. Like the LG G5, the X cam inherits
a similar 120-degree wide angle lens to complement the standard lens. The 13MP
standard angle lens and the 5MP wide angle camera on the rear of the X cam
delivers as wide a field of view as the human eye, basically it captures 53%
more area than the traditional cameras on the smartphones.

The X cam offers Pop-out Picture feature which combines the two images taken
with the standard and wide angle lenses to create a picture-in-a-frame effect.
Available only on the X cam & Panorama View automatically scrolls a wide image
instead of a static image and the Signature feature allows users to add a
caption or byline after taking a photo.

"With X Cam, we are giving consumers a Dual camera smartphone at a reasonable
price point. We are sure that the Indian consumers will like the very rare in
smartphones, 'wide angle' feature, something that has been inherited from our
premium smartphone LG G5. This 'wide angle' photography would be a unique
experience in this segment and consumers shall surely embrace this new
experience, which otherwise is possible only with nature gifted eyes," said Amit
Gujral, Marketing Head - Mobiles, LG India.

LG X Screen will be priced in India at Rs. 19,990 and will be available from
today across stores in India.

X cam Key Specifications:

* Display: 5.2-inch FHD In-cell Touch

* Chipset: 1.14GHz Octa-Core

* Camera: (Rear) 13MP Standard Lens / 5MP Wide Angle Lens and (Front) 8MP

* Memory: 2GB RAM / 16GB ROM

* Battery: 2520 mAh

* Operating System: Android 6.0 Marshmallow

* Size: 147.5 x 73.6 x 6.9mm

* Network: LTE

* Colors: Titan Silver

