
DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, March 11 -- LG Electronics bagged a total of 33 awards at the Mobile
World Congress (MWC) 2016 held recently in Barcelona, Spain.

LG's amazing G5 Smartphone alone amassed 21 major awards including the events
top honour - the "Best Mobile Handsets and Devices Award", securing LG's status
as the most honoured company at the show. With an estimated 100,000 attendees,
the MWC 2016 is considered to be the industry's keystone event.

The awards ceremony recognized the Modular Type innovation behind LG's latest
flagship smartphone, the LG G5 and Friends, demonstrating how the company is in
the forefront of mobile communications. LG G5 and Friends earned top honours
from Android Authority, Digital Trends, Trusted Reviews and Ubergizmo, among
others.

"The initial response to our new LG G5 has been phenomenal and rewards the
effort our experts have made to create something genuinely innovative and unique
in the smartphone category," said Juno Cho, president and CEO of LG Electronics
Mobile Communications Company and added, "The G5 and its Friends modules are
aimed at giving consumers a more playful smartphone experience and these awards
suggest that we have offered something truly different in the market."

The 21 Awards amassed by LG G5 are Best Mobile Handsets and Devices (GSMA),
Major Revelacao (4gnews), Best Smartphone (Alphr), Best of MWC 2016 (Android
Authority), MWC Top Pick (Android Central), Best Innovation (Android Pit), MWC
2016 Winner (BGR), Most Innovative (Chip Chick), Best Innovation (Computer
Bild), Top Tech of 2016 (Digital Trends), Best of Innovation/Best Smartphone
(Expert Reviews), Best of Innovation/Best Smartphone (Know Your Mobile),
Editor's Choice (Men's Health), Best Smartphone/Most Innovative Company
(MobileGeeks), Best Smartphone/Best Accessory (Slashgear), Best in Show
(Techradar), Best of MWC (Tom's Guide), Best of MWC (Tom's Hardware), Best of
MWC 2016 (Trusted Reviews), Best of MWC (Ubergizmo).

Abans, the sole agent in Sri Lanka for LG Smartphones, will officially launch
the multi award winning LG G5 Smartphone in the upcoming months. The World's
best smartphone 2016 will soon be available at all Abans Showrooms and selected
key partners with unmatched offer for credit card holders and other customers.
LG G5 will be on 0% interest at Abans Showrooms islandwide.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

