

LG Electronics plans to unveil its premium smartphone V20 on Sept. 6 in San
Francisco, a day before Apple takes the wraps off its new iPhone in the same
city.

The Seoul-based company strives to gain some footing in the global smartphone
competition with the successor of the V10, which was quite a success in global
markets including the United States over the past year.

'The V20 is rich in features. It will be armed with a 32-bit quad
digital-to-analog converter designed for improved high-resolution music playback
for the first time ever. It will also be the first mobile device powered by
Android 7.0,' an LG official said.

'We also continued our partnership with Bang & Olufsen so that the V20 will have
best-in-class audio functions. On the back of such advantages, we are confident
that the new model will be a hit.'

The official refused to reveal other details about the V20 including its price.

Earlier this week, Apple sent official invitations to its introduction of the
iPhone 7, which is expected to be water-resistant, taking place in San
Francisco. The firm vies to retake its lost market share with the new gizmo. But
observers question whether the iPhone 7 has fancier applications and specs than
previous versions.

This is not the first time for LG to take a similar strategy - this February the
outfit disclosed the G5 on the same day that its cross-city rival Samsung
Electronics launched the Galaxy S7.

The outcome was not good because the G5 failed to make a dent in the industry
while the Galaxy S7 was a grand slam, greatly boosting Samsung's bottom line and
share price.

It remains to be seen whether LG will be able to make a difference this time
around, market watchers point out.

'Some may say that LG's unpacking day of the V20 is perilously close to that of
Apple's day. But what is important is not the date but the functionality of the
new device,' said a Seoul analyst who asked not to be named.

'LG seems to be quite convinced of the V20's success because its predecessor V10
did well in the U.S.'

When it debuted last September, the V10 sold 450,000 units in its first 45 days
in the U.S. alone, as the gadget attracted customers there on the strength of
its advanced video-audio capabilities and affordable price.

LG had been one of the top-tier players in the global handset market but it
lagged behind such stellar sellers as Samsung and Apple as it did not invest in
smartphones in the late 2000s.

The company is working to catch up with industry leaders but has not come up
with its own killer phone yet.

