

May 24 -- Beginning today, LG Electronics' (LG) customers in the US can get
their hands on the highly anticipated LG G5 "Friends" companion devices,
including the LG CAM Plus, LG 360 CAM, LG 360 VR and LG TONE PlatinumTM on LG.
com. The recently launched LG G5 smartphone showcases a new modular design that
lets owners easily add LG Friends to transform the G5 into a DSLR-inspired
camera, mobile virtual reality viewer and even a 360 video camera.

The LG Friends are available now via major US carriers and at retail locations
as well as the expanded LG online store - a destination to find great products
that help customers get the most out of their favorite LG smartphones. LG.com
will also serve as a way to order LG G5 batteries and new charging cradles in
the coming weeks - which can be used to charge the G5. In addition, the online
store offers batteries and charging cradles for beloved products such as the LG
G3, LG G4, and LG V10*.

For a limited time only, the store will be rewarding loyal customers with
several promotions to celebrate some of LG's most successful products and
innovations. Consumers can take advantage of deep discounts including up to 70
percent off MSRP for, G4 and V10 battery and charger bundles starting for as low
as $20.**

"The LG 'Friends' make the G5 so much more than any other phone on the market.
It is the future of smartphone technology, but available today," said Morris
Lee, President of LG Electronics Mobile USA and Head of North America Mobile
Business. "With the updated online destination, we are offering our customers
yet another way to take ad- vantage of unique LG innovations - from the G5
modular design to the removable bat- tery feature found in the G4 and V10."

Life's Good When You Play More

The LG G5 features an all-new sleek, metal alloy body but a modular-type design
that let's you add LG Friends and transform the G5 into a DSLR-inspired camera,
mobile virtual reality viewer and 360 video camera. As part of the ecosystem, LG
Friends aim to deliver fun while providing a new mobile experience far beyond
traditional smartphone boundaries. Connecting the LG Friends to LG G5, the LG
Friends app is the hub that allows the smartphone to connect with the LG Friends
with minimal effort. The LG Friends app detects nearby LG Friends and connects
in three simple steps, eliminat- ing much of the hassle of pairing devices.

LG plans to launch additional LG Friends in the coming weeks and months,
including companion devices created by third party developers. Current Friends
****include:

LG CAM Plus - A versatile camera module that can be attached to the LG G5 to
deliver the comfortable grip and convenient control as found on a standard
camera. The LG CAM Plus provides physical buttons for power, shutter, record,
zoom and a battery LED indicator. What's more, the LG G5 also offers intuitive
auto focus and exposure lock, features usually found on standalone digital
cameras that photography enthusiasts using the CAM Plus can enjoy. The CAM Plus
also features an embedded battery, which ensures that owners can shoot more
videos and photos when the module is at- tached to the LG G5.

LG 360 CAM - A compact 360-degree angle camera that can be easily connected to
the LG G5 via Bluetooth and through the LG Friends app, allowing users to create
360- degree photos and videos. It's equipped with two 13MP 200-degree wide angle
camer- as and a 1,200mAh battery. The LG 360 CAM provides 2K video and 5.1
surround channel recording on three microphones to help users effortlessly
create high-quality 360-degree content. The images can be viewed on the LG G5,
the LG 360 VR or other smartphones and devices that are capable of displaying
360-degree content. The LG 360 CAM app is supported on Android 5.0 Lollipop or
later and iOSTM 8 or later.

LG 360 VR - A VR goggle that can be connected with the G5 via a dedicated cable
to view 360 content and even simulate a viewing experience of a 130-inch TV from
two meters away. It has a stylish design that is foldable so that users can
easily carry and watch VR content. Unlike other VR devices, the LG 360 VR does
not require a smartphone to be inserted into the device and it weighs only 118g
(4.16 ounces) - one- third the weight of competing VR goggles. The device is
compatible with 360-degree images and videos captured with LG 360 CAM as well as
Google Cardboard and YouTube 360 content.

Disclaimer: The full PDF release can be found at (http://www.lg.
com/us/PDF/press-release/LG_Mobile_G5_
Friends_Companion_Devices_Press_Release_FINAL_05_24_16.pdf).

Source: LG Electronics USA

