

Barcelona | At an event held at the International Convention Centre in Barcelona
last Sunday night, Samsung created what it said was the largest virtual reality
happening in history, handing out thousands of virtual reality headsets and
asking everyone to don them at the same time.

The event, part of the Mobile World Congress, was to launch Samsung's latest
flagship phone, the Galaxy S7. Customers quick to pre-order the phone were told
they would get the same virtual reality headset, known as a Gear VR, free of
charge.

That same weekend, the low-cost mobile phone maker Alcatel announced that its
latest phone, the Idol 4, would come encased in a virtual reality headset as
part of its packaging.

HTC, another phone maker, announced pricing and availability for its highly
anticipated virtual reality headset, the HTC Vive. And LG announced a virtual
reality headset known as the LG 360 VR, which will be a companion device for its
new G5 flagship phone.

At the Samsung happening, Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder and CEO of Facebook,
snuck on to the stage while everyone was distracted by the alternate reality in
their VR headsets and said that he expected 360-degree video, which you need a
virtual reality headset to watch, would become the dominant way people will
share videos on Facebook in years to come.

You could be forgiven for thinking that the mobile telecommunications industry's
biggest trade show was all about virtual reality this year. But in actual
reality, it was not.

With Apple commanding almost all of the profits in the mobile phone industry -
analysts at Canaccord Genuity estimate that Apple accounted for 91 per cent of
reported profit in the phone industry last year, despite selling only 17.2 per
cent of phones - this year's Mobile World Congress was all about turning the
public's attention away from just mobile phones and towards the growing
ecosystem of products and services that surround a mobile phone, where the rest
of the phone industry hopes it can start making money.

Virtual reality is an easy-to-sell, low-cost part of the ecosystem (most VR
headsets that work with mobile phones are little more than two lenses in a
case), but it's far from the whole story.

LG, which like most Android phone makers has struggled to find an audience for
its phones, launched its 360 VR headset as just part of a new ecosystem play it
called "Friends". Other LG Friends include a phone-controlled robot, the Rolling
Bot, and an attachment for phones that makes it easier to control drones.

So keen is LG on building a profitable ecosystem around its phones that it even
made the G5 modular, with a bottom end that snaps off to accommodate other
Friends such as a camera grip and an audio amplifier made by Bang & Olufsen.

Sony, which has a virtual reality headset for its PlayStation games console,
announced an even more drastic pivot for its struggling mobile phone business.
Rather than just build devices around the mobile phone, it's hoping to overcome
the lack of profitability in the sector by not just modularising the phone, but
deconstructing the notion of the phone and devolving its functions back into a
new ecosystem of products.

At the show, Sony announced a suite of new devices, starting with the Xperia Ear
but eventually going on to include the Xperia Eye, the Xperia Projector and the
Xperia Agent, which are designed to literally take the focus off the smartphone.

Rather than having to look at the screen of a phone to get the weather, for
instance, consumers wearing Sony's Xperia Ear, an earpiece designed to be worn
all day, will be told the weather forecast automatically by a voice in their
ear. The first generation of Sony's devices will need to be paired with a mobile
phone in order to retrieve information such as weather forecasts and incoming
messages, but Sony officials told AFR Weekend that later versions will probably
have their own connection direct to the internet, avoiding the need for a phone
altogether for certain functions we now think of as smartphone functions.

That part of Sony's plan could take years to execute, however, because it's
likely it would need new, so-called 5G phone networks, which are designed to
work with a multitude of low-cost, low-power devices, not just smartphones.

Telstra said it would trial a 5G phone network at the Commonwealth Games on the
Gold Coast in 2018. Although, of course, if the efforts to take the spotlight
away from the smartphone are successful, we won't think of it as a phone network
by then. It will be a network for all manner of things.

The smartphone, if it still exists as we now know it, will just be one of them.

John Davidson attended Mobile World Congress as a guest of Samsung.

