

Brace yourself. You are about to be inundated with smartphones, tablets, virtual
reality and everything in between when the Mobile World Congress kicks off in
Barcelona next week.

It is the annual global trade show where manufacturers spruik all things telco
and showcase their newest technology. But it could be renamed CEO Central, given
the number of chief executives listed as keynote speakers.

They include Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook), Chuck Robbins (Cisco), Hans Vestberg
(Ericsson), Simon Segars (ARM), Mark Fields (Ford), Guo Ping (Huawei), Brian
Krzanich (Intel) and Dan Schulman (PayPal).

There's a handful of Australian firms exhibiting as well: Crowd Mobile,
Insightus, Leadbolt, Netcomm Wireless, and Novatti. Top-notch executives of
Optus, Telstra, Vodafone and Australian representatives of global communications
firms like Cisco, Ericsson and Huawei should be there in spades.

The hottest topic of discussion will be 5G with telcos keen to promote their
plans for fifth-generation cellular networks. The conversation will focus on
standardising 5G before the tech is rolled out in 2020. Mobile payments, which
are quickly becoming mainstream, should be another discussion point.

Project Beyond In the smartphone space the excitement is building around
Samsung's S7 and S7 Edge, and the LG G5. But the show could be -stolen by
virtual-reality cameras and headsets and the tech that links them.

Samsung may release its long-anticipated 360-degree camera, first showcased in
November 2014 as "Project Beyond". It's understood to be now called Gear 360. It
will let users shoot vision and view it with Samsung's VR virtual--reality
headset.

SamMobile, a community site that shadows Samsung, says it has indirectly
confirmed the launch. As best we know, Gear 360 consists of two 180-degree
fisheye -lenses and offers a maximum resolution of 3840x1920. Video samples on
the thinktankteam.com site have crisp resolution, something hard to sustain over
360 degrees.

With competing 360-degree cameras in market, and with interest in virtual
reality cameras heightening with the HTC Vive, Oculus Rift and PlayStation VR
headsets, Samsung will need to get Project Beyond to market soon.

New Chinese contender We may also see fascinating connected drone technology.
China's Xiaomi, slated as the world's fourth-largest smartphone vendor, will be
at the congress for the first time.

It has confirmed it will release its Mi5 smartphone. But there are reports it
may unveil a Mi Drone, which can be controlled from your wrist by an Mi fitness
band. But it may not materialise as there have been concerns it closely
resembles a drone made by Shenzhen's DJI.

Smartphones that wirelessly link with fitness bands, 360--degree VR headsets and
cameras that let you create your own -virtual-reality vision should be a
fascinating theme.

On another front, we'll see more phones that offer biometric identification as
an alternative to passwords, and more devices with USB Type-C connectors.
Switching to USB Type-C will annoy users, but the benefit is faster connectivity
and using the same port for charging and transferring data on a notebook and
laptop.

As usual, Samsung, LG and other vendors will supply much of the news from MWC.
Samsung could release four versions of the S7 but now the money is on two: an S7
with a 5.1 or 5.2-inch display and a larger S7 Edge with a 5.5 or 5.7-inch
display.

Rumours persist the microSD card slot will be restored, that the S7 may have a
Quad HD (2560x1440) AMOLED display, and that the main camera's resolution will
be 12 megapixels instead of 16.

There's less certainty now about the S7 distinguishing a hard press from a
softer one, a feature on the iPhone 6s called 3D touch.

LG is understood to have preferred wrapping its G5 in metal rather than leather.
It is expected to have a 5.3-inch Quad HD display and a second display - a
ticker across the top of the phone. It is all but confirmed the G5 will have an
"always on" feature that shows the alerts, date and time in monochrome even when
the screen is technically off.

The G5 may have a "magic slot", where you can swap in a replaceable battery, a
keyboard, camera module or connector to a VR device. Given the fashion trend is
for super-thin phones, it's hard to know whether the slot is more imagination
than magic. But there is reason to believe the phone will allow selected pieces
of hardware to automatically pair with it and a 360-degree camera is believed to
be one of them.

HTC, which launched the One M9 last year at Barcelona, is expected to delay the
One M10 until March. Instead it will concentrate on promoting the HTC Vive VR
headset.

Sony is likely to launch an -Xperia Z6 tablet, and maybe a new smartwatch. An
Xperia Z6 smartphone is unlikely given the Japanese firm is still rolling out
the Z5 in some markets.

Huawei will launch a device at MWC but whether it's another smartwatch, notebook
or new premium phone such as the P9 range is unknown. If last year is a guide,
the P9 will launch around April.It is no secret that Alcatel will launch its
Idol 4 and Idol 4S phones and there are reports the packaging will double as
virtual- reality goggles.

