
DATELINE: Lahore



 New York: Moody's Investors Service has issued the following news release:



   Moody's Investors Service says LG Electronics Inc.'s (LGE, Baa3 negative) 1Q
2016 results showed operational improvements, but have no immediate impact on
the company's Baa3 issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings, the (P)Baa3 senior
unsecured MTN rating of its Medium Term Note Program rating, and the negative
rating outlook.





 "LGE improved its operating margins to 3.8% in 1Q 2016 from 2.4% in 4Q 2015,
despite persistently tough market conditions," says Joe Morrison, a Moody's Vice
President and Senior Credit Officer.



 The company's home appliance and air solution (H&A) division reported a
4.1-percentage-point increase in operating margins quarter-on-quarter to 9.7%,
as a result of favorable raw material prices and an improved product mix.



 Moreover, its home entertainment (HE) division reported a 5.4-percentage-point
increase in operating margins quarter-on-quarter to 7.7% due to increased sales
of its premium products, as well as decreased costs due to falling panel prices.




 The improved performances of its H&A and HE divisions were partially offset by
the loss in LGE's mobile communications (MC) division, caused in turn by lower
shipments and marketing expenses related to the launch of its G5 mobile phone.



 Moody's expects the profitability in its MC division to improve in 2Q 2016 due
to the strong sales outlook for the G5 model.



 "Despite the solid results at LGE in 1Q 2016, the weak performance at its
37.9%-owned subsidiary LG Display Co., Ltd (LGD, unrated) continues to drag on
LGE's credit profile," adds Morrison, who is also the lead analyst for LGE.



 LG Display reported a 95% year-on-year decline in operating income to KRW40
billion in 1Q 2016 from KRW744 billion in 1Q 2015 as a result of continued
declines in panel pricing. As a result, LGD's reported operating margins fell to
0.7% from 10.6% during the same period.



 According to management, panel prices have started to stabilize in 2Q 2016.
Nevertheless, Moody's expects LGD's profitability to remain pressured over the
next 12 months due to the current supply/demand imbalance in the LCD panel
market and persistent and growing competition from Chinese manufacturers which
have a lower cost base.



 As a result of LGD's weakened profitability, Moody's estimates that LGE's
adjusted debt/EBITDA -- including the pro rata consolidation of LGD -- increased
modestly to 2.8x for the 12 months ended March 2016 from 2.6x in 2015.



 The increase in financial leverage is largely in line with expectations and
positions the company at the weak end of the Baa3 rating category.



 If LGE can demonstrate its ability to improve profitability on a sustained
basis, while also limiting earnings erosion at LGD, this development will be
positive for its rating and outlook.



 The principal methodology used in these ratings was Consumer Durables Industry
published in September 2014. Please see the Ratings Methodologies page on
www.moodys.com for a copy of this methodology.



 LG Electronics Inc. is a leading consumer electronics company that makes
diversified products, including refrigerators, washing machines, air
conditioners, TVs, mobile phones, and vehicle components. LG Display Co., Ltd.
is a leading manufacturer of thin-film transistor liquid crystal display
(TFT-LCD) panels, OLEDs and flexible displays.



 This publication does not announce a credit rating action. For any credit
ratings referenced in this publication, please see the ratings tab on the
issuer/entity page on www.moodys.com for the most updated credit rating action
information and rating history.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



