

MORE than 900 million smartphone handsets could be susceptible to hacking
attacks after a group of researchers found a major security loophole in their
software.

A team investigating software pre-installed on processors made by US firm
Qualcomm found that glitches in code on software could open the door to hackers.

This could potentially lead to your phone - and the data and personal info
stored within it - being compromised by 'malicious apps'.

This sort of thing is an increasing worry in a world where we live more and more
of our lives through our phone. So what you can do to protect your valuable
personal information from hackers, and what can you do if your phone is
compromised? WHICH PHONES ARE AFFECTED? BlackBerry Priv and Dtek50 Blackphone 1
and Blackphone 2 Google Nexus 5X, Nexus 6 and Nexus 6P HTC One, HTC M9 and HTC
10 LG G4, LG G5, and LG V10 New Moto X by Motorola OnePlus One, OnePlus 2 and
OnePlus 3 Samsung Galaxy S7 and Samsung S7 Edge (but US versions only) Sony
Xperia Z Ultra HOW BIG IS THE RISK? ALTHOUGH there is currently no evidence that
any online thieves have been exploiting the weak spots identified, Michael
Shaulov, head of mobility product management at Checkpoint, the company that
found the bugs, has warned that it's only a matter of time: "I'm pretty sure you
will see these vulnerabilities being used in the next three to four months," he
told the BBC recently.

THE FIX IS IN... QUALCOMM (the maker of the vulnerable chipsets) has created
fixes (otherwise known as patches) for the potential holes in its defences and
passed these on to phone companies and network operators.

What's unclear is how many of these have actually updated their customers'
phones... HOW TO CHECK IF YOU'RE VULNERABLE THERE are a few things that you can
do to make sure your data is safe.

¦ Make sure your phone is as up to date as possible by checking that you have
the latest version of your operating system installed ¦ Get in touch with the
manufacturer of your phone, your network operator or whoever sold you your phone
and find out if they've issued the correct updates ¦ If not, make sure you ask
them to take remedial action as soon as possible ¦ Only install apps you're sure
are fully legitimate ¦ Monitor. The most likely negative outcome from your phone
being compromised will be the theft of personal details... so if you notice any
unusual transactions on your bank account - act quickly.

¦ JAMES Walker is the founder of online complaintresolution service
www.Resolver.co.uk Follow James via @resolvercouk, or email James@resolver.co.uk

