

LG Electronics (LG) unveiled its highly anticipated LG G5 smartphone that
delivers greater smartphone experience. Encased in a sleek metal aluminum body
and slide-out battery, the LG G5 surpasses the visual experience of its
predecessor, the LG G4.

"The new LG G5 rediscovers the true joy of a mobile life," said Juno Cho,
president and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "The G5 and
LG Friends are the result of many experts inside LG asking themselves if it was
still possible to be innovative and unique in the smartphone space. I think once
customers spend a little time with the LG G5, their answer will be a resounding
yes".

"LG today is shaking the smart mobiles market with a revolutionary attractive
smartphone; the LG G5", said Eddie Jun, President of LG Electronics Saudi
Arabia. He added: "The consumer will enjoy high-quality smartphone at affordable
prices and many entertaining features not found on any other phones on the
market.  Our goal is to be on the top smartphone makers in the world with proven
products that fulfill our brand promise to make consumers' lives easier."

LG's innovative Modular Type design gives LG G5 the ability to transform into a
digital camera, Hi-Fi player and more. The LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O PLAY is an
innovative portable Hi-Fi DAC audio player developed in collaboration with B&O
PLAY to enjoy top-notch sounds.  LG G5 has two cameras on the rear: one with a
standard 78-degree lens and another with a 135-degree wide angle lens, the
widest available in any smartphone.  The LG G5 features a collection of powerful
photo effects including Pop-out Picture, Film Effect and Auto Shot.

The 5.3-inch Quad HD IPS Quantum display offers an Always-on feature, the first
on a main smartphone display that requires only 0.8 percent of the battery's
full capacity per hour to operate. Another advanced display feature is Daylight
Mode, which gives the G5 exceptional outdoor visibility. LG 360 VR is a VR
goggle that can be connected with the G5 via a dedicated cable and works
exclusively with the G5 to simulate a 130-inch TV viewed from two meters away.
It has a foldable stylish design to easily carry and watch VR content anytime,
anywhere. LG 360 CAM is a compact 360-degree angle camera with two 13MP
200-degree wide-angle cameras, 1,200mAh battery and 4 GB internal memory; which
can be supplemented by a microSD card.

The LG Rolling Bot captures images and videos with its embedded 8MP camera,
while LG Tone PlatinumTM is a Bluetooth headset that has earned the Harman
Kardon Platinum grade for its superior sound quality. H3 by B&O PLAY is a set of
active noise cancelling high-end earphones compatible with the high-quality
sound of the LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O PLAY. Through the LG Smart Controller you
check the video stream from the drone through the LG G5 in real time.

Only available in the LG G5, Friends Manager allows G5 to connect with LG
Friends with minimal fuss and effort. LG G5 offers many other innovations
including the powerful yet energy-efficient Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor
offering advanced features such as 64-bit performance, Adreno 530 graphics and
lower-power Hexagon DSP as well as Qualcomm Spectra[TM] 14-bit dual image signal
processors (ISPs) with high resolution DSLR-quality images and additional power
savings.

There is also the aptX HD: 24-bit Hi-Fi Wireless Audio that delivers rich and
clear sound.  LG G5 also offers Qualcomm Quick Charge 3.0 for incredibly fast
charging, it is 27% faster and 45% more efficient than the previous generation.
LG G5 has excellent battery life; enhancing the battery efficiency by as much as
41.9 percent.  - SG

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/37/145692158495.jpg

LG Friends

