
DATELINE: TORONTO


TORONTO - LG Electronics and Nortel Networks are forming a $290 million US joint
venture in South Korea to develop and supply telecommunications equipment and
networks for global customers as part of Brampton, Ont.-based Nortel's strategy
to expand its presence further into Asia.

Nortel (TSX:NT) will own 50 per cent plus one share in the joint venture, while
paying $145 million, contributing its South Korean distribution and services
business and "other non-monetary consideration," the companies said in a
release.

Seoul-based LG Electronics will be entitled to payments over a two-year period
based on achievement by the joint venture of certain business goals.

The venture, tentatively named LG-Nortel Co. Ltd., will combine the telecom
infrastructure business of LG Electronics and the distribution and service
business of Nortel in South Korea.

The companies signed a memorandum of understanding on the joint venture in
January. Closing of the deal is expected by year-end.

It is the latest in a series of Nortel moves to gain a stronger foothold in the
Asia Pacific region, said Albert Lin, an analyst with American Technology
Research in San Francisco.

"Even though it's based in Korea, it's really all about how to use the
opportunity in China," Lin said.

The Chinese government has long delayed issuing third-generation mobile phone
technology licences as it evaluates the performance of its own TD-SCDMA
technology, Lin said. The Nortel-LG venture could give the firms a long-term
strategic position to move on Chinese developments.

"In the near-term, it's not very significant," Lin said. "The only way it could
be a near-term impacting item is if suddenly China were to make an announcement
on its 3G licences and set that entire nationwide buildup in motion."

Nortel signed a deal in June to upgrade the network of China's largest wireless
carrier, China Mobile, in Zhejiang province. It has also pursued growth
aggressively in India, which has one of the world's fastest-growing economies.
In April, Nortel paid $10 million for a stake in Sasken Communication
Technologies Ltd. to develop new software and deploy Nortel's networking
technology in the country.

The agreement was signed Tuesday in Seoul by Bill Owens, Nortel's vice-chairman
and chief executive, and S.S. Kim, CEO and vice-chairman of LG Electronics. Kim
said LG Electronics' research and development expertise and Nortel's global
presence "will make this joint venture a top-ranking player in the
telecommunications equipment market."

The companies said they plan to nominate J. R. Lee of LG Electronics to be chief
executive of the joint venture while Nortel's Paul House will be chief operating
officer.

