

LG Electronics' mobile chief Cho Juno introduces its 5.7-inch premium handset ?
the V10 ? at its launch in Seoul, Oct. 1 in 2015. / Courtesy of LG
ElectronicsCompany hopes to reboud with Android 7.0 OS

The first half of the year could not have been more challenging for LG
Electronics' mobile unit, with its modular handset - the G5 - failing to reach
the sales expected.

The flagship handset started with great fanfare upon its introduction in March,
with customers praising LG's braveness to tap into the risky unconventional
handset ecosystem.

But it didn't take long for the company to realize that the handset ended in
failure. In early July, LG Electronics announced its corporate reshuffle,
replacing some executives in its mobile communication (MC) division. The move
came as the firm hoped to give fresh momentum to the ailing mobile unit
following the poor performance of the new flagship smartphone.

The company then created a program management office (PMO), directly-controlled
by its mobile unit chief Cho Juno. LG previously explained that the new
organization manages whole processes for its flagship handset business, ranging
from product planning, marketing to sales.

LG is launching two flagship smartphone lineups - the G and V series - each year
since the firm first unveiled the 5.7-inch premium handset, V10, last October.
The LG mobile chief previously said the move came as part of its revenue
diversification strategy by launching two flagship lineups - with the G series
in the first half of the year and the V lineup in the latter half.

Amid growing market uncertainty, the company on Monday unveiled its plan to
launch the new V series, V20, in September, with no specific timeline included.

'The V20 is designed to offer optimum multimedia experience for users,' said an
LG Electronics spokesman.

The company said in a statement that the new handset comes with the latest
Android operating system (OS), Android 7.0 Nougat. LG said the decision reflects
its strong partnership with Google, with both parties previously agreeing to
exchange patents until 2023.

The LG mobile chief said in the statement: 'The V20 is our first device to equip
the up-to-date Android OS.' He said the company hopes to set a new standard for
the premium device market with the enhanced multimedia functionality of the V20.

Late last month, the company said in a regulatory filing that it will strengthen
functionalities in video and audio for its new V series, as the V10 previously
won favorable market responses for its dual-selfie camera and dual-screen.

An industry source said: 'LG appears to have decided to introduce the new
flagship handset earlier than expected, as the company should brace for fierce
competition against other new premium smartphones from Apple and Samsung.'

Samsung Electronics plans to launch its new premium handset - Galaxy Note 7 - in
New York, Tuesday. Apple's new iPhone series will also reportedly be unveiled in
September.

Meanwhile, the V10 won explosive market responses in the United States where the
company had sold more than 450,000 V10 handsets, only 45 days after its launch
there.

The achievement enabled the company to record a 35.7 percent U.S. market share
among smartphones with more than 5.7-inch display, according to market
researcher International Technology Group (ITG).

