

LG ELECTRONICS' latest flagship smartphone, the LG G5, sold over 15,000 units in
South Korea on its first launch day last March 31. Record- breaking sales
figures for the G5 far exceeded that of the LG G4, which kicked off its
phenomenal run with 5,000 units sold on the first day in South Korea, one of
Asia's leading smartphone markets.

The new smartphone, which features a unique modular design and compatibility
with a wide-range of innovative accessories, made a big splash at the Mobile
World Congress 2016. The G5 clinched the Best Mobile Handsets and Devices Award,
the top honor at the annual event held in Barcelona.

"The LG G5 and Friends were designed and developed to give our consumers a more
playful smartphone experience," said Jay Won, LG Philippines VP for Mobile
Communications. "Our strong sales figures recognize our efforts to bring a truly
unique innovation to the global market, and very soon, to the Philippine
smartphone scene."

With its unique modular design, the G5 allows users to take their mobile
experiences and tech needs to the next level. They can turn the device into a
camera with dedicated hardware and increased battery life, a high-fidelity music
player, or as the hub of the Friends-a collection of fun companion devices-with
the new digital eco-system LG Playground.

For the first time, LG's flagship comes with a set of Friends devices to suit
your lifestyle.

Among others, the LG CAM Plus turns the LG G5 to an instant digital camera.
Designed for a seamless experience for capturing photos, there's a dedicated
shutter button which allows users to half-press to automatically focus on a
subject before taking photos. It also has a dedicated knob which can control
zooming in and out, as well as effortlessly switching from its default 78-degree
normal lens rear camera to 135-degree wide angle lens. Simultaneously take
photos while shooting videos with LG CAM Plus' dedicated recording button. The
module also comes with an additional 1,200 mAh battery embedded, allowing users
to shoot photos and videos as much as they please.

LG Philippines will accept pre-orders starting April 18 until May 1, with the
devices rolling out as early as May 3.

