
DATELINE: CHICAGO

CHICAGO - Motorola Inc. is angling to get back into the television business, but
it plans to leave the manufacturing to somebody else.

The Schaumburg, Ill., company, which stopped making TVs three decades ago, is in
discussions with electronics makers in Europe and Asia about licensing
technology that Motorola claims will dramatically lower the cost of producing
large flat-panel screens.

The result: wall-mounted televisions, with screens one-inch thick and more than
50 inches diagonally, at a cost comparable to a standard 32-inch TV, according
to Motorola scientists.

The technology also can be used to produce much bigger displays, such as
billboards and stadium signs.

"The potential certainly is there for this type of technology to revolutionize
the way large screens are made," said Bob O'Donnell, director of personal
technology at research firm International Data Corp. in Massachusetts.

On the other hand, O'Donnell added, "This field is littered with broken
promises."

Indeed, Motorola is among those who have disappointed in the flat-panel arena.

In the mid-1990s, it geared up a factory in Tempe, Ariz., to manufacture small
flat-panel displays using a microchip technology, but the initiative was
abandoned after the technology ran into trouble. The factory closed in 2000,
though research continued.

Now Motorola aims to license technology developed by its applied research arm,
Motorola Labs, in the emerging field of carbon nanotechnology, which involves
manipulating tubes of carbon atoms.

The nano-sized tubes -- less than one-billionth of a metre -- fire off electrons
at material that emits red, green or blue light to produce colour displays. The
size and placement of the tubes controls quality.

Although prices are coming down, large flat-panel displays are still too
expensive for most households. A 50-inch plasma screen costs between $5,000 and
$8,000, according to research firm iSuppli/Stanford Resources.

Others are exploring nano-engineered screens, according to analysts, including
Korea's Samsung and LG.Philips LCD, a joint venture between LG Electronics and
LG Philips.

David Mentley, senior vice-president at iSuppli/Stanford Resources, said a
Japanese company manufactures large stadium displays using carbon nanotube
technology.

"Nothing I've seen seems to be quite as advanced as Motorola's (technology),"
said IDC's O'Donnell, "but to be fair, a lot of companies may not be willing to
discuss what they're doing."

Motorola's solution "looks to be impressive," he said, but the company has yet
to demonstrate that screens can be mass produced.

Another hurdle is finding a manufacturer willing to give up part of its existing
business by converting its production lines to handle the new technology.

Dawn McCraw, director of marketing for Motorola's advanced technology
businesses, said talks with manufacturers are "proceeding very well."

"We are ready to license this today," she said.

"We don't see any technology hurdles."

