

LG is a renowned name when it comes to consumer electronics. The South Korean
giant has a large portfolio of feature-laden products, ranging from smartphones
to refrigerators and action cameras to TVs. But in addition to that, LG is also
known for introducing unique mosquito repellent technology in many of its
electronic devices such as TVs and air conditioners.

The company recently launched its first TV having the same mosquito repellent
technology in India. Dubbed Mosquito Away, the TV is priced at Rs 26,990.

So is the LG Mosquito Away really capable of delivering a great TV watching
experience, while at the same time keeping mosquito away? We used the TV for a
few days, and here are our findings.

Design LG TVs are known for being well-designed and the Mosquito Away is no
exception, having an understatedly good design complete with a singular metallic
frame. The TV is quite slim and bezels around the screen are narrow as well,
thus making it appear larger. Mosquito Away TV can be either mounted on the wall
(via brackets) or propped on the stand.

The flexible mount makes it possible to adjust the TV as per your convenience.

LG Mosquito away TV features a 32-inch HD display with 1366x768 resolution. All
the connecting ports are at the back of the TV. The Mosquito Away also comes
with a conventional remote control with all the necessary controls.Mosquito Away
is LG's first TV to be equipped with mosquito repellent technology. The feature
essentially works through a small device that comes with the TV. It can be
plugged into the TV's rear panel and immediately starts working once you
activate it from the settings. The device emits ultrasonic sound waves which
drive away the mosquitoes, keeping you and your family safe from mosquito-borne
diseases. Since the repellent device doesn't use any harmful chemicals, it is
fully odour-free and non-hazardous.

READ ALSO LG goes for restructuring post 'disappointing' G5 sales

Performance

During our time with it, LG's Mosquito Away TV impressed with its performance.
Colours were quite accurate and viewing angles were good. Image reproduction was
clean and flicker free. We played a number of high-definition videos and
playback was smooth.

In addition, the wide viewing angles of the display did not distort the colour
or contrast. LG has also incorporated blur free technology in the TV, which
helps in delivering crystal clear pictures even for fast-paced sequences.

LG Mosquito Away also has Triple XD Engine that delivers higher levels of colour
and contrast for even better performance.

The TV outputs powerful 20W Dolby Digital sound. During our testing, audio
quality and surround sound were both really good. Even movies played through USB
had clear audio output.

In order to deliver something extra to its customers, LG has preloaded some
games in the TV. They can be played via the remote control. Interestingly, the
TV also has two special modes - Bollywood and Cricket.The Cricket mode provides
an enhanced sports viewing experience with enhanced picture and sound quality.
As for the Bollywood mode, it automatically adjusts the sound equalizer for the
best movie watching experience.

Mosquito away TV has support for 10 regional languages and users can select
their preferred language from the settings. There is also a Smart Energy Saving
feature which, not surprisingly, helps in conserving power.

And all this while, we enjoyed our TV watching experience without having to
worry about mosquitoes. The repellent device worked fine for keeping mosquitoes
away.

All in all, we were really impressed by LG's Mosquito Away TV.

READ ALSO LG Electronics, Volkswagen partner to develop connected car platform

Verdict

LG Mosquito away TV is definitely a good product. It's priced well and has
numerous functionality enhancing features. Then of course, there's the mosquito
repellent technology which makes the whole deal even better. So if you are
planning on buying a new TV within the price bracket of Rs 30,000, the LG
Mosquito Away TV is definitely worth consideration.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

