

After months of leaks and speculation, Samsung officially launched its flagship
Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge handsets, right, at the event in Barcelona.

Looking almost identical to last year's models, arguably its key "new" feature
is the return of an old one, with the inclusion of an expandable memory slot.

There are also improvements on water resistance, an "always on display" function
for notifications, while the souped-up rear camera should focus quicker and work
better in low light. More a refinement than anything revolutionary, expect a
full review in the coming week.

Far more radical was LG's new G5 Android smartphone, which uses a modular design
allowing it to gain extra functions via add-on parts. The plug-in set available
at launch for the phone, left, includes a digital to analogue converter made by
Bang & Olufsen, allowing the handset to play back hi-res audio, while a camera
attachment brings manual dial controls for zoom and focusing.

Samsung's Gear VR and LG's VR 360 both got their moment in the spotlight, but
amongst all of the virtual reality headsets being showcased in Barcelona, HTC
Vive impressed the most.

Developed alongside games maker Valve it appears more advanced than its nearest
rival, Facebook's Oculus Rift, with better bespoke hand controllers and a camera
system that allows the wearer to see real objects, helping them to avoid bumping
into furniture (pressing a button on the controller allows objects to appear in
ghost form, superimposed onto the virtual reality environment). The downside is
a pretty hefty asking price (a $799 price tag was confirmed at the show) and the
need for a fairly powerful PC to pair it with.

Elsewhere, the tech powering the FLIR thermal imaging camera add-on for iPhones
we reviewed a few weeks ago comes built-in with a new smartphone by dumper truck
maker Caterpillar, right. Named the CAT S60, among its other ultra-rugged
features is its ability to function underwater for about an hour at a depth of
16 feet.

The main standout from Sony's stand at the show was an earpiece that offers an
audible virtual assistant. Not dissimilar to Scarlett Johansson's computerised
PA in the film Her, Sony's Ear links up to your Android smartphone, offering
location and time-based prompts about the weather, missed calls and
appointments, as well as responding to voice commands. Elsewhere, the Japanese
company introduced its new Xperia X line of mid-range Android handsets that all
boast smart new battery technology that should extend their life and cut
charging times in a big way.

All of the above should hit the shelves within the next few months, but the show
also played host to a number of concept devices that provided a glimpse into
technology's future.

Pick of the show was the FlexEnable Smartwatch prototype, below, featuring a
super-flexible LCD display that wraps around your wrist, hinting at where
wearable tech may be heading.

