

Here are the top 10 stories on TechTree that you may have missed during the
week... 25th June to 1st July.

A lot of stuffs happen almost every minute in the technology industry, and we at
TechTree try to cover as much as we can every day. News, Features, Reviews,
Hands-ons, and what not! While you get all the latest stories on our website,
Twitter, and Facebook channels, there are chances where you might have missed
them out.

This is our small effort to give you a recap of ten best stories we have
published this week. Go through them! We are sure you would love them.

1. AppView: Mekorama

The game is innovative and simple, and the design- all the work by Magni
himself- is creative. There are 50 levels to begin with, and Magni posts new
levels on Facebook and Twitter, which players can download. Users can also build
their own levels, block by block- a clever idea that keeps avid gamers
interested and invested. There are hints at every level, which are only
available to those who pay, but the payment system is largely a
pay-what-you-like one. Read The Full Story Here.

2. 9 Ways How iPhone Changed The Smartphone Industry

Even now, the words of Steve Jobs 'an iPod... a phone... an internet
communications device...' still reverberate in our minds; the vision and the
dream of the man of creating a device that fuelled the aspirations of both geeks
and lay users alike. Oh boy! What's even more captivating is that the legacy
continues even nine years after Steve Jobs launched that first device. In terms
of style, substance and technology, the iPhone has been ahead of the technology
curve. The man who visioned this is no more, but his legacy continues. Read The
Full Story Here.

3. Warning! Godless Is Out There Rooting Your Device

Type in 'Godless' in Google Search and what you get is nothing but the Android
virus that's making a hell lot of noise lately. Reports have been stating that
the new virus is capable of rooting almost 90 per cent of Android devices, and
almost 50 per cent of the affected devices are in India. Before we actually dive
into more info, let's understand what is 'Godless'. It is a malware with
capabilities of rooting your device without your knowledge. Read The Full Story
Here.

4. 9 Hot Android Smartphones Expected To Hit The Shelves Soon

There's always another smartphone on the horizon. After the launch of major
high-end models such as HTC 10, Samsung Galaxy S7, LG G5, OnePlus 3, Xiaomi Mi 5
and others in India, companies now seem likely to focus on the mid-range
smartphone market in the next few weeks. Read The Full Story Here.

5. Origami Behind Modern Technology Innovations

Ever since something like 3D printing came into existence, creating and molding
surfaces became a computer controlled automated activity and bought about many
solutions to problems. But before all of this technology took over, the ancient
Japanese art of Origami was behind creating wonderful aesthetic shapes and forms
from flat surfaces.These days however, it is also behind creating some of modern
engineering's most innovative products such as origami pills as a replacement
for invasive surgery, or folding solar panels on airplanes which can be furled
and unfurled as per need. The theme of it all lies in the idea of transforming a
flat surface into something totally different. Read The Full Story Here.

6. Micro-LED Display On The Cards Next For Apple Watch?

Ah, rumours. Heady things, as those clever inventors of tabloid journalism knew.
The latest from the rumour mill is that Apple (headquartered at Cupertino... we
all know Apple) is working on replacing the LCD display in the Apple Watch with
a new Micro-LED display for the next evolution of the product. Read The Full
Story Here.

7. Lenovo ZUK Z1: Strictly for the Savvy

The Zuk Z1 doesn't have a very inspired design. It's as plain Jane as can be and
I'd be fairly disappointed carrying it around because it's big at 5.5 inches and
not terribly narrow either, so one notices it. It has a metal frame and a
plastic back though it's a unibody phone. It doesn't look bad, mind you... Just
not built to turn heads. On the other hand, it feels solid and well-built and
there are many who love its understated design. Read The Full Story Here.

8. Five Best Portable Speakers Under INR 2,000

If you have a taste for music, its a need to have to plug-in your music just
about anywhere, and get listening. But then with the modern lifestyle, one also
needs portability and wireless operations to make devices less cumbersome, and
economic on the pocket. Read The Full Story Here.

9. Yu Yunicorn: No Mythical Creature

The unicorn may be elusive and legendary, but the Yunicorn is very much here and
now, a biggish phone from Micromax's Yu Televentures. The Yunicorn looks very
much like the Meizu M3 Note, reviewed here recently, but scores over it despite
the fact the M3 Note is Rs.9,999. The brushed metal back looks a bit classier
and so do the glinting edges. It's just the front that looks like the Meizu M3
Note -- and every other phone around. Read The Full Story Here.

10. LG G5: First To Go Modular

For a couple of years there's been talk of whether phones should be modular. You
have the same basic size and shape but you can always carry bits to add to the
functions and features. At the Mobile World Congress this year, LG excited me no
end by being the first to come up with this concept in real life and bring it to
market. It even got awarded the best phone at the show. It all sounded good --
on paper. Read The Full Story Here.

