

March 3 -- Virtual reality (VR) took a step forward at the 2016 GSMA Mobile
World Congress (MWC). At the Samsung S7 launch, Mark Zuckerberg spoke of the
Oculus/Samsung partnership and the rising popularity of 360-degree video. HTC's
VIVE showed continued maturity in its adeptness for PC gamers, and Google
Cardboard won for Best Mobile App (Judge's Choice) at the GSMA 2016 Glomo
Awards. Given the market's current growth trajectory, ABI Research, the leader
in transformative technology innovation market intelligence, anticipates mobile
VR device shipments to hit more than 50 million by 2020, an impressive CAGR of
84.5%.

To many in the industry, Google Cardboard served as the ultimate launch pad for
the now rapidly growing, if nascent, ecosystem for low-cost VR. In fact, Google
recently announced that the company hit a milestone of 5 million Cardboard
shipments this January, since its debut at Google I/0 2014.

"The VR content ecosystem is opening up to include casual and traditional VR
gaming, as well as education experiences," says Sam Rosen, Managing Director and
Vice President at ABI Research and 2016 Glomo Awards judge. "360-degree video
also saw notable investment from Facebook and YouTube, pointing to another
promising VR growth opportunity. While content developers are still learning how
consumers engage with mobile-reliant VR systems, VR in core gaming and augmented
reality are on well-defined growth trajectories."

As the ecosystem expands, a growing number of vendors are releasing their own VR
accessories as a value-add to their smartphones. At MWC 2016, Samsung announced
its new flagship smartphones, the S7 and S7 Edge, with the addendum that all
preorders for the devices be bundled with Samsung's new Gear VR. Similarly, LG
announced it will offer hardware modules built to improve certain aspects of its
new G5 phone, and also revealed a VR accessory in the LG 360 VR.

"Smartphones are the perfect platform for the VR market, because they already
have the power and technological functionality necessary to create a fun,
in-depth simulated environment," concludes Eric Abbruzzese, Research Analyst at
ABI Research. "As their capabilities continue to evolve, we anticipate high-end
VR, which is currently exclusive to PC and game consoles, to expand to
mobile-powered uses by 2020. Google Cardboard is just the beginning; in the
years to come, independent growth across major markets, including mobile
devices, wearables, gaming, advertising, and data, will all synergize and power
the next stage of transformational growth in mobile VR."

These findings are part of ABI Research's Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality
Service, which includes research reports, market data, insights, and competitive
assessments.

Source: ABI Research

