

Samsung Electronics Co. is showing off virtual reality hardware alongside its
latest Galaxy S7 smartphones in its latest attempt to breathe life into its
premium line and wrest ascendancy back from Apple Inc.

The new phones go on sale on March 11 sporting a 5.1-inch screen using its own
Exynos or Qualcomm Inc. processors, with a larger 5.5-inch Edge model equipped
with the same kind of wraparound display the company debuted last year. While
they look almost identical to the S6 line, Samsung is bringing back a
memory-card slot and adding a longer-life battery after the absence of a
removable power unit alienated fans last year.

Samsung's efforts to win back customers saw it keep the form and shape of last
year's models while fixing its shortcomings and touting their potential role in
the coming virtual reality boom. With earnings sliding in a stalling smartphone
market and the shares battered by three straight annual declines, South Korea's
biggest company needs a hit product after the S6 failed to set the records that
had been predicted.

"Samsung's trying to shift consumers' sights to bundled products, such as VR
headsets and a 360 degree camera, which would help it keep the smartphone margin
from decline," Lee Jae Yun, an analyst at Yuanta Securities Co., said in Seoul.
"This is a good try but Samsung can't help slashing the prices of new premium
smartphones to keep its market share. "

At the World Mobile Congress in Barcelona, Samsung took the wraps off a
360-degree camera designed to work with the S7. Ian Fogg, an analyst with IHS
Technology, called the Gear 360 accessory a "halo" product that will help boost
sales of the smartphone in a decelerating global market.

"The market for the smartphone is obviously slowing down a little bit,"
Jean-Daniel Ayme, vice-president of European telecom operations at Samsung, said
in an interview. "When you're using one of these new devices, this is more than
a phone, this is your camera, your MP3 player, your TV, your recorder, it's
everything and more, and more is coming."

Samsung abandoned removable batteries and a memory card slot from its marquee
phone last year as it sought to make its devices thinner. The move backfired as
it eliminated two key ways in which the company's devices were differentiated
from iPhones. Samsung cut prices on the S6 smartphones in July last year, just
three months after launch. Ayme said the company has managed to crack the power
issue.

"This phone is more powerful than any phone we have launched in the past, but it
also has optimized software that will reduce the battery drain, and we have
managed to put a larger battery in a smaller package," Ayme said.

Investors are keeping an eye on the smartphone's public unveiling, and on its
ability to stand out from a thicket of devices - from LG Electronics Inc.'s G5
and Xiaomi Corp.'s Mi 5 - that are being unveiled in Spain. LG's 5.3-inch
smartphone will go on sale globally as early as the end of March, except in
Japan, said Woo Ram Chan, vice-president of LG's mobile product planning
division.

The stock fell 1.3 per cent to close at 1,175,000 won in Seoul. Its shares have
declined about 7 percent so far this year after dropping 5.1 percent in 2015.

The new S7 models are waterproof for as long as 30 minutes in water 1.5 meters
deep and come in gold, silver, white and black.

Also included is wireless charging and Marshmallow, the latest version of Google
Inc.'s Android operating system.

The Galaxy maker, which is banking on Samsung Pay as another differentiator,
added Wells Fargo and TD Bank in North America to the list of partners for its
mobile payments service. The platform will be rolled out in China next month.

Samsung's codename for the S7 development project was 'Hero' while last year's
plan for the S6 adopted the title 'Zero' as the company tried to return to the
fundamentals in its design.

This year's models hit the market about a month earlier than the S6 did in 2015.
While wireless carriers will decide on prices and calling plans, the S7s will
probably be at a similar price level to last year's device, according to Drew
Blackard, director of product marketing at Samsung.

Some operators could include a free Gear VR headset with the S7, the company
said without elaborating. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

