

SK Telecom CEO Jang Dong-hyun

KT Chairman Hwang Chang-gyu

LG Uplus Vice ChairmanKwon Young-soo

Seoul's reform measure to limit subsidies offered by mobile carriers to
consumers will be a boon for profits of the country's three mobile carriers, as
the policy has saved them marketing costs.

While Korea's longtime backbone industries - shipbuilding, steel, automotives
and consumer electronics - have continued losing business momentum due to
various external factors, the telecom industry is expected to prove its
competitiveness, as the outlook for profits in the first quarter remains strong.

According to FN Guide, a local fund tracker, the combined operating profits of
SK Telecom, KT and LG Uplus will reach about 1 trillion won during the
January-March period, up 11 percent, year-on-year.

This could be a major reversal from earlier opposition by the carriers that had
claimed that the new subsidy cap will significantly hurt their financial
soundness.

'Combined sales of SK Telecom, KT and LG Uplus during the latest quarter will
amount to 12.55 trillion won, up 3 percent compared to the same period they
reported a year ago, while their operating profits would reach 1 trillion won
from 878 billion won, year-on-year,' FN Guide said in a statement, Sunday.

Market leader SK Telecom, which controls 50 percent of the local telecom market,
is seen to report 443 billion won in operating profit for the quarter out of an
estimated 4.28 trillion won in quarterly sales.

Runner-up KT is also forecast to earn 360 billion won in operating profit from
320 billion won, year-on-year with the country's dominant fixed-line operator
generating 5.54 trillion won in sales during the period.

The smallest, LG Uplus, LG Group's telecommunications affiliate, is expected to
rake in 170 billion won in profit out of 2.27 trillion won in quarterly sales
compared to 155 billion won and 2.5 trillion won that the affiliate clinched
last year.

'This is very rare to see an increase both in quarterly sales and profit. The
government's subsidy regulation is making some positive effects on the carriers'
soundness,' said an official at KT.

A representative at SK Telecom declined to comment. LG Uplus said it has no
comment about its quarterly earnings estimate until an official announcement.

Good bet

Analysts covering the telecom industry said such bullish expectations were
because the market has been stabilized after the government regulation which was
introduced 18 months ago.

'Thanks to the release of new handsets which come with improved specifications
for content management, hardware and software, the regulation cut attempts by
the carriers to launch heavy promotional marketing, helping them earn a hefty
operating profit,' IBK Investment analyst Kim Jang-won said in a research note.

Specifically, Kiwoom Securities expects SK Telecom's marketing spending to be
cut by 200 billion won by this year from 2015 after the leading carrier saved
540 billion won in marketing last year from 2014.

'The regulation also helped KT trim losses in fixed-line services and improve
its average revenue per user (ARPU). With costs saved, LG Uplus could push its
move to entice more customers using its finer long-term evolution (LTE)
service,' said Kiwoom Securities analyst Hong Jeong-pyo.

The government enforced the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement (MDDI)
measure last year to crack down on excessive illegal subsidies to customers, as
part of Seoul's initiative to battle illegal handset subsidies.

The law set a legal ceiling on subsidies at 345,000 won and issued very strict
penalties for carriers and retailers that exceed this amount.

'As the smartphone market is becoming saturated, our appetites to steal
customers from rival companies were cut. At least, a new order has prevailed in
the sector, which I believe is good both for consumers and carriers,' said an
official at SK.

The Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning (MSIP), the government agency
handling telecom policies, said it has no plan to readjust the current subsidy
limit.

'The key point is how to further stabilize the market and to provide more
benefits to consumers and retailers,' Yang Hwan-jeong, a director at MSIP's
telecom policy bureau, told reporters in a press briefing last week. 'So far,
the new regulations have been effective. We have no plan to readjust the subsidy
cap.'

Park Nho-ik, chief at consumer policy bureau at the Korea Communications
Commission (KCC), said the entry fees for telecom service will be scrapped this
September.

'That doesn't mean that the regulator will either scrap the subsidy limit or to
allow carriers to provide more subsidies to customers,' Park said.

According to the regulators, the MDDI act helped Samsung and LG Electronics to
cut the suggested retail price of their flagship handsets.

The original price tag of Samsung Galaxy S7 was set for 836,000 won without
subsidies from 899,000 won for the Galaxy S4. LG set the factory price of its G5
to 836,000 won from 954,000 won for the G2.

'MSIP will accelerate efforts with KCC to push the carriers and handset
manufacturers to roll out more budget mobile phones to widen consumer choice.'

