
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 12 -- The much-awaited iPhone 7 has finally been revealed. It's
bristling with new features and a slightly tweaked design, but otherwise looking
the same as the previous 6 series. Apart from getting rid of the headphone jack,
the rest of the iPhone is pretty ho-hum, with the retina display now getting a
bit old. Now that the initial wow has worn off, reality has set in, firmly
pushed into view by your bank balance.


 Yet you still want to consider a new smartphone. There's a lot of good
competition out there, so let's look at Apple's rivals based on several aspects.
Also, all of these phones have a headphone jack.
 Price
 One thing is for sure, when the iPhone reaches our shores, it's going to be
grossly overpriced. In fact, the iPhone 6s was priced the highest in the world.
The lowest-end model - with a paltry 16 GB of storage - sold for a ridiculous
Rs. 60,000-plus. Yet people went ahead and bought it. The iPhone 7 could be sold
here for much more than that. So here are a bunch of rivals, available at a good
price.
 One Plus 3:
 The latest phone from OnePlus has launched to rave reviews everywhere. It's got
a large 5.5-inch display with the latest SnapDragon 820 processor, 64GB of
storage that can be expandable, and a whopping 6 GB of RAM. The camera is a
16-megapixel shooter with optical image stabilisation. It looks great in the
style department, though not groundbreaking. It's got a bit of an
iPhone-meets-HTC vibe going for it. The build is a solid metal unibody like the
one on the iPhone. All of this on a device that costs Rs. 27,999.
 Huawei Nexus 6P:
 As of this month, the Nexus 6P from Huawei is a year old. But it's still a good
phone and an even better contender for the iPhone. You can get a 32 GB version
of this phone for lower than Rs. 30,000 now. Huawei has built this device well,
with a superb metal body and a classy glass housing that holds the
12.3-megapixel camera that sports larger 1.55 m ultrapixels. The larger the
pixels, the better the light and quality of the photos. The phone has a
SnapDragon 810 processor which is still fast, with 3 GB of RAM. The Nexus 6P
runs the latest version of Android. Prices start at Rs 39,999.
 Design
 When you think of design among tech companies, the only name that springs to
mind is Apple. Jonathan Ive - whose soothing voice you've heard on all Apple
product videos - is the Chief Design Officer of the company. Apple sticks to its
current design formula. However, other companies are taking design to new
heights in tandem with technology.
 Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge: The Korean technology giant Samsung is not the name
that comes to mind for design but with the new S7 Edge, it's taken the world by
storm. It's been a brave move to come out with a smartphone with curved edges.
The end result is beautiful and edgy (pun intended) with its beautiful 5.5-inch
AMOLED display. The design of the S7 Edge still remains fresher than the
recycled look of the iPhone 7. The phone itself is fantastic too, with superb
specs and a gorgeous
 12-megapixel camera that's as good as the one on the iPhone. Also, unlike
Apple's fixed internal storage, the S7 Edge - in addition to the internal
storage of 64 GB - can support up to 256 GB with an expandable microSD cards.
Looks wise, the S7 Edge beats the iPhone hands down. Plus it's splash-proof.
Prices start at Rs. 44,200.
 HTC 10: There was a lot of speculation after the launch of the iPhone 6, that
Apple had copied HTC's flagship One series, especially in the back panel antenna
bands. The new HTC 10 takes that look further, but with a nice stylish ridge on
the back of the phone. With a strong light metal unibody structure and a
centrally-notched headphone jack, the device boasts audio features such as HiRes
audio and BoomSound speakers. The 12-megapixel ultrapixel camera is quite decent
too and so are the other specs on the phone. If it's design you want, you can't
go wrong with the HTC 10. Prices start at Rs. 45,300.
 Nextbit Robin: A newcomer in the arena, the Nextbit Robin has a nice colourful
look with a rectangular design. It's available in blue and grey or an odd dark
blue, but they work so well. There are circular stereo speakers and a
fingerprint scanner/power button. While the specs are pretty decent with an
older Snapdragon 808 processor, the price is much lower than all of the phones
in this list at Rs. 19,999.
 Technology
 The iPhone singlehandedly made the smartphone the new norm, not to mention
debuted multitouch 64-bit mobile processors, force touch and more. Apple has not
done much in the last few years, apart from releasing incremental updates and
hiking their prices. There are several smartphones with the best technology and
several cutting-edge features.
 Samsung Galaxy
 Note 7: You will have a blast with Samsung's Note 7, literally. Despite the
fact that Note 7s have been exploding and catching fire, it still is one of the
most advanced smartphones out there. That is, once Samsung fixes the issue. The
Note 7 has a state-of-the-art Iris sensor that unlocks your phone with a look.
Plus, it's got a built-in stylus which you can use to write on the beautiful
5.7-inch screen with a slight curve on the edges. With the new Notes app, you
can take scribble or sketch while the screen is off. Prices start at Rs 59,900.
 LG G5: Google's ARA modular smartphone project may be dead, but we still have
the LG G5. It's semi modular, with removable components known as friends. You
can replace the battery with a bigger one or add a Bang & Olufson headphone
amplifier. There's even a CAM plus friend that adds a handy camera grip with
controls and extended battery life. Like the Note 7 and Edge, there's a dual sim
feature which doubles as a single sim, plus a microSD card slot which can expand
the internal memory up to 256 GB. The specs are fantastic and hopefully,
 LG will have more friends on the way. Prices start at Rs. 52,990.
 Wireless headphones
 Wired headphones are always better in terms of sound quality because of the
physical contact and several of the best headphones can be used with the trusty
3.5mm jack. However, the seduction of a wire-free existence cannot be denied.
The move to wireless in terms of sound has been a long time coming. However, the
grossly overpriced, long and very weird-looking AirPods that can easily get lost
are not the answer. Here are a few alternatives.
 Bragi Dash: Touted as smart earphones, the soon-to-be released Bragi Dash looks
undeniably cool. They're just round earbuds that fit into the curvature of the
ear and hold there. Completely wireless, with an array of health sensors that
monitor your heart rate, breath rate, etc. You can also issue commands through
voice and gestures to operate various functions on your smartphone. Plus they're
completely waterproof. Price yet to be revealed.
 Samsung Gear IconX: Like the Bragi Dash, the Samsung Gear IconX looks great
with its small earbuds that are illuminated on the sides. The IconX achieves a
good hold on the inside of your ear using a wingtip plus it's got an array of
health sensors. And it pipes all your stats into your ears so you don't need to
stare at your screen when jogging or running. The IconX also functions as an
independent music player, with 3.5 GB of storage for your music. So you can
leave your phone home and just run while listening to music. You can control the
music using swipes and taps. Prices start at Rs. 13,490.
 Battery
 The biggest complaint with iPhones is the disappointing battery life. The
several rivals out there have a battery life that can go up to two days. Not to
mention a lot of these phones have wireless charging and like the case of the
One Plus 3 there's Dash Charge, which charges your phone for an entire day in
just 30 minutes.
 The author is a freelance tech and lifestyle writer

