
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, June 24 -- The story of OnePlus is a bit like that of the bright
child who displays great potential early in life. The OnePlus One came out of
the blue and showed the world great hardware need not cost a bomb. The Two was a
representation of the rebellious teenage years, a device that thought it knew
best and made unconventional decisions. Some of these decisions, like the new
charging standard, paid off, others like the omission of NFC, didn't help its
cause.


 But OnePlus is grown up now. It has ditched the snazzy sandstone threads for a
sharp silver suit, and gained from experience. It has learnt to stand on its own
feet and attend the smartphone party without needing an invite. This is the
OnePlus 3, better learned and still brimming with energy.
 The 3 has more in common with the One than the 2 in terms of design, though it
looks a little HTC-like. Compared to the beefy second generation, this phone
looks like it has been on a diet, and the svelte profile has left a camera bump
on the rear. The right-side houses the power button and the dual nano-SIM tray
(microSD support is a no-go, and the phone comes only with 64GB memory), while
the left features volume control and the alert slider. The textured alert slider
lets users switch between silent, all notifications or priority notifications
without unlocking the device. The fingerprint sensor, which is also a capacitive
button, resides below the display, and can unlock the device in one go without
needing to turn on the display first. It is among the most responsive sensors we
have tested, though the button-like design can mislead users into thinking it is
supposed to depress. The back is sleek metal broken only by the OnePlus logo and
the 16MP camera and single LED flash.
 The specsheet of the 3 is a mixed bag. The processor is a flagship grade
Snapdragon 820 and the RAM is a ludicrous 6GB, but the display remains a 5.5
inch 1080P panel for the third time in a row. OnePlus has switched to an AMOLED
panel, a variety it calls OpticAMOLED, and cites battery as one of the reasons
for the display not getting a bigger upgrade. And that is precisely one of the
most confusing choices OnePlus has made. The 3,000mAh battery is a downgrade
from both the previous phones, and most likely a side-effect of the super-slim
body. While this aesthetic sacrifice would have been normal for some
manufacturers, such a choice from OnePlus is unexpected.
 So the story so far has had some twists and turns, but what is it like to use?
This is an area where OnePlus has stuck to its strengths. The Snapdragon 820
flies through everything from multitasking to gaming, with transitions and frame
rates remaining steady throughout. The RAM figure seems a little unnecessary at
the moment, and does not have any significant impact upon real-world
performance, but with software getting more demanding, a little extra room helps
with futureproofing, so we won't complain.
 The company's home-baked Oxygen OS, now on version 3.1.2 on top Android 6.0.1
Marshmallow, is a pretty clean yet refined affair. The system-wide dark mode
with customisable accent colours looks marvellous on the AMOLED display, and the
Shelf feature, which dedicates a homescreen pane to display weather, take quick
memos, add frequent contacts, apps and even widgets, is handy. Like most other
such tweaks, it can be disabled. The 3 also comes with the SwiftKey keyboard
bundled in, which provides a lot more extra options on the text input front.
 Popular features that make a return are the gestures to turn on flash or
display, open the camera, play music, and the option to use hardware or software
buttons or swap their order as desired. OnePlus has also baked in options to
adjust colour balance and a night mode that makes the display colours warmer to
reduce eye strain during night-time use. The alert slider also gets
customisation, allowing users granular control over what alerts or calls will be
allowed when the device is in priority or silent mode.
 Cameras have never been OnePlus' strongest feature, but the 3 has made
improvements here as well. The 16MP shooter resolves a great amount of detail
and keeps noise to a minimum. Low light situations see a little faltering, but
the camera manages to salvage decent shots even there. The software has also got
enough to tinker with, including a manual mode (which packs the nifty option of
setting different points for focus and exposure) and RAW support. The front
camera also captured some truly impressive shots, getting close to LG G5 level
of detail, though LG's fist recognition for selfie capture is more sensible than
OnePlus' trigger happy smile shutter option. It's not going to scare the Samsung
Galaxies or the G5, but for a device that costs half as much, OnePlus has made
huge leaps on the camera front.
 With all this positivity, there has to be a catch somewhere, and the Achilles
Heel of the 3 is its battery. For a phone that follows the OnePlus One, which
had legendary battery backup, the 3 does not quite match up. It can get through
a day more often than not, but might need a topup now and then. The Dash
Charging technology allows the phone to juice up quite rapidly, but it only
works with the included charger (find out more in OnePlus 3: Ten things to know
before you buy).
 When all is done and dusted, the OnePlus 3 comes across as an impressive, if
flawed phone. It has its moments of greatness peppered with some sigh-inducing
frustrations. But when you consider that it does the good almost as well as the
best in the business, and the bad a lot better than many others, at a price tag
of Rs.28,000, the blemishes become just that, blemishes. This is no flagship
killer, but it is a pretty great phone.

