

Since last year, the South Korean firm, the world s largest maker of
smartphones, has brought forward the launch of its Galaxy S and Galaxy Note
series models by roughly a month.

For the June quarter, the strategy helped Samsung to its best profit in more
than two years, but it is also putting strain on its supply chain and its
manufacturing reputation.

On Friday, two weeks after launch, Samsung recalled Galaxy Note 7 smartphones in
10 markets including South Korea and the US after finding its batteries were
prone to ignite, and halted sales of the  798 device in those markets
indefinitely.

The recall looks set to hamstring Samsung just as Apple gears up to launch its
new iPhones this month.

Samsung might have over-exerted itself trying to pre-empt Apple, since everybody
knows the iPhones launch in September,  said Chang Sea-Jin, business professor
at Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and author of Sony vs
Samsung.

It s an unfortunate event; it feels like Samsung rushed a bit, and it s possible
that this led to suppliers also being hurried.

Samsung said it conducts  extensive preparation  for its products and will
release them to the market  only after proper completion of the development
process . The firm said last week it had identified a problem in the
manufacturing process of a battery supplier it didn t name.

The scale of the unprecedented recall, which some analysts forecast will cost
Samsung nearly $5bn in revenue this year, follows a separate supply-chain
management issue that led to disappointing sales of the Galaxy S6 series last
year.

Samsung executives said production problems for the curved screens and metal
casings used in the Galaxy S6 edge led to a supply shortage for the device,
leaving the firm unable to capitalise on the critical acclaim the phone
received, sapping earnings momentum.

Counterpoint analyst Jeff Fieldhack said Samsung stole the thunder from local
rival LG Electronics  launch of the G5 smartphone this year by starting the
sales of the Galaxy S7 smartphones a month earlier and backing them with an
aggressive marketing campaign.

Samsung SDI, one of two makers of batteries for the Note 7   the other has not
been identified   said it did not get notice from Samsung regarding its
batteries.

