

At Apple's iPhone 7 unveiling in San Francisco on Wednesday, the tech powerhouse
revealed a host of new and updated hardware and software, including a new type
of headphone jack and souped-up camera. Here's a rundown of the biggest
announcements.

Apple airpods

As expected, iPhone is removing the standard analog headphone jack and forcing
headphones to use its "Lightning" connector, which plugs into the phone's
charging port. The iPhone 7 will come with an adapter so older earphones can
still be used. But Apple is pushing Apple AirPods, which CEO Tim Cook says are a
"breakthrough design," wireless headphones that sync across all Apple devices
and respond to touch that can access Siri. The AirPods are shipping in late
October and cost $160.

iPhone 7 and 7 plus

Apple's new iPhone is getting a faster processor, an updated home button and
will come with water and dust protection. Apple says the iPhone 7 home button is
now force sensitive, so responses can differ based on how hard you press it.
It's similar to what Apple has done with a trackpad in a slimmer MacBook model
last year. The iPhone 7 will have stereo speakers for the first time, with twice
the volume of iPhone 6S speakers. The phone's battery life is improved, too;
Apple estimates that the 7 Plus will have an additional hour of battery life
compared to the 6S.

Camera

Camera improvements include a new flash with four rather than two shades of
color to match ambient light. High-end photographers can get images in RAW
format, which allows for more versatile editing, matching what many leading
cameras now have.

The iPhone 7 Plus will have two cameras with different lenses that will boost
the zoom capabilities of the camera. The camera can now zoom in up to 10 times
the original size of the photo. Both cameras take 12 megapixel photos. The two
lenses will also sense depth and allow users to blur backgrounds in images,
mimicking an effect that typically requires changing the lens aperture in
stand-alone cameras.

Other smartphone makers such as LG and Motorola are also starting to offer
models with dual lenses to improve picture quality. The difference is the wide
angle on LG G5 has lower resolution with 8 megapixels.

Pricing and storage

The iPhone 7 will start at $650, the same as the 6s it replaces. The larger Plus
model is increasing to $770, instead of $750. They come in silver, gold, rose
gold, black and the new jet-black finish. Storage has been doubled, so Apple
joins rival phone makers in making the starter model 32 gigabytes, rather than
16 gigabytes before. Apple is doubling storage in higher-priced models, too - to
128 and 256 gigabytes.

The new phones will ship Sept. 16, with orders to start this Friday. Older
iPhones will get price reductions, and last year's models are also getting
double the storage.

APPLE PAY

Apple Pay will come to Japan in October with a new wireless technology called
Felica to be included in iPhones and Apple Watches there. Apple Pay will also
come to New Zealand in October and Russia in the fall.

In the U.S. and elsewhere, mobile payments use a wireless technology called NFC.
A transit feature in Apple Maps will also launch in Japan.

