
DATELINE: NAMYANG, SOUTH KOREA


While they may be late coming to the hybrid party When they arrive later this
year, Hyundai and Kia will bring fresh thinking and technology.

Gasoline-electric hybrid versions of the Hyundai Sonata are to roll into
dealerships in the last quarter of 2010 and the Kia version - clothed in the
next-generation Magentis - will follow a few months later.

They will go head-to-head with existing mid-size hybrids like the Toyota Camry
and Ford Fusion, but will raise the bar on both the gasoline and electric side
of the fuel-saving equation.

While they operate under separate design and marketing entities, Hyundai and Kia
share engineering and development resources - lots of them.

The Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group has 10,000 scientists and engineers in the
research and development department with a $4-billion operating budget.

It has already produced thousands of gasoline-electric hybrids, including
LPG-electric versions, hundreds of plug-in hybrids and dozens of
third-generation, fuel-cell vehicles.

Determined to leapfrog the Japanese, the first Hyundai and Kia hybrids coming to
North America will include advances in engine, transmission and battery
technologies.

They will use a four-cylinder engine operating on the Atkinson cycle like the
competition, but boast direct injection.

Instead of the oft-criticized continuously variable transmission (CVT), the
Sonata/Magentis will offer a conventional six-speed automatic. And where current
hybrids use nickel-metal hydride batteries with lithium-ion units on the near
horizon, the Sonata/Magentis pair will employ the first lithium-polymer
batteries.

The two will use the usual tricks like tall gearing, low-rolling-resistance
tires, low-drag aerodynamics and engine start/stop.

But their proprietary hybrid system promises the biggest improvements,
especially for highway mileage.

The system, which Hyundai will call Blue Drive and Kia ECOdrive, is a
conventional parallel hybrid in that the car can operate on an 2.4-litre,
169-horsepower gasoline engine, an electric motor or both. But this one will use
a lithium-polymer battery pack that weighs 43.6 kg compared to 56.3 kg for the
nickel-metal-hydride unit in the Camry, which has almost identical energy
capacity.

It is also 50 per cent smaller and 10 per cent more efficient.

The "breakthrough" lightweight, compact 1.6-kilowatt-hour/270-volt
lithium-polymer battery pack was developed with partner LG Chemical Limited,
which will also provide batteries for the upcoming Chevrolet Volt plug-in
electric car.

It will be paired with a 40-horsepower electric motor, driving the front wheels
through a six-speed automatic transmission.

The engine-motor pairing results in 209 horsepower and 195 lb-ft of torque (You
can't simply add the output of the engine and electric motor as their power
peaks at different points).

A second, 11.5-horsepower, electric starter-generator will be employed to
restart the engine and provide some recharging assist for the main battery pack.

The lithium-polymer batteries have 175 per cent greater volumetric efficiency
allowing them to be smaller and lighter while producing the same power.

They also hold their charge 20 per cent longer. Compared to lithium-ion
batteries that the rest of the industry is about to introduce, the
lithium-polymer units last longer, cost less to make and have a higher energy
density according to Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group scientists. They also claim
lithium-polymer offers "more thermal robustness" than the lithium-ion batteries
used in cell phones and laptops.

The Sonata/Magentis battery pack will have a warranty of 10 years or 244,000 km.

The principal overall difference between the Sonata/Magentis hybrids and others
is that they have been developed to maximize highway mileage compared to those
currently on the market, which emphasize city mileage.

The Sonata/Magentis hybrids will offer a 40 per cent increase in city mileage
compared to models equipped with the normal 2.4-litre four-cylinder engine,
while also offering best-in-class highway mileage.

The Toyota/Ford systems use a CVT with integrated electric motor. The
Sonata/Magentis use a six-speed automatic with an electric motor replacing the
torque converter.

The goal is 6.4 litres/100 km in the city and 6.0 on the highway, which would
put them well ahead of the current mid-size hybrids.

The South Korean hybrids are also designed to travel at up to 100 km/h on
battery power alone. The current champ is the Fusion Hybrid at 75 km/h.

The Sonata/Magentis also promise the best performance because of the combination
of more power and less weight - they tip the scales at 120 kg less than the best
of the current crop, the Fusion.

globedrive@globeandmail.com

