

Xiaomi Mi 5, the flagship device is s now officially available in India at a
starting price of Rs 24,999. Here's our daily live review of the smartphone.

Xiaomi (http://indianexpress.com/tag/xiaomi/) Mi 5, the flagship device from the
Chinese tech start-up, is now officially available in India at a starting price
of Rs 24,999. Mi 5's USP is that it offers premium specs like the Qualcomm
Snapdragon 820 seen in high-end devices like the Samsung Galaxy S7
(http://techie.indianexpress.com/samsung-galaxy-s7/ie1093713) and LG G5 as well
as a great camera, but at a more affordable price.

India is getting only the 3GB+32GB version of the Xiaomi Mi 5 - sorry no Mi 5
Pro (4GB + 128GB storage) for now. The sale for the smartphone starts on April 6
from the company's official Mi.com platform and it will be exclusive to the site
for a first month or so after which it will go to other platforms.

At the India launch event, Xiaomi's global VP Hugo Barra revealed that they
spent two years working on the smartphone. For Xiaomi, there's a lot riding on
this 'flagship' smartphone, after all this is the first time that the company is
entering the Rs 20,000-plus category in India.

From today we will chronicle how it is living with the phone for a week, and
will post regular updates here. Read on to know what we think about the phone.

Day 1: A hot and cold beauty

A day after the launch, Hugo Barra held a special tear-down of the Xiaomi Mi 5
with select members of the Indian media. We got to see the smartphone inside
out; the processor, the antennas, even parts of the display peeled off. It makes
for an interesting visual to see a flagship like that, and Xiaomi is known for
flooding the Indian fans with a host of technical details about its phone. The
Redmi Note 3 was also subjected to a full tear-down.

Regular users are more bothered about how a smartphone performs on the outside
and how it feels and looks. When I took the Mi 5 out of the box, my first
impression was: my goodness this phone is incredibly light, and that's good when
you consider that this has a 3000 mAh battery. The metal-frame and the curved
edges, plus the 3D glass back cover make the Mi 5 look beautiful too.

You can see that the company has put in a lot of effort designing this phone.
Xiaomi Mi 5 comes with a 5.1-inch display, a ceramic home button with the
fingerprint scanner inside it. The camera unit doesn't jut out at all on the
back like it does with my iPhone 6s. For now, I can't get over how thin, and
light this phone is.

However, I did face one big issue when I switched on the Mi 5. The phone became
really hot, on the display and along the sides. It was as if the phone was on
fire and given the lovely weather we are having in Delhi these days, I was
afraid to hold it for too long. When I restarted the phone, it appeared to cool
down. I also noticed that some MIUI update had appeared. Post that update, the
phone has not heated up. But am yet to put this one through its paces, so
hopefully the issue won't re-appear.

Xiaomi has indicated that this MIUI 7 on Android 6 build is still in beta phase,
so we're expecting more updates during our review period.

However the heating issue re-appeared when I set it down for charging, while I
took a nap. After it had reached 70 per cent charge I just unplugged the phone
because it was once again super-hot, especially on the sides.

With the Mi 5, Xiaomi is also talking about the innovation it has done on the
camera front, giving its 16 megapixel rear camera a 4-axis OIS and also the
superior low-light performance. The low-light performance is actually quite
good, considering the price and I did get some nice shots from this one while I
was out for dinner with a friend. Sure the focus takes some time, and the selfie
camera thinks I am 21 years old, but so far it does the job.

