

Looking at the journey of HTC, one can easily say that the company has come a
long way in smartphone innovation and the company's latest flagship device (HTC
10) is an example of the same. HTC 10 has been the talk of the town because of
its all metal body design and powerful specifications. Priced at Rs 52,990 the
smartphone claims to deliver exceptional performance in all departments, be it
gaming or photography. We spent some time with the device and here is our rest
of the review of the sleek and stylish HTC 10.

Design and display

HTC is known for its designing excellence and with HTC 10 the company proves
they have spent many sleepless nights designing it. The HTC 10 flaunts an
all-metal unibody form factor, which gives it a premium and stylish look. The
smartphone has borrowed some design elements from the last years A9. With this
smartphone the company has also ditched its dual front speaker design seen in
all the HTC smartphones. This time, the device is not powered by a BoomSound
speaker. In its place the Taiwanese manufacturer has located a sub-woofer at the
bottom of the smartphone for better music experience.

The front of the handset consists of seflie camera and the physical home button,
which doubles up as the fingerprint sensor. The front panel also consists of two
backlit soft keys for back and recent apps. Unlike other smartphones you don't
have to hard press the home button to unlock the screen, you have to lightly
touch it and the device will wake up.

READ ALSO Comparison: LG G5 vs HTC 10 vs Apple iPhone 6S vs Samsung Galaxy S7

The nano sim card slot, volume rockers and power buttons are placed on the right
side of the device while the microSD card tray is placed on the left. The power
button is textured, which makes it easy for the user to differentiate. The 3.5mm
audio jack and the USB charging port are placed on the top and bottom panel
respectively.

The rear of the handset has a slightly curved design accompanied by thick
chamfers on both the sides. The design makes it easy for the user to hold the
device conformably and also prevents it from slipping. Along with this, the back
panel consists of the HTC branding and a 12MP protruding camera with LED flash.

Coming to the display, the HTC 10 features a 5.2-inch QHD display protected with
a layer of Corning Gorilla Glass 4. The display offers very crisp and clear
colour reproduction. It also performs well with high brightness levels and
offers easy visibility in direct sunlight. The viewing angles were also fine and
big screen makes gaming a delightful experience.

Performance and Camera

On the hardware front, HTC 10 is powered by a 2.15GHz 64-bit Qualcomm Snapdragon
820 processor paired with 4GB of RAM. The handset offers 32GB of internal
storage which can be expanded further up to 256GB using a microSD card. The
connectivity options of the device include 4G, LTE, 3G, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS,
NFC and USB Type C.

Going by the hardware specifications, the smartphone performed really well
(mostly). HTC 10 handled games like Temple Run and Subway Surfers nciely,
however, it did struggled a bit with graphic intensive games like Asphalt 8. The
smartphone also had heating issue courtesy its metal body design. Apart from
gaming, we also enjoyed the movie experience because of the vibrant and crisp
display on this device.

Out of all the manufactures, HTC is probably the one which is always focused on
delivering an excellent audio experience to its users, even in the budget
segment. They have done the same with HTC 10. The company has incorporated an
audio profile for an enhanced musical experience. With this smartphone one can
also select and play around with stereo headphone audio channel balance. The
sound quality was also great over loudspeakers. The manufacturer has given two
sound output modes here, namely music and theater. The music mode enhances
vocals and the theater mode creates surround sound effect.

READ ALSO HTC 10 vs Samsung Galaxy S7 (and S7 edge): Up close with 2016's best
smartphones

Coming to the software, the HTC 10 runs Android 6.0 Marshmallow operating system
with the Sense UI 8 skin. The user interface is smooth and we did not notice any
lag during our time with the device. Multitasking and app transition was also
flawless. HTC BlinkFeed can be accessed by swiping right from the homescreen.
The BlinkFeed consists of news feed from all across the globe and also from the
social networks you access. Along with this, you can also select HTC's themes in
classic and freestyle layout. The classic layout will change the icons, colour
scheme and wallpapers, while the freestyle layout enables further customisations
by assigning shortcuts to different stickers.

HTC has also introduced an app called Boost+ which addresses the problem of
cache. The app has a 'Smart Boost' feature that kills the unwanted apps running
in the background. There is also a 'Game Battery Booster', which optimises the
battery life of the device while playing games. The apps also consist of a
'Clear Junk' feature that allows users to clear the cache manually. Lastly,
there is a 'Lock Apps' feature which enables you to lock various apps to protect
your privacy. You can set a fingerprint or pattern lock for the apps.

For photography, HTC 10 boasts of a 12MP UltraPixel 2 camera with a pixel size
of 1.55um, meaning more light is captured in one shot. The camera app is very
neat and easy to use. It incorporates features like Auto HDR, HTC Zoe,
hyperlapse and slow motion. There is also a Pro mode which enables users to
adjust the auto-white balance, ISO, shutter speed, exposure compensation and
manual focus. Along with this, the app also supports RAW images.

The camera performs really well and focuses quickly. The images captured indoors
and outdoors were good, but the colour reproduction was sharper in broad
daylight. The phone also has a 5MP front camera for selfies, which also
delivered decent results in various lighting conditions.

HTC 10 is backed by a 3,000 mAh battery boasting Qualcomm Quick Charge
technology. The smartphone takes one hour to charge completely from 0 to 100%.
The handset easily lasts a day of moderate usage on a single charge. But, if you
are a gamer then the battery might die pretty early.

Verdict

HTC 10 is one of the best flagship smartphone available in the market. The
handset offers a nice design and powerful specifications. It has all the
components a flagship smartphone should have. Priced at Rs 52,990, the
smartphone can give tough competition to Samsung Galaxy S7, Samsung Galaxy S7
Edge and LG G5.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

