

You have to hand it to LG. The South Korean company has never been afraid to
take bold design decisions with its smartphones.

The LG G2 was the first phone I encountered with a power and volume button
assembly on the back of the device, a placement now emulated by others, most
notably Huawei who locates their fingerprint scanner there. And who could forget
the LG G Flex, that wacky phablet sporting a banana-shaped curve?

The G5 continues this tradition for quirkiness. At first glance it's an
attractive, if unremarkable smartphone - a metal body with a fingerprint scanner
on the back, 5.3-inch quad HD screen and running Android 6.0.1 (Marshmallow).

But then it goes all Transformers on you.

Unlike any other phone, the bottom of the G5 slides off to expose an expansion
port and the battery. This modular design gives G5 owners the ability to slot in
a variety of aftermarket modules to deliver the smartphone equivalent of
superpowers.

Need more juice? Slide in the battery module and, bam. You've got enough to go
all day and all night. If you're a photography buff, the photo module delivers
both a beefier battery and a palm-fitting grip with a dedicated shutter button
and zoom wheel.

LG calls these modules "friends" and regular readers will recall that I got to
meet some of them in April when LG's Eric Woo was in town to show them off.

There is also a virtual reality (VR) headset and a 360º camera you can use to
create content to view and share in VR.

My impressions were pretty positive, although they were a tad rough in their
implementation.

For example, the VR headset plugs into the phone via a cord, so its lightweight
compared with Samsung's GearVR which you slot your phone in to use. But the VR
experience, in my brief session, was not great.

The virtual roller-coaster ride I tried out would have been spectacular were it
not for the fact that I could see out of the bottom of the headset to the real
world, which ruined the effect.

The Hi-Fi Plus module, a partnership with audio specialists Bang & Olufsen, was
more impressive. The stylish and compact headphones fitted comfortably and the
music sample sounded pretty good.

The 360º camera looks intriguing and I'd be keen to compare it with Samsung's
version when they both become available later in the year.

Bear in mind that these "friends" are optional extras and not all of them are
available yet.

The good news is that at R11 799, the LG G5 is slightly cheaper than heavyweight
competitors like the iPhone 6S and Samsung S7 (both R12 999) and BlackBerry Priv
(R13 999). So you'll have a bit of spare cash to buy your G5 a little friend of
its own.

But how does the G5 stack up as a smartphone without its friends to back it up?
I recently got to spend a few weeks with a friendless review unit and the short
answer is "pretty darn well".

It looks great, with the screen curving subtly to meet the aluminium body - the
G5 is LG's first metal-bodied flagship smartphone.

I was concerned that the slide-out battery may start to loosen with use, but in
the month or so I had it, it remained locked in without a hint of movement or
rattle. The rounded edges make it easy to hold and to slip in and out of a
pocket.

One thing that detracted from the otherwise excellent build quality was the
slight, but noticeable to the touch, lip, running around the phone where the
back joins the sides.

A minor niggle, but not something you expect in premium device.

Performance-wise, the LG G5 has enough processing punch to take on any of the
current flagships from Samsung, HTC, Huawei and Apple.

The top-end Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor combined with 4GB of RAM made for
effortless multitasking and glitch-free mobile gaming.

Battery life was acceptable if unremarkable, with the G5 getting me through a
full working day with moderate to heavy use.

Power users or road warriors would probably want to invest in a spare battery
module, and the ability to quickly swop out power cells is something that sets
the G5 apart from its high-end competitors and a big drawcard in my books.

There's also a microSD card slot so you can beef up the 32GB of on-board storage
by up to 200GB.

The rear-mounted fingerprint scanner/power button is |quick and responsive, if
not quite as lightning fast as that on Huawei's P9.

Another big plus in the G5's favour is its innovative dual rear camera
configuration.

If you read last week's column, you'll recall that the Huawei P9 has a similar
set up. The G5's is different in that instead of one being black and white, LG
has kitted out the G5 with one regular 16-megapixel camera and one 8-megapixel
wide-angle camera.

It makes for a powerful combo. On its own, the standard camera is on par with
the best currently available. But the wide-angle lens lets you pull off some
neat tricks unavailable to owners of other phones, including squeezing much more
into a picture than you could using a standard lens. This is particularly useful
if you're taking pictures of large groups of people or towering landmarks like
mountains and skyscrapers.

Semi pro features in the camera app like manual controls and RAW support will
appeal to more serious photographers and, coupled with the after-market photo
module, would make for an ideal back-up snapper for situations when a bulky DSLR
camera would be impractical.

At the other end of the photography spectrum, selfie fans haven't been left out,
with the 8-megapixel front facing camera up there with the best of them.

If you're in the market for a premium smartphone with a difference, be sure to
check out the LG G5 before you decide

l Follow Alan Cooper on Twitter @alanqcooper.

