

Desktops now come in all sizes and fit into every corner of the home. Stewart
Mitchell picks 10 silicon saviours ready to come to your rescue

Desktop computers are the new superheroes of our homes. No longer a
one-size-fits-all beige box, they have become specialised allies, with distinct
powers, poised to serve all your digital needs. How strange it seems that Bill
Gates's famously bold prediction -that one day, every home would have a computer
-is now, if anything, a huge understatement. Many homes already boast multiple
machines, and this year alone, predicts the industry analyst Gartner, sales in
the UK will top 9m units. That's a lot of silicon love.

Although laptops exude considerable allure, as Doors discussed last week, there
are compelling reasons to plump for a full-sized machine, or three. Not least of
which is the desire to limit squabbles as computers become an integral part of
all our lives. The biggest single advantage is cost: a £1,000 desktop is a far
more powerful beast than a comparably priced notebook. It is also more
comfortable to use for long periods, thanks to a better keyboard, a proper mouse
(or trackball), and a screen that can be positioned anywhere. If mobility and
miniaturisation are not vital, a desktop strides purposefully into the
limelight.

In the old days, power was everything. A Hulk-strength processor would have
machines flying out of the shops. With even a modest new desktop machine now
capable of handling most computing tasks -rampant gaming aside -those days are
gone. Instead, the 21st-century desktop has evolved into many shapes and sizes.

Whether you're an early adopter hankering for a slinky-as-Catwoman, media
friendly machine to purr quietly as it records Lost in the living room; an
ardent gamer itching for a Superman-style powerhouse; or a family hunting for
the versatility of Batman's utility belt, at a super-duper price, there's a hero
ready to fly to your side.

As our new purchases take pride of place, their usurped predecessors are pushed
into other roles. Father-of-two Michael Andrews, from Hertfordshire, employs his
expensive new Evesham computer for "editing videos to embarrass the children",
while Sam, 11, and Sean, 7, now benefit from the old family workhorse by
"playing on CBeebies" and "making projects look better". In fact, the technology
research firm Mintel estimates that a quarter of children aged between 11 and 14
have a computer sitting in their bedroom -an increasingly key consideration as
basic computing skills swell in importance. There is also much to be said for
cheap-as-chips packages that cannot distract anyone with 3-D gaming.

As the computer becomes the place where we store our music collection, tinker
with photos or interact with friends, we face a dilemma: where to put it? If it
is somewhere public, a stylish Apple iMac or a diminutive Shuttle could appeal.
If tucked away, then a machine containing a huge hard drive that can act as a
multimedia cupboard, dishing out digital delights wirelessly around the home,
looms into view.

There is a lot of industry noise about Media Center computers -essentially
Windows XP with a television tuner and remote control. The high-street retailer
PC World claims that these account for 50% of the desktops it now sells. Despite
the hype, in reality, most entertainment-orientated PCs are not landing in the
living room, where consumer electronics offer many of the same features more
cheaply, but in the "den". No matter where a desktop resides, a space-saving,
flat LCD screen is a big attraction, but not all have equal powers; and poor
viewing angles often disappoint. This is a caveat with many bargain bundles.
Don't be seduced by a pile of shoddy accessories -time spent reading reviews is
well invested.

That said, a surplus of chips and ever fiercer competition between the two
processor-makers, Intel and AMD, is crashing prices, so bargains abound. If you
are simply going to surf the web or write the odd letter, £500 will suffice, but
keen video editors or gamers will need to spend at least twice that. Assess your
needs and stick to a budget: don't buy an Aston Martin when all you need is a
Ford Focus. Nobody would choose a car purely on brake horsepower; similarly, a
computer performs only as well as its weakest link. Less glamorous components,
such as a Sata hard drive, make a big difference, though do keep an eye out for
dual-processor chips, which are better at multitasking.

The waters are slightly muddied by next autumn's scheduled launch of Vista,
Microsoft's new version of Windows. Doors will look at Vista on another
occasion, but what you need to be aware of now is that in order to run it, any
computer requires a separate graphics card with 128MB of Ram. This can always be
added later, though -another key advantage of desktops over a luscious-looking
laptop.

To help you find your own superhero, Doors has examined 10 of the most dashing
desktops. The majority are supplied directly by the manufacturers, which now
stock a lot of the best kit. However, don't let this deter you from the high
street for budget packages or if you're in a hurry to take home your new hero to
help save the day.

VALUE SYSTEMS

EARLY-LEARNING CENTRE

499 LG PC. £499 from www.directfrom.co.uk ****

Ideal as a first computer for the children's bedroom, this budget LG is great
value for money, although the integrated graphics won't play the latest games
-no distractions there, then -and the case has all the allure of a 1970s tower
block.

The 160GB hard drive offers plenty of storage for homework projects, as well as
a Devon-sized dollop of digital media, and a dual-layer DVD writer is an
impressive bonus. The LG Flatron display is sharp and vibrant, but the budget
aspect of this bundle is highlighted by an old-fashioned mouse and rattly
keyboard. There is, thankfully, plenty of scope for improving the specification
of this machine later, once the children embarrass you with their technical
wizardry. Computer Buyer

SPARE-ROOM SURFER

Zoostorm 2-3301. £504 from www.pcnextday.co.uk ****

Perfect as a second surfing station for the spare room, the Zoostorm is amply
powered for most computing applications, including video editing. At a pinch, it
could be pushed into service as a basic gaming machine, thanks to a dedicated
graphics card. The 160GB hard drive is ably supported by a dual-layer DVD
writer, and the bundled wireless mouse and keyboard free the desktop of clutter,
although the built-in speakers need supplementing. Six USB2 ports provide plenty
of connections for extra gadgets such as MP3 players or a video camera. The
Zoostorm is a surprisingly potent animal for the price, but limited upgrade
options will restrict its evolution. Computer Buyer

MEAN MACHINES

DIGITAL HOARDER

Evesham Teramedia. £3,000 from www.evesham.com ****

Storage is a bit like Fairy Liquid: dull as dishwater to think about, until you
run out. In the digital age, you simply cannot have too many gigabytes, and this
Media Center offers a positively monstrous 1.5 terabytes -meaning 1,450GB.

This is about 360 times the capacity of an iPod Nano, or 300 full-quality DVD
movies, all accessible at the flick of a remote control. Although the
Teramedia's twin digital Freeview tuners are ideal for recording one programme
while watching another, and the 20.1in screen is sharp (if not wide), the
Teramedia's chunky bulk will banish it immediately to the spare room. Even
gamers will squeal with excitement at the raw power on offer, but for this
money, you'd expect nothing less.

GAMES-ROOM DEMON

Mesh Matrix X-treme Pro. £1,807 from www.meshcomputers.com *****

Bargains abound, but playing the latest games, at maximum force, will seriously
test the mettle of any computer. The X-treme Pro packs a mighty dual-core
processor and totes the most powerful graphics card around, yet there is hardly
a sound, other than your own frag-fuelled whoops. The Athlon 64 X2 4800+
processor will crash through the most demanding of battles, and with 2GB of
PC3200 Ram sitting in its guts, you can run a gamut of programs simultaneously.
This machine is housed in a designer Coolermaster case, the vibrant TFT monitor
shows off fluid games with aplomb, and, as you'd expect, there is mountains of
memory. Throw in a three-year on-site warranty and it is a terrifying prospect
for your credit card.

SILICON STYLE

ALL-IN-ONE STUNNER

Apple 17in G5 iMac. £900 from www.store.apple.co.uk *****

The foxy iMac has always been a living-room-friendly creature, but the latest
incarnation now houses the entire computer inside the monitor. Cunning indeed.

Curiously, recent hardware tweaks have downgraded the G5 processor slightly, but
improvements to the Ram mean the new version will edit videos of the children's
birthday parties more quickly than before. There are faster machines including
Apples -around, but the iMac is no slouch, though it's wise to upgrade the
skimpy 512MB of Ram. Also new is Apple's media-player software, Front Row, with
a streamlined remote control featuring a mere six buttons. There is also a posh
built-in webcam for instant video conferencing. The iMac still lacks upgrade
potential -and the manoeuvrability of its Anglepoise-style antecedent -but, as
ever, simplicity and style are the watchwords. Throw in virus and spyware
resistance, as well as a lush widescreen, and it is a sexy beast. Stewart
Mitchell

SMALL AND BEAUTIFUL

Shuttle G5MCE. £1,029 without monitor, from www.theglowlounge.com ****

Shoebox-sized Shuttles are as popular as popcorn among image-conscious computing
connoisseurs, either unobtrusively nestled in a smallish study, or as a discreet
jukebox for the living room. They are intended for self-building, which means
you choose your components, then waste a weekend faffing. To save your hairline,
various companies will do all the work, but you still need a monitor, keyboard
and speakers, so factor in at least £300 more. This specific model, which you
can win in our competition (right), is based on the new SD11G5 chassis. It has
plenty of pose factor and is whisper-quiet. With 1GB of Ram and a 1.86GHz
Pentium M processor, it is modestly powered, but less heat means no noisy fans
to distract from dinner-party ambience. A genuine head-turner -even the
front-mounted USB, FireWire and headphone sockets are hidden behind the silver
panel. Simply gorgeous.

FAMILY-FRIENDLY

ARGUMENT SOLVER

Evesham e-box AX64. £1,013 from www.evesham.com *****

The e-box is a wallet-friendly combination of entertainment hub and homework
helper -and with a punchy new AMD processor, it's ready for Windows Vista. While
not explicitly a living-room computer, the AX64 comes with Windows Media Center
Edition -though not a Freeview television tuner, which would be a sensible
addition. The mediocre graphics card won't display the latest games on the
pin-sharp 19in TFT monitor, but Evesham offers an upgrade to the competent
GeForce 6600 GT for £50. Either way, there is plenty of horsepower, and a
dual-core processor means antivirus software won't get in the way as you edit
videos of that skiing holiday. Having a DVD burner and player enables copying
directly from one disc to another, and 200GB of storage is ample. The
easy-on-the-limbs Microsoft wireless keyboard and optical-tilt mouse combo, plus
2.1 stereo speakers, complete a fine family package.

COTTAGE INDUSTRIALIST

Dell OptiPlex GX620 USFF. £680, plus £364 for 19in UltraSharp monitor, from
www.euro.dell.com *****

It may be designed with business folk in mind, but this weeny Dell adds a
sprinkle of chic to any home office and, intriguingly, comes in a variety of
case sizes. An exemplary three-year, on-site, next-business-day warranty brings
peace of mind for anyone relying on "up time" for their livelihood, and modest,
functional hardware means the children won't be tempted to invade your workspace
to play 3-D games. This well designed machine has microphone and headphone jacks
at the front -handily placed for internet phone calls -but only two USB2 ports
for peripherals such as digital cameras or MP3 players. The eye-soothing 19in
UltraSharp 1905FP monitor ensures plenty of real estate for the most taxing of
spreadsheets -and provides another four USB ports. Good work.

THE ENTERTAINERS

BOX OF TRICKS

Hi-Grade DMSII 3400 Dual. £1,173 from www.higrade.com ****

This Media Center computer is trying to sneak into your living room by dressing
up like a hi-fi separate. Well, kind of. Stack it next to your stereo, stab the
remote just once, and it will record The West Wing and play your Jamiroquai
albums. The DMSII doesn't come with a screen, so you will need a television with
a DVI input.

Twin television tuners and a 250GB hard drive mean you can watch one channel
while recording another, though, annoyingly, only one of the tuners is digital.
The Hi-Grade totes a DVD burner, has plenty of computing power -even for gaming
-and it's so quiet it won't disturb even the weepiest tear-jerker. The trouble
is, as a Media Center computer, it's pipped by the Elonex Artisan. And despite
the DMSII's flexibility, there are better-quality DVD burners-cum-PVR combos for
far less loot.

WIDESCREEN WONDER

HP Media Center M7250 and F2105 monitor. £1,469 from www.johnlewis.com ****

With so many lesser-known direct manufacturers crowding the market, it's easy to
forget that established players such as HP offer splendid computers that come
backed by years of experience and rock-solid reliability -though this does mean
premium prices. This fast Media Center eschews some of the more cutting-edge
technology, but its 2.8GHz dual-core processor will still rattle through family
functions, ably assisted by a solid 1GB of fast Ram memory. The built-in
television tuner is ideal for capturing your favourite shows, but it's analogue,
not digital. The star of the show is the elegant and unusually large 21in
widescreen monitor, which is great for watching movies, and you can win both in
our competition (right). The trade-off is a relatively small 200GB hard drive
(for a media machine) and average graphics, but you can upgrade the graphics
card for gaming and add speakers, but at this price, you might expect the whole
caboodle. Stewart Mitchell

FIRST THING FIRST

* Consider your needs. For gamers, a 3GHz processor with 1GB of Ram and a
dedicated graphics card with 256MB of on-board memory are essential. For a
simple web browser, these specs can be halved.

* Treat 160GB as a minimum for hard-drive capacity. A DVD burner is now a must
for archiving or backup and a second optical drive is useful.

* Don't be oversold -an all-round family workhorse should cost no more than
£1,000.

* Check the quality of all peripherals -a deal may include a printer or
speakers, but these extras may be of poor quality. Look for consumer or
professional reviews on the web -www.reviewcentre.co.uk is useful.

* Save yourself the hassle of upgrading components later on by paying extra
during purchase: a Sata hard drive, for example, will make for far less thumb
twiddling while you wait for files to load.

* Ensure technical-assistance calls are not charged at a premium rate. About 8p
per minute is normal.

* Find out what software is installed: all suppliers include an operating
system, but many may scrimp on "productivity software", perhaps offering a cheap
word processor instead of the full Microsoft Office.

* Check the length of any warranty and what is included: "collect and return"
usually means that a manufacturer will pay shipping; "return to base" could mean
that is your responsibility; "on site" is best of the bunch. Extended warranties
are often poor value.

* Make your purchase by phone or over the internet. This entitles you to a
seven-day cooling-off period after delivery, when you can cancel the machine if
it is not what you want.

oPay by credit card, to protect you if goods are faulty or the supplier folds
before delivery.

oLearn more about computing by visiting your nearest UK online centres (see
www.dfes.gov.uk/ukonlinecentres).

JARGON-BUSTER

Clock speed The speed at which a computer's processor runs, measured in
gigahertz (GHz).

CPU (central processing unit) Brain of the computer, where calculations actually
take place.

DVD burner Archives large files or videos to DVD discs for storage. Look for
dual-layer.

Dual core Newer generation of processor. Better for multitasking.

FireWire Fast way to transfer bigger files or add on a hard drive. Not as common
as USB2.

Hard drive/hard disk Where software and data are stored; measured in gigabytes
(GB).

Graphics card Internal plug-in card. Essential for 3-D gaming.

Media Center New variant of Windows XP computers. Have a remote control as
standard, and are able to record television.

Ram (random-access memory) Expressed in megabytes (MB), this helps a PC handle
multiple tasks.

USB2 (universal serial bus) Popular plug-and-play connection.

Vista Next-generation Windows, scheduled for autumn 2006.

NEXT WEEK:

MP3 PLAYERS Consult our index of guides at www.sunday-times.co.uk/doors: home
cinema (Oct 9), digital television (Oct 16), digital TV recorders (Oct 23),
digital cameras (Oct 30) and notebook computers (Nov 6)

Maximum rating *****

Prices include Vat and delivery.

Reviews adapted from PC Pro magazine unless stated


