
DATELINE: India


India, Oct. 15 -- Images that look real aren't enough these days. We need images
that feel real. This is why virtual reality is such a hit in our time, and is
poised to become an essential component of the entertainment world in days to
come. Most big tech firms are hard at work trying to come up with VR devices of
their own that will change the way we engage with our gadgets. Competing in this
area are major companies like Sony and Google, as well as smaller players
looking to make the most of the emerging VR scene. Following below is a
compilation of some the more cutting-edge VR gears that are already in the
market, though it's more than likely that they'd soon be replaced by
next-generation models.

PLAYSTATION VR

The Sony's PlayStation VRis the most comfortable headset which is also very
easier to set up with the help of usable Playstation camera. The device also
comes with sweat-inducing sponge which shied your eyes from any other
distraction. Once the device is calibrated, PlayStation 4's menu floats in front
of the eyes, awaiting user to start a VR game. PSVR also features few demos of
the game like PlayStation VR Worlds, RIGS, and Battlezone. The gadget utilize
the PS4's controller's motion sensors giving more immerse experience. VR
PlayStation gives amazing space illusions that VR itself creates. PlayStation VR
is priced at Rs 26,000 approximately.

OCULUS RIFT

Oculus Rift is one of the most premium VR headset in the market right now. The
device comprises with sensors, offering fantastic display and integrated
headphones. VR headset comes with a camera that adds more movement detection
information giving a better experience. Oculus Rift features 1,200x1,080
resolution AMOLED screen for each eye and the headset can only run on a powerful
gaming PC. The gadget also manages to keep the external light out as well. The
minimum specs of the the VR headset is Intel i3-6100 and GPU's start from Nvidia
GTX 960. The Oculas also includes ear pads that flush on the side of the headset
and can be rotated to sit directly on top of the ear or can be flipped up. Users
can also switch easily from game to app to movie. Oculus Rift is priced at Rs
37,000 approximately.

HTC VIVE

HTC Vive is a full system VR experience which runs on a powerful computer only.
Vive uses IR sensors mounted on walls to map user's location in the physical
space, integrating the space into the virtual space. The device unlike other VR
headsets gives the freedom to roam around the room than just few movements. The
headset features a range of sensors that present slick visuals for a much
greater experience. VR headset also offers intuitive controllers with a good
battery life and also offers solid selection of games already available in the
headset. HTC Vive also comes with 1,200 x 1,080 resolution AMOLED screen for
each eye and also comes with the front-facing camera. HTC Vive comes at the
price of Rs 56,000 approximately.

SAMSUNG GEAR VR

Samsung Gear VRwas designed to support smartphone rather than a PC or a gaming
console. Gear VR supports lenses that split the display between the user's eyes
while offering high resolution and slick visuals. The headset comes with
controls built into it and also gives great head tracking experience. VR headset
also offers geomagnetic and proximity sensor with micro SD card with pre-loaded
Gear VR content. Gear VR also comes with navigational touchpad and focal
adjustment dial, accelerometer and gyroscope. The Gear VR also offers 96-degree
field of view. The VR headset can only run in few of the Samsung flagship
phones. The Samsung Gear VR is priced at Rs 7,500 approximately.

LG 360 VR

The LG 360 VR offers 1.88-inch IPS LCD screen, 920 x 720 pixels-per-eye
resolution, adjustable lenses and 80-degree horizontal field-of-view and 6-axis
proximity sensors. The 360 VR has an in-built display with the unit plugging
directly into the G5 for power. The VR headset arm is made of flexible plastic
and features flexible fabric light shield and a 3.5mm jack. The headset has two
1.8-inch IPS displays inside, one for each eye, each with a resolution of 960 x
720 pixels, resulting in 639ppi. The headset also carries the controls for VR
environment, with back button for basic click navigation. It also features
motion sensors allowing user to look around the virtual world. Headset also
includes a sensor between the eyes for detecting that the headset is worn. LG
360 VR is priced at Rs 15,000 approximately.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Sunday Guardian. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

