

They say a dog is a man's best friend but in this instance it was a pensioner's
saviour after he became trapped in a bog.

Police footage shows how loyal black labrador Holly Blue refused to leave his
master's side as she struggled to set himself free following the accident.

Pensioner Martin Kay, 67, accidentally became stuck in the mud while on a walk
in Thornham Magna, Suffolk.

He cried out for help but no one was able to come to his aid leaving him
stranded for almost seven hours as his pet stayed close by.

It wasn't until a friend contacted police at 7.30pm on January 18 after
discovering he was missing that the alarm was raised.

Despite a ground search friends and neighbours were unable to trace Mr Kay and
it wasn't until a police helicopter was dispatched that he was found safe and
well.

Thermal cameras which were used to identify Mr Kay were used by police as they
scoured the local area.

But the rescue attempt quickly went awry when PCs Luke Allard and Clare Wayman
who attempted to rescue the pensioner also became stuck.

Read more: Pilots call for laser ban after flight forced to turn back to London

Mr Kay was eventually rescued and wrote to the National Police Air Service to
express his sincere thanks to those involved in the mission to set him free.

He was later invited to meet the pilot Captain Steve Ashcroft and helicopter
crew member PC David Bazlinton and the officers who saved his life.

Mr Kay said: "It is marvellous to meet them and personally thank them for saving
my life.

"I don't remember much about the rescue - the last thing I remember was that it
was getting dark and then the next thing I woke up in hospital.

"I hadn't walked that route for about two years and when I came across the mud,
I tested the ground at the side and it felt firm, but as I walked into the
middle the ground began to sink.

Read more: LG G5 'modular' smartphone with clip-on accessories launched at
Mobile World

"I called for help but nobody heard me and eventually I drifted off. I wasn't
optimistic about being found, but I wasn't panicking - it was too cold for that!

"I wasn't optimistic about anyone hearing me but I thought someone would find me
or someone wouldn't."

Mr Kay added that his dog had helped him through the traumatic experience - even
though he passed out.

He added: "It was the first and the last time she had been called into action.
She's a very loyal dog. She's quite well behaved most of the time!"

PC Allard who was on the scene of the accident said that the heat from the dog's
body managed to save its owners life.

He said: "The field was in the middle of nowhere and we were relying on the
light from the helicopter and torch light.

'When I got to Mr Kay I took hold of his hand and he wouldn't let go - I told
him he would have to let go or I wouldn't be able to help him.

'If it wasn't for the thermal imaging of the helicopter we wouldn't have found
him. I couldn't see him when I saw Holly Blue."

PC Wayman added that the pair had really struggled to rescue Mr Kay.

She said: "He was completely covered in mud, covering his face as well as his
body and we would have struggled to find him without the helicopter.

"Obviously it was a field in the middle of nowhere with no street lights so we
were relying on torches and the helicopter.

"Luke and I couldn't get Mr Kay out on our own and were getting stuck
ourselves."

While officer PC Bazlinton who assisted in the rescue insisted that it was all
down to team work.

Officer Bazlinton said: "The thermal camera is looking for heat sources and as
the fields were empty we found the heat sources of Mr Kay and Holly Blue
relatively quickly.

"This was a perfect example of team work, joined up between the helicopter,
local officers and dog handlers. On our own we couldn't have done it, on their
own they couldn't have done it, but together we could."

