

When it comes to phone design Sony seems to have taken to heart the adage "If it
isn't broken, don't fix it." The Xperia X is the phone maker's new flagship
device, but it is unmistakably a Sony device. It looks similar to its
predecessors, with only its size to distinguish it from the Z5.

Sony has changed the back case of the phone, from the fingerprint magnet glossy
finish to a more matte brushed aluminium. If you ever found the Z5 a bit
slippery to hold, you'll appreciate the change.

But apart from that, there's very little visually to distinguish the Xperia X
from the Z3+, for example. The Xperia X keeps the fingerprint reader on the
side, built into the power button, which makes it relatively easy to use.
Provided you pick it up in the right way, of course - the excuse "you're holding
it wrong" would actually ring true here.

This is Sony's latest flagship phone, and it comes with a 5-inch display. That
makes it a little smaller than the Z5, which has its trade-offs.

On one hand, it's easier to hold on to; on the other, the smaller screen isn't
ideal for media. At one point, a 5-inch screen was considered enormous; now it's
on the smaller side of the scale if you want to binge watch Netflix on the
commute.

Sony has always been great for naming the different bits of technology it uses
on its displays.

Like its Z series brethren, the X has ridiculously high megapixel camera shoved
in - 23 megapixels in this case, and 13 megapixels for the selfie camera. The
X-reality engine. A triluminos display. What you need to know is the display is
high definition, and it looks great. A bit "burn your retinas out" at times, but
it is clear, with good colour reproduction.

In terms of software, the phone comes with Android Marshmallow installed, and
it's a remarkably bloat-free version of the software too. It's as if the
manufacturers are starting to realise consumers are not as appreciative of the
efforts to create custom skins for Android software as they initially assumed.

Sony is pushing high-resolution audio hard, so, as you would expect, the X
supports the standard. Great if you are a music lover who appreciates the
higher- quality format, but the rest will find this a so-so feature.

So that's what's to like about the Xperia X. On the less welcome side of things,
a quick look at the spec sheet reveals the X has a Snapdragon 650 chip. In
contrast, the Galaxy S7 uses the Snapdragon 820, as does the LG G5, the HTC 10
and Sony's own Xperia X Performance.

The X isn't IP rated either, which is a disappointment. It was one of the
bonuses of owning an Xperia, the fact that a night out wouldn't lead to a dead
phone when you inevitably dropped it in a puddle or down the toilet. Though in
most cases, if it was latter, you'd be forgiven for cutting your losses and
leaving it there.

The good

Sony has a good design, and it's stuck with it for the X - bar one or two minor
changes. The move away from that slippery glossy back is also welcome. The
camera too is good, although megapixels don't tell the whole story.

The not so good

Why ditch the waterproof rating? Samsung reintroduced it for the S7 family of
phones, and it's disappointing that Sony has chosen to ditch this now. The
Snapdragon 650 is fine, but if you want to perform some more intensive tasks it
can be found wanting.

The rest

The sim slot also houses the micro SD slot, which saves on slots on the phone,
but will also reboot your phone every time you want to change one of them.

The verdict

 HHH At EUR 599, the Xperia X is pricey. It will do the job, but will find
itself struggling against more budget-friendly phones.

