


HIGHLIGHT: Panasonic exit doesn't kill plasma TVs


Q: Any updates on the situation with Panasonic plasma TVs?

A: Panasonic has announced that it is ceasing production of plasma TVs, but the
reports of plasma's death have been greatly exaggerated. At the time of
Panasonic's announcement, South Korean manufacturers LG and Samsung said they
would continue to develop plasma TV and will have new models for 2014.

Since the Panasonic news started circulating, I have received a deluge of e-mail
about plasma, Panasonic and what to buy. It's too bad interest wasn't this high
before, when it might have made a difference. I will write more about this in my
next column.

Connecting a turntable

Q: My receiver doesn't have a phono input. Can I connect my record player to
another input such as CD or AUX (auxiliary)?

A: If your turntable has a built-in phono preamp you can use an ordinary input.
Just be sure your turntable is set to "Line," not "Phono."

If your turntable doesn't have a phono preamp, you can get one for as little as
$20. The Behringer PP400 is a good one for occasional listening.

A good video camera

Q: I work for an auto dealership, and we're considering a mirrorless camera for
use in our business. The most important function will be video recording. I
worked in the TV broadcast industry as a reporter and editor, and I'm used to
extremely high-quality video. The camera must also have a separate microphone
input so we can use camera-mounted and wireless microphones. Still capabilities
are important, but secondary to the video functionality and quality.

You have written about the Panasonic and Olympus Micro Four Thirds cameras.
Which is the best fit for us?

A: If the best video is what you are after, get a Panasonic.

Olympus and Panasonic are quite candid about the capabilities of their Micro
Four Thirds cameras. Olympus is traditionally a still photography company and
has stated that its goal is to make the best cameras for still photography,
while retaining good video capabilities. Panasonic markets its cameras as
hybrids.

I've tested Panasonic's LUMIX DMC-G6, and the video quality is extraordinary. I
take the memory card from the camera, put it in my TV's SD card slot and I'm
treated to video that looks as if it was recorded by a TV station. It is $648
with kit lens.

If cost is no object, the LUMIX DMC-GH3 ($998, camera body only) has video
processing that is so good that the camera is used in professional filmmaking.

Those who don't need an external mic input can get a LUMIX DMC-G5 with kit lens
for $399 on Amazon, reduced from $699.

Send questions to donlindich@gmail.com Get more recommendations and read past
columns at www.soundadviceblog.com.

