

Branding seen as key to survival

Major changes to management, investment in R&D will be required to build strong
brands

The Nation

As Asia's companies grow ever more internationally ambitious, the need for
strong brands will grow significantly. Just as important, the shifting business
landscape within Asia, particularly in China and India, will also demand the use
of stronger brands, according to "Brand and Deliver: Emerging Asia 's New
Corporate Imperative", a new report from the Economist Intelligence Unit.

The report examines the current state of branding in emerging Asia . It looks at
how companies are tackling the next - crucial - stage of their evolution by
harnessing the power of brands. It also analyses the lessons that can be learnt
from pioneering firms in Japan and South Korea that have already succeeded in
building global brands.

Among the report's key findings:

In the past, Asia's emerging multinationals could thrive without strong brands.
In the future, they will need brands just to survive.

Companies in emerging Asia have grown quickly into large businesses without
using brands because they have been in the right place at the right time.
Construction companies have benefited from urbanisation and car companies from
rapid "motorisation". Banks have thrived in protected markets. Many others have
seized on Western multinationals' search for low-cost production. But this
"brandless success" will not continue. Cost advantages are eroding, markets are
opening and competition for customers is intensifying. Many of these competitors
will be Western companies that have honed their branding skills over many years.
Some estimate that Chinese companies have less than ten years in which to change
their business models.

Branding isn't only about succeeding in local markets, it's crucial to going
global.

Today, businesses in emerging Asia have vaulting ambition. But they will find it
difficult to succeed in "going global" without a strong brand identity. Chinalco
and CNOOC from China were rebuffed in their attempts to buy assets in Australia
and the US partly because, in the absence of clear identities of their own, they
were viewed as merely extensions of the Chinese government. Indian Hotels
Company was rejected in its attempt to associate more closely with Orient
Express Hotels, in which it was the largest shareholder, because management
worried that association with an Indian business would diminish the value of its
own brand. Indian auto-makers found similar resistance when they announced plans
to acquire Jaguar from Ford.

Branding strategy, as practised in the West, is not well understood in Asia .

While the benefits of brands - both to customers and companies - are easy to
grasp, the science of creating and managing them is far from straightforward. In
emerging Asia, that science is a work in progress. According to leading branding
consultants in the region, many companies regard brands as their reward for
building a successful business. They often confuse branding with advertising.
But a brand is more than just a name or a logo, and while marketing is an
important part of branding, it is only one part. Companies need to think about
quality, design, style and all other aspects of a customer experience that
together make up the brand. Most importantly, they need to think about what will
differentiate them from the competition.

The transition to managing a branded business demands major changes in corporate
thinking, organisation and staffing.

Historically, companies in Asia have competed on price, trying to be the
cheapest at what they do. They have operated with a trading mentality, pursuing
numerous, often short-term opportunities. Building a brand requires changing
this behaviour. For a start, it requires a longer-term, more focused approach.
Just as important, brands must be managed from the very top. Too often in Asia,
branding is considered something to be delegated to a junior team. Building and
guarding a brand requires specific expertise - and companies will need to obtain
this, if necessary externally. LG Electronics, for example, in 2007 hired its
first ever chief marketing officer and first ever C-level executive from outside
South Korea . [C-level is an adjective used to describe high-ranking executive
titles in general, with C standing for Chief.]

To build successful brands, emerging multinationals will need to increase
significantly their investments in R&D, marketing and design. This will require
overcoming their traditional aversion to investment in intangible assets as
opposed to plant and property. Among the toughest challenges for companies
trying to make the transition to branded goods is fostering innovation. Many
Asian firms have relied on copying what other businesses do. But truly great
brands lead the field with their own innovation.

The experience of Japanese and South Korean firms show that quality and safety
are crucial to brand success.

Many lessons can be drawn from the rise of Japanese and South Korean brands.
Paramount is the need for product quality and reliability. While it is often
necessary for emerging multinationals to start off by competing on price as a
"low-end" brand (as, indeed, many Japanese and Korean firms did), this strategy
is not sustainable over the long term. Iconic Japanese firms realised this from
the outset. In the 1950s, Sony's goal was to "become the company most known for
changing the worldwide poor-quality image of Japanese products." Its long-term
mission was that in 50 years, "â[#x20ac]¦ our brand name will be as well known
as any in the world ... and will signify innovation and quality."

Asian brands must recognise both the positive and negative aspects of their
origin and heritage.

One of the biggest challenges facing Asia's emerging multinationals is the
"country of origin effect", whereby Asian brands are perceived as inferior
because they come from an emerging market. In the case of China, the recent
string of product scandals involving products such as milk powder has made the
problem worse. Branding experts believe this is a temporary problem. But it is
one that will need to be considered carefully in devising a branding strategy.
This is perhaps doubly true for brands acquired abroad. The Tata brand is one of
the best known in India and one of the best regarded. But although it has made
headlines for its high-profile global acquisitions, Tata has wisely decided to
avoid any thought of rebranding these assets.

"Tata means nothing to Mrs Robinson in Bedfordshire, but Tetley means a great
deal," says R Gopalakrishnan, executive director of Tata Sons. Instead, the
conglomerate has launched a more subtle campaign to win foreign friends,
bringing young graduates from Europe and America's leading universities to India
to see Tata's much admired CSR programmes at work.

"Brand and deliver: Emerging Asia's New Corporate Imperative" report is
available free of charge at: www.businessresearch.eiu.com/ brandanddeliver.html

