

Just as phones with access to the Internet allow us to do more things with a
familiar device, our televisions also become powerful multitaskers when they are
connected to the Internet.

Consumers haven't been as quick to embrace Internet-enabled TVs (commonly known
as smart TVs), as they did smartphones when they first came on the market.

But several years after first emerging, smart TVs now have lower prices and
extra features.

And manufacturers are striving to make them the new standard for couch surfing.

Here's a beginner's primer to smart TVs:

What is a smart TV?

A smart TV is a television with built-in, one-touch access to a variety of
Internetbased services, without the use of a computer.

These features can include video streaming (Netflix, YouTube), social media,
games and apps.

Some smart TVs allow smartphone connectivity and different degrees of web
browsing.

The exact suite of features varies with each TV manufacturer because there is no

industry standard yet for the term "smart TV."

When did they first come on the market?

The first patent for smart TV technology was put out in 1994 by a company in
France, but smart TVs didn't get to the global marketplace until 2009-2010.

How have they improved?

The processors of new smart TVs are faster and the interfaces are more
customizable.

You can personalize your television with channels you frequently watch and
create shortcuts to your favourite features.

More apps have been developed specifically for televisions, too.

Extra options in new models ..

Built-in USB ports make it easier than ever to upload pictures from your family
vacation to the TV screen. Or you can show your pictures by linking your laptop,
phone or tablet to the TV wirelessly.

Voice and gesture recognition: the TV will respond to audio commands, or you can
control an onscreen cursor with hand motions that the TV detects via its
external camera.

Face recognition prompts your favourite options to pop up when you sit in front
of the TV.

If you want to watch a show with a friend across the country, you can Skype them
on your TV set while watching your show.

Extra gear needed

In addition to everything necessary for a normal television (including
higher-end video/audio cables) you should also get Internet cables, recommends
Rick Vanguard, audio manager at a Visions Electronics store on Edmonton's south
side.

While most smart TVs can hook up to your Internet wirelessly, he believes they
perform best with a direct Internet connection, because it's easier for a
wireless signal to be interrupted.

Installation Difficulty

No more difficult than your regular television.

The downside?

Web browsing, navigating onscreen menus and searching are still fairly clumsy
tasks on smart TVs, critics say.

Not many killer (musthave) apps have so far been developed for smart TVs.
Netflix is a hit, but other than that ...?

At a Glance

Here are some of the top brands and some features their smart TVs offer (prices
vary, and are largely dependent on the TV size).

Sony

Sony's Video and Music Unlimited provides an alternative to Netflix and Apple TV
streaming services .. Some models feature Ultra High-Definition picture ..
Price: $600 to $12,000

Samsung

Device interconnectivity allows you to tether your TV to your tablet, phone, and
other Samsung devices

S-Recommendation suggests other shows you may enjoy based on your watching
habits Price: $600 to $5,500

LG.

Very simple interface for navigating

Can convert your smartphone into a remote control for the television .. Comes in
models that offer Cinema 3-D

Price: $700 to $4,000 Panasonic

All screens include a live TV thumbnail, so you can watch while you search

Videos, MP3s and photos can be shared with your television .

Price: $800 to $7,000

