

NEW DELHI: HTC has finally made its latest flagship smartphone, HTC 10, official
in India. The metal bodied handset is priced at Rs 52,990 and is already up for
pre-order, with shipping starting June 5. HTC 10 was launched along with five
other smartphones, namely the One X9 , Desire 628, Desire 830, Desire 630 and
Desire 825.The flagship HTC 10 was unveiled globally last month. With it, the
company has ditched the 'One' moniker that has been always there in its flagship
handsets since the launch of the original HTC One. However, the HTC 10 still
keeps its premium metal build has even improved upon it this time.Not only are
the specifications top-notch on paper, the overall package seems impressive too.

We played with the smartphone at the launch event for a limited time, and here
are our first impressions.Design and displayThe HTC 10 is one of the best
smartphones we have come across, when it comes to build quality. The metal
phone, although being slightly heavier than competing flagships, seems solid and
sturdy in the hand.The Taiwanese smartphone maker also showcased a small video
showing the handset surviving numerous drops without any major scratches. The
phone sports broad metal chamfered edges on the sides, making for a firm
grip.There's a headphone jack on top, a micro USB Type-C port at the bottom,
power button and volume rocker on the right and a camera bump at the back. The
camera bump, however, is more pronounced than what we have seen in flagships
like Samsung Galaxy S7 or Apple iPhone 6s . HTC 10, with its metal unibody build
and dual-textured finish, left us impressed during the short time we spent with
the device. Fingerprint sensor worked accurately as well.The flagship comes with
a 5.2-inch QHD (1440x2560 pixel resolution) Super LCD 5 display with a pixel
density of 564ppi. It has really good viewing angles, and the Corning Gorilla
Glass protected curved edge display is responsive.At the launch event, HTC
claimed that the handset's display has the best touch response when compared to
that of iPhone 6S , Sony Xperia Z5 and the Samsung Galaxy S7 . Since it's a
matter of milliseconds, it might not be visible to the end users anyway. The
display is really bright and a bit reflective as well.Camera and performanceWe
tried the HTC 10's rear camera and it performed really well. We were especially
impressed with the camera's colour reproduction and its ability to click images
within a snap, even in dim and artificially lighted conditions For those
unaware, the smartphone houses a 12MP UltraPixel 2 camera with a pixel size of
1.55um, meaning more light is captured in one shot. This results in relatively
brighter images, especially in low light conditions. The rear autofocus camera
works in tandem with the BSI sensor, optical image stabilization and f/1.8
aperture to capture clear and sharp images.

Some of the camera modes in the HTC 10 include Self Timer, Auto-HDR, Panorama,
Continuous shooting (up to 8 frames per second) and Hyperlapse.The front-facing
camera also performed well. In our limited testing, the HTC 10 gave decent
results with its 5MP front-facing autofocus camera. The wide-angle front-facing
camera also has a BSI sensor with optical image stabilization.There's nothing
much to comment about the smartphone's performance as of yet. We ran a couple of
heavy gaming apps, and the smartphone powered its way through them without any
stuttering or lag. HTC 10 runs on a quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor,
clubbed with 4GB of RAM and an Adreno 530 GPU.It is too early to jump to any
conclusions, though. We have used smartphones running on the latest Snapdragon
820 before, and all of them have worked great. To find out more about the
detailed performance of HTC 10 in different situations, stay tuned for our full
review. As for the software, it is Android 6.0 Marshmallow with HTC's Sense UI
baked on top.VerdictOur initial impressions of the HTC 10 are really positive.
The smartphone sports a premium build and feels great in the hand. On the
software side of things, the phone comes with all the latest features found in
Android 6.0 Marshmallow and adds some extra functionality to the mix as well,
thanks to the Sense UI. Though in our opinion, the Rs 52,990 price tag might
drive some consumers away. You can go for the LG G5 which has slightly better
rear and front-facing cameras, same processor and bigger QHD display, all at the
same price. Should you buy the HTC 10? Stay tuned for the review.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

