

We've been here before. A beautiful smartphone with amazing specs at a price so
low it's hard to believe. The only apparent catch? It's made in China and no one
you know has ever heard of it.

Two years ago that phone would have been a Huawei. Today, Huawei is one of the
most recognisable tech brands in South Africa. Its P8 and P8 Lite models alone
have racked up sales of over 300 000, a big contributor to the brand's 34
percent share of the high-end smartphone market. The company expects its
successor, the P9, to sell even better.

With Huawei now swimming in the mainstream with big fish like Samsung, the
"unknown Chinese brand" slot is occupied by Xiaomi.

I put "unknown" in quotes, because in the Far East, Xiaomi is anything but. It's
been dubbed the Apple of China due to its explosive growth over the past five
years, so it's apt that the same people who brought Apple products to Africa -
Mobile in Africa Group (MIA), an offshoot of the Core Group - are bringing
Xiaomi to the continent.

The brand may already be on some tech watchers' radar, thanks to the arrival of
the Mi4, an impressively specced sub R4â[#x20ac][0/00]000 smartphone and the
Redmi Noteâ[#x20ac][0/00]2, not quite as powerful but a steal at under
R3â[#x20ac][0/00]000. But outside the geek crowd, Xiaomi is pretty much unknown.

I'm betting that's going to change over the coming year and if it does, Xiaomi's
latest arrival, the Mi5, will have a lot to do with it.

I first encountered the phone at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in
February and was smitten by this stunning assemblage of aluminium and glass. It
had the build quality and looks to rival Apple's 6S and Samsung's S7 Edge.

And it's not just in the eye candy department that the Mi5 is taking on the
heavyweights. It has plenty of brains courtesy of a Snapdragon 820 processor, up
to 4GB of RAM and up to 128GB of internal storage.

"Mi like!" I tweeted at the time. But would my initial enthusiasm stand up to
the rigours of daily use? Would familiarity breed contempt or sighs of
contentment? I recently got to find out when I spent a few weeks with the Mi5.

The verdict: plenty of content-ment and a sigh of regret when the courier
arrived to take it back.

My review unit was a pearl-white model and it looked just as gorgeous as I
remembered it from Barcelona. Its curved glass back is startlingly reminiscent
of Samsung's S6 and S7 Edge phones, but without the curved glass on the front.
It makes for an elegant device, one that also nestles beautifully in the hand.

Be warned, though, it's pretty slick and if the surface you place it on is even
slightly angled, you risk it sliding off with potentially catastrophic
consequences. This happened twice to me and I was fortunate on both occasions to
catch it before it hit the ground. I'd recommend you buy a cover when you get
the phone.

The 5.15-inch high-definition screen was crisp and bright, even outdoors. It's
not quite up to the perfection of Samsung's Super Amoled displays, with even
last year's S6 Edge beating the Mi5 in pixel count. But I doubt you'll notice
the difference unless you put the two phones side-by-side.

When it comes to raw power, the Mi5 is up there with the flagships. It handled
processor-hungry tasks - including several mobile games that are virtually
unplayable on lesser devices - with nary a stutter.

Battery life was good, with the 3â[#x20ac][0/00]000mAh cell generally seeing me
through a full work day of moderate use and well into the evening. Sustained
heavy use will risk draining it before the day is out, so you'll need to take
the charger with you.

It uses one of the new USB 3.1 Type C chargers which is both good and bad news.
Good because it fits into the matching slot on the phone either way you insert
it - so no more fumbling in the dark to plug it in. Bad because you won't be
able to borrow a mate's charger to juice up your phone in an emergency unless he
or she was one of the few people with these new-fangled connectors.

This should become less of an issue as more manufacturers bring Type C devices
to the market. LG has already taken the leap with its G5 and Samsung is widely
rumoured to be going this route with its soon-to-be-announced Note 7. So kudos
to Xiaomi for being ahead of the curve.

The 16MP rear camera has an F/2.0 aperture, which made for generally excellent
pictures both in bright daylight and after dark. I was less impressed with the
front-facing 4MP camera, particularly in low-light conditions, but not being a
serial selfie snapper, this wasn't really an issue.

Video quality was acceptable if not exceptional. I did enjoy playing around with
the slow-motion video recording feature. You can also record video in 4K.

In summary the Mi5 is an attractive, powerful device that competes well with the
best of today's high-end smartphones. But I haven't mentioned its killer feature
yet: Its price. At R7â[#x20ac][0/00]999 it's a full R5â[#x20ac][0/00]000 cheaper
than similarly specced rivals. This is incredible value.

Which leaves just one more question: How the heck do you pronouce Xiaomi?

Most people I encounter know by now that Huawei is pronouned "wha-way". Xiaomi,
however, still seems to be a tongue twister for most non Chinese speakers.
According to Hugo Barra, the ex-Google exec who joined Xiaomi in 2013, the best
way to pronounce it is to "think of 'show me' and then pronounce the first word
as if it were 'shower'."

However you pronounce it, Xiaomi's Mi5 is great news for anyone looking for a
premium smartphone for well under R10â[#x20ac][0/00]000.

Mi still like! A lot.

â-- Follow Alan Cooper on Twitter â[#x20ac]¨@alanqcooper.

