

MANHATTAN

* The suspect pictured above groped a woman in her Washington Heights apartment
building, authorities said Tuesday.

The 22-year-old victim had just entered the building at St. Nicholas Avenue and
West 163rd Street when a man walked up from behind and gave her a hug at
approximately 7 p.m. on Aug. 28, police said.

When the man grabbed her breasts and rear end, she shoved him and he fled.

He was wearing a multicolored button-down shirt over a gray T-shirt.

* A mugger bashed a food deliveryman over the head with a glass bottle and then
grabbed the victim's $760 bicycle on the Upper West Side, cops said Tuesday.

Javier Tejeda, 30, was in front of a Columbus Avenue building just after 11 p.m.
Monday when the thug hit him and made off with the black GT bicycle, cops said.

* A man was stabbed twice amid a fight in Union Square Park, authorities said
Tuesday.

The 23-year-old victim had been arguing with another man in a section of the
park south of East 15th Street when the assailant stabbed him in the stomach at
about 9:30 p.m. Monday, cops said.

The victim was listed in stable condition at Bellevue Hospital.

BROOKLYN

* A bigot who purportedly identified himself has been leaving nasty messages in
Coney Island detailing his distaste for Jews, homosexuals and whites, police
sources said Tuesday.

A note was found affixed to the handlebars of a motorcycle with the words, "I am
Tyrone Todd Coleman. I f--king hate jews, whites and f----ts. They are nasty
rotten and dirty scum of the earth I kill, behead, and jinx them all the time I
f--king hate them nasty rotten Jews . . . they need to die I am Tyrone Todd
Coleman," the sources said.

* The two suspects pictured above beat up and robbed a man in East New York,
authorities said Tuesday.

The 46-year-old victim was walking along Georgia Avenue near Stanley Avenue when
the men began punching him in the face at about 6:30 p.m. on Aug. 26, officials
said.

During the assault, one of the thugs snatched an envelope containing cash from
the victim.

Both assailants were described as about 5-foot-9 and 180 pounds.

One was wearing a black shirt and blue jeans while the other wore a blue shirt
with a green logo on the front and tan pants.

THE BRONX

* A man looking for a good time was robbed at gunpoint when he showed up to meet
a prostitute at a Castle Hill building, police sources said Tuesday.

The 27-year-old victim made an appointment with an escort named "Melissa" after
viewing a Web ad and was told to meet her on the 18th floor at approximately
3:15 a.m. Monday, the sources said.

When he exited the elevator, one person pointed a gun at him while a second
robbed him of $900 and a cellphone, the sources said.

The victim was struck in the chest with the firearm before the assailants fled,
the sources said.

QUEENS

* The suspect pictured above shot a 39-year-old man in front of a Hollis
­bodega, authorities said Tuesday.

The victim was standing in front of the Nasser Deli and Grocery on Jamaica
Avenue at around 8:45 p.m. on Aug. 5 when a gunman opened fire, cops said.

The man was wounded in the left foot and in the back, police said.

He was rushed to ­Jamaica Hospital in stable condition, according to ­police.

The shooter fled into a building around the corner on 191st Street, law-
­enforcement sources said.

* A livery driver was robbed at gunpoint in Far Rockaway, police sources said
Tuesday.

The victim arrived at an address on Beach 31st Street to pick up a passenger,
but didn't see anyone standing outside, law-enforcement sources said.

When he tried to make a U-turn, a man wearing a dark sweat shirt got in the back
seat of the car and put a gun to the driver's neck, the sources said.

The victim surrendered about $130 and his LG G5 ­cellphone, according to the
sources.

