

PHUKET: Sony, few months after introducing it's Xperia X range of smartphones
globally at the MWC 2016 conference, has finally launched the smartphone in
India. As we also said in the launch story , with Sony Xperia X, the Japanese
company has focussed on its build, battery and camera over other things. It also
demoed the new features that the smartphone boasts during the launch. We played
with the smartphone for a sometime and here are our first impressions.

Design and displaySmartphone design is an area where Sony has always been among
the top players in the market ever since the company launched Xperia Z1. The
Japanese multi-conglomerate company has this time as well played safe carrying a
similar unified design profile from the Xperia Z5 series to the Xperia X
series.The mix of curved glass display and metal on the sides and back gave a
premium look and feel to the Xperia X. Sony says that its designers have
researched 'premium materials, texture and carvature' for the smartphones so it
could deliver a good fit for the hands. With the Xperia X, the story is no
different. Besides the premium look, it feels sturdy and might as well face a
few casual drops as well.In addition, since the device sports a 5-inch display,
it is more compact than other flagship smartphones out there. This not only
gives a firm grip as users are able to wrap their palms around the handsets, but
also make it convenient to reach all four corners of the screen without much
adjusting the grip.The Sony Xperia X sports power button, volume buttons and a
dedicated button to activate the camera or click the image is present on the
right side of the handset. While there is a micro-USB port at the bottom, the
headphone jack sits at the top, and the SIM/microSD card tray is on the left.
Users won't need a SIM ejector tool to pull out the tray. It is worth pointing
out that pulling the tray outside or placing it back into the handset restarts
the device. The smartphone supports a nano-SIM and a micro-SIM. The micro-SIM
tray can also house a microSD card. There are two speakers at the front, one
above the display and one below. Unlike few other smartphones, which show two
speaker grills but have only one primary speaker inside, the Xperia X has two
speakers at the front. We are personally a fan of front-facing speakers as the
audio is directly thrown towards the user, making the content more engaging. The
power button also acts as a fingerprint sensor and works almost every
time.Talking about the display of the Xperia X, the smartphone sports a 5-inch
Full HD resolution Triluminos display. It is crisp and vibrant and also manages
to go bright enough outdoors to become readable. However, the company could have
brought QHD resolution onboard given the price tag. The 5-inch display and Full
HD resolution also gives a pixel density of roughly 440ppi, making it easily
viewable from different angles. Performance and cameraThe Sony Xperia X, being
the flagship model in the series, features the hexa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 650
processor, clubbed with 3GB RAM and Adreno 510 GPU. Although, the processor is
not at par with its more powerful sibling, the Snapdragon 820, it successfully
handles the given task easily without any glitches. In our limited time with the
smartphone, we tested heavy games and photo editing apps on the device. The
handset was able to seamlessly run all of them. We are still in the process to
test the Sony Xperia X's performance in varied conditions so it might be too
soon to judge the handset's CPU. The Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow operating system
together with the Xperia UI also makes the device snappy and feature-rich. Stay
tuned for out complete review.The overall performance of the handset is also
said to be enhanced due to the company's native Qnovo adaptive charging
technology. The technology is supposed to extend the battery life of the
smartphone by two times. The device is backed by a 2620 mAh non-removable
battery with Quick Charge 2.0 tech support.Coming to the Sony Xperia X's most
boasted department, its camera, the device includes a 23MP rear camera with
Exmor RS sensor, autofocus, and LED flash. It also has a 13MP front-facing
camera with the same Exmore RS image sensor.According to Sony, the smartphone
can now launch the camera app, focus on the desired subject, and can click the
image, all under 0.6 seconds. In our testing it performed as claimed. Users
would simply have to long press the dedicated camera button to execute the
process. The smartphone also has an intelligent autofocus that results in
sharper and clear images. In low light situations, Sony says it has made several
under-the-hood improvements to enhance the images taken in low light. However,
in real-life usage the cameras were disappointing.The image shot at night tends
to get over sharp, resulting in a more grainy shot. The camera user interface is
neat and minimal except for what's there in the 'Superior Auto' mode where
almost 1/4th of the display is covered by an overflow window including the GPS
location icon, small image preview, the shutter button, and the settings icon.
In manual and video mode, the overflow window is not present and lets users view
the full screen.Sony says it has used its Predictive Hybrid Autofocus
technology, which automatically guesses what subject to focus next, so that
images taken at the nick of the time don't have a blurry subject. VerdictOur
initial impressions of the Sony Xperia X are mixed. While the company has
received a thumbs up on the display, design, and features like fingerprint
sensor, quick image capture and more, at the same time it has failed to impress
us when it comes to low light photography and the processing power. As mentioned
before, the handset could have also packed QHD resolution, a Qualcomm Snapdragon
820 processor, 4GB RAM and more at the price of Rs 48,990. There are option like
the LG G5, Samsung Galaxy S7 and more that offer much more on platter at around
the same price segment. We are still in the process of reviewing the handset, so
stay tuned to know if this smartphone is worth buying or not.Watch the first
impressions video here:

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

