

STEPHEN FENECH takes a look at the standout products of the year


It's been quite a year. And although 2005 seems to have gone by in the blink of
an eye, a year is a long time in the technology industry. There have been many
rapid developments and improvements, across all categories from home
entertainment and computers to digital imaging, mobiles telephones and even
gaming.

Connect has been fortunate enough to take a look at most of these devices and we
were impressed by a number of products.

Here's a look at some of the products which caught our eye in 2005.


HOME ENTERTAINMENT

The home theatre available today is vastly different to that of 12 months ago.
Prices have continued to drop while the quality and features have improved.

There aren't too many industries which boast a similar movement in their
respective markets.

The standout products in this category have been the display devices.

Plasma has still kept its nose ahead of LCD, but it is the latter that has made
more ground in picture quality and pricing in the last 12 months.

Pioneer's 109cm (43-inch) and 127cm sixth-generation plasmas have raised the bar
as far as the picture quality is concerned.

While the fifth-generation plasma is exceptional, Pioneer has managed to improve
on it even further and, the best part is, the price remains the same.

However, in the LCD arena there has been plenty of movement, especially in the
80cm-100cm bracket.

Plasma has established itself as the display of choice in sizes of 106cm and
above.

And until recently, an 94cm LCD TV was more expensive than a 106cm plasma.

But the price-per-square-inch for LCD has undergone marked improvement with many
94cm models coming in at the $3000 mark.

Two LCD TVs caught our eye this year.

The first is BenQ's 94cm DV3750, a high definition display which is bundled with
a HD set-top box to bring out the best possible picture.

The other is Sony's new 100cm Bravia.

The Bravia was released late in the year and, from what Connect has seen, it
really has taken LCD right up to the next level entirely. On the speaker side we
were also very impressed with LG's wireless home theatre system, which allowed
users to set up the rear speakers without having to snake inconvenient speaker
cable all the way to the back of the room.

Next year, keep an eye out for even better quality plasma and LCD screens, which
will be equal in size, price and quality.


MOBILES

This is one of the fastest-developing areas of technology, with literally
hundreds of handsets released this year.

Users are changing their phones more often and there is no shortage of choice to
suit a wide range of needs.

The networks have also improved, with all major operators now offering 3G
services such as music and video downloads, and video calling.

Music is a big factor in handset design this year with some interesting results.

At the same time, built-in cameras were also improving and it became the year
the handset became a credible camera and MP3 player.

Nokia's new N Series of handsets, or devices, as they are now labelled,
illustrate this point well. The N90 has a two megapixel camera which uses Carl
Zeiss optics. And the soon to be released N91 contains a 4GB hardrive to let you
store literally hundreds of songs, as you would on your iPod.

Nokia also turned plenty of heads with its stylish 8800. This stainless steel
handset was elegantly designed and positioned as a product for the top end of
town.

Sony Ericsson made significant ground in 2005 with two handsets that drew a line
in the sand in terms of picture and sound quality.

The K750i handset features a two-megapixel camera which captures quality shots
to share via Bluetooth with other users, or to your computer or printer.

On the music front, Sony Ericsson unleashed its Walkman brand on the W800i and
the result was a library full of songs in your pocket.

The distinctive orange handset also contained a two-megapixel camera as well, so
it really was a winner all round.

In 2006, get ready for more handsets to hit the three megapixel mark, and to
contain larger flash memory storage capacity allowing them to store more than
1000 songs with ease. 3G will also start to take off, with more of your music
content downloaded directly to your phone.


DIGITAL IMAGING

There were almost as many new digital cameras released in 2005 as there
sunrises.

The entry point has moved up from 3.2 megapixel resolution up to five megapixel
and beyond. And 2005 was year that high definition was put into the hands of the
consumer, with Sony's HC-1 camcorder.

This video camera can capture your memories so you can relive them in all their
glory on the growing number of HD-ready display devices consumers are snapping
up.

On the still camera side, Kodak steps up to the next level with its Easy Share
One camera.

What sets this apart from the competition is its ability to connect to a
wireless network to share photos via e-mail right out of the camera.

As far as photo printers go, HP's 3310 is particularly impressive, with an
ability to print out 15cmx10cm (6x4s) pictures in an amazing

14 seconds. The 3310 was also wi-fi capable and could receive photos and
documents and print them without cables.

In 2006, expect even greater resolution from the new models, as well as wider
adoption of wireless capabilities.


DIGITAL MUSIC

One word can be used to describe the highlight of 2005: iPod.

Mobile handset manufacturers have tried to cut into the market but products
tagged as ''iPod killers'' promptly crashed and burned.

They got lost in the twisting wake of Apple's ubiquitous digital music player,
which was offered in three new forms this year.

There was the iPod Shuffle, the incredibly small iPod Nano, as well as the
fifth-generation regular iPod. This not only got thinner, but also gained the
ability to play videos. The video iPod has been the stand-out product and offers
a bigger, sharper screen with a cover in a choice of traditional white or the
now popular black.

Our own iTunes online music store finally opened in October, allowing
Australia's iPod owners to legally download the latest tracks.

Apple dominated the market here and will continue to do so in the future.

Rumour has it that Apple boss Steve Jobs, in his keynote address at Macworld in
San Francisco next month, will unveil a new iPod Shuffle.


COMPUTERS and SOFTWARE

Laptops have become the computer of choice for more people, so there is no
shortage of new models. It's standing out in the crowd takes something special.

What did impress is Acer's Ferarri notebook computer with its distinct carbon
fibre design and unmistakable prancing stallion logo.

And Asus is a company which has come a long way in a short time in Australia.
Apart from being a powerful computer, the Asus A5 notebook is a mobile
entertainment system complete with digital TV tuner and an FM radio.

In the desktop area, Apple once again caught the eye with its G5 iMac. This
latest version features a built-in iSight camera as well as Front Row, an
application which allows you to view digital content and control it all from
across the room with a tiny remote.

On the software side, Apple's new Tiger OS X operating system added even more
features, and the handy Dashboard introduced a world of mini applications called
widgets to the desktop.

Elsewhere, for those who do a lot of writing, the Dragon Naturally Speaking 8 is
an invaluable tool.

This application allows users to speak into a microphone and see their spoken
words appear on-screen in front of them.

In fact, many of the stories you've read in these pages in recent months have
been spoken rather than being typed out in the old-fashioned way.


IN-CAR TECHNOLOGY

GPS satellite navigation is quickly becoming a must-have feature for your car
and is steadily becoming more affordable.

TomTom's GO 300 and GO 500 are compact devices which offer touch screen
functionality as well as spoken turn-by-turn directions.

And Navman, a market leader, released an entry level product, the iCN 320, which
was priced to appeal to a wider audience.


GAMING

It is not every day that a new gaming system is released, but this year the
PlayStation Portable finally hit the market in September.

What makes the PSP such a hot item is the fact that it can not only play great
games but also allow users to watch DVD quality movies, listen to music, view
photos and even get on the internet.

And 2006 will be even bigger with the release of the XBox 360 on March 2 and the
PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Revolution later in the year.

