

LG Electronics has launched an online retail store for its smart device line
Friends, opening the platform to start-ups and developers to nurture an
ecosystem for connected devices.

The new website, dubbed LG Friends, is an online market where consumers can buy
LG's latest smart devices, including a removable smartphone camera, a portable
speaker, a rolling toy robot, and a wireless headset.

Developers attend LG Electronics' conference in San Francisco, California, last
Friday. (LGE)

The Friends market will also serve as a platform for outside developers and LG's
subcontractors to sell devices that can be paired with the tech giant's modular
smartphone G5.

These developers and partners will have to get their products certified by the
Korean tech giant before they can sell on the online market.

"LG wants to build an open mobile ecosystem together with developers and
consumers," said Cho Ju-no, the chief executive of LG's mobile communications
company, adding that the company will try to offer various smartphone
experiences and new value.

He said earlier this year that LG would try to solidify its footing in the
premium smartphone segment by rolling out high-end handsets with one-of-a-kind
features like the G5 rather than focusing on rolling out affordable, mediocre
products.

In order to bolster partnership with developers for the open mobile ecosystem,
the Seoul-headquartered firm held a developer conference in San Francisco on
Friday last week, following one held in Korea last month.

Around 200 developers took part in the event and officials from internet giant
Google and drone maker Parrot spoke of collaborative works with LGE.

The Korean smartphone maker codeveloped Google's Nexus 5X smartphone and it has
been collaborating with the U.S. drone firm to roll out drones for the Friends
brand.

On the domestic front, LG is currently running a contest for G5 and Friends.
Developers pitch ideas and the company will incubate the best ones and turn them
into real products.

Investment firms forecast that the G5 will be able to reach record high sales
among the G smartphone series, surpassing the 10-million sales mark in its first
year.

"The G5 will be able to garner positive response in the U.S. market, which takes
up around 50 percent of LG's overall smartphones sales," said Soh Hyun-cheol, an
analyst from Shinhan Investment, in an investment report.

The Korean firm estimated in its preliminary earnings guidance released earlier
this month that it had posted 505 billion won ($439 million) in operating profit
in the first three months of this year, up 65.5 percent from the sale period
last year.

By Kim Young-won (

