

If you thought buying a smartphone is getting boring, LG is marketing its G5
smartphone with add-ons called "friends" to spice things up.

The friends are a camera control system, a module for high definition audio, a
360- degree camera, a virtual reality viewer and a rolling ball that captures
images. They are more than accessories and pair with the G5. In some cases, you
remove the battery and insert the friend module inside the phone.

G5 smartphone LG's new flagship, the G5 presides over this modular friends
empire. To me, it is the best of the G-series, but that doesn't make it the best
Android phone. The G5 is a serious challenger but doesn't quite match the
Samsung S7 edge's screen, camera quality and performance.

At 5.3 inches, it's quad HD display is bigger than the iPhone 6s yet smaller
than 6s plus, a useful in-between size. Being an IPS LCD screen, it lacks the
sparkle of the S7's AMOLED display but matches it in clarity and pixel density -
554 pixels per inch. It has a plain textured metallic body that offers grip and
doesn't show fingerprints but the detachable bottom section doesn't quite fit
with the upper section at the back.

Like Huawei's P9, the G5 has two rear-facing cameras. One is a 16-megapixel,
78-degree lens, with optical image stabilisation, and the second an 8-megapixel
135-degree wide-angle one. You may have shot thousands of photos with a
wide-angle lens on a DSLR, but snapping a wider view with a smartphone is super
convenient. With the G5 you don't need a lens attachment and the camera is
excellent for taking low-light shots.

The G5 has good battery life with video playing for 101/2 hours at 50 per cent
brightness. There's Quick Charge 3.0 fast charging, which works well. It took 10
minutes for my review unit to charge from 4 per cent to 25 per cent, another 10
and it was 42 per cent full. The G5 charges with a USB Type-C connector and also
has a sizeable 2800 milliampere hour removable battery.

Speed wise the phone's Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 chip set ranked highly in
AnTuTu's Benchmark, fourth behind Xiaomi's Mi5, the S7 edge, and iPhone 6s. But
the G5 can be sluggish when traversing menus, or when zooming with the camera.

It has a microSD slot that adds up to 200GB of storage but it doesn't support
adoptable storage.

The power button on the back is now also a fingerprint sensor and the volume
keys have sensibly moved from the back to the side. Like Huawei, LG has ditched
having a separate drawer for Android apps. Overall, this is the best G-series
phone, combining an excellent camera with a wide-angle lens, good battery life,
quick charging, microSD card support and a removable battery. However, it still
has some way to go before it dethrones Samsung's S7. The G5 costs $1099 RRP and
will be sold by Harvey Norman, Telstra, and Optus from early next month.

Some friends are better than others Hi-Fi Plus: This adds an outlet for a 32-bit
384KHz high-resolution audio. You take out the chin section of the phone and
battery, transfer the battery to the new module and slot it in. You'll need
decent headphones. I listened to music through it using a noise cancelling
headset supplied by Bang & Olufsen, which developed the module with LG. Sound
quality is excellent. But why isn't this a standard feature without a plug-in
module, as it is on Sony Xperia Z range? BYO headset. $229 Cam Plus: It plugs in
the same way as Hi-Fi Plus and adds physical shutter and record buttons plus a
digital zoom wheel. It also boosts the existing 2800 mAh battery by 1200 mAh for
longer shooting times. I'd find it useful for the extra battery power but I'm
quite happy with standard phone camera control. It does bump up the weight and
thickness of the phone. $129 360 Cam: This one is hands down my best friend. It
pairs with the phone via an app and images from its two 13-megapixel cameras are
stitched together to create a 360-degree panorama. It records 360-degree video
and has in-built microphones for 5.1 surround sound, but no microphone jack. It
screws into a camera mount, eliminating the need to hold it. It has 4GB of
internal memory and you can add a microSD card. Similar in style to the Ricoh
Theta S. $399 360VR: LG's virtual reality glasses are more like goggles, and
therefore don't offer a fully immersive experience. VR resolution is mediocre
and it's awkward to focus. You have to take off the unit and rotate the inside
of each lens separately. Also, I needed to wear my reading glasses to see images
clearly; I don't need them with the Samsung Galaxy VR, Oculus Rift etc. Not
recommended.

Rolling Bot: A sphere with an 8-megapixel camera that rolls like a ball. It was
not available for review and won't be sold at launch.

LG charging kit: Not officially a friend but a useful accessory. You charge a
spare G5 battery or use it as a power source. Spare battery included. $69.95

LG G5 smartphone Features * Lightweight metallic build with removable chin *
High resolution 5.3-inch IPS display, 554 ppi * 32GB of internal storage, 4GB of
RAM * Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow

GOOD * Great camera, wide angle lens useful * Good battery life, fast charging *
Removable battery, microSD card support

BAD * Chin section leaves small gap * No adaptive Android storage * Modules a
mixed bag

Price $1099

Rating8/10

