                               10 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday

                         1 - All-round Country Edition



Win phones on the rise



BYLINE: Stuart Kennedy



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32



LENGTH: 768 words





MICROSOFT may rule the PC operating system universe, but the software giant does

not prevail in the fast-expanding smartphone sector.



A potpourri of operating systems flourish on smartphones and PDAs, including

RIM's BlackBerry OS, the Symbian OS, Google's new Android OS, PalmOS and the

Apple iPhone OS.



Amid this throng is Microsoft's Windows Mobile 6.1 OS, which is due to morph

this year into WM 6.5 and after that into a new mobile version of the Windows 7

replacement for the lacklustre Vista.



The Windows Mobile user interface is nowhere near as pleasing to use as Apple's

touchy feely iPhone, but it does offer many advantages, especially for business

use.



Email integration with the likes of Microsoft Exchange is mature and solid. The

Office Mobile apps usually included with the package allow viewing and editing

of MS Office formats and, unlike the iPhone, it allows cutting and pasting

between applications.



There are plenty of styles, feature sets and price points to choose from when

shopping for a phone that uses Windows Mobile. We looked at three.



Sony Ericsson Xperia X1



THE Xperia is the narrowest of the trio at 53mm but is also deepest at 17mm and

feels quite porky at 158g.



That said, we liked the solid feel to the brushed metal phone and the neat,

slide-out action that reveals the keyboard.



The QWERTY keyboard has decent spacing between keys for such a compact unit,

although I found the key-press action too firm. A niggle with the case on the

review unit was the battery cover, which kept coming unstuck.



The Xperia X1's big party trick is swapping the look and feel of the home screen

on the fly. A button marked Panel on the front of the case brings up a selection

of home screens.



The quick panel change feature is truly useful, and extra screens, such as a

Skype-centric one, can be downloaded.



The Xperia sports a very crisp 800x480 pixel, 3in display, assisted GPS, FM

radio, WiFi, Bluetooth, 3.5mm headphone jack and communicates at up to 7.2Mbps

HSDPA.



There's a 3.2 megapixel, autofocus camera out back with a light and a video call

camera around the front.



HP IPAQ 912c



HP's IPAQ 912c Business Messenger is all business and very little pleasure.



Done up in black and chrome, the 154g HP has a small, 320x240 pixel, 2.5in

touchscreen with a QWERTY keypad below.



Navigation is either by using the telescoping stylus or a thumbwheel on the

right side, backed up by a central thumbpad. While fingertip operation was iffy,

the keypad was easy to thumb-type on.



There's WiFi, assisted GPS, Bluetooth, a micro SD slot for more memory, but

sadly the entertainment abilities are cramped by not having a universal 3.5mm

headphone jack, although a mini-USB stereo headset is supplied.



At the back is a 3 megapixel, autofocus camera with light, but no front-mounted

camera for video calls.



HTC Touch HD



THIS has the brightest handheld screen I've seen.



Running a white background it made a great impromptu flashlight.



The big 3.8in, 480 by 800 pixel touchscreen uses HTC's Touchflo 3D

gesture-driven interface and is designed for eyeballing video content. Although

not iPhone standard, the screen interface works well under finger control and

there's a stylus for picky work. The touch keyboard is superior to the iPhone's.



The 147g phone has a 5 megapixel, autofocus camera (but no light) and there's

video call camera up front.



There's also FM radio, Bluetooth, GPS, a micro SD slot, a G sensor and 7.1Mbps

HSDPA.



Conclusion



ALL three of these Windows phones have their strengths.



While it won't win you much kudos in the my-phone's-flasher-than-yours wars, the

conservative HP is a handy size, the cheapest here, simple to use and packs

everything you really need for mobile business communications -- if only it had

a 3.5 headphone jack.



The HTC Touch HD has a gorgeous screen that's great for handheld movie viewing,

is fun to drive with its gesture interface and sports the best camera. It should

have a light, but it's great for multimedia.



Of this trio, my pick, narrowly, was the Xperia X1 because of its chameleon-like

ability to quickly swap the home screen to match whatever I wanted to do at a

particular time.



1. SONY ERICCSON XPERIA X1



Features: Slide-out QWERTY keypad, quick-change home screen panels, 800 by 480

pixel , 3in touchscreen, 3.2 megapixel camera



Price: $1499



More at: www.sonyericsson.com



7.5/10



2. HTC TOUCH HD



Features: 3.8in, 800 by 480 pixel touchscreen, 5 megapixel camera,

gesture-driven interface



Price: $1499



More at: www.htc.com



7/10



3. HP IPAQ 912C



Features: QWERTY keypad, 320 by 240 pixel touchscreen, thumbwheel navigation, 3

megapixel camera



Price: $849



More at: www.hp.com.au



6.5/10



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: AUS





                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





