

Tech . Telecom . Media

Google's contribution to the growing tablet-laptop hybrid product category is
the Pixel C, a 10-inch Android tablet with a detachable keyboard, an offering
that will face some tough competition in winning over holiday shoppers.

First unveiled in September, the Pixel C is the successor to previous Nexus
tablets Google manufactured in partnership with the likes of Samsung and LG. The
Pixel Chromebook was the first Google-designed-and-made device, a hugely
expensive showpiece of little utility. The Pixel C is by the same Google team
but is still expensive compared with the iPad Air 2 (its closest competitor in
specs and audience).

In Canada, the iPad Air 2 64GB is $659. The Pixel C 64GB model is $799, plus an
extra $199 for the keyboard.

When I compared the tabletlaptop crossovers Apple iPad Pro and Microsoft Surface
Book, I complained mightily about the price points on both devices - which are
far higher than the Pixel. But I also said the key distinction was that
Microsoft makes a better laptop because it's running full Windows 10 with all
the enterprise-level software you need, and iPad is the best tablet with the
best array of consumer software. The Pixel sits somewhere in the middle.

On the one hand, Pixel has all the Google Now goodness (cards that update you on
how long your daily commute is going to be are both depressing and really
useful) and the second-best array of tablet software. On the other hand, most
Android software is designed for phones and so doesn't always scale beautifully
to tablet.

The real knock against the Pixel as a device that can compete with a laptop for
serious work is Android's lack of multitasking capability. The latest edition of
iOS allows its tablet users to see two apps at once, while Android keeps the
single-screen app takeover model popularized on mobile phones. You can use
alttab to cycle between open apps, but it's a poor man's version of the Windows
experience.

The CPU is the powerful Nvidia Tegra X1 with a Maxwell GPU, the same system on a
chip Nvidia uses for its Shield gaming tablet.

That said, I did feel the Pixel was a little poky in rendering imageheavy
websites. Otherwise, it beats the iPad Air in pixel density and compares well in
terms of processor, and without the keyboard is comparably thin and light.

This device was designed with the keyboard in mind, but the peripheral has some
flaws. Pixel uses a magnet to connect the keyboard to the screen that, when
closed, makes it looks like a laptop.

The Pixel's 10.2-inch screen is a diagonal measure, so the width of the keyboard
is actually only 9.5 inches. The shift, tab, enter and apostrophe keys have been
brutally chopped down to make space.

It has some similarities with the iPad Pro keyboard: It's not backlit and has no
track pad. The lack of a mouse or integrated track pad - something Microsoft
includes on its Surface Touch keyboard and Surface Book - means you're
constantly poking the screen, and wishing for finer controls almost all the
time. The Pixel does beat Apple in one popular feature: Just like on a PC, when
scrolling down a document page you can use the Pixel space bar to jump a page
down.

The strangest thing about the Pixel is the charging. To keep the keyboard
powered up, you need to close the device for charging.

You can keep the power cord plugged in while working if you're running out of
battery for the screen, but it won't be charging the keyboard.

One of the really unfortunate things about the Pixel C is that I can't really
recommend it yet, in part because the first review unit Google gave me died
mysteriously. After setting it up this past weekend, I let it run out of battery
power as a standby test (it lost its charge overnight). Strangely, when I
charged it back up the next day, I couldn't get the Pixel to turn on.

Despite the impressive engineering effort that went into the Pixel C, it's not
going to replace your work machine. The best user for the Pixel is a Google fan
who wants an Android tablet, and that person is probably not going to bother
plunking down extra for the keyboard.

