

The latest smartphone runs Android KitKat out-of-the-box.

Monday, May 26, 2014: Looks like launching X series smartphones is a fad these
days. After Nokia's much-touted Android based X series smartphones, it is time
for our homegrown Lava International to come up with X series smartphones. Lava
has unveiled Iris X series, with the launch of Iris X1.

Price at Rs 8,999, Lava Iris X1 runs on the the latest Android 4.4.2 KitKat. It
surely is one of the few devices in the country, coming with Android KitKat
out-of-the-box. It allows the users to do multi-tasking through optimised memory
and improved touch responsiveness. It also comes with a bunch of new and useful
features. Its new phone app automatically prioritises contacts based on the
people a user talks to the most, and its smart caller ID looks for matches from
businesses with local listing on Google Maps.

Lava Iris X1 takes a leaf out of the Iris Pro series as far as the aesthetics is
concerned. The handset is powered by a 1.2 GHz Quad-Core Broadcom BCM23550
processor and 1GB RAM. Lava Iris X1 provides 3D gaming experience and video
performance with help of a specialised graphics engine based on Videocore
multimedia technology. The latest Android smartphone sports an 11.43-cm
(4.5-inch) FWVGA IPS (854 x 480 pixels) display. The company has rendered fully
laminated touch screen to the device, that eliminates the air gaps between LCD
and glass, making it look perfectly black in sleep mode. It is 8.9 mm thick and
weighs 138 grams.

The Iris X1 sports an 8 MP rear camera with LED flash and a 1.4 m pixel BSI+
sensor. The sensor increases the amount of light that gets captured and improves
low-light photography. The rear camera supports full HD (1080p) video recording
and playback, comes with auto focus, touch to focus functionality and HDR mode
that automatically snaps a rapid burst of photos to select the best possible
shot. It also includes a 2.0-MP front-facing camera for video calling.

The device comes with 4GB of internal memory that is expandable up to 32GB via
micro-SD card. On connectivity front, the dual SIM Iris X1 comes with 3G
connectivity apart from Wi-Fi, Bluetooth v4.0 BLE (Bluetooth low energy),
micro-USB and EDGE. It offers OTG support to enable file transfer through USB
drive on the move. The company touts that the phone can ofer better calling
experience courtesy the Dual MIC for Active Noise Cancellation. The phone packs
an 1800 mAh battery providing ample back up for multimedia payback, talk-time
and stand-by.

According to a press statement, Hari Om Rai, chairman and managing director,
Lava International Ltd., said "Lava is proud to announce the launch of 'X'
series with the Lava Iris X1, a beautifully crafted smartphone with best in
class hardware & software features. It is for the consumers who not only want a
high performance device but also a beautiful design. Iris X1 is designed to
mesmerise the consumers and will surely create ripples in the market at this
price point. We are confident that the latest hardware and software features
coupled with its great design will surely deliver a rich experience to the
consumers."

Priced at Rs 7999, The Lava Iris X1 will be available in black and white
colours. It comes with an intelligent Flip cover powered by hall sensor that
puts the phone automatically in sleep mode ensuring reduced battery consumption.

The smartphone will be available online exclusively on Amazon.in starting 27
May. Online buyers will also get a free 16GB Ultra Micro SD card with the
device, which will be only applicable for orders placed on Amazon.in on 27 May.
It will also be available across national retail chain stores and multi-brand
outlets pan India.

