

Technology

Huge potential seen for mobile advertising

Immense opportunities exist in China, especially in the mobile advertising
sector, said a study published by multinational professional services firm
PriceWaterhouseCoopers on Feb 24.

The study into the marketing trends in the United States, Britain, Brazil and
China, found that the Chinese are far more open than inhabitants of other
countries in receiving advertisements and publicity on their mobiles.

"China proposes some interesting, unique and robust opportunities for the
advertiser," Deborah Bothum, the PwC's US Advisory Leader for Entertainment,
Media and Communications, said at the Mobile World Congress, which opened on Feb
24 in Barcelona.

She said the Chinese people are "open to receiving offers."

Huawei showcases new products in Barcelona

Technology company Huawei showcased several new products at the Mobile World
Congress in the Spanish city of Barcelona.

In a press conference held in Barcelona on Feb 25, Huawei showcased the new
Huawei Ascent G6, a smartphone with a 4.5-inch qHD screen, a 5 mega-pixel front
camera and an 8 mega-pixel back camera, which allows the spontaneous taking of
self-focused photos at a price of just 249 euros ($341).

Huawei also presented the Huawei MediaPad X1, the thinnest "phablet" (a mixture
of phone and tablet) in the world.

Barcelona also saw the presentation of the M1 tablet, which is a sophisticated
entertainment system with an eight-inch tactile screen developed with SWS Huawei
technology, allowing users to watch films, TV shows etc in High Definition, with
a battery allowing eight hours playing time.

Lenovo expects profits for Motorola

Lenovo Group Ltd, which is buying Motorola Mobility from Google Inc, plans to
make the phone producer profitable within four to six quarters without
eliminating jobs, Chief Executive Officer Yang Yuanqing said.

"Don't be scared by the $1 billion-a-year loss," Yang said. "We will improve
that even from day one. Google is very good at software, ecosystems and
services. But we are stronger in the manufacturing of devices."

Trade

Talks to get trade with France 'back on track'

China and France vowed on Feb 24 to revive growth in bilateral trade, which
contracted last year for the first time since 2009.

Bilateral trade fell 2 percent in 2013 to 55.3 billion euros, according to
France's Ministry of Foreign Trade.

"We need to push for growth in bilateral trade and rebalance our trade
relations," said Nicole Bricq, the French trade minister.

Bricq made the comments at a news briefing in Paris after meeting with her
Chinese counterpart Gao Hucheng at the Sino-French Trade and Investment
Commission, an annual high-level trade dialogue.

France is trying to boost exports to reduce its trade deficit. It's also
embarked on a "charm offensive" to attract more foreign investment that will
boost its economy.

Auto

Electric carmaker to expand rental services

Kandi Technologies Group Inc, a Chinese electric carmaker that rents out
vehicles to the public, said the service is profitable and plans to expand it to
cities including Beijing and Shanghai. Kandi, together with joint venture
partner Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd, provides electric vehicles for short-term
hire using automated multilevel garages. Rental rates start from 20 yuan ($3.30;
14.6 euros) an hour and covers the first 25 km.

BMW to double engine production in China

Bayerische Motoren Werke AG is expanding engine production in China to
potentially double capacity as it seeks to close the gap with Audi AG in the
world's largest vehicle market. BMW and its joint-venture partner, Brilliance
China Automotive Holdings Ltd, plan to make as many as 400,000 engines a year at
a new facility in Shenyang, the German carmaker said in a statement to Bloomberg
News.

Aviation

Airbus to increase share in Harbin plant

Airbus SAS and the Aviation Industry Corp of China signed an agreement on Feb 19
to increase Airbus' share in the Harbin Hafei Airbus Composite Manufacturing
Center from 20 to 25 percent. The European airplane manufacturer did not release
further details about the transaction. Airbus and a group of Chinese partners,
including some subsidiaries of AVIC, own the center in Harbin, Heilongjiang
province.

Energy

China promotes pipeline business opening-up

China has issued a plan to open up its largely monopolized oil and gas
pipelines, in a bid to increase the facilities' efficiency, the energy authority
said on Feb 24.

The National Energy Administration (NEA) said the plan encourages pipeline
operators to open their facilities to each other and to users, including fuel
producers, refiners, sellers and other industrial users, when pipelines have
extra capacity.

Pipeline operators are supposed to provide services including transport,
storage, gasification, liquefaction and compression of crude oil, product oil
and natural gas, at a price agreed upon by the two sides.

The plan involves both onshore and offshore pipelines, and will be supervised by
the NEA.

The construction and operation of China's pipelines are largely dominated by
major state-owned enterprises. In recent years, there has been a mounting call
for the business to be opened up.

Finance

Energy investments buoy Citic Pacific profits

Profits of Citic Pacific, the builder of the world's biggest magnetite mine in
Australia, rose by 9 percent last year based on good performances by its special
steel and energy businesses. Net income last year was HK$7.6 billion ($980
million; 713 million euros), the company said on Feb 20. Profits from the
special steel business soared by 519 percent in 2013 to HK$1.3 billion.

Sina chooses banks for IPO in US, sources say

Sina Corp has selected banks for an initial public offering of Sina Weibo, its
Twitter-like micro-blogging service, that could raise about $500 million, said
two people with knowledge of the matter. Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc are working on the planned listing in the United States, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the information is private.

China Daily-Agencies

(China Daily European Weekly 02/28/2014 page18)

