                               22 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)



                             October 5, 2015 Monday



(The Nexus 6P from ...)



BYLINE: Edwin Kee



SECTION: 1-2-know; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 1038 words





SMARTPHONE CLAD IN METAL



THE Nexus 6P from Google is quite a big smartphone. At 5.7 inch, it may be too

unwieldy for some, although it does packits fair share of goodies underneath the

hood. Sporting a metal unibody chassis, it is certainly nice to look at and

great to hold in the palm of your hand too.



Despite the metal unibody chassis, this sturdy device has a rather light feel to

it. The phone comes with a Snapdragon 810 chipset accompanied by 3GB of RAM

running within. The Nexus 6P features Android 6.0 Marshmallow OS right out of

the box, and sports a 5.7 inch WQHD AMOLED display that should keep most

eyeballs pleased as punch. At the back lies a 12.3-megapixel rear camera lens,

which is accompanied by a two-tone LED flash and a near-invisible laser

autofocus module.



The phone has an 8-megapixel selfie camera which should be more than sufficient

to get the job done right, even in low light conditions. You will be able to

pick up the Nexus 6P in 32GB, 64GB and 128GB storage options, but none of them

will sport a microSD memory card slot.To keep up with the times, the Nexus 6P

also sports a finger print sensor-Nexus Imprint-located on the back. This sensor

is used to control access to the device.



Other specifications include Gorilla Glass 4 and dual stereo speakers, which is

accompanied by a USB Type-C port that is located at the bottom for data transfer

and charging the 3,450mAh battery. Shipment of the Nexus 6P is slated at the end

of this month, with prices starting at USD499 for the base 32GB model, and

USD549 and USD649 for the 64GB and 128GB models, respectively.



www.huawei.com



CHIC NOTEBOOK



NOT all notebooks are created equal, as there will always be a differentiation

in class-the entry level, mid-range and high end units that cater to different

needs and budgets. Even a single kind of notebook can arrive in various form

factors and sizes, such as the spanking new HP Elite-Book 705 G3 series. This

notebook is thin, light and powerful.



The notebook comes with a new silver magnesium and aluminium chassis and weights

1.27kg. It is just 18.9mm at its thickest point. Depending on your eyesight as

well as needs, the EliteBook 705 G3 series are available in 12.5 inch, 14.0 inch

and 15.6 inch diagonal HD, FHD or QHD screens, and all of them will run on the

new high-performance AMD PRO A12 APU, which happens to be the very first

commercial APU that comes integrated with R7 Radeon graphics. Not only that,

each of these new notebooks will arrive with the HP Premium Keyboard which

provides a remarkable balance of comfort and feedback that goes far beyond a

traditional notebook keyboard.



There is also an enterprise docking capability, letting you be productive while

on-the-go, thanks to a full-size Display Port and VGA and RJ-45 ports. You won't

find yourself running out of juice all too often here, simply because the HP

EliteBook 705 series comes with HP Long-Life Rechargeable Batteries, which can

offer up to a three-year lifespan or 1,000 full charge and discharge cycles. The

batteries are said to last 2 to 3 times longer compared to standard notebook

batteries. An external SIM slot and optional WWAN capability are also part of

the deal, letting you have the added flexibility to connect while on the road.

It is a decent purchase for those who value time and would like to maximise

their waking hours with productivity.



www.hp.com



GOOGLE-MADE TABLET



IN addition to the new Chromecast devices and Nexus phones, Google has also

announced the Pixel C tablet. It is the first tablet in the market to run on the

all-new Android 6.0 Marshmallow mobile operating system version.



Pixel C is tipped to be a high-end model, featuring a 10.2-inch display with a

pixel density of 308 pixels per inch (ppi), while a Tegra X1 processor from

NVIDIA coupled with a Maxwell graphics processor, a USB Type-C port and 3GB of

RAM, keep things humming nicely underneath the hood.



It lacks a physical keyboard like the regular Chromebook, but there is a

lightbar that is borrowed from the Pixel Chromebooks. Double tapping on the

lightbar will show off the remaining battery life. In due time, Google will

ensure that there is an external keyboard accessory that attaches to the tablet

magnetically and connects via Bluetooth, for you to make use of it as a portable

computer.



There will be inductive charging built right into the tablet, ensuring the

keyboard accessory remains juiced up whenever it is closed. The Pixel C will

arrive in 32GB and 64GB capacities, retailing at USD499 (RM2,219) and USD599,

respectively. As for the external keyboard accessory, it will carry a price tag

of USD150. The Pixel C tablet is tipped to arrive in the coming months, so stay

tuned! pixel.google.com



ULTRA-LIGHT KEYBOARD



LOGITECHG410 Atlas Spectrum TKL mechanical gaming keyboard, has exclusive

Romer-G mechanical switches,intelligent RGB illumination and Arx Control

Integration.



This ultra-light Romer-G mechanical switches are said to deliver 25 per cent

faster actuation as opposed to standard mechanical keyboards, thanks to an

actuation point of 1.5mm which enables the Romer-G switches to receive commands

faster so that you have an edge in competitive games where every millisecond

matters. There is also improved durability at 70 million keystrokes.



The Arx Control Integration, which is a Logitech G app which will show off a

wide array of in-game information on your mobile device. Since all the vital

keys for gaming can be easily carried to provides LAN events or a friend's

house, it will nestle in perfectly with smaller gaming spaces. Dropping the

number pad or macro keys, one has additional space to make wide motions with

one's mouse.



While the intelligent Full Spectrum RGB Illumination Central backlighting makes

it a snap to locate the correct keys in game and in the dark, and you can even

individually customise the lighting in every key from a palette of 16.8 million

colours, thanks to the included Logitech software. The Logitech G410 Atlas

Spectrum will arrive with a USD129.99 price tag.



www.gaming.logitech.com



Edwin Kee has made the jump from the analogue era to digital, and loves every

minute of it. He is a firm believer that technology should serve mankind, and

not the other way around.



( END )



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Bots



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2015 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              All Rights Reserved





