                               23 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)



                           September 28, 2009 Monday



Smarter smartphones



BYLINE: Lim Yeh Ern



SECTION: ; Price watch; LOCAL; Pg. 9



LENGTH: 785 words





THE smartphone is a blanket term for almost any modern-day phone that gets you

connected and organises your daily schedules. Typically, most smartphones

feature wireless connectivity, GPS navigational functionality and a camera. Most

smartphones also cater to both the needs of the business user and average

consumer. On the business side, the smartphone usually bundles in an office

suite for users to read and edit regular documents such as those used by

Microsoft Office and Adobe PDF, and to configure secure access to the company's

network.



For the consumer, the smartphone is focused on keeping users connected on the

go, which includes the typical Webmail, chat, calendar and social networking

applications. The biggest gripe with most users is that a capacitive screen

doesn't support pen or stylus writing recognition such as those on a resistive

touch-screen found on just about every Windows Mobile-based phone. Also, apart

from the virtual keyboard, Microsoft has licensed the original Graffiti from

Palm which made it a natural step up for traditional Palm users. Here are some

smartphones for your consideration. * HTC Magic and Hero Developed by Google and

later handed over to the Open Handset Alliance, Android is the latest mobile

operating system based on the Linux kernel to hit stores. Locally, HTC is the

only manufacturer to bring in Android- powered smartphones with two offerings:

the Magic and Hero. Both models feature a Qualcomm 528-megahertz processor,

trackball with an integrated Enter button, 3.2-inch TFT-LCD touch-screen with

320 by 480 pixels resolution, High Speed Packet Access/ WCDMA, Bluetooth v2.0,

GPS, a five-megapixel camera and accelerometer. Like most HTC smartphones, the

Magic and Hero has a semiproprietary HTC ExtUSB port for a handsfree kit which

is backwardcompatible with existing mini USB cables. And since Google was

originally behind Android, both models feature Google Experience by having

everything from Gmail and Gtalk integration to other apps such as Google

Calender, Maps and Search. Apart from some cosmetic changes, a more durable

Teflon coating and a 3.5-millimetre audio jack on the Hero, both models are

essentially the same, but the Hero comes with the latest Android 1.5 operating

system. At launch time, HTC Malaysia did not confirm nor deny whether there

would be an updated operating system for the Magic even though there are many

freely available third-party Android firmware on the Web. The Magic and Hero go

for RM2,499 and RM2,399 respectively. * Apple iPhone 3GS While the iPhone 3G may

have better 3G/High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA) connectivity over the

first-generation iPhone, it mainly adds a faster processor, internal compass,

larger capacity and better optics to the previous-generation iPhone 3G. Launched

with the iPhone 3GS, the iPhone 3.0 operating system adds functionalities such

as a landscape keyboard and search option. And while many smartphone users may

take something as mundane as cutting, copying and pasting for granted, only the

current incarnation of the iPhone operating system supports it. At RM1,290 with

the Maxis iValue 2 plan for a 16-gigabyte iPhone 3GS, you're tied to a 24-month

contract.



Sony Ericsson Xperia X1 Unlike most Sony Ericsson smartphones, the Xperia X1 is

the company's first smartphone launched about a year ago that trades in the

typical Symbian operating system for Windows Mobile 6.1. It also uses a Micro

Secure Digital High Capacity instead of the typical Memory Stick Micro. In fact,

it's not even made by Sony Ericsson, but by HTC. The Xperia X1 slides outwards

to reveal a Qwerty keypad, 3.2-megapixel camera, HSDPA/EDGE, Bluetooth 2.1 and

an integrated A-GPS for navigation. With the launch of the Xperia X2, the Xperia

X1, which was hovering around RM2,499, is now under the RM1,900 mark, making it

an excellent price point for such a feature-rich smartphone.



HTC Touch Diamond2 Looking to stand out from the sea of Windows Mobile 6.1

devices, HTC's new Touch Diamond2 features the company's TouchFlo 3D interface

that integrates more tightly with Windows Mobile 6.1. This technology provides

more intuitive and easier navigation by bringing commonly accessed applications

to the top-level user interface, and improves on the touch focus area for a more

touch-friendly interface optimised also for a onehand use. The Touch Diamond2

also has a larger 3.2-inch high-resolution widescreen and new touch-sensitive

zoom bar for faster zooming in on Web pages, e- mails and text messages. Other

improvements include a larger battery with 20 per cent more capacity,

five-megapixel auto-focus camera, gravity sensor and ambient light sensor. The

Touch Diamond2 goes for RM2,599.



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2009



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2009 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              All Rights Reserved





