

Tablets are not just for fun and games anymore - they are productivity devices.
That's what the world's computing powers want you to believe, as they embrace a
new hybrid-form factor that wants you to get to work.

Google's Pixel C is the company's latest tablet and. similar to Microsoft's
Surface and the iPad Pro, it has a fancy, optional keyboard attachment, that
really isn't all that optional if you want to get the most out of this device.

Here's our look at Google's latest tablet.

Name: Google Pixel C

Price: $649 for the 32-GB version, $799 for the 64- GB version.

Operating system: Android 6.0 Marshmallow

Screen: 10.2-inch LTPS LCD, 2560x1800 (308 ppi)

Features: Processor: NVIDIA Tegra X1 256 core Maxwell GPU, Gyroscope,
Accelerometer, Stereo speakers.

Cameras: 8 MP rear camera, 2MP front facing

Weight: 0.517 kg / 1.1 lb.

Battery life: 34.2 WHr (Watt hours) Promises 10 hours on a single charge. Worked
for two days of light to medium usage.

Competition: iPad, iPad Pro, Surface Pro 4, Samsung Galaxy Tab S2

What's good: This is an extremely slick-looking and well-designed
aluminum-bodied device, proving that Google can also make some really nice
looking and feeling technology. The screen is ridiculously good. I like the
10.2-inch form factor, which is great for media watching, listening and playing
games. With its build quality and lightning fast processer, this is easily one
of the best Android tablets on the market. Marshmallow is an improved and smooth
Android experience, especially in initial setup. Voice recognition is good. The
keyboard attaches via magnets, and lets it swivel up to 90 degrees. When it
attaches, it feels like it's been superglued together. The rainbow lights on the
back look cool and let you know how much juice you have left. Pretty good
battery life.

What's bad: Still feels a little thicker and heavier than competitors. The
keyboard is what really makes it a productivity device, and it costs $200 extra.
Android 6.0 is good, but this is a mobile OS, so it still has some limitations,
like no real multi-tasking - only one app can be opened at a time. The keyboard
only charges when it's closed. While the keys feel good, typing on the smaller
keyboard for long periods feels uncomfortable. Even with a touchscreen, I'd
still prefer to have a trackpad of some kind.

What's interesting: While the marketing would have this compete with the iPad
Pro and the Microsoft Surface, it feels like something from a lower weight class
compared with those larger devices. Similar to the iPad Pro, it's limited by the
mobile software, so I'm hard pressed to recommend this against a regular laptop.
It is absolutely a top-of-the-line Android tablet and is worth looking at if you
are in the market for one.

The bottom line: This is the first generation product and while Google has made
some lovely design choices and an excellent tablet, it still feels like this is
best used for mostly leisure pursuits. If you really want to be productive,
you're still better off buying a laptop.

