

A SOLIDLY-HEWN metal chassis, a satin-smooth finish and a quartet of funky
notification lights that pulsate gently in neon: to see the Xperia X1 is to lust
for it. And one is likely to drool even more upon seeing its large display slide
up in a subtle curve to reveal a precision-finished Qwerty keypad.

But Sony Ericsson's new flagship smartphone is not just about good looks. It
packs a punch too, offering quad-band connectivity, HSPA mobile data support,
Wi-Fi, assisted global positioning system(aGPS), modem, Bluetooth, FM radio,
400MB of built-in memory, microSD memory card slot (a 4GB card is supplied),
3.2-megapixel camera and a 3.5mm audio jack (instead of the niggly 2.5mm type)
that works with normal earphones.

Out of the box, the X1 catches the eye with its superb three-inch touchscreen
display, which packs a generous resolution of 800x480 pixels. The display
automatically toggles from portrait to landscape mode when the keypad is
extended.

Another cool feature is the optical joystick, which you use by brushing your
finger across a fingernail- sized square recess just below the screen.

Running on the Windows Mobile 6.1 operating system, the X1 comes with the usual
palette of Windows Mobile applications, including mobile versions of Internet
Explorer, Outlook, Office, Media Player, Windows Live and File Explorer. Also
present is the Opera Mobile Web browser and a RSS feed aggregator.

The most eye-catching application, however, is the Xperia panels. The idea is
simple: to allow users to change the phone's personality by selecting from user
interfaces - panels - with different functionalities.

Nine panels can be loaded and unloaded at any time into a panels manager
application, but one can install more into the phone itself. Pressing a button
brings up this nine-panel array, from which the user can select one to use.

Like HTC's TouchFlo 3D interface, Sony Ericsson's interface does a great job of
covering up the dowdy Windows Mobile Today screen. Having different panels at
the user's disposal, however, sets it apart from its competitors.

Among the supplied panels is a useful one that displays a clock, calendar and
other essential information. Another emulates a PlayStation Portable interface,
complete with a hierarchical tree menu that lets users select items like music,
photos, videos and games. There are also Web-based panels, like the Google,
Windows Live and Dashwire panels.

There is even a whimsical 3D fish panel for aquarium buffs, in which animated
goldfishes twiddle towards your finger whenever you poke on the screen, and
change colours depending on whether the battery is low, if the sound is off, or
when there is an unread message.

But my favourite is the just-released Facebook panel, which presents photos of
your Facebook friends as floating bubbles bobbing around you. Click on a bubble
to see your friend's latest status.

And tap on a number of large finger- friendly icons to quickly access Facebook
functions like status updates, phonebook, photos, messages and more. This
awesome application is so well-designed it felt more intuitive than even the Web
version of Facebook.

Elsewhere, the X1's camera shows a natural quality. Audio playback through
earphones is superb - delivering a rich and full-bodied sound that my Nokia E71
can't match. The very sensitive optical joystick was initially frustrating to
use, but I soon got the hang of it.

There is much to like about the X1 but it has its shortcomings. Most glaring is
its sluggishness when using the Xperia panels. There is often a disconcerting
lag between tapping on an icon and waiting for it to respond. It must be noted,
however, that the new Facebook panel feels far more zippy than the other panels,
suggesting that Sony Ericsson has been working to address this issue.

Surfing the Web, both with Internet Explorer and Opera Mobile, feels overall
slower than on my Nokia E71. Not having an on-screen mouse pointer for
navigation is an annoyance, forcing me to constantly scour the screen to see
which links and icons are selected. My other dislike is the keypad. While its
chic aesthetics can't be faulted, the X1's nearly-flushed keys felt clumsy
compared to the E71's, where each key is a raised bump.

Bottomline: Sony Ericsson has delivered a classy mobile workhorse with the X1
but it is not perfect. At $1,298 (without operator contract), the X1 is not
cheap, but it justifies its price tag by offering that rare one-two punch of a
touchscreen display and full-size keypad.

In this, it joins other high-end phones like HTC's Touch Pro and Nokia's N97.
Here's hoping that Sony Ericsson will be addressing some of the speed and
ergonomic foibles through upcoming firmware upgrades.

