                               32 of 64 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      January 6, 2015 Tuesday 10:07 AM GMT



CES 2015: Sony reveals unbelievably thin 4K TV running Google Android;

Sony stepped up the 4K TV battleground at CES this year with a new ultra high

definition set that measures a scant 5mm thick



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 287 words





Sony has clearly sent its Bravia TV on a bit of a crash diet - as the latest box

from the Japanese giant measures a mere 4.9mm thick.



The new "floating design" leaves Sony's new XBR X900C (55-inch and 65-inch) and

X901C (75-inch) Bravia TV's with an almost frameless body and a scant 4.9mm at

its thinnest point.



Sony revealed its new TVs at the Consumer Electronics Show running in Las Vegas

at the moment.



The advancement of 4K sets is a defining trend of the massive gadget show, and

Sony was widely expected to showcase its latest dream screen.



Complimenting the (frankly stunning) design is some serious hardware that

includes the new 4K X1 Processor that, Sony says, allows for improved colour,

clarity and contrast.



The resolution tops out at 3,840 x 2,160 pixels which, for those that are

interested, is four times the resolution of a typical Full HD 1080p display.



What's more, Sony has decided to add Google's open source Android operating

system to the 2015 line up of Bravia TVs.



That means that as well as bringing smartphone and tablet apps to the screen,

you're also able to tap into the vast range of movies, TV shows and music

available on the Google Play store.



And, like any good gadget these days, Sony has built in a microphone into the

remote and added Google's voice recognition technology. Why spend time searching

for the latest episode of Justified when you can ask the TV to do it for you?



Sony declined to mention the price of its new TVs at the conference, but we're

going to make a judgement call here and say that they aren't going to be cheap.



Still, they should be available by the spring. If you're thinking of picking one

up, let us know via the Mirror Tech Facebook page. Facebook Mirror Tech like box



LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





