

The Moto E is currently our pick for the best low-cost Android around, and it is
now being challenged by several Indian manufacturers. The Lava Iris X1 is among
the top contenders, with a similar price tag and offering better features on
paper. Can it topple the king?

Specs: 4.5-inch IPS touchscreen (854480 pixels, 217 ppi) | 1.2GHz quad-core
Broadcom 23550 processor | 1GB RAM | 4GB internal memory, microSD card up to
32GB | Dual-SIM (SIM + micro SIM) | 8-megapixel rear camera, 2-megapixel front
camera, WVGA video recording | 3G (only on regular SIM), Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4, GPS
| 1800mAh battery | Android 4.4 KitKat

Price: Rs 7,999

Design: Imagine the iPhone 4S made with low-cost materials and you have the Lava
Iris X1 on your hands. The front and back are completely flat, while the sides
have a chrome band going all around. Unlike the Moto E, it uses capacitive touch
buttons so you get full use of the screen space and the bezel is used well too.
The buttons are responsive, the phone doesn't heat up, and there is nothing to
dislike about the Iris X1-it seems like a handset that should be more expensive
than what it is.

Screen: To its credit, the 4.5-inch screen has decent colour reproduction and
viewing angles. But it has a few big problems. First, it does not have Gorilla
Glass or any scratch protection, which is not something worth compromising on.
Second, the screen has major issues with colour banding-basically, a colour does
not smoothly transition between shades, you see clear bands of different shades.
Perhaps most damagingly, the screen's response is weak. Often when tapping keys
or other things around the edges of the screen, the taps aren't registered.
Also, if you tap quickly-like speed typing on a keyboard-the screen misses some
input.

Performance: Despite a quad-core processor, the performance of the Iris X1 is
inferior to the Moto E's dual-core processor. It often lags or slows down, and
quick multi-tasking between several heavy apps caused it to hang twice in a week
of usage.

Camera: The camera is perhaps the highlight of the Iris X1-but that is only in
the context of its price. It's better than the Moto E in low-light shots and it
captures better details during the day. However, it's still slow to focus so you
will struggle with candid shots. It also lacks depth and the zoom is atrocious.
The good thing is that Lava's handset also has a front-facing camera for your
selfies and video calls-overall, in the camera department, it outscores the Moto
E.

Software: Google Android is now good enough not to need customisation by
manufacturers, and Lava does not make any attempt to do that. It's the latest
Android 4.4 KitKat and it works great!

Storage: With just 4GB of internal continued

Single Page Format

     ·    1
     ·    2


