                               35 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                          The Sunday Times (Australia)



                            October 16, 2016 Sunday

                              ReadersMart Edition



SCREEN SHOTS



BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2



LENGTH: 466  words





GEAR UP The latest products to help keep you in the technology loop



Sony's Bravia Z9D takes the fight to OLED, writes Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SONY BRAVIA Z9D 65-INCH Sony's Bravia Z9D takes the fight to OLED, writes

Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



Just when you'd deciphered modern TV technology, sorting full HD from 4K, HDR

from Quantum Dot, and OLED from LCD, another screen arrives to question

everything you thought you knew.



Sony's new flagship television is that screen, and it makes a compelling case to

rethink your next TV. The Sony Bravia Z9D doesn't just feature new-look Google

software, it adds backlighting that could genuinely make you question whether

OLED is the superior TV technology.



There are, however, important factors to consider before investing your cash.

Sony showed off the technology behind its latest television at the Consumer

Electronics Show in January, but the freshly released Z9D is the first TV to

receive it.



Called Backlight Master Drive, this addition controls a TV's illumination to

show deeper blacks and higher contrast. OLED televisions, renowned for dark and

high-contrast images, achieve their look by turning off individual pixels.



Sony's Backlight Master Drive works similarly by adding more light-emitting

diodes (LEDs) behind its LCD screen, ensuring they deliver more focused beams of

light and, crucially, that they can be controlled individually.



Dark scenes on this TV are much darker than previous models because the light

behind them has simply been turned off.



There's also a bigger difference between colours on this screen, and brighter

lighting than you'd see on an OLED TV, making images appear more striking. Sony

also uses a new processor, the X1 Extreme, to make the most of this technology

when screening 4K HDR content, and it promises a 40 per cent boost to real-time

image processing.



Sony's Z9D asks serious questions about the future of TV technology. $6999 /

sony.com.au



LGOLED 4K UHD 65" SMART features provided by the webOS 3.0 software ensure

convenience and practicality in the LG 65" B6T 4K Ultra HD OLED Smart TV. Access

Netflix, Stan, ABC iView and YouTube with ease once you're connected to the

internet.



Harman/Kardon brings amazing audio that matches the LG TV's brilliant images for

an immersive cinematic experience at home.



Infinite contrast ratio for this LG OLED screen helps produce incredible deep

blacks that mix well with brilliant and dramatic colours for clear and realistic

images.



The High Dynamic Range (HDR) feature assists with graduation contrasts in

lighter and darker areas on your smart TV, delivering improved levels of

realism.



OLED Technology's self-lighting pixels turn on and off individually, giving

light only to parts where it's needed, ensuring pure black and explosive colours

from your TV.$7399 / LG.COM



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Sunday Times





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





