

ow do you improve on a macine tat is so close to perfect, it's ard to imagine
that any improvements are even possible, let alone necessary?

Te answer may be that you can't, or at least that you can't improve it very muc.
The answer may be tat you just wind up playing Whac-A-Mole with whatever small
flaws the macine had, fixing some of them only to have new, slightly different
ones pop up elsewhere.

Take, for instance, Lenovo's 2014 ThinkPad X1 Carbon notebook computer, a new
and updated version of a notebook so close to perfect it surely ranks as one of
our very favourite computers of all time.

The keyboard on the X1 is a thing of grace and beauty ... but.

It's the new X1 Carbon I'm using to write this column, and as you may have
noticed, a slight imperfection has crept into the unit I am reviewing: the
keyboard's "h" key is apparently sticking to the ThinkPad's iconic (and awesome)
track pointer, and doesn't always register when you press it. Though, now that
I'm further into this column, the problem does seem to have cleared up.
Yesterday the "h" was barely working at all, despite the numerous whacks I gave
the underside of the device.

Maybe this morning's whack was all it took to clear up the issue. Let's see,
shall we?

I mention the keyboard because it's one of the major changes in the 2014 model,
aside from the usual faster chip/sharper screen enhancements - though the new,
very-high resolution screen on the X1 Carbon is a whole other game of
Whac-A-Mole I'll get to in a moment.

With the new X1, Lenovo has taken a leaf out of the Optimus Popularis playbook,
adding a row of keys at the top of the keyboard, that changes depending on the
app you're using.

The row, located where the F1 to F12 function keys used to be, is made of LEDs
rather than physical buttons, and shows up as the regular function keys at
times, or as a set of web browser controls if you're in a browser, It will take
on the functions of web conference controls, if that's what you're doing. The
advantage of this new layout is that it gives you far more function buttons at
the top of your keyboard - something like 45 where once there were 26, though
only 11 or so are visible at once.

It's a really good idea, but it could have been better implemented. For
starters, there is no way to assign a set of controls to a given app - you can
only nominate the default set, which makes it far less customisable than it
should be - and there's no way for users or software developers to create their
own sets of controls.

That would have been brilliant for things like video editing or gaming.

The real problem, though, is the Whac-A-Mole effect it's had on the rest of the
keyboard. To accommodate the nifty LED strip, Lenovo had to move the delete,
insert, home and end buttons. The relocated delete button, now right next to the
(shrunken) backspace button, is killing me. I keep hitting delete when I want
backspace. Caps lock has been replaced by a home/end couplet, which is plain old
weird, though it's yet to actually bother me.

The screen on the new X1 has been both perfected and imperfected, too. It's now
available in an incredibly sharp 2560 x 1440 pixel resolution, up from 1600 x
900, making for a viewing experience that alternates between sublime and
ridiculous, depending on the application.

Windows 8.1 now has the ability to handle very high-resolution displays, and in
Windows and a lot of apps, text on the X1 is now so sharp it looks painted on.
Unfortunately, Windows doesn't pass that ability onto all the applications it
runs.

In certain apps, most notably Google Chrome, the new screen causes all sorts of
problems. Depending on which imperfection you can stand the least, you either
end up with fuzzy text but beautiful images, or sharp text but images and
buttons that are so small as to be absurd. Other apps suffer related problems.
The word processor I am writing on now, for instance, either has crappy fonts or
has on-screen menus that are so out of alignment, you can't tell which button
applies to which function. Solve one problem, the other one pops back.

On the plus side, the "h" key is well and truly working now. Consider that mole
whacked once and for all.

