                               39 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                           The Cairns Eye (Australia)



                           October 15, 2016 Saturday

                               CairnsEye Edition



TV WARS ON AGAIN



BYLINE: JENNIFER DUDLEY-NICHOLSON



SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 37



LENGTH: 486  words





Just when you'd deciphered modern TV technology, sorting full HD from 4K, HDR

from Quantum Dot, and OLED from LCD, another screen arrives to question

everything you thought you knew.



Sony's new flagship television is that screen, and it makes a compelling case to

rethink your next TV.



The Sony Bravia Z9D doesn't just feature a new look and fresh Google software,

but it adds backlighting that could genuinely make you question whether OLED is

the superior TV technology.



There are, however, important factors to consider before investing your cash.

Sony showed off the technology behind its latest television at the Consumer

Electronics Show in January, but the freshly released Z9D is the first TV to

receive it.



Called Backlight Master Drive, this addition controls a TV's illumination to

show deeper blacks and higher contrast.



OLED televisions, renowned for dark and high-contrast images, achieve their look

by turning off individual pixels.



Sony's Backlight Master Drive works similarly by adding more light-emitting

diodes (LEDs) behind its LCD screen, ensuring they deliver more focused beams of

light and, crucially, that they can be controlled individually.



What does this mean when you're looking at the screen?



Dark scenes on this TV are much darker than previous models because the light

behind them has simply turned off.



There's also a bigger difference between colours on this screen, and brighter

lighting than you'd see on an OLED TV, making images appear more striking.



Sure, Matt Damon might be trapped on Mars but, on this TV, he has a beautiful

view.



Sony also uses a new processor, the X1 Extreme, to make the most of this

technology when screening 4K HDR content, and it promises a 40 per cent boost to

real-time image processing.



While we were unable to test its upscaling abilities with free-to-air TV, this

screen certainly keeps image artefacts and judder to an imperceptible minimum.



In addition to its screen enhancements, this TV features Android Marshmallow

software, delivers remote control shortcuts to Netflix and Google Play, and its

voice recognition is surprisingly accurate.



Its design has also been refined, with gold anodised aluminium around its edge,

a compact but stylish stand that uses little space, four HDMI ports, and the

ability to install a USB stick for use as internal storage.



Sony's TV is not a clear-cut winner in the TV race, though.



Its new backlighting technology does not have the same fine control over

lighting that OLED offers, and it stops just short of delivering the 12-bit

colour of Dolby Vision, instead using 10-bit HDR10 technology.



This TV's remote control also only uses Bluetooth for voice commands, otherwise

requiring a precise aim, and its Android software doesn't make use of the entire

web.



Sony's Z9D does deliver a superb picture, and an easy smart TV experience,

however, plus it asks serious questions about the future of TV technology.



$6999/ sony.com.au



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine



JOURNAL-CODE: Cairns Eye





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





