                               3 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                    September 25, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Lava announces 'unbelievable' price cut in Iris X1 will it compete with Android

One



LENGTH: 265  words





Lava has announced that it will unvbelievably cut the prices of its beautiful

looking budget phone, Iris X1.



The company posted the information on its Facebook page as it said "Get ready to

be Mesmerized again! Your beloved Lava Iris X1 will come at an unbelievably

attractive price from tomorrow... Any guesses?"



Note that recently the Android One has been launched in India trying to shake

the Indian budget Smartphone market while also bring a uniformity in the handset

and operating systems in the market. These handsets have been launched at INR

6,300 in India. Google is aiming at the Diwali and year end sale season in India

and pushing an aggressive campaign for Android One in India.



Lava is also expected to launch an Android One handset for the market. This

could however either in December or may be pushed to January next year. Till

that time apart from other launches, it could be convenient for Lava to make the

Iris X1 handset cheaper.



Lava launched the Iris X1 handset in middle of June this year at a price of INR

7,999. It won't be surprising if the handset is made available at a compatible

price to compete with the Android One.



This is a 4.5 inch display phone with a 854 x 480 pixels IPS display resolution.

This handset comes with full lamination, that should mean it is resistant

against accidental splash of water. The handset also sports an 8 megapixel BSI+

auto-focus camera with 1.4 m pixel size on the back side and 5 megapixel camera

on the front side. The phone is powered by the Broadcom BCM23550 quad-core

processor clocked at 1.2 Ghz and carries a RAM of 1 GB.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





