
FEATURE: COOL TECHNOLOGY FOR HOT LAWYERS

by Sharon D. Nelson, Esq. and John W. Simek

Sharon D. Nelson, Esq. and John W. Simek are the President and Vice President of
Sensei Enterprises, Inc., a legal technology and computer forensics firm based
in Fairfax, VA. They can be reached at. 703-359-0700 or online at
www.senseient.com.

   (c) 2007 Sensei Enterprises, Inc.

TEXT:

    [*46]  Most lawyers, if not quite technophobes, have a limited knowledge of
technology. Did the clock on your VCR flash a perpetual 12:00 because you
couldn't figure out how to reset it? Do you have a cell phone with five hundred
functions, about five of which you know how to use? If so, you are members of a
very large club. If multiple remotes befuddle you and you find yourself asking
your ten-year old for assistance to watch a DVD or get rid of non-English
subtitles, you are far from alone.

   Very few lawyers are adept at technology. Many of the rest wish they were,
knowing that technology can facilitate efficiency in their law offices. Really,
it is not always difficult or costly to implement. In addition, there are some
cool gadgets that can make you, well, kind of hot. You may even impress that
ten-year old. The fringe benefit will be making everyday tasks easier and more
secure.

   We'll cover several different items that will help bring your practice into
the twenty-first century. Some are physical and some are just procedural. These
days, no law office can expect to be successful unless it begins to harness the
power of the Internet and the significant advantage (not to mention the low
cost) of electronically communicating with colleagues and clients. Best of all,
there are additional revenue streams to be found from the tech world--and what
lawyer isn't hungry to drink from those waters?

   Below are our some of our suggestions for cool technology for hot lawyers!

Digital Cameras

   There should be a digital camera in almost every law office. Many of the
cameras can also capture motion footage too, but a good "still" digital camera
is an essential piece of equipment. You might use the camera to take pictures of
the plaintiff's accident scene, your defendant's crime scene, your plaintiff's
construction site in a breach of contract dispute, or just your good-looking
staff in order to post it on your firm web site. It's getting harder and harder
to find a 35mm film camera these days and even professional photographers are
using high-end digital cameras. Besides, a digital camera gives you instant
access to your photos without the wait for film developing.

   What should you look for in a digital camera and how much to spend? As a
minimum, you should purchase at least a 5 mega pixel camera. So what is a mega
pixel? A mega pixel is a unit of image-sensing capability for a digital camera.
In general, the higher the mega pixels, the better the resolution of an image
printed at a certain size. In other words, an image from a 5 mega pixel camera
will start to appear grainy before one from a 7 mega pixel camera as the image
size increases. Expect to pay a little over $ 100 for a good 5 mega pixel
camera. You almost can't go wrong with any of the name brand cameras, such as
those from Nikon, Canon, Sony, and Kodak. If you can afford it, get a 7 mega
pixel camera, which should last you for several years and is capable of
producing good-sized clear exhibits.

   What about the zoom capability? The most important characteristic of the zoom
value is the optical zoom setting. Some manufacturers tout 15x or 20x zoom
capability, but that's the digital zoom setting. Electronics are used to get the
high magnification factors and quality is less than optimal as the digital zoom
gets higher and higher. In contrast, the optical zoom is the capability of the
lens optics. Normally, values in the 3x or 4x range are more than sufficient and
will produce crisp and clear images.

   Many of the digital cameras also allow you to take motion pictures and store
them in MPG, AVI, or MOV formats. Check with the manufacture to determine the
storage format for video clips, as there is no single standard that all
manufacturers use. The video clip capability is a "quick and dirty" way to store
motion pictures. If you are going to be doing a lot of motion picture recording,
get a digital video camera, which is specifically designed for video recording.

   Memory for your digital camera is less of an issue since you can typically
increase the storage capability by purchasing additional cards. If you have
several digital cameras, try to get models that use the same form factor for the
memory cards. This gives you more flexibility since you can swap the cards among
different cameras. It is probably pretty obvious, but you can store more
high-resolution images on the larger memory cards. This may be particularly
important if you plan on storing a lot of video clips, which take up more
storage space.

Image Organization

   You should have some method in which to organize your graphic files. As an
example, you'll want to keep your digital photos of the intersection where the
accident occurred separate from the ones of your grandchildren at Christmas.
Lest you think this is a small point, we hasten to note that we have seen one of
our colleagues teach a CLE and accidentally pull up a photo of an unclothed
young lady. This is a very big "whoops." If you are using case management
software, then reference the digital photos to the particular case. A very
simple method would be to create a folder structure on your computer and just
copy the images there. It also helps to actually name the files with some
description of the actual picture. Digital cameras have an automatic naming
scheme, which doesn't help at all in identifying the picture contents. It is
much easier (and faster) to access a picture named 'Main Street Looking
South.jpg' then to try and figure out what a picture named 'DCS00129.jpg' is all
about.

   An excellent and free (lawyers love free!) photo organization software is
Picasa by Google. n1 Picasa provides an easy interface to sort and describe your
image collections. You can also touch-up your photos and even burn them to a CD.




   n1 http://picasa.google.com.

Thumb Drives

   USB thumb drives, flash drives, jump drives, and pen drives are all names for
a small portable item that is nothing more than a solid-state storage device.
We'll use the term "thumb drive" to refer to these wonderful devices that no one
should be without. The term "thumb drive" came to be because these hummers are
about the size of your thumb. Duh. They fit into the USB port  [*47]  of your
desktop or laptop. Windows 2000 and above have native support for thumb drives.
Many manufacturers also supply drivers for a Windows 98 system. The thumb drive
appears as another disk drive to your computer. Think of it as a large size
electronic floppy disk. They come is sizes from 16MB all the way up to a
whopping 16GB!

   What are the practical uses for a thumb drive? Since they are portable, thumb
drives are great for copying data from your work computer to take home. We
regularly copy our PowerPoint presentations to a thumb drive as a backup when we
lecture. If our laptop dies, we still have the presentation on a thumb drive and
can borrow another presenter's equipment. Reference materials and special
utility software are also excellent candidates for the thumb drive. If you are
recording your CLEs for online presentation, it is very helpful to have someone
attend with a thumb drive so they can download the speaker's PowerPoint, which
in all likelihood will not have been completed until the day before (or day of!)
the presentation.

   Another consideration is the security of the data on the thumb drive. These
devices are easy to lose since they are relatively small. Losing a thumb drive
with your confidential client data is not a good thing. Have you ever misplaced
your cell phone? 'Fess up now. If you think a cell phone is easy to lose, think
about a thumb drive, which is often carelessly tossed in a pocket. You'll be
lucky if you just end up with it in the laundry. It is remarkably easy to pull
out your car keys and leave your thumb drive (with all its confidential data) in
a parking lot. Several manufacturers provide software (usually via their web
site) that allows you to encrypt the data or provide a portion of the drive to
store encrypted data. Some of the really cool thumb drives even have biometric
access in order to get to the data. Just make sure that you scan in at least two
fingers/thumbs in case you try to emulate Emeril one night and end up with a
sliced finger.

Scanner

   As we begin to move towards a paperless practice, a scanner is a requisite
piece of equipment. Consider the Fujitsu ScanSnap S500 scanner. It can scan
double-sided color pages at the rate of eighteen per minute. The best part is
that this scanner costs around $ 500 and includes a copy of Adobe Acrobat 7.0
Standard! Acrobat alone costs over $ 250 if purchased separately. The previous
model (fi-5110EOX2) is no longer available; however, the S500 seems to be an
even better replacement unit.

The Palm Treo 700w(x), a/k/a The BlackBerry Killer

   We affectionately call the Palm Treo 700w device the BlackBerry Killer.
Research In Motion (RIM), the manufacturer of the BlackBerry, seems to have
escaped a death knell in the legal battles over the technology used in their
addictive little devices. Legal battles seem to follow RIM everywhere, with the
latest lawsuit involving the Texas company, Visto. While RIM was focused on past
litigation, a competitor quietly found a way to strike a blow to BlackBerry's
jugular. A major problem with the BlackBerry is cost. RIM requires the use of a
BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) to facilitate the integration of the
corporate e-mail server and the BlackBerry service. There is a cost for the BES
software and the hardware to run it on. Many small and medium-sized firms have
consequently avoided the BlackBerry and several large firms are considering a
massive exodus to a non-BES environment. The recent BlackBerry network outage
(over ten hours) has caused even more firms to investigate alternatives that
won't make them wholly dependent on a vendor with a single point of failure.

   Enter the BlackBerry Killer. The Treo 700w (or 700wx) is a Windows Mobile 5
device. Any Windows Mobile 5  [*48]  device with the Microsoft Messaging and
Security Feature Pack (MSFP) can connect with an Exchange 2003 Server with
Service Pack 2 and support the Direct Push Technology. This complete
implementation is at no additional cost and requires no additional server. More
and more corporations and law firms are moving away from the BlackBerry because
of cost and complexity issues, not to mention RIM's continuing legal battles. As
an added bonus, you can remotely wipe the data from the Treo 700w if it is lost
or stolen. We have first hand experience with the Treo 700w and Direct Push
Technology. We absolutely love it, with the minor caution that every once in a
while you do have to "reset" your phone. After all ... it is a Windows-based
phone, so why shouldn't it require a periodic reboot just like your computer?:)

iPods

   The iPod isn't just for music anymore. The latest versions of the iPod can
now store video clips along with music, podcasts, digital photos, and
audiobooks. Podcasts (a web feed of audio or video files placed on the Internet
for subscribers to download to their iPods) are one of the many implementations
of iPods. Podcasts include such things as the updated sports scores, latest news
headlines, radio talk shows, and even CLEs. The podcast is downloaded to the
iPod for later playback. This is the leading edge of legal tech these days. Many
lawyers now consider the iPod a "must have" device, especially if they have long
commute times or a lot of plane and airport time. n2



   n2 For more information on legal podcasts, check out
http://www.law.com/jsp/legaltechnology/PubArticleFriendlyLT.jsp?id=1133517911750
and the podcasts of two good friends, Tom Mighell and Dennis Kennedy, at
http://tkmr.libsysn.com.

   The iPod can be used to store any type of file and even be the destination
for your backup files. The portability allows you to backup your office computer
to your iPod and move the data off-site. The video feature is pretty cool, too.
You can download classic Disney or Pixar animated shorts, and over three
thousand music videos and hundreds of television shows from the iTunes store. If
you have any trouble, your ten-year old can be summoned to answer your
questions.

   One caveat concerning iPods (and any other portable device for that matter).
You must make sure that the iPod is charged prior to use. The authors recently
flew out to Honolulu for the ABA Annual Meeting. Both authors own the 60GB
version of the iPod Video. Guess which author's iPod didn't work for the entire
flight because the batteries were dead. J (Note from the guilty party: So where
was my tech support, John?)

Metadata Scrubbers

   While we don't think of metadata scrubbers as a hot technology because
they've been around for a while, we find that most solo and small firm lawyers
have not yet addressed the problem of metadata--these days, that's becoming an
invitation to be accused of malpractice. Metadata is generally described as data
about data. Microsoft Office products (especially Word) carry a large amount of
metadata; other vendors' products also carry metadata, although generally to a
lesser extent. As an example, metadata in a Word document would be such
information as the author of the document, date last printed, tracked changes,
last access date, document creation date, and embedded links.

   Lawyers handle a lot of confidential data. They also hand draft versions of
documents around for comment. The careful attorney will want to make sure that
the final version of a document sent to the client, court, opposing counsel, or
elsewhere is clean of metadata so that earlier versions, comments, and so forth,
are not recoverable. By this time, almost everyone has heard metadata horror
stories, including court briefs including such recoverable draft comments as
"Judge XXXX isn't very bright, but even a fool wouldn't buy this argument." Or
how about the partner who had his associate draft a very important contract for
a client and then billed the entire matter at partner rates? He's up on
disciplinary charges, hoisted on his own petard by the document's metadata.

   There are several products to scrub the metadata that vary in cost and
effectiveness. Microsoft provides a free metadata scrubbing utility, but it only
works with Office 2003. Trace! by Workshare, n3 is a free metadata scrubbing
utility. It is not an automated process, so you have to remember to run the
software each time you wish to review or scrub the metadata from the file. Our
personal recommendation is Metadata Assistant by Payne Consulting, n4 which
costs $ 79 and fully integrates with the Office suites. If you e-mail a Word
document as an attachment, Metadata Assistant will prompt you to scrub the
metadata or send it without cleaning. It is idiot-proof enough that the lawyer
half of this writing duo has been saved from herself more times than she can
count. Lawyers move too fast to be trusted to remember to scrub each document
they attach to e-mail. All by itself, the prompt feature of Metadata Assistant
makes it worth investing in.



   n3 www.workshare.com.

   n4 www.payneconsulting.com.

Auto Complete

   More and more, lawyers are falling into this snake pit, as their software
helpfully completes e-mail addresses as they begin to enter them. Make sure you
turn off the auto complete feature of your e-mail client. A large number of
attorneys use Outlook for e-mail access. Some think it's a great advantage to
begin typing a client name and have the software automatically complete the
rest. This is a recipe for disaster at best and more realistically,
auto-complete may mean auto-embarrass. This means that you could be typing a
message that you intend to send to Frank Jones. As you begin to type Frank,
Outlook fills in the rest of the name. You hit 'send' before seeing that the
auto complete inserted Frank Allen (opposing counsel) instead for the intended
recipient. Oops! The vast majority of lawyers using auto-complete report that
they have sent confidential data to the wrong party. This is not a roster you
want to see your name on.

Desktop Search Engines

   Ever have a need to find something on your computer when you have no idea
what the file name is? Enter the desktop search engines. Desktop search engines
are software applications that are used to find information on your computer.
You can always use the 'find' function of Windows, but there are many other
alternatives that are much, much faster and potentially more accurate.

   Probably one of the most "famous" of the desktop search engines is Google
Desktop. The Google Desktop is free (as we said before, lawyers love free) for
personal and internal business use. You install the Google Desktop and then
configure it to "point" to certain folders and file types. Google Desktop
indexes the files to aid in the search speed. Google Desktop does have its
limitations, so take it for a "test drive" and see if you need something more
robust.

   X1 n5 and dtSearch n6 are two excellent commercial versions of desktop search
software. Both are widely used in the commercial marketplace and very efficient.
You really can't go wrong with  [*49]  either of these recommendations for a
very robust search solution. A number of our law firm clients have implemented
these tools and regard them as invaluable.



   n5 www.x1.com.

   n6 www.dtsearch.com.

Laptop Locks

   It is just amazing to us that many of our colleagues leave their laptops in
their hotel rooms without securing them. All of the modern day laptops are
constructed with a locking slot to accept a laptop lock. The laptop lock is a
cable device with a key or combination lock at the end. The cable is wrapped
around a secure device in the hotel (perhaps the bed frame) and then it is
locked to the laptop. Kensington is just one company that produces excellent
laptop locks. You should be able to get a very decent laptop lock for $ 20 to $
50. In case you've missed the recent news stats, laptops are the number one
stolen item at airports and hotels.

Secure Laptops

   More and more data is being compromised because of laptop theft and loss. It
seems like the latest craze is to have your laptop stolen with confidential
client information. Even the FBI has lost hundreds of laptops, so you think
you're immune? Unfortunately, most attorneys have significant personal and
confidential information on their laptops and take no precautions to secure
access to the data. As a minimum, get yourself some encryption software and
create a "virtual disk" on your laptop to store information securely. PGP
(Pretty Good Privacy) is a very popular and secure software encryption
application that can meet your needs.

   Investigate biometrics if you need even more security. Our ThinkPad laptops
have biometric access just to get past the "power on" sequence. You swipe your
finger across the reader, which retrieves the data from the security subsystem
of the laptop. As with all biometric devices, make sure you register at least
two fingers, in case Emeril-emulation results in a lacerated digit. To make it
even more secure, the hard disk is "married" to the security chipset on the
system board. This means that the hard drive cannot be accessed if it is removed
from the laptop. With this type of configuration, the hard disk still has to be
in the casing even if you are trying to access the drive forensically.

Anti-Spyware

   Anti-virus software is no longer an option for modern computing. The latest
threat to the computing environment is spyware (Trojans, adware, malware,
keystroke loggers, root kits, etc.). We now have to install anti-spyware
software to protect us from these threats. The anti-virus vendors are beginning
to provide spyware protection in their products, but they are generally immature
when  [*50]  compared to vendors that explicitly provide anti-spyware
applications. Two very popular, effective and cost efficient products are Spy
Sweeper by Webroot n7 and CounterSpy by Sunbelt Software. n8 Both vendors offer
standalone consumer versions and centrally-managed enterprise editions.



   n7 www.webroot.com.

   n8 www.sunbelt-software.com.

Huge Attachments

   Some of you may have limitations for the size of attachments that you can
send with your e-mail messages. This limitation may be imposed by your ISP or
internally restricted by your law firm IT staff. It is not uncommon to have a
limitation of 2MB for a file attachment. What do you do if you need to send a
file that is larger? There is a free service--www.yousendit.com--that allows for
files of up to 100MB in size. You log on to YouSendlt and transfer your file to
their servers. You receive a URL that points to the file that is stored in an
encrypted format. You send the URL to the recipient and they download the file
from the YouSendlt servers in a decrypted form. Easy peasy, and once again, at
an attorney's favorite cost: zilch.

Mobile Hot Spots: Two for the Road

   One of our favorite technology gadgets is our portable wireless AP.
Effectively; we create our own "hot spot" in our hotel room while traveling. No
more Ethernet cables stretching across the bed and both of us can share the
single broadband connection at the same time. This is a great stride in marital
amity.

   So what makes this magic happen? We use the AirPlus G DWL-G730AP Wireless
Pocket Router/AP from D-Link. The product can be used as a router, access point,
or wireless network adapter. It costs around $ 55 and is really small for easy
transport. The DWL-G730AP comes with its own travel case, power adapter, and
cables. It is amazingly small at only 3.15"x2.36"x0.67" (LxWxH). It is an
extremely powerful little device and we never leave home without it.

Secure Internet Access at Starbucks, et al.

   Make sure that you do not transmit any sensitive information over a wireless
or unsecured wired connection. If you access your company e-mail via a web
browser, make sure you at least use SSL (Secure Socket Layer) by having the
https:// in the URL. If you connect to the firm's network, use a VPN (Virtual
Private Network), which provides a secure, encrypted connection for the data
flow. Mobile hot spots are a boon to network infiltrators, so it is imperative
to get enough training that you can connect securely. Mobile hot spots are
seductive, especially when free, but they require a duty of care.

   A little time and a little money can put you on legal tech's forefront. Then
when you're lounging around a pool in Bermuda remotely and securely connected to
your firm network, and the steel drum bands play "Hot, Hot, Hot," they'll be
talking about you--a hot lawyer with cool technology. You may even impress that
ten-year old.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Communications LawTelephone ServicesCellular ServicesComputer & Internet
LawCopyright ProtectionCivil Infringement ActionsOwner RightsAdaptationLegal
EthicsLegal Services MarketingAdvertising


