                               44 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

                               Australian Edition



Get tuned into the big picture



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH, TECHNOLOGY WRITER



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 16



LENGTH: 544  words





FAB FOUR To 3-D or not 3-D? That is but one question to ask when you take the

plunge into maxi-screen TVs



Choosing a smart TV means weighing up new-age features that can require a PhD in

physics to understand. For starters, there's Samsung's SUHD with its layer of

nanocrystals called quantum dots versus LG's new OLED (organic LED) with its

carbon layer that lights up as electricity passes across it. Confused?



How do you pick a good from bad upscaler? That's the feature that increases

broadcast resolution to 4K quality (3840 x 2160 pixels). More confused? At least

some choices are comprehensible to us mortals, such as: should your new TV be

curved or flat?



There again, do you want 4K resolution or just 1080p high definition, active or

passive 3-D or no 3-D? How many HDMI connectors on the back do you need to link

up your PlayStation, Xbox One, Wii console, DVR or set-top-box? How many USB

connectors? And which TV operating system do you prefer: Samsung's Tizen, LG's

webOS 2.0, Android TV on Sony or Firefox on Panasonic? Decisions, decisions.

Drowning in a sea of technicality, your litmus test may end up being: "Do the

Rabbitohs or Sydney Swans look great in their jerseys on this TV?" To help you

out, we asked four manufacturers to nominate a feature-rich set.



SAMSUNG 65-inch Series 9 Curved 4K SUHD TV SUHD is Samsung's new LCD with 4K

screen resolution, nanocrystal technology to increase colour range, and improve

contrast and brightness. It has a curved display that Samsung says offers an

immersive viewing experience, a revamped Smart Hub for apps and TV catch-up

services, a fast 8-core processor, two tuners, a 200Hz refresh rate, voice and

motion control and face recognition, four HDMI and three USB ports.



Model: JS9500 Price: $8999



LG 65-inch Curved 4K Ultra HD OLED TV LG is first to bring OLED TV displays to

Australia. The claim is perfect blacks, vivid colours and self-lighting crystals

instead of backlighting. There's the Smart TV operating system, webOS 2.0,

passive 3-D, a 6-Step Ultra HD upscaler engine, a single tuner and wide colour

gamut, powered by a quad core processor. There's sharing through WiDi and

Miracast, and you can issue voice commands through LG's magic remote control.

The set has three HDMI and three USB ports.



Model: 65EG960T Price: $9999



SONY 75-inch 4K UHD LCD TV Sony's flagship 4K smart TV features Google's Android

TV operating system with Chromecast baked in, and access to Google Play TV apps.

There's Sony's new X1 image processor to improve clarity, colour accuracy and

contrast, and the pro version of "X-tended Dynamic Range" for delivering black

blacks on a backlit LCD TV. The X9400C has powerful magnetic fluid speakers and

hi-res audio to complement the 4K UHD picture.



Model: X9400C Price: $11,999



PANASONIC Smart Viera 65-inch 4K LED TV Panasonic says its new LCD panels have a

wide colour gamut and offer improved colour reproduction. A feature called

"super bright panel plus" is designed to improve brightness, colour, contrast

and enhanced viewing angles. The TV software has media centre-like qualities.

You can stream live TV or movies to your smartphone or tablet across the world,

or to a device in another room. The TV uses the Firefox TV operating system.



Model: TH-65CX700A Price: $4299



LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





