                               45 of 64 DOCUMENTS







                              Sunday Business Post



                               February 15, 2009



A touch of class



SECTION: THE MARKET



LENGTH: 2206 words





Touchscreen phones are fun. They free up lots of the phone's surface and

encourage activities like internet browsing and photo editing. It is not just

the iPhone that has a touchscreen, either: every manufacturer makes them now.

This does not mean that these devices are all great. Using a touchscreen phone

is far from a perfect experience.



Some models are clumsy and error prone, while others do not have fully

thought-out operating systems. (Texting is sometimes a casualty: because the

screen is flat and you cannot 'feel' the keys, tapping letters in takes longer

than on a normal phone.)



But as adoption of the format increases, manufacturers are starting to iron out

problems present in early models: Samsung's latest Pix on is a good example of

this evolution.



So which touchscreen phones are the best? On the evidence of the models reviewed

by The Sunday Business Post, it is a choice between Samsung's Pix on, Apple's

iPhone and Nokia's 5800. They are among five phones reviewed today.



Samsung Pixon M8800



Although the Pixon's headline feature is its eight-mega pixel camera, it is also

a fully-working touchscreen device with advanced features, attractively designed

in a slim black mini-tablet.



Overall, the Pixon has more positives than it has negatives. Using its

three-inch screen is pleasant: the screen system is very fast to react and

responds to finger taps with an (adjustable) vibration. This makes texting and

navigating the phone quite easy.



In general, Samsung has hit a good balance between iPhone style intuition and

Nokia-style menus.



However, the phone's crowning triumph is its camera. Samsung has thrown

everything into this camera and it shows. It is not just the clarity and detail

of the shots that the camera's eight megapixels give you, it is the set-up time,

which is under two seconds. When you take a shot, there's no tortuous

five-second delay until the camera is ready to shoot again; it's ready to go in

about a second. For this feature alone, the Pixon is worth considering. Its

video recording is also good quality.



As for its other features, the Pixon comes fully loaded. It has HSDPA mobile

broadband, GPS (using Google Maps), wi-fi and a radio. It has a 'widget bar' on

the side of the screen, which is fun to use. There are lots of widget

applications (weather, Google search, newspaper headlines) and it's a more

pleasant way to find an application than clicking into menus and sub-menus. So

much for the Pixons's strengths. What about its weaknesses?



Chief among these is the poor display of the screen in daylight. Even without

direct sunlight, the screen appears washed out and faded in daylight. This

sometimes makes it hard to make details out, and limits the benefit of having a

great camera.



The phone also does not have a 3.5mm headphone socket. For music fans, this is

unforgiveable: how can a multimedia phone in 2009 have a proprietary, fiddly

earphone connection?



The battery, too, is the weakest of any touchscreen tested for today's review.

The Pixon struggles to make it through a full day's use.



The device also sometimes activates itself inadvertently because of the position

of the 'screen unlock' button. This button is on the side of the phone: it is

impossible not to touch it when removing the phone from a pocket. This leads to

applications being opened, pictures being taken and other mishaps.



Finally, some multimedia websites do not prioritise Samsung for use with their

services. Multimedia users of websites such as Qik or Google Latitude will find

that these applications cannot be used on the Pixon. I also encountered

unexplained problems accessing Microsoft Outlook remotely, which did not occur

on other touchscreen models.



Overall, the Pixon is a very good phone with a ground-breaking camera and a very

usable touchscreen system. Rating: ****



Price:  280 on O2 billpay, available soon on Vodafone and Meteor.  430

(excluding delivery charge) sim-free price on Expansys. ie.



Nokia 5800 Xpress Music



The 5800 Xpress Music is Nokia's first proper touchscreen phone. It's a decent

attempt that largely holds its own against more established touchscreen rivals.



The operation of the touchscreen is fairly satisfactory, although more force is

required to activate a key than is required on the iPhone or other touchscreen

devices. A small vibration accompanies a successful button-pressing action.



Tapping out text messages involves a similar procedure to operating an ordinary

Nokia mobile, the only difference being that the keypad is on the screen. The

phone also has a touchscreen Qwerty keypad if you switch the view to horizontal.



The 5800's 3.2-inch screen is bright and reactive. Viewing it during daylight is

not a problem, except in bright sunshine.



The 5800 does not have an accelerometer, which switches the screen view from

vertical to horizontal if you tip the phone onto its side. Some people may

actually welcome this, as other phones sometimes jump too easily from vertical

to horizontal modes (especially Blackberry's Storm).



Despite being a touchscreen model, the 5800's main marketing attraction is still

music. In this aspiration, it ticks most boxes. The sound quality is excellent

and it supports wireless stereo Bluetooth as well as having an ordinary 3.5mm

headphone jack. It also has stereo speakers on it which, although obviously

inferior to proper speakers, can be reasonably compared to a small radio.



Getting music onto the 5800 is organised through a PC that uses Windows Media

Player. The phone doesn't have a lot of in-built memory (80MB), but does have an

8GB Micro SD memory card with it.



The 5800 has a decent, if not amazing, three-megapixel camera. It also comes

with wi-fi and a radio. It supports 3G HSDPA, which means fast web-browsing. One

of the 5800's inherent advantages over its touchscreen rivals is that it is

fully operational without needing to be completely intuitive. This is because

half the country already uses a Nokia phone.



So, the operation and location of the menus, features and functions are already

quite familiar. This is a different situation to, say, the Blackberry Storm,

where some acclimatisation to a new operating system will be necessary for most

Irish people.



The 5800 is not quite as swanky or swish as its rivals, but its practicality and

familiarity make up for its technical cutting edge.



Rating: **** Price:  415 sim-free from Expansys.ie



BlackBerry Storm



To most people, BlackBerrys are synonymous with e-mail gadgets. But just like

any other manufacturer, Rim (BlackBerry's manufacturer) wants to keep up with

these social networking, web-centric times. Its first touchscreen device is, by

and large, a good effort. Its screen has best-in-class clarity, is far more

powerful than other BlackBerry devices and can browse the web fairly easily.



Its email delivery system is largely unchanged. So in what it sets out to do, it

largely succeeds. But there are definitely a few issues with the way the Storm's

operating system handles things. Using the touchscreen sometimes leaves a little

to be desired.



First, though, the positives. Using a system called 'SurePress', the Storm's

screen 'floats' a little above the phone's surface. Instead of reacting to a

slight touch, you must press down on the screen for it to click. To scroll

through documents, a light swipe of the finger will do.



Using the phone to enter text is pretty easy, especially in horizontal mode (the

phone has an accelerometer, which switches the view from horizontal to vertical)

as a Qwerty keypad presents itself. In vertical mode, the shared key system used

on the BlackBerry Pearl is employed, so you'll need to be familiar with this to

use it quickly.



The Storm can do a number of things that aren't available on consumer

smartphones. Cutting and pasting is one example, using two fingers (at the start

and the end of the text).



The phone's battery life is good, with a single charge easily lasting a full day

of calls and web browsing. This is impressive for a phone with a 3.5-inch

screen. The Storm also has a reasonable 3.2megapixel camera.



But now for the negatives. Using the screen takes a little getting used to. In

particular, web pages seem to zoom in inexplicably at times when the screen is

touched.



Browsing the web, in general, is a mixed experience. The browser is okay, but is

a little slower and more awkward to use than any of its smartphone rivals

(iPhone's Safari, Nokia's Opera or Microsoft's Explorer).



The Storm also lacks wi-fi, so even if you're at home or in the office where you

have a broadband system up and running, you'll need to use up data on Vodafone's

network. But the 3G speed is pretty fast (about 2Mbs to 3Mbs in peak urban

areas).



The Storm's GPS feature is hit and miss, too. We struggled to get BlackBerry

Maps, its GPS application, to work properly.



It's unfortunate, too, that it's only available on one operator (Vodafone).



These are largely irritations rather than deal-breakers. In general, this is a

pretty satisfying evolution from Rim.



Rating: *** Price: From  50 on contract from Vodafone, plus monthly tariffs that

start at  50.



Sony Xperia X1



Sony Ericsson's only touchscreen phone is actually a hybrid model. It has a

slide down keyboard to match its touchscreen.



This is a phone that you will want to play with the moment you see it. It is

supremely elegant, with none of the plasticky effects of other models. It is all

so, so satisfying. Until, alas, you switch it on and start to play around with

it. It soon becomes apparent that this is a business only phone. The Windows

Mobile logo is the giveaway.



Windows Mobile is a system which is made for styluses rather than fingers. The

symbols are far, far too small to use with any human digits. This goes against

the grain of the current evolution of smart phones, which are being designed for

fingers.



It soon becomes clear that the X1's miniaturisation makes it hard to use

sometimes. The default settings for its on-screen text, fonts, icons and even

external buttons seem designed for a person with teeny fingers and hawkish

eyesight.



I know that this is a common complaint for those with large hands and failing

sight, neither of which I suffer from.



This design feature does not create problems with some of the manufacturer's

other models, such as the W890, but on a productivity tool such as the X1, it

becomes a real hurdle. Admittedly, you can reset the font sizes and also zoom in

on web pages.



But changing an external setting, such as the volume, sometimes resizes the

settings back. This miniaturisation makes inputting web addresses quite tricky,

among other things.



On the positive side, it has an attractive touchscreen 'panels' function. I had

little problem with the X1's battery life, which easily lasted a full day's

multimedia and voice usage. The call quality was also very good, even if its

maximum ringing and text tones were not loud enough to avoid several missed

calls and texts.



The X1 has a number of fairly advanced features. Its 3.2-megapixel camera is not

one of them, but it works fine. It also has a GPS sensor using Google Maps.

Rating: **



Price:  660 sim-free on Expansys.ie; not yet ranged by Irish operators



iPhone 3G



This was the phone that kicked off the world's interest in finger friendly

touchscreens. Two years on, demand for the iPhone shows no sign of abating. It's

not hard to see why. Despite the myriad of competitors, Apple's gadget retains

the simplest, best touchscreen system on the market. It is also a first-class

MP3 player, as it is an iPod as well as a phone. It is the best of the batch for

browsing the web, with its Safari browser and its advanced finger navigation

controls.



The iPhone is also the easiest phone to add features to, thanks to Apple's App

Store, a website where thousands of applications (games, lifestyle and business)

can be downloaded directly onto the phone. The latest version of the iPhone 3G

offers a whopping 16GB of memory, far more than any other touchscreen phone

(about 3,000 songs). All of these features represent the iPhone's strengths.



It does, however, have weaknesses. While its web browser is excellent, its

internet connection speed is not. It has a competent 3G speed, but well under

the advanced HSDPA speeds that most of its rivals now boast. (You can also

connect the iPhone over wi-fi, but this usually involves hefty charges.) Its

camera is a very underwhelming two megapixels.



For some bizarre reason, it cannot record video, a standard feature of modern

phones. Smaller things also irritate. The iPhone still does not offer some basic

SMS services, such as the ability to forward a text.



It is a pity, too, that you need to connect to a computer to download songs from

the iTunes web store (unless you find a hotspot to use, which costs anything up

to  10 per hour).



Most irritating of all is that you cannot remove the battery: if it starts to

die, you must send the entire phone off for a 'repair'.



Finally, the iPhone is tied to just one network, O2. While unlocking (or 'jail

breaking') the gadget is possible, doing so runs the risk of killing the device

once Apple's software updates are released and incorporated. For all of these

drawbacks, the iPhone remains the standard to beat for its touchscreen rivals.

Rating: **** Price: From  50 on O2 billpay



LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





