                               49 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                                Dailybhaskar.com



                     September 6, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



Review: Microsoft Nokia X2 dual-sim launched, pricey but good improvement over

Nokia X



LENGTH: 836  words





Microsoft has launched the successor of the Nokia X Android phone (with Nokia X

software) - the Nokia X2 yesterday, as another addition in the budget Smartphone

segment with Android platform.



The X2 is dual sim phones that comes with a 4.3 inch ClearBlack LCD display with

a display resolution of 480 x 800 pixles. This sound a bit small in display

screen size, since most of the phones that are launching recently are either 4.7

inchers of 5 inchers.



The Nokia X2



The new Nokia X2 comes powered with a dual-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 200

processor that is clocked at 1.2GHz. It is difficult to understand why to Nokia

packed the new phone with a Snapdragon 200 processor when its competitors at INR

5,999 can pack Snapdragon 400 processor inside. We are talking about the Xiaomi

RedMi 1S that comes with a quad-core processor clocked at a speed of 1.6 Ghz.



Talking about the camera the X2 packs a 5-megapixel autofocus primary camera on

the back side with LED flash and here is a front camera to in the phone (the

camera capacity of the front camera is not revealed yet). This is definitely an

improvement over the Nokia X which had 3.2 megapixel primary camera and no

secondary camera. Moto E had a primary camera but t lacked a front camera.



When you look at the Lava Iris X1 which is price about an INR 1,000 less than

the Nokia X, you get an 8 megapixel primary shooter. This phone also has an 8 GB

internal memory besides the 32 GB expandable memory, and yes, the display screen

is 4.5 inches in size.



The Nokia X2 sports a, while there a front-facing camera (unspecified

resolution) also onboard. The Smartphone is backed by an 1800mAh battery that's

rated to deliver up to 10 hours of 2G talk time and up to 86 hours of continuous

music playback.



The Nokia X2 features 4GB of built-in storage, which is expandable via micro

SDcard (32GB) and 7GB cloud storage on OneDrive.



Enhancing user experience



On operating system, While Microsoft sticks to the live tile based interface,

most of the budget Smartphones (except Xiaomi RedMi 1S, which comes with MI user

interface) come with stock Android operating system.



A pull-down notifications tab (pretty much like the one in most of the Android

smartphone, look at the picture on the left side) also allows people to glance

at connectivity options as well as actionable items, such as software updates

available for download. Also there is a new home key and visual multitasking

complete the experience.



On Nokia X2 users can choose between three types of screens to facilitate

navigation, a colorful home with resizable tiles, Fastlane to access recent apps

and future calendar items or a Lumia-inspired apps list, from which people can

pin items to the home screen.



Will it give competition to the Moto E?



The Moto E launched in India this year at a price of INR 6,999 uses the same 1.2

GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 200 processor. Nokia seems to have picked Moto E as its

competitor, with a similar display size of 4.3 inch. But Moto E does take a leap

ahead with a better display resolution of 540 x 960 pixels and a Corning Gorilla

Glass 3 on display front. This is however an upgrade over the Nokia X launched

early this year which had just 512 MB of RAM.



Like the Moto E, the Nokia X2 has a 1GB of RAM and 4 GB inbuilt memory with a

possibility of expanding up to 32 GB.



Moto E offers extra 50 GB of cloud storage on Google Drive, compared to this

Nokia X offers 15 GB extra storage via OneDrive.



And the Android One



Another competitor of the Nokia X2 is the upcoming Android One Smartphones

landing in India on 8th September via Snapdeal retail store. They are expected

to come with either a 4.3 inch or 4.5-inch display and are expected to sport 1

GB of RAM and 5 megapixel rear camera. But they are going to run on quad-core

chipset and will be placed anywhere between INR 6K to 7K. That too, will be

cheaper than the Nokia X2!



This time however Nokia has been careful to make sure that X2 can run Android

apps, and the phone comes with pre-loaded with latest Nokia Store app that can

now support third party store. Nokia did not support Android app store in the

Nokia X which limited the availability of apps on the Nokia phone. It is known

that Google has a huge play store full of all kinds of app, which cannot be

compared to the Nokia app store.



Early verdict



The handset does look like a major upgrade over the earlier Nokia X, with a

slightly bigger (0.3 mm) display screen and a better camera (5 megapixel over

the 3.15 in the Nokia X). For those who are Nokia fans, this is seriously a

better potion over Nokia X.



Last year Nokia offered buy-backs on Lumia 930, 830 and more devices and we feel

with in case the company thinks of buy-back on the Nokia X to promote Nokia X2-

this Diwali customers will have a good choice.



But with competition from low-cost  like the Moto E, RedMi 1S, upcoming Android

One and others under INR 7K; and ultra-low cost smartphones like the Mozilla

Firefox smartphones in India the handset from Nokia do not have clear path ahead

to reach the top.



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





