                               50 of 64 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday



New Products



SECTION: DIGITAL



LENGTH: 514 words





Lenovo IdeaPad Y900



LAPTOP



From $1,899



Need to indulge in a spot of gaming while travelling? Get the Lenovo IdeaPad

Y900. It is powered by the sixth-generation Intel Core i7 6820HK, with 8GB of

Nvidia GTX 980M discrete graphics and Nvidia G-Sync technology, for great gaming

performance. A mechanical back-lit keyboard provides tactile response, and the

built-in JBL stereo speakers and subwoofer promise fantastic sound. A 17.3-inch

full high-definition display completes the full gaming experience on the go.



Fujifilm Instax SP-2



INSTANT PRINTER



$309



The Fujifilm Instax SP-2 instant printer lets you enjoy the fun of Polaroid-like

prints without an instant camera. Select your favourite photo from your

smartphone and send it to the SP-2 using the Instax Share app (available on

Android and iOS) via Wi-Fi connection, to get instant prints in 10sec. The SP-2

boasts a higher print resolution than its predecessor, at 800 x 600 dots.



Asus Reco Smart



DASHBOARD CAMERA



$329



Protect yourself against errant motorists with this new versatile in-car

dashboard camera.



The Asus Reco Smart features a big f/1.8 aperture and a Sony image sensor, for

clear day and night video recording in full high-definition. It also has a

motion-detection parking monitor mode, which starts recording when it senses

motion and stops recording when no movement is detected for a minute.



It also has a three-axis G-sensor that triggers an emergency record and lock

function to protect video files in a collision.



Ye!! BPR88 Energy Pack



POWER BANK



$99



Still hunting for that elusive Snorlax or Lapras Pokemon? You might want to take

along a power bank like the Ye!! BPR88 with you to make sure your phone doesn't

run out of juice during the hunt.



Featuring an 11,200mAh rechargeable battery and dual USB output ports with a

combined maximum output of up to 3.4A, it can charge two devices at the same

time. A slip-resistant rubber coating helps prevent slippage from your hand.



It comes with a case that lets you store the Energy Pack and micro-USB cable

neatly.



Garmin Vivomove Sport



FITNESS TRACKER



$229



If you prefer your activity monitor to still look like a traditional watch,

consider the Garmin Vivomove Sport. It features a classic analogue movement with

a traditional round watch face. On its watch face, there is a step counter bar

and a move bar. If you are sitting for too long, the move bar will fill up in

red to remind you to get moving. The step counter bar will show the percentage

of your daily step goal, so you know if you are meeting your target.



It uses a CR2025 cell battery that is supposed to last for a year.



Sony Z9D



TELEVISION



$8,999



This 65-inch 4K (3,840 x 2,160 pixels) TV is packed with an array of

technologies, including a newly developed 4K High Dynamic Range (HDR) X1 Extreme

image processor, a unique backlight technology called Backlight Master Drive,

and Super Bit Mapping 4K HDR.



The result is moving images with high contrast, detailed texture and accurate

colour reproduction.



It runs on Google's Android TV platform with Sony's user interface.



Compiled by Trevor Tan



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved

