

Prices of digital cameras are falling fast, while an eye-catching new breed is
being designed to match specific lifestyles. Nigel Atherton outlines all you
need to know

This was the year the leading high-street retailer Dixons condemned the 35mm
film camera to the gadget graveyard. Annual sales of digital cameras were
outstripping film models by 15 to 1, and the tech- nology analyst Understanding
& Solutions now expects UK sales of digital cameras to rocket to 6.42m during
2005.

Digital photography brings convenience -as memory cards replace film and
processing -along with versatility that enables digital photos to be viewed in a
variety of ways, thanks to home printing, e-mail and album websites. Freed from
the commitment of paying to develop every picture, the digital snapper can bag a
cluster of shots, then decide later which to kill and which to keep. The
temptation is, of course, to fill up memory cards to achieve that perfect pic.

The advent of camera phones has forced camera manufacturers to up their game,
which is great for the consumer. Camphones may be improving, but they still have
physically smaller light sensors and lenses of lower quality. In short, they are
not yet "proper" cameras, so don't be deceived by claims made for them.

Digital cameras were once bought purely on their megapixel (Mp) count, but the
market has evolved so that most sub-£100 models have more than enough pixels to
yield a quality print; 5Mp are ample for all but the most demanding
photographer. A compact digicam that tries to squeeze too many megapixels onto
its relatively small sensor can create digital noise that ruins images, so as a
counterbalance, it is important for a camera to have a good processor, along
with a quality lens. The complete package is what counts.

The latest technology is inspiring manufacturers to target cameras at individual
lifestyles, such as a party animal who shoots in low-light venues, or an outdoor
adventurer who wants a tough-as-boots camera that defies the forces of nature.

Plunging camera prices -particularly at enthusiast level -bring ever higher
quality pictures for your money, plus ever more diverse technical features.

Freed from having to accommodate the 35mm film canister, makers are creating
entirely new shapes for camera bodies. Where once a zoom lens would have been
physically impossible to fit into a camera a centimetre deep, designers now turn
the lens vertically inside the camera body, mimicking a periscope. Many current
cameras exploit this innovation to squeeze in 3x optical magnification.

A new breed called the superzoom, pioneered by Panasonic, is growing in
popularity, as it offers a mid-sized body with 10x zoom, which is ideal for
sporting events or weddings, when you can't close in on the action. With these
bigger zooms has come clever image- stabilising technology, which, especially at
high magnifications, helps to reduce the camera shake that we inevitably suffer.
When taking pictures, experienced photographers stabilise themselves by
squeezing elbows against their bodies while viewing through an eyepiece, but
digital novices have a habit of holding the camera at arm's length to view the
LCD screen, which causes more shake. Fortunately, anti-shake technology has
trickled down to some compact cameras, but you can do your bit by keeping those
elbows tucked in.

Your first buying decision is between a pocket-friendly compact, designed for
the everyday point-and-shoot snapper, a superzoom, or the traditional quality of
a single-lens reflex (SLR) camera, which has a viewing system that enables you
to look through the lens itself and to frame a picture precisely.

SLRs will produce better-quality pictures for a variety of reasons and enable
you to change lenses, perhaps to a telephoto for shooting fast-moving deer at a
distance in Richmond Park, or to a wide-angle lens for capturing the sprawl of
Windsor Castle from nearby.

Once, no self-respecting photo enthusiast would be without an SLR, but up until
now, digital versions have cost thousands. The past year has seen a flood of
innovative models costing less than £1,000, and now, the first for under £500.
Such pricing has sparked a digital SLR boom that has manufacturers struggling to
meet demand.

In the pocket-snapshooter market, compacts are growing thinner, and viewfinders
are disappearing altogether as LCD screen sizes have grown in a year from an
average 1.5in across to about 2.5in, though this can shorten battery life.

As is clear from the cameras reviewed here, not all compacts are pure
point-and-shoot toys. Though simplicity is often a virtue, many compacts now
offer a keen number of manual features, fit for a variety of tasks. For example,
the hard-working estate agent may prefer the wide-angle lens and robust body of
the new Canon S80, while night owls will be glad to have red eye automatically
removed by a deceptively smart camera such as the HP 817.

Speed, or lack of it, was once a notorious drawback for most compact digital
cameras. You would press the shutter button and wait while the camera deigned to
take a picture, long after your children had vacated the bouncy castle. Most
digital cameras are now at least as fast as their film counterparts: check a
camera's specifications for the shortest possible delay, often only a few
hundredths of a second.

Built-in memory is making a comeback, after years of cost- cutting. It fell out
of favour when removable media cards arrived, but as costs fall, cameras
increasingly boast some built-in memory. Cheaper memory makes it fun to
experiment by taking as many pictures as you like at high resolution.

Before wafting your credit card at the camera with the most mega- pixels, take a
moment to think realistically about your needs. What type of subjects will you
generally be shooting? How likely are you to experiment with fancy manual
features? Do you really prize picture quality so much that you will be prepared
to carry around a larger and heavier SLR, rather than a compact? Do you want a
camera that can take widescreen images to show off on your new television? And
are you a bit of a klutz who would benefit from anti-shake technology?

Finally, with most big brands refreshing their ranges twice a year to stay
abreast of new technology, watch out for bargains among discontinued lines, but
stay sceptical about improvements claimed for an upgraded version. With so much
choice, the onus is on you to decide exactly what role you want a camera to play
in your life.

FASHION SNAPPER

KONICA MINOLTA DIMAGE X1 ****

Typically £300, or £250 from www.comet.co.uk

Fashionistas who fear the faux pas of unsheathing a clunky digicam at a launch
party can safely slip an X1 compact into their Gieves suit or Prada handbag. Not
only will the super-slim styling and sheer novelty factor turn heads, but its
design marries form with function. Available in silver, black or, for the
naughty at heart, red, this sexy beast's 8.1Mp chip makes for more than a pretty
face, and the anti-shake technology will help to counteract the wobbly effects
of an evening on the bubbly. This feature slightly slows down the speed at which
images are processed onto the memory card, and reviewing pics could be slicker,
but for trendsetters who want to look heavenly, yet retain down-to-earth
performance, the X1 is simply divine.

CAMERAPHOBE'S FRIEND

HP PHOTOSMART R817 *****

Typically £220, or £198 from www.cameras2u.com

If confusing camera menus make your heart sink like a stone, the sheer
simplicity of this HP compact will help to restore buoyancy. American digicams
have traditionally eschewed miniaturisation, and the R817 has welcome metallic
solidity, plus an elegant design. HP prides itself on innovation, and it
certainly delivers plenty of under-the-skin trickery, all within the collective
name of Real Life technologies. The R817 will automatically fix minor exposure
problems, turn red eyes black, and perform panoramic stitching, all handled
in-camera. It is not cheap, but with a fine-quality 5x Pentax lens and an
optional dock -for easy transfers to a computer -this 5.1Mp marvel provides
value, and will prove a serious ally to those seeking a simpler life.

PARTY ANIMAL'S PAL

FUJIFILM F10 ****

Typically £300, or £206 from www.amazon.co.uk

Parties the world over are punctuated by stroboscopic flashes, or curses if
misfires deliver dingy pics. Step forward the FinePix F10 compact, which eschews
Fuji's attempts to swell pixel counts artificially in favour of better low light
pictures (up to ISO 1600), meaning less need for flash. The side benefits are to
reduce camera shake and blurred snaps. This is all down to Fuji's new Real Photo
technology, which stars a potent processor. The F10 cranks into life in 1.3
seconds flat, can fire off 500 top-calibre 6.3Mp images, and, as it is built
like a squared-off brick of brushed metal, it will take a pasting without
complaint.

Enthusiasts might grumble at few manual features, but if the night-time is the
right time, the F10 belongs on your arm.

OUTDOOR ADVENTURER

PENTAX OPTIO WP ****

Typically £300, or £174 from www.pixmania.com

Ardent snorkellers will be rubbing their hands with glee to see a compact
digicam that is fully waterproof, if only to 5ft, with all its vulnerable parts
seriously protected and boasting an internal 3x optical zoom.

While Pentax's pocket snapper can take some rough-and-tumble, it is a touch
surprising not to find an effective mode to counter blue light effects
underwater. However, the WP remains a fine shockproof camera for water babes,
rock-hard climbers, thrill-seeking snowboarders and the hyperactive especially
so as the upgraded WPi (main picture) offers an enhanced 6Mp sensor.

GEEK ABOUT TOWN

KODAK EASYSHARE-ONE ****

£400 from www.dixons.co.uk

Kodak is synonymous with simple cameras, so it is surprising to find such an
innovative compact as the EasyShare-One, featuring a swivel-out 3in touchscreen
and built-in WiFi. It makes child's play of transferring pics onto a home
network, printing wirelessly or, best of all, e-mailing images straight from the
camera, within range of a WiFi hotspot. The EasyShare is full of clever ideas,
yet somehow remains a doddle to operate, even if the large LCD screen does drain
battery life and is hard to read in sunlight. A 4.2Mp sensor is modest by
current standards, but internal trickery means you will notice it only with
blown-up prints. The rugged metal casing is reassuringly heavy. For those who
like clever, easy to-use toys, this is the one.

FAMILY SLIDE SHOW

PANASONIC LX1 *****

Typically £400, or £360 from www.purelygadgets.com

Panasonic has a richly deserved reputation for its potent compact cameras, but
the innovative LX1 is the first to shoot genuine widescreen images in 16:9 ratio
- ideal for displaying on television -thanks to a new size of chip. The LX1 is
no one-trick pony, though. Factor in its posh Leica lens, optical image
stabilisation that is tiptop for the shaky-handed, and shutter speeds fast
enough to snare an RAF flyby, and it becomes one of the best-specified cameras
outside professional SLRs. With proper buttons reducing the need to delve into
those dreaded menus and trademark minimal shutter lag, this baby is no novelty
act, it's a star.

ENTHUSIAST'S BACKUP

OLYMPUS C70 ****

£300 (stockists 0800 072 0070)

Those who believe cameras shouldn't just be dinky toys, but don't fancy an SLR,
will love this 7.1Mp compact. With its ruggedly fashioned casing, clearly built
for adult-sized hands, the C70's traditional looks belie the technology it
showcases. Impressive manual features abound, right down to a handy power
control for flash. With a start-up time of less than two seconds, it is ready
for anything, and pictures are excellent, with less fringing than any other 7Mp
compact. The only niggles are the jerky zoom-control collar and an idiosyncratic
menu system. If these annoy, try the wide-angle Canon S80. Otherwise, the C70
scales the heights.

SCHOOL SPORTS-DAY CHAMP

SONY CYBER-SHOT DSC-H1 ****

Typically £500, or £277 from www.amazon.co.uk

Pity the parents unable to capture their child's delight at winning the sack
race -this is where the 12x optical zoom of the H1 earns its stripes. Indeed, a
new category of compact superzooms has emerged for those seeking a balance
between SLR performance and the simplicity of a compact. Though the H1's lens is
nonremovable, its speed and zoom (equivalent to 36mm-432mm) make it ideal for
action shots.

Those who baulk at its bulk will find the new Nikon S4 more compact, but this
5.1Mp Sony brute is well designed, with nifty image stabilisation that helps if
your hands tremble as junior breaks the tape.

WILDLIFE LOVER

NIKON D50 *****

Typically £600, or £410 (body only) from www.pixmania.com

The beauty of an SLR is customisation. Need a telephoto lens to capture an
osprey's flight, or a wide-angle for the majesty of the Fens? No problem.

Hankering for a flash gun? Simply clip one on. The D50 is the first digital
model (DSLR) to retail for under £500, but this 6.1Mp monster makes surprisingly
few compromises to its big brother, the D70. The casing is plastic and there are
fewer dials, along with handy new scene modes and a "help" button. Yet the D50
is far from basic: it is bursting with features, including Nikon's latest 3-D
colour metering, and it can blaze off 156 frames in 60 seconds. This is a
sensational sidekick to help you get serious about digital photography -without
breaking the bank.

ASPIRING SEMI-PRO

CANON EOS 20D *****

Typically £1,200, or £825 (body only) from www.cameraworld.co.uk

Part-time wedding snappers, or anybody who enjoys serious photography, will love
this 8.2Mp beauty. The price tag may be hefty, but it is amazing to find a DSLR
this good retailing for less than £1,000. Sheer versatility and a rugged metal
body impress, and the huge new sensor is the same CMOS type as Canon's top-end
models, as is the processor. All DSLRs magnify images from lenses; Canon's do so
by 1.6x -handy for zooms, not for wide-angles. The 20D shoots monochrome
pictures, with colour blooming, too. Button-placement quibbles aside, this is
untouchable.

WHAT TO LOOK FOR FIRST

* Decide whether to opt for a compact, superzoom or SLR. Don't go purely for a
camera with the most pixels: five megapixels are usually more than enough.

* Invest in more megapixels only if you are a dedicated enthusiast seeking
serious quality. This produces bigger image files -meaning fewer can be squeezed
onto a memory card -longer save times and slower printing.

* Judge the whole package.

Do you like the way the camera looks and feels? Will it fit into your pocket? Do
you need it to? Are all the buttons accessible? Are the viewfinder and the LCD
screen easy to see? Is the camera quick to respond when you focus or press the
shutter?

Is the zoom big enough and is it smooth? Does it feel well built?

* Consider Christmas gifts for children. A budget camera is ideal. They can snap
away at low resolutions without costing you a penny, while developing their
artistic and technological skills.

COMPACT -Pros Small and lightweight; widest choice, from beginners to
intermediates; increasingly specialised functions; affordable; can record video
clips.

Cons Small built-in flash, often positioned close to the lens, can lead to
harshly lit pictures or red eye; limited zoom; all-purpose fixed lens affects
image quality; can suffer delay between shots.

SUPERZOOM -Pros Optical zoom of at least 10x; often more manual features than a
compact; anti-shake technology; rugged.

Cons Non-changeable lens; large size; shutter speeds can suffer with higher zoom
settings.

SLR -Pros Best picture quality, fast focusing and shutter release; rapid
shooting at several frames per second; versatility of changeable lenses.

Cons Can be confusing; bulky and heavy; expensive, especially with extra lenses;
can't capture video; no instant picture preview.

HOW TO VIEW

* EDITING Banish red eye, improve brightness, or remove entire objects from
images with Picasa (picasa.google.co.uk) -photo-cataloguing software with simple
photo-editing tools. Gimp (www.gimp.org) is a free, yet high-quality,
image-editing package.

* PRINTING Epson's Stylus Photo R800 (£190 from www.amazon. co.uk) is an apt
choice. HP's top-value Photosmart 335 (£105 from www.argos.co.uk) and the
portable Samsung SPP-2040 (£129 from www.currys.co.uk) both produce excellent
results for 6in x 4in prints, without a computer. Simply plug in your memory
card and print. Alternatively, upload images to a website that prints images.
Prints cost from 7p each at www.photobox.co.uk, plus £1.50 delivery.

* SHARING Store pictures in online galleries, such as flickr.com or
www.fotolog.com, where you invite friends and family to view them. To connect
your camera to a television, use a standard S-Video cable or a photo viewer with
memory-card slots -SanDisk Photo Album (£34 from mymemory.co.uk) covers most
formats and has a remote control.

JARGON-BUSTER

Focal length Distance between camera sensor and centre of lens focused on
infinity. Longer focal length means greater magnification.

ISO number Measure of light sensitivity of a camera. The greater the number, the
less light required to shoot.

LCD Camera viewing screen.

Megapixel One million pixels (short for picture elements: tiny light-sensitive
cells that make up an image).

Memory card Removable card that stores pictures in various formats.

Optical zoom v digital Optical magnifies image without loss of quality; digital
enlarges part of the picture.

Resolution Number of pixels in a picture; higher pixel count means better
quality image.

Sensor Light-sensitive grid of pixels that has replaced film in digital cameras.

* For more digital jargon, see www.dpreview.com

NEXT WEEK: LATEST NOTEBOOK COMPUTERS

Consult our index at www.sunday-times.co.uk/doors for recent guides:

all you need to know about home cinema (Oct 9), digital television (Oct 16) and
digital TV recorders (Oct 23)

Maximum rating *****

Prices include Vat and delivery. Reviews adapted from What Digital Camera
magazine


