                               54 of 64 DOCUMENTS







                              Daily The Pak Banker



                           February 12, 2015 Thursday



CableLabs CEO McKinney discusses the DOCSIS 3.1 rollout, carrier-grade Wi-Fi and

4K



LENGTH: 1365  words



DATELINE: Washington, DC





Fierce Markets Inc has issued the following news release:



Former Hewlett-Packard CTO Phil McKinney was hired as president and CEO of the

research consortium CableLabs 28 months ago to pick up the pace of innovation in

the cable industry.



A self-described "innovation guy," McKinney came in with a mandate from cable

CEOs to accelerate product cycles across DOCSIS, Wi-Fi, set-tops, 4K and other

industry initiatives. And McKinney seems to be accomplishing the mission of

turning the cable industry into something at least vaguely familiar with the

torrid evolutionary pace of Silicon Valley



On the occasion of his third CES as CableLabs chief, FierceCable caught up with

McKinney in Las Vegas and discussed the broad topic of cable industry

innovation.



FierceCable: So did you join the cable industry during a period of abject panic?



Phil McKinney: What they recognized was that the pace of innovation,

particularly in the customers' minds with things like the iPhone and how fast

devices were cycling, the cable industry got itself pinned into this perspective

of being old and stodgy and not cool. Cable has been around for a long time, and

people have a long history with it. This isn't a thing we're you're going to

come in, click your heels and change the whole perception of the industry. When

I came in June 2012, you had things like Google Fiber ramping up. I looked at

the innovation rate in the industry and it was incredibly slow. Take DOCSIS, for

instance. Every generation--1.0, 1.1, 2.0, 3.--averaged four and a half years

between new generations. That's three Moore's Law cycles. I come from Silicon

Valley, and you're dead if you miss one Moore's Law cycle. So that's when we

kicked off DOCSIS 3.1. You could call it brilliance or stupidity, but I stood up

and made the proclamation that we'd do DOCSIS 3.1 in two and a half years. And

the industry just crucified me. They were like, 'Ah, he's the new guy ... he

doesn't quite understand.'



FC: It seems like the cable industry has become a little more innovative, too.

Comcast seems to view itself as a technology company now, for example.



McKinney: You do have the multiyear investment in X1. You look at the

aggressiveness of Cox, Suddenlink, GCI and others are showing for gigabit

services today. And you look at some of our European members--some of them have

overbuilt with fiber already. It isn't like fiber is coming--fiber is here. You

look at what's happening in other parts of the world, whether it be in

developing countries or in very, very large nations. We now have members in

China, Taiwan and Japan, for example, all with different issues and challenges,

but all focusing on how do I pick up my pace at which I can identify, adopt and

deploy to my customers the latest and greatest. And part of doing that isn't

popping a flag up and saying I'm going to be more innovative and faster, you

have to have a certain set of structures in place. You have to have leadership

that understands innovation. You have to have the law of patience--it takes

longer than you think, and you've got to be willing to stick it out. You've got

to have resources to invest.



FC: The latter seems to be the thing that breaks a lot of will.



McKinney: Well, yeah, it does. The innovation game has what we call "The Rule of

18." I can get any executive interested in some new shiny object, they get all

pumped up, and they go, 'Oh yeah, we'll find money,' and they fund it. You get

to the first budget cycle for the next year and they'll continue to fund it.

That next budget cycle, if that thing isn't shipping and generating a billion

dollars, they kill it. They don't have the patience to stick it out.



FC: How does this apply to the cable industry?



McKinney: Well, the cable industry doesn't shy away from writing big checks.

Over the last 10 years, the cable industry has spent $200 billion just on the

network in the U.S. It's the largest privately funded real estate project in the

history of the United States. You can't just say I ran out of capacity on

Friday, so I'm going to put more capacity in and make it available on Monday.

The planning cycles are different. You have to dig ditches, you have to lay

fiber, you have to string fiber on the pole, you have to deploy new services.

That's why the cable industry is on a three-year planning cycle.



FC: So now that it looks like DOCSIS 3.1 is getting close to deployment, what's

the next big heavy lift for CableLabs?



McKinney: DOCSIS today isn't even our largest R&D spend. The specification is

done. Now we get into interops and device certification. We have the second

interop for DOCSIS coming in a couple of weeks. All the vendors come to

CableLabs, we'll plug them in together and ask, 'Will this device work with this

other vendor's device?' and all those other kinds of things. All the members are

anxious for their trials to begin. The key for CableLabs is interoperability, so

we can get that universal scale and overall reliability of the services that are

built upon that platform.



FC: So what else are you focused on besides DOCSIS?



McKinney: Wi-Fi in particular is becoming critical. If you look at what's going

on inside customers' homes. In the cable industry, we have over 6 million public

access points available across the U.S. Cable is the largest provider of public

Wi-Fi in the United States. If you look at the total amount of wireless data

that's transported--more goes over cable-enabled Wi-Fi than even over cellular

networks.



FC: Why is Wi-Fi such a focus right now for MSOs?



McKinney: Consumers want to take their broadband with them. They don't want

their broadband services to stop at the front door. And when you look at

customer satisfaction levels, you look at churn rates, you see repeatedly that

if customers are users of Wi-Fi outside the home, their satisfaction is higher

overall.



FC: Could this be a game-changer for TV Everywhere?



McKinney: Wi-Fi is what we call periodic service. It's not ubiquitous coverage.

If I'm in my car, and I'm driving down the street, and I'm expecting my kids to

stream video or music, whether it's YouTube or anything else, you're not going

to have that because of the handoff between access points.



FC: When will that technical limitation be overcome?



McKinney: Next-generation wireless, which is what we call carrier-grade Wi-Fi,

does these handoffs, which is one option. The other option is LTE unlicensed.

Take the LTE technology that is used in cell phones today for offering 4G

services, then run it in the unlicensed spectrum. LTE is designed for ubiquitous

coverage--good system speeds over wide areas, so I can do hand-offs. But there's

lots of complications to make that happen--that's three, four, five years out.

Today, what we're focusing on, is when you connect to Wi-Fi, you get the speed

that you really want. And to also have the Wi-Fi be where you really want

it--work, parks, shopping malls. It's not about doing a replacement of cellular,

where I'm offering coverage everywhere. It's strategic placements.



FC: Can you talk about the R&D CableLabs is undertaking in regard to 4K?



McKinney: We do a lot of what we call user quality perception testing. There's

all kinds of science on what makes a good image. But the human eye and the human

brain is not easily quantifiable in that context. So we do full isolation

compliance testing where we bring in random consumers. We also deal with

compression technologies cable operators use when they're delivering 4K content.

We're trying to find what is it that is going to be the trigger point where

consumers say, 'I gotta have 4K.' And the work today is also on high dynamic

range, not just number of pixels. We're color mastering video now to high

dynamic range for human perception testing.



FC: Where do you get 4K content for testing?



McKinney: We shoot our own 4K. We bring in cinematographers, film students. We

have our own Red cameras. We shoot things like the balloon festival in Colorado.

Then we make that video available for free as part of test content. But we also

make it available to consumers who have new TVs and nothing to watch on them.



For any query about this article or other content requirements please email:

editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





