
EMERGING LEGAL ISSUES IN THE DIGITAL AGE: ARTICLE & ESSAY: Judicial Notice and
the Internet: The Legal Reasoning and Technical Basis for Taking Judicial Notice
of the Fact that Internet Pages Display from the Top-Left-Hand Corner Out

NAME: Jonathan Bick*

BIO: * Jonathan Bick is Of Counsel at Brach Eichler, LLC in Roseland, New
Jersey. He is also an Adjunct Professor at Rutgers School of Law and the author
of 101 Things You Need to Know About Internet Law (Random House 2000).

LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:
 ... In other words, Internet programming protocol facts - such as the fact that
the Internet will always display from the upper-left-hand corner out - are
subject to judicial notice because they can be easily and reliably verified.
... Web-Based Image Distribution and Display One of the major innovative aspects
of the Internet is that it offers standardized interfaces for viewing images and
texts through standard protocols.  ... Internet content is generally stored in
arrays.  ... However, absent a lack of capacity, if an Internet user reads a
notice that clearly states that in exchange for the right to access and use a
particular Internet site, the user must agree to a particular set of terms and
conditions in order to access and use a particular Internet site, and, after
reading such a notice, the reader accesses and uses the Internet site, a court
would likely find mutual assent and consideration.  ... Sixth, a jury could be
instructed that all Internet communications require one or more third-party
computers as part of the transfer process, and that Internet programming
protocols do not require said third-party computers to erase data that passes
through them.

TEXT:
 [*225]

   I. Introduction

 The American judicial system requires that each fact in a case be proven
through formal presentation. Most Internet transactions involve acts completed
by people in the presence of devices rather than in the presence of other
people. This lack of other people's presence promotes confusion during
litigation around a single fundamental fact - what a participant to an Internet
transaction accessed.

   Legislatures throughout the United States have reduced the judicial system
burden by allowing every level of court to recognize facts that constitute
common knowledge without requiring proof from the parties - known as "judicial
notice." As technology has evolved, so has the scope of judicial notice. In
order to improve court efficiency and the likelihood of a meritorious decision,
judicial notice should include the fact that what a participant to an Internet
transaction accessed is not subject to reasonable dispute.

   Internet use and related litigation are growing. n1 By taking judicial notice
n2 of Internet content, n3 courts promote judicial convenience and  [*226]
economy. n4 Courts have an opportunity to promote efficiency by taking judicial
notice of certain Internet-related facts. This Article supplies the legal and
technical justifications for such judicial notice.

   In particular, this Article will provide the technical reasons for taking
judicial notice of the fact that the Internet will always display the
upper-left-hand corner of each page that is requested by a user. Courts taking
such notice will be able to dispense with the time and effort necessary to
demonstrate that an Internet site user viewed certain Internet content.

   This Article is composed of four parts. Part II describes the doctrine of
judicial notice and its significance to litigation involving the Internet. Part
III establishes that a court may take notice of Internet programming protocol
because a court can establish that such protocol information is correct without
resorting to evidentiary proof. Part III also provides the technical reason for
the Internet to display websites from the upper-left-hand corner out. Next, Part
IV describes the potential significance of taking judicial notice of
upper-left-hand corner display, especially with regards to a "terms of use"
agreement icon. Finally, Part V identifies additional Internet operational facts
that may merit judicial notice.

[*227]

   II. The Doctrine of Judicial Notice

 Judicial notice is the process by which the finder of fact at a trial accepts
certain facts as true without the necessity of a formal proof proceeding. It is
a substitute for evidence. Judicial notice is rooted in the knowledge that
certain factual findings are not subject to sensible debate and thus may be
properly resolved by the presentation of appropriate evidence to the finder of
fact at trial. As more people use the Internet, the features of the Internet
will become increasingly familiar to those involved in the judicial process,
and, as a result, such features will be generally known and thereby subject to
judicial notice.

   Section A of this Part describes the process by which a court takes judicial
notice. Section B explains the practical implications of taking judicial notice.
Finally, this Part suggests that the doctrine of judicial notice can and should
be applied to Internet programming protocols.

   A. How Judicial Notice Works

 When a court takes judicial notice of a fact, it dispenses with formal proof,
which is the usual method of establishing facts at trial. A court's ability to
take judicial notice of a fact is limited; however, judicial notice may cover
the issues of who did what, where, when, how, and with what motive or intent,
and will typically relate to the parties, their activities, their properties,
and their businesses. n5

   The Federal Rules of Evidence ("FRE") recognize judicial notice based on the
concept of verifiable certainty. FRE 201 governs judicial notice in federal
practice. In particular, FRE 201(b) reads: "The court may judicially notice a
fact that is not subject to reasonable dispute because it: (1) is generally
known within the trial court's territorial jurisdiction; or (2) can be
accurately and readily determined from sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably
be questioned." n6

   Judicial notice can be taken of either a legislative fact or an adjudicative
fact. n7 Adjudicative facts are facts related to a particular case. These facts
concern the issues of who did what, where, when, and how, and they are
ordinarily resolved by the finder of fact at trial. Adjudicative facts normally
are related to the parties; their transactions; and their assets, properties,
and  [*228]  businesses. n8 Legislative facts, however, are related to legal
reasoning and the lawmaking process. Internet programming protocol, such as
having the Internet always display the upper-left-hand corner of each page
requested by an Internet user, is an adjudicative fact. Regarding adjudicative
facts, FRE 201 provides that courts may only take judicial notice of
adjudicative facts that are "not subject to reasonable dispute." n9

   A court may take judicial notice in both civil and criminal cases. In civil
cases, a court will instruct the jury to accept as an irrefutable fact anything
that the judge has judicially noticed. In criminal cases, the court can only
instruct the jury that it may accept as fact findings of judicially-noticed
facts. n10 Because Internet transactions have resulted in both civil and
criminal cases, taking judicial notice of Internet programming protocol may
prove useful to both courts and litigants.

   Just as jurors have the right to rely on their common knowledge, a court has
the right to take judicial notice of subjects of common knowledge. n11 As the
use of the Internet expands, n12 so presumably has the knowledge of Internet
programming protocol facts.

   B. The Purpose of Judicial Notice

 The purpose of taking judicial notice is to allow for the conservation of
resources n13: a short-cut designed to reduce the court's work. n14 Because
taking judicial notice is a means of conserving scarce judicial resources, a
court may do so upon its own motion. By doing so, a court may swiftly move
[*229]  the trial along by relieving itself of unnecessary burdens. n15 Taking
judicial notice is also a means of conserving a litigating party's resources.
Hence, a court must take judicial notice of a fact when requested to do so by a
party who supplies the obligatory information n16 and when the other party has
had an opportunity to oppose the taking of judicial notice. n17 In either case,
taking judicial notice of Internet programming protocol, such as the protocol
that forces the Internet to display the upper-left-hand corner of content pages
requested by an Internet user, will enable the conservation of resources.

   Courts properly take judicial notice of facts that are not objectionable to a
reasonable person. n18 By doing so, courts may dispense with the usual method of
establishing adjudicative facts through the introduction of evidence. Ordinarily
consisting of the testimony of witnesses, establishing adjudicative facts is
both time-and asset-consuming for the courts and the parties involved in the
litigation. The appropriate introduction of a fact via judicial notice is not as
time-and asset-consuming. From a trial attorney's perspective, the presentation
of live expert testimony is expensive when compared to the use of judicial
notice. Rather than spending thousands of dollars for live expert testimony, an
attorney typically must pay an expert only a few hundred dollars to prepare an
affidavit supporting judicial notice.

   Courts have judicially noticed propositions about a wide range of technical
topics. Such propositions need not be matters of common knowledge, nor must the
judge who takes judicial notice of a fact have personal knowledge of such facts,
n19 provided that the facts can be verified to a certainty by reference to
competent authoritative sources. n20 The fact that most, if not virtually all,
Internet access terminals display Internet sites from the upper-left-hand corner
out is easily perceptible to even the most casual observer. Taking judicial
notice of this fact would relieve the court of hearing evidence of what an
Internet user did or did not receive as a result of the request.

   III. A Court May Take Notice of Internet Programming Protocols

 Internet programming protocol facts, if relevant to a particular matter, may
qualify for judicial notice because such information will facilitate a  [*230]
judicially-empowered fact finder. n21 The assumption underlying FRE 201's
judicial notice conventions is that certain information does not need to be
proven by the introduction of evidence at trial. Thus, Rule 201 allows a court
to establish that the information is relevant and valid without resorting to
evidentiary proof n22 and, in doing so, allows justice to be achieved in a more
economical fashion. n23 Internet programming protocols are the type of evidence
of which a court could take judicial notice.

   Section A of this Part establishes why Internet programming protocols are
necessary and why following or failing to follow these protocols determines
without reasonable dispute the user's ability to access the Internet. Section B
provides that Internet programming protocols can be judicially noticed because
they are either generally known or readily verifiable. Section C explains the
technical basis for verifying that Internet pages display from the
upper-left-hand corner out.

   A. Reasoning for Internet Programming Protocols

 When one looks at a traditional page of text, the flow of text in a paragraph
begins on the upper-left-hand side of a page and moves toward the right.
Historically, this innovation has been attributed to right-handed cuneiform
scribes who observed that writing on clay tablets was less smudged when one
moved from left to right. n24 When text wraps, the new line begins below the
previous one at the left side of the page. For English readers, it is so natural
that one does not even notice these conventions. However, numerous studies have
found that aligning English text to the right results in decreased readability
and comprehension. n25

   The same cannot be said of Internet content displayed on computer screens.
Like traditional text, the flow of text in a paragraph begins in the upper-left
hand and moves toward the right. Unlike traditional text, however,  [*231]  the
text wraps beyond the end of the computer display, and the new line, which
begins below the previous one at the left side of the page, may not make sense
because the computer has failed to display all of the text from the end of the
line above it. n26

   The fact that Internet programming protocols force Internet sites to display
content from the upper-left-hand corner out is a significant problem for much of
the world. Both Japanese and Chinese books and magazines lay out printed text
vertically. The text begins at the top-right corner of the page and flows
downward, wrapping the next line to the top of the page and to the left of the
previous line. Newspaper headlines, for example, run down the right side of the
page. Despite the traditional layout of printed material, both Japanese and
Chinese Internet sites must be designed to display content from the
upper-left-hand corner out because Internet programming protocols cannot handle
displaying content from the upper-right-hand corner out. n27

   These protocols that force Internet sites to display content from the
upper-left-hand corner, as well as other Internet programming protocols, allow
the Internet to exist. Unless all Internet users agree to certain programming
protocols, the Internet would cease to function. Because "the Internet is an
international network of interconnected computers[,]" n28 communication on the
Internet requires adherence to common technical protocols. Thus, these common
technical protocols are a set of agreed-upon "rules" of communication between
and among computers networked into the Internet.

   At the Internet's foundation is the logical layer, which consists of two
standard sets of rules: namely, the Transmission Control Protocol ("TCP") and
the Internet Protocol ("IP") n29 - commonly known together as TCP/IP. Together,
these two sets of rules define the nature of Internet communications.

   TCP repackages each Internet communication into messages suitable for digital
communication, assigns a number to each message it creates, and prepares a check
sum so that the receiving computer can check the integrity of the communication.
Additionally, it makes available detailed information necessary for the
reassembly of the message into the proper sequence by the receiving computer and
orders the resending of any lost or damaged messages. In short, all Internet
communications rely on TCP to communicate  [*232]  a message. Thus, the Internet
programming protocols supply the output for each message with the same input.

   The IP adds computer instructions to each message prepared by the TCP. These
instructions dictate the routing of messages among Internet computers. Among
other computer instructions added to TCP messages by the IP, it provides the
Internet address of the sending computer and the Internet address of the
destination computer. n30 Because all Internet communications follow a set of
rules, software programs known as "parsers" use these Internet rules to convert
incoming compressed messages into a fixed format.

   Additionally, the Internet is composed of a wide variety of display devices;
thus, the Internet graphic software must be device independent. Therefore,
Internet access devices share baseline specifications. Among other
specifications are those related to graphical display interfaces such as the
ones set forth by The American National Standards Institute, n31 which calls for
the use of common defaults.

   Failing to follow each and every one of the foregoing protocols results in a
potential Internet user's inability to access or use the Internet. Conversely,
potential Internet users who execute the foregoing protocols are allowed to
access or use the Internet. Consequently, either following or failing to follow
said protocols will, without reasonable dispute, determine whether the user can
access the Internet.

   B. Judicial Notice Can Be Taken of Internet Protocols

 Courts have judicially noticed propositions about a wide range of technological
subject matters. Although such propositions in these areas are hardly matters of
common knowledge, the modern scope of judicial notice is not limited to such
matters. The fact that most, if not virtually all, Internet access terminals
display Internet sites from the upper-left-hand corner out is well-known. This
fact is widely recognized in the e-commerce marketplace. Website providers will
promise to those who pay a premium price that they will get premium placement on
the brander's website, such as being in the upper-left-hand corner. n32

   Furthermore, when an Internet site's "terms of use" agreement appears in the
upper-left-hand corner of an Internet page, FRE 201 may be triggered to
determine whether judicial notice should be taken of the Internet user's
awareness of the "terms of use" agreement. A court may take notice of Internet
programming protocol because such protocol meets the requirements  [*233]  for
judicial notice of an adjudicative fact. For judicial notice to be embraced by
the court, however, the Internet programming protocol must be either generally
known or readily verifiable. n33

   First, Internet programming protocol facts are generally known throughout the
United States (and thus within the territorial jurisdiction of any trial court).
Second, Internet programming protocol facts can be readily verified by resorting
to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. Thus, under FRE 201,
there are two different ways that Internet programming protocol facts may be
found to be indisputable adjudicative facts subject to judicial notice.

   Under the first test, Internet programming protocol facts are experienced
first-hand by most people. Millions of people use the Internet every day, and
each of those people have the personal, first-hand experience of seeing that the
Internet will always display the upper-left-hand corner of each page that they
requested. This fact is so well known that it is a waste of judicial resources
to require proof. As to this fact, reasonably knowledgeable people cannot
disagree. n34 Although it could be argued that some people would not know about
Internet programming protocol facts, it is not required that said facts be
universally known. Courts may take judicial notice of facts generally known
within its territorial jurisdiction. n35

   Under the second test, Internet programming protocol facts can be judicially
noticed because they are readily verifiable through sources whose reliability
cannot reasonably be questioned. Judicial notice of these facts is appropriate
even if it is not generally known that the manner in which the Internet
functions is due to Internet programming protocols. In other words, Internet
programming protocol facts - such as the fact that the Internet will always
display from the upper-left-hand corner out - are subject to judicial notice
because they can be easily and reliably verified. n36 The next Part of this
Article details reliable sources that may be used to verify that the Internet
will always display Internet pages from the upper-left-hand corner out.

[*234]

   C. The Technical Basis for Verifying that Internet Pages Display From the
Upper-Left-Hand Corner Out

 Verifying that the Internet pages display from the upper-left-hand corner out
requires the understanding of three technological concepts. Section 1 of this
Part introduces Hypertext Markup Language ("HTML"), the standard language for
displaying webpages. Section 2 discusses web-based image displays, including the
standard protocols for displaying Internet pages from the upper left hand corner
out. Finally, Section 3 addresses the programming basis for opening Internet
pages from upper-left-hand corner out.

   1. Web-Based Image Distribution and Display

 One of the major innovative aspects of the Internet is that it offers
standardized interfaces for viewing images and texts through standard protocols.
As previously noted, Internet access and use are enabled by complying with a set
of protocols. Consequently, failure to use said interfaces will result in a lack
of Internet access. Such failure is not subject to reasonable dispute and, as a
result, should be subject to judicial notice.

   Most documents on the web are stored and transmitted in HTML. HTML is a
simple language well suited for hypertext, multimedia, and the display of small
and reasonably-simple documents. HTML is based on standard generalized markup
language ("SGML"), an international organization for standardization ("ISO")
standard system for defining and using document formats. However, HTML has some
limitations on extensibility, structure, and validation. n37

   2. Web-Based Image Display

 Currently, most web browsers, including Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla
Firefox, Google Chrome, and Apple's Safari, support Joint Photo-graphic Experts
Group ("JPEG," 24 bits for color images) or Graphics Interchange Format ("GIF,"
8 bits) image rendering. These browsers also support text display mode.
Web-based imaging display, like web-based distribution, relies on the fact that
Internet access and use are enabled by complying with a set of protocols.
Failure to use said interfaces will result in a lack of Internet access. Such
failure is not subject to reasonable dispute and, consequently, should be
subject to judicial notice.

   Text display mode is the visual display equivalent of printing. In fact, the
most universally accepted programming command for displaying text on a computer
terminal is PRINT followed by two sets of quotation marks (i.e.,  [*235]  PRINT
""). n38 When the program runs, the PRINT statement tells the computer to print
out everything between the two quotation marks on each line, exactly as it is
shown in the program. As a computer hardware default, the first mark displayed
will be in the upper-left-hand corner of the screen. To change this default, the
LOCATE computer command is most typically used. The format of the LOCATE command
is LOCATE [row, column], where row is the numerical position of the row starting
point (normally 1 through 25, with 1 being the top row) and where column is the
numerical position of the column starting point (normally 1 through 80, with 1
being the left-most column).

   Nearly all graphic display mode software operates in a similar fashion. For
example, medium-resolution displays today are commonly 1024 by 768 pixels;
low-resolution displays are 800 by 600 pixels; and minimum-resolution displays
are 320 by 200 pixels, accessible even on a cell phone or a hypothetical display
used by the Text Display mode. If the screen used in medium resolution graphics
mode is expressed in terms of an X-and Y-axis, then X corresponds to the columns
and Y to the rows. The top left point on the screen is (0,0) and the bottom
right is (319,199). X increases as one moves to the right across the screen, and
Y increases as one moves down.

   As in the case of the Text Display mode, the default for the starting point
for points, lines, and other shapes for medium resolution graphics mode is the
top left point on the screen. It should be noted that this default is also the
starting point for the positioning of the screen cursor.

   Internet content is generally stored in arrays. An array is a structured
arrangement of items of computerized data in tabular form for easy reference.
For example, an array of even numbers might be 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, stored in
such a way as to result in the display of "2" first when the array is called for
use by a computer program, "4" next when the array is called again, and so on.
It should be noted that an array also stores information concerning the shape of
the array. Thus, an array of even numbers may be stored as:

   2 4 6 8 10 12

   or

   2 4 6

   8 10 12.

   The GET command stores the shape of the array. The format for a GET command
is usually GET (X1,Y1) - (X2,Y2), [Array Name] where X1, Y1 are the x and y
coordinates of the top left corner of the rectangle that contains the shape of
the array; X2, Y1 are the x and y coordinates of the bottom right of the shape
of the array; and the Array Name is the computer location of the content of the
array.

    [*236]  The default for X1, Y1 - the x-and y-coordinates of the top-left
corner of the rectangle that contains the shape of the array - is (0,0), which
is the upper-left-hand corner of the display screen. Thus, it is normal for the
content of the array to be displayed starting in the upper-left-hand corner of
the area designed to accept the array content.

   The PUT statement displays on a computer screen the shape stored in the array
by the GET command. Once a shape is in the array, it can be PUT at any location
on the computer display screen. The format for PUT statements is typically PUT (
X1,Y1), [Array Name], where X1 and Y1 are the x-and y-coordinates of the screen
location to put the upper-left corner of the array shape. The default for the
PUT starting coordinates is (0,0), which is the upper-left-hand corner of the
display.

   3. Programming Basis for Opening Internet Pages from Upper-Left Corner Out

 As noted above, HTML is the language of internet webpage transmission. n39 HTML
is a markup/structured document language n40 and is a subset of the "SGML, the
Standard Generalized Markup Language, . + . + . an international standard (ISO
8879) that defines a syntax for the character representation of structured
information." n41 HTML describes a page from the top down. n42 From a
programmer's perspective, an Internet page is built as follows:



   <HTML>



<Head>



<Title>This is my webpage</Title>



</Head>



<Body>



<p>First paragraph</p>



<p>Second paragraph</p>



</Body>



</HTML>

The HTML rendering engines interpret HTML by opening the document from the top
(in a linear manner). n43 Thus, Internet pages open from the upper-left-  [*237]
hand corner out because in modern operating systems (Windows, n44 Linux, UNIX,
n45 and Java n46), the coordinate system is defined as starting in the top-left
corner.

    [*238]  As a result, it is generally known and capable of accurate and ready
determination by resorting to reliable sources that Internet pages open from the
upper-left-hand corner out. The extent of the display of any particular Internet
page requested by an Internet user, however, depends upon the device on which
the Internet page is being displayed.

   IV. Potential Significance of Judicial Notice of the Fact that the Internet
Displays the Upper-Left Corner of Pages Requested by an Internet User

 Consumers and businesses are adopting and taking advantage of various forms of
Internet-related notices, particularly "terms of use" agreements, which
potentially change the relationship between an Internet site owner and its users
from public to private law. n47

   The enforceability of a "terms of use" agreement, however, will depend upon
whether it meets the classic requirements of a binding contract: (1) parties
capable of contracting n48; (2) mutual assent n49; and (3) consideration. n50
[*239]  If an Internet user is not capable of contracting due to lack of
capacity, a "terms of use" agreement will not be enforced. However, absent a
lack of capacity, if an Internet user reads a notice that clearly states that in
exchange for the right to access and use a particular Internet site, the user
must agree to a particular set of terms and conditions in order to access and
use a particular Internet site, and, after reading such a notice, the reader
accesses and uses the Internet site, a court would likely find mutual assent and
consideration. This assertion is supported by the enforceability of
"shrink-wrap" agreements. n51

   "Terms of use" agreements are arguably more enforceable than "shrink-wrap"
agreements when it can be shown that the user has advance notice of the
existence of the "terms of use" agreement. For example, advance notice could be
shown if the Internet site required a potential Internet user to take certain
action that demonstrated the Internet user's awareness of the "terms of use"
agreement. Such action could include clicking on an "I agree" icon as part of a
registration process to affirmatively manifest assent.

   In the past it was argued that a site that had a "terms of use" agreement was
not enforceable if it did not require an affirmative manifestation of assent.
Without such affirmative manifestation of assent, such as "clicking" on an "I
agree" icon, there was no evidence that the Internet user had notice of the
"terms of use" agreement. n52 Such an argument, however, could not presently be
made if the court took judicial notice of the fact that the Internet will always
display the upper-left-hand corner of each page that is requested by a user and
if the parties to the litigation stipulate that the "terms of use" agreement was
in the upper-left-hand corner of the page requested by the user.

   It should also be noted that "neither real nor apparent intention that a
promise be legally binding is essential to the formation of a contract[.]" n53
Thus, the fact that an Internet user who saw the "terms of use" agreement on his
computer after requesting a particular Internet page had no intention of giving
a legal promise to abide by the agreement does not void his assent to be bound
by the terms. Additionally, a "terms of use" agreement must be capable of being
given an exact meaning, and all the performances to be rendered must be certain.
Otherwise, the "terms of use" agreement will not be enforced. n54

    [*240]  In order for a litigating party to avail itself of the advantages
afforded by posting "terms of use" agreements, it first must demonstrate to the
trial fact finder that its adversary was aware of such agreements. Typically,
this awareness is proven by presenting Internet traffic and communication data,
as well as expert testimony. However, the necessity of such formal proof can be
rendered unnecessary through the application of judicial notice. n55

   Judicial notice should be taken of an Internet user's awareness of a
particular Internet site's "terms of use" agreement when that agreement's icon
appears in the upper-left-hand corner of the Internet page. Such treatment is
justified by: (1) the defaults built into computer graphic software that almost
universally use the upper-left-hand corner as a starting reference point; (2)
the Internet programming protocol that requires Internet users to adhere to a
set of technical rules about how information should be transmitted and received
by computers; and (3) the courts' standards for the use of judicial notice.

   The U.S. Supreme Court has taken judicial notice of the fact that billboards,
street car signs, placards, and such, unlike newspaper and magazine
advertisements, are in a class by themselves because they "thrust" their message
on the viewer. n56 The Court found that billboards, street car signs, and
placards deprive the viewer of any real choice over whether to receive the
message.

   In comparison, the upper-left-hand corner of an Internet page is like a
billboard, a street car sign, or a placard because it is constantly before the
eyes of observers without the exercise of choice or volition on the part of the
viewer. Internet users have no choice but to view the upper-left-hand corner of
any page they electronically request from the Internet. Although a viewer may
move his eyes from billboard to billboard or move from Internet page to Internet
page, the content of both the billboard and the upper-left-hand corner of any
Internet page are before him regardless of choice or volition.

   In the case of newspapers and magazines, the viewer must seek and find the
advertisement. Similarly, in the case of a television or radio, advertisements
can be turned off. In the case of requesting an Internet page, however, once the
Internet request is made, the Internet will always display the upper-left-hand
corner of the requested page. Therefore, the user need not seek the
upper-left-hand corner of a webpage, nor is the Internet user able to turn it
off. Consequently, courts should treat the upper-left-hand corner of any page
like a billboard or street car sign.

    [*241]  If a court treated the upper-left-hand corner of an Internet page
like a billboard or street car sign and took judicial notice that a particular
Internet user's computer displayed a "terms of use" icon in that corner, then
the Internet site's "terms of use" agreement would be binding upon the user in
accordance with the findings of Carnival Cruise Lines v. Shute. n57 In Carnival
Cruise Lines, a Washington resident was injured in international waters off the
coast of Mexico and filed an action in the U.S. District Court of Washington.
n58 The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the dismissal of a personal injury claim filed
in Washington because the plaintiff failed to abide by a note on the ticket that
referred her to a contractually-stipulated Florida forum. n59

   In particular, the face of each ticket, in its lower-left-hand corner,
contained this admonition:



   " "SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT ON LAST PAGES IMPORTANT! PLEASE READ
CONTRACT - ON LAST PAGES 1, 2, 3' App. 15." n60

 Appearing on the first contract page was the following:



   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PASSAGE CONTRACT TICKET



....



3. (a) The acceptance of this ticket by the person or persons named hereon as
passengers shall be deemed to be an acceptance and agreement by each of them of
all of the terms and conditions of this Passage Contract Ticket.



....



8. It is agreed by and between the passenger and the Carrier that all disputes
and matters whatsoever arising under, in connection with or incident to this
Contract shall be litigated, if at all, in and before a Court located in the
State of Florida, U.S.A., to the exclusion of the Courts of any other state or
country. n61

 The rationale in Carnival Cruise Lines may be used in combination with judicial
notice to conclude that an Internet user is aware of a particular Internet
site's "terms of use" agreement when such site's "terms of use" agreement icon
appeared in the upper-left-hand corner of an Internet page. Such a combination
could save a significant amount of court resources.

   A two-step process is required to achieve these desired court resource
savings. First, a court would instruct the jury that a particular Internet
user's computer displayed a "terms of use" icon after the court has taken
judicial notice of the fact that the Internet will always display the
upper-left-hand corner of a webpage and that the icon was in the upper-left-hand
corner of the page. Next, relying on Carnival Cruise Lines, the jury would be
instructed that those with notice of a "terms of use" agreement are obligated to
abide by it whether they chose to read it or not, unless the agreement itself is
unlawful.

[*242]

   V. Other Internet-Related Facts that May Merit Judicial Notice

 In addition to taking judicial notice of the upper-left-hand corner of an
Internet page, there are other Internet-related facts that merit judicial
notice. Judicial notice of the following facts should be considered: (1) email
messages are copied by third-party computers during transmission; (2) all
Internet content is digital; (3) the Internet operates at near light speed,
which on a planet this size amounts to near real-time; (4) webpages may be
viewed on any operational computer with an Internet connection and a web
browser; (5) the Internet has the ability to make software and data files
available for downloading; (6) the Internet has no irreplaceable central
control, administration, or authority; and (7) the United States controls domain
name transfers. n62

   The significance of taking judicial notice of such Internet facts varies. The
ability to instruct a lay jury regarding technical Internet facts can be
especially significant. Consider the following six scenarios in which certain
Internet facts need not to be proven to a jury.

   First, a jury could be instructed that the Internet is able to adapt itself
almost instantaneously to damages or outages to individual sections of the
Internet. n63 This fact means that the loss of individual computers and networks
does not affect the Internet's overall flexibility, accuracy, or speed. If a
court takes judicial notice of this fact, then it need not be proven that the
loss of any individual computer did not affect the Internet's overall
performance.

   Second, a jury could be instructed that Internet communications travel at
near light speed of approximately 186,000 miles per second. This fact means that
even if two computers are half a world apart, they will only experience a tenth
of a second in communications delay. If a court takes judicial notice of this
fact, then it need not be proven that Internet communications are nearly real
time.

   Third, a jury could be instructed that the Internet is based on a common
standard - the TCP/IP network protocol. This fact means that the Internet
provides all computers with access to the network with the same technical
interface and capabilities. If a court takes judicial notice of this fact, then
it need not be proven that the Internet provides universal access, giving the
same powerful capabilities to everyone with access to the network no matter
where they are.

    [*243]  Fourth, a jury could be instructed that the Internet is based on
digital data and that it uses TCP. n64 This fact means that Internet
communications cannot be changed or become distorted over time or in
transmissions between sites. If a court takes judicial notice of this fact, then
it need not be proven that a website does not age and become fuzzy or garbled
over time, and that the characters in an email are not transposed or mixed up
when they are sent over long distances.

   Fifth, a jury could be instructed that all email communications use the
standard programming protocol, TCP/IP, upon which inter-computer communications
are based. This fact means that all emails have TCP error control information;
when an email is sent, "TCP receives the packets and checks for errors[, and
w]hen an error occurs, TCP asks for the particular packet to be re-sent." n65 If
a court takes judicial notice of this fact, then it need not be proven that the
email message received was error-free. Therefore, an email received has the same
content as the email that was sent. Similarly, because all email communications
use the TCP/IP standard upon which inter-computer communications are based, all
emails contain embedded data that is affixed to the document at its creation and
at subsequent times when handled by other computers that promoted its travel. If
a court takes judicial notice of embedded data, then it need not be proven that
the embedded data exists, thus allowing the court to focus directly on the
meaning of that data, such as the identity of the author, the creation date, and
the data concerning authenticity. n66

   Sixth, a jury could be instructed that all Internet communications require
one or more third-party computers as part of the transfer process, and that
Internet programming protocols do not require said third-party computers to
erase data that passes through them. n67 These facts mean that email and
requested Internet webpage files remain within the transfer computers as
residual data on existing "free space." n68 If a court takes judicial notice of
these facts, then it need not be proven that the residual data exists, thus
allowing the court to focus directly on the meaning of that data, such as the
content of the Internet communication, the identity of the author, the creation
date, and the data concerning authenticity.

[*244]

   VI. Conclusion

 The fact that Internet pages open from the upper-left-hand corner out is
capable of accurate and ready determination by resorting to sources whose
accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. Furthermore, there are other
Internet-related facts that merit judicial notice. Because taking judicial
notice will save judicial resources and save litigants time and effort, courts
should take judicial notice of these Internet programming protocols.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Computer & Internet LawGeneral OverviewEvidenceJudicial NoticeAdjudicative
FactsFacts Generally KnownEvidenceJudicial NoticeLegislative Facts

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See Sarah E. Roland, The Uniform Electronic Signatures in Global and
National Commerce Act: Removing Barriers to E-Commerce or Just Replacing Them
with Privacy and Security Issues?, 35 Suffolk U. L. Rev. 625, 625 n.2 (2001).
Internet use as a commercial channel and overall growth of Internet use are two
significant measures. Id. "Online spending during the 1999 holiday season was
more than five billion dollars." Id. A "bold 1999 prediction that U.S. consumer
e-commerce would reach $ 108 billion by 2003 wasn't so far off." Timothy J.
Mullaney, The E-Biz Surprise, Bloomberg Businessweek (May 11, 2003),
http://www.businessweek.com/stories/2003-05-11/the-e-biz-surprise. The Pew
Research Center's Internet & American Life Project conducted Internet use
surveys. The results of the surveys from 2000 and 2012 demonstrate just how much
Internet use has increased. Below is the May 2000 data:



   47% - overall internet population of adults



78% - internet population of those in households earning more than $ 75,000



28% - internet population of those in households earning less than $ 30,000



61% - internet population of those ages 18-29



14% - internet population of those ages 65 and older.



In contrast, below is the January 20-February 19, 2012 data:



80% - overall internet population of adults



98% - internet population of those in households earning more than $ 75,000



65% - internet population of those in households earning less than $ 30,000



94% - internet population of those ages 18-29 online



50% - internet population of those ages 65 and older).

 Presentation Source File, Pew Research Center's Internet & American Life
Project, By the Numbers: Technology's Place in Our Lives (Feb. 23, 2012),
http://www.pewinternet.org/[#x7E]/media/Files/Presentations/2012/Feb/2012%20-%20
2%2023%2012%20-%20Wisdom%202%200%20-%20figures%20about%20tech%20PDF.pdf.

   Internet-related litigation has nearly doubled in the past four years by one
measure. Using the LexisNexis legal research database, only 735 federal cases
from January 1, 2000, to January 1, 2001, contained "Internet" in their head
note section. Comparatively, 1,402 federal cases from January 1, 2004, to
January 1, 2005, contained "Internet" in their head note section.





n2.  The term "judicial notice" is defined as "the cognizance of certain facts
which a judge under rules of legal procedure or otherwise may properly take or
act upon without proof because they are already known to him or because of that
knowledge which a judge has, or is assumed to have by virtue of his office."
Ballentine's Law Dictionary 685 (3d ed. 1969).





n3.  Courts have regularly taken judicial notice of Internet information. As
with traditional publications, courts are most willing to take judicial notice
of information found on government websites. In United States v. Bervaldi, the
court took judicial notice of the time of sunrise, found on the website of the
U.S. Naval Observatory. 226 F.3d 1256, 1266 n.9 (11th Cir. 2000). In Levan v.
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., the court took notice of the prime interest rate which
it found on the Federal Reserve Board website. 190 F.3d 1230, 1235 n.12 (11th
Cir. 1999). Judicial notice of mileage was taken using the MapQuest site in In
re Extradition of Gonzalez. 52 F. Supp. 2d 725, 731 n.12 (W.D. La. 1999).
Judicial notice was taken of information regarding a bank's ownership from the
bank's website in Laborers' Pension Fund v. Blackmore Sewer Construction, Inc.,
298 F.3d 600, 607 (7th Cir. 2002).





n4.  A court may promote convenience and economy by taking judicial notice of a
fact and dispensing with formal proofs, which is the usual method of
establishing facts at trial. The obvious benefit of such action is associated
with reducing both parties' costs and reducing the need for the court's time if
the court establishes a fact in an adversarial proceeding and dispenses with
formal proof when a matter is not really disputable because there is no real
issue of fact.





n5.  See United States v. Gould, 536 F.2d 216, 219 (8th Cir. 1976) ("It is
apparent that courts may take judicial notice of any fact which is "capable of
such instant and unquestionable demonstration, if desired, that no party would
think of imposing a falsity on the tribunal in the face of an intelligent
adversary.' ") (internal citations omitted).





n6.  See Cosom v. Marcotte, 760 A.2d 886, 893 (Pa. Super. Ct. 2000) (concerning
judicial notice prerequisites, including the requirements that: "(1) the matter
must be a matter of common and general knowledge; (2) it must be well and
authoritatively settled; and (3) it must be known within the limits of the
jurisdiction of the court") (internal citation omitted).





n7.  55 Harv. L. Rev. 364, 404-07 (1942). This dichotomy was noted by Professor
Kenneth Davis in his article An Approach to Problems in Evidence in the
Administrative Process.





n8.  See Fed. R. Evid. 201 advisory committee's note (a) (defining adjudicative
facts).





n9.  Fed. R. Evid. 201(b).





n10.  See, e.g., Sullivan v. Louisiana, 508 U.S. 275 (1993). In that case, the
Court found that, due to Sixth Amendment right to trial by jury concerns, a
judge may not direct a verdict or a partial directed verdict by way of judicial
notice; thus, judicially-noticed facts are not binding in a criminal trial. Id.





n11.  See Commonwealth v. Kingsbury, 393 N.E.2d 391, 393 (Mass. 1979).





n12.  See ACLU v. Reno, 929 F. Supp. 824, 831 (E.D. Pa. 1996) (reporting that
fewer than 300 computers were linked to the Internet in 1981 but that the number
had grown to over 9 million computers by 1996); see also Lee Rainie, Big Jump in
Search Engine Use, Pew Internet & American Life Project (Nov. 20, 2005),
http://www.pewinternet.org/Reports/2005/Big-jump-in-search-engine-use/Data-Memo.
aspx. This on-line article reports:



   Pew Internet Project data from June 2004 show that use of search engines on a
typical day has risen from 30% to 41% of the internet-using population, which
itself has grown in the past year. This means that the number of those using
search engines on an average day jumped from roughly 38 million in June 2004 to
about 59 million in September 2005 - an increase of about 55%. comScore data,
which are derived from a different methodology, show that from September 2004 to
September 2005 the average daily use of search engines jumped from 49.3 million
users to 60.7 million users - an increase of 23%.

 Id.





n13.  See Brenda C. See, Written in Stone? The Record on Appeal and the
Decision-Making Process, 40 Gonz. L. Rev. 157, 190 (2005) (stating that "the
purpose of the doctrine of judicial notice is to permit a court to consider as
... [a] fact without the necessity of formal proof") (internal citation
omitted).





n14.  See Communist Party of United States v. Peek, 127 P.2d 889, 895 (Cal.
1942) ("The doctrine of judicial notice was adopted as a judicial shortcut to
avoid necessity for the formal introduction of evidence in certain cases where
there is no real need for such evidence.").





n15.  See See, supra note 13, at 191 ("A trial court employs judicial notice of
adjudicative facts to move the trial along.").





n16.  See Fed. R. Evid. 201(c)(2) (stating that judicial notice is mandatory if
a court is so requested and supplied with necessary information); see also Haye
v United States, 461 F. Supp. 1168, 1174 (C.D. Cal. 1978).





n17.  See United States v. Ritchie, 342 F.3d 903, 909 (9th Cir. 2003). In this
case, the district court erred by not allowing the claimant to have opportunity
to respond to a request for judicial notice. Id.





n18.  See Fed. R. Evid. 201(b).





n19.  See 29 Am Jur 2d Evidence § 26 (2013) ("Judicial notice is not limited by
the actual knowledge of the individual judge ... .").





n20.  See id.





n21.  See 29 Am Jur 2d, Evidence supra note 19, § 25 (stating that, "in order to
be admissible, evidence must be relevant to the issues in the case").





n22.  Cupey Bajo Nursing Home, Inc. v. United States, 36 Fed. Cl. 122, 135 n.22
(1996) (stating that "by taking judicial notice of a fact, the court may inform
itself of a particular fact without resort to evidentiary proof").





n23.  See generally Edward J. Imwinkelried, Shorten Trial Presentations, Reduce
Litigation Costs; Seasoned Attorneys Frequently Consider Dispensing with Live
Testimony and Instead Take the Judicial Notice Route, N.J. L.J. (Jan. 14, 2002).
This article states that seasoned attorneys frequently consider dispensing with
live testimony and instead take the judicial notice route. Id.





n24.  Alvin Sylvester Zerbe, The Antiquity of Hebrew Writing and Literature 149
(1911); see also Jean-Jacques Glassner, The Invention of Cuneiform: Writing in
Sumer 119 (Zainab Bahrani & Marc Van De Mieroop eds., 2003).

   "Originally pictographs were arranged vertically, from right to left.
Sometime in the latter third millennium the writing came to be arranged
horizontally from left to right. At the same time, all the symbols were rotated
counterclockwise ninety degrees. (These changes probably reflect conveniences in
writing for right-handed scribes.)" J. Michael Stitt, Cuneiform, UNLV Dep't of
English, http://faculty.unlv.edu/jmstitt/Eng480/Writing/Cuneiform.html (last
visited Feb. 16, 2013).





n25.  Carol Bergfeld Mills & Linda J. Weldon, Reading Text from Computer
Screens, 19 ACM Computing Surveys 329 (1987) Section 3.5 Right Justification.





n26.  See U.S. Patent No. 6694485 (filed Feb. 17, 2004); see also U.S. Patent
No. 5987482 (filed Nov. 16, 1999); U.S. Patent No. 4333097 (filed June 1, 1982).





n27.  See generally Heiko Sacher, Interactions in Chinese: Designing Interfaces
for Asian Languages, Sacher Design (Sept.-Oct. 1998),
http://www.sacherdesign.com/papers/Apple_SpeechInput.pdf.





n28.  Reno v. ACLU, 521 U.S. 844, 849 (1997).





n29.  See Alexander R. Galloway, 597 Annals Am. Acad. Pol. & Soc. Sci. 19, 21
(2005). "The protocols that govern much of the Internet are contained in what
are called RFC (Request for Comments) documents. The expression derives from a
memorandum titled "Host Software' sent by Steve Crocker on April 7, 1969, which
is known today as RFC 1." Id.





n30.  See generally James B. Speta, A Common Carrier Approach to Internet
Interconnection, 54 Fed. Comm. L.J. 225 (2002) (discussing TCP/IP and other
aspects of Internet communication).





n31.  See Galloway, supra note 29, at 23. "ANSI, the American National Standards
Institute, is responsible for aggregating and coordinating the standards
creation process in the United States." Id.





n32.  See Eric Goldman, Understanding Internet Co-Branding Deals, 16 Santa Clara
Computer & High Tech. L.J. 65, 73 (2000).





n33.  See Fed. R. Evid. 201(b).





n34.  See, e.g., United States v. Lewis, 833 F.2d 1380 (9th Cir. 1987). In this
case, the lower court erred in taking judicial notice of effects of surgery on
the defendant because the judge relied on his own personal experience rather
than finding that the effects were facts upon which reasonably knowledgeable
people agreed. Id. at 1385-88.





n35.  See, e.g., Norman v. Housing Auth. of Montgomery, 836 F.2d 1292 (11th Cir.
1988). In this case, the court properly took judicial notice of the prevailing
wage rate for local bookkeepers. Id. at 1304.





n36.  See, e.g., Terrebonne v. Blackburn, 646 F.2d 997 (5th Cir. 1981). In this
case, the court took proper judicial notice of pardons by a parole board by
referring to an authorized governmental report. Id. at 1000 n.4.





n37.  Jon Bosak, XML, Java, and the future of the Web, ibiblio (Mar. 10, 1997),
http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/sun-info/standards/xml/why/xmlapps.htm.





n38.  IBM personal computers using DOS and some form of BASIC use PRINT followed
by two sets of quotation marks as their backup/default system.





n39.  Kevin Hughes, Entering the World-Wide Web: A Guide to Cyberspace, Faculty
of Engineering and Physical Sciences University of Surrey-Guildford (Oct. 1993),
http://info.eps.surrey.ac.uk/SCS/manuals/WWW-Guide/.





n40.  Id.





n41.  Robert J. Glushko, How Practical is Practical SGML?, UC Berkeley School of
Information (May 1, 1996),
http://people.ischool.berkeley.edu/[#x7E]glushko/glushko_files/PracticalSGML.pdf
.





n42.  Eric Kasten, HTML: A Gentle Introduction, Linux Journal (July 1, 1995),
http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/1081.





n43.  See Thomas A. Powell, HTML: The Complete Reference 1-17 (2d ed. 1998); see
also Ola Andersson, et al., Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) Tiny 1.2
Specification Section 7.3: The Initial Coordinate System, World Wide Web
Consortium (Dec. 22, 2008),
http://www.w3.org/TR/SVGTiny12/coords.html#InitialCoordinateSystem. Section 7.3
demonstrates "that the initial coordinate system has the origin at the top/left
with the x-axis pointing to the right and the y-axis pointing down." Id.





n44.  Window Coordinate System (Windows), Microsoft (Oct. 25, 2012),
http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/dd145205(the=vs.85).aspx
. The Windows development center explains,



   The coordinate system for a window is based on the coordinate system of the
display device. The basic unit of measure is the device unit (typically, the
pixel). Points on the screen are described by x-and y-coordinate pairs. The
x-coordinates increase to the right; y-coordinates increase from top to bottom.
The origin (0,0) for the system depends on the type of coordinates being used.



The system and applications specify the position of a window on the screen in
screen coordinates. For screen coordinates, the origin is the upper-left corner
of the screen. The full position of a window is often described by a RECT
structure containing the screen coordinates of two points that define the
upper-left and lower-right corners of the window.



The system and applications specify the position of points in a window by using
client coordinates. The origin in this case is the upper-left corner of the
window or client area. Client coordinates ensure that an application can use
consistent coordinate values while drawing in the window, regardless of the
position of the window on the screen.



The dimensions of the client area are also described by a RECT structure that
contains client coordinates for the area. In all cases, the upper-left
coordinate of the rectangle is included in the window or client area, while the
lower-right coordinate is excluded. Graphics operations in a window or client
area are excluded from the right and lower edges of the enclosing rectangle.



Occasionally, applications may be required to map coordinates in one window to
those of another window. An application can map coordinates by using the
MapWindowPoints function. If one of the windows is the desktop window, the
function effectively converts screen coordinates to client coordinates and vice
versa; the desktop window is always specified in screen coordinates.

 Id.





n45.  John R. Sheets, Writing GNOME Applications, Chapter 11,
http://openbooks.sourceforge.net/books/wga/gnome-canvas-coordinates.html (last
visited Feb. 16, 2013). Mr. Sheets explains,



   Window coordinates, the final coordinate system of interest to Canvas users,
are rarely used within the Canvas because most internal Canvas calculations use
world coordinates. Instead window coordinates are used usually outside of the
Canvas. Like canvas coordinates, window coordinates are pixel based, but they
are relative to the upper left corner of the top-level window that owns the
Canvas, rather than to the upper left corner of the Canvas widget.

 Id.; see also GnomeCanvas, The GNOME Project,
http://developer.gnome.org/libgnomecanvas/2.30/GnomeCanvas.html (last visited
Feb. 16, 2013). The Gnome Development Center states,



   There are several different coordinate systems used by GnomeCanvas widgets.
The primary system is a logical, abstract coordinate space called world
coordinates. World coordinates are expressed as unbounded double floating point
numbers. When it comes to rendering to a screen the canvas pixel coordinate
system (also referred to as just canvas coordinates) is used. This system uses
integers to specify screen pixel positions. A user defined scaling factor and
offset are used to convert between world coordinates and canvas coordinates.
Each item in a canvas has its own coordinate system called item coordinates.
This system is specified in world coordinates but they are relative to an item
(0.0, 0.0 would be the top left corner of the item). The final coordinate system
of interest is window coordinates. These are like canvas coordinates but are
offsets from within a window a canvas is displayed in. This last system is
rarely used, but is useful when manually handling GDK events (such as drag and
drop) which are specified in window coordinates (the events processed by the
canvas are already converted for you).

 Id.





n46.  The Java Tutorials: Coordinates, Oracle.com,
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/2d/overview/coordinate.html (last visited
Mar. 18, 2013). As shown in Figure 1-1, the user space origin is located in the
upper-left corner of the space, with x values increasing to the right and y
values increasing downward. Figure 1-1 User Space Coordinate System User space
represents a uniform abstraction of all possible device coordinate systems. The
device space for a particular device might have the same origin and direction as
user space, or it might be different. Regardless, user space coordinates are
automatically transformed into the appropriate device space when a graphic
object is rendered. Often, the underlying platform device drivers are used to
perform this conversion.

   See Fred Schwartz, Screen Coordinates, Java Notes (Feb. 6, 2002),
http://www.leepoint.net/notes-java/GUI-lowlevel/graphics/10coord. Mr. Schwartz
explains,



   Java programs use an x,y coordinate system for all their graphic operations.
The x coordinate is the pixel distance from the left. The y coordinate is the
pixel distance from the top.



Note that the Java y coordinate system, like most other computer graphics
systems, is different from the normal math coordinate system where the y
coordinate goes up from the bottom.

 Id. (emphasis omitted); see also Coordinates, The Java Tutorials,
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/2d/overview/coordinate.html (last visited
Feb. 16, 2013). An online Java tutorial states,



   When the default transformation from user space to device space is used, the
origin of user space is the upper-left corner of the component's drawing area.
The x coordinate increases to the right, and the y coordinate increases downward
... .The top-left corner of a window is 0,0. All coordinates are specified using
integers, which is usually sufficient. However, some cases require floating
point or even double precision which are also supported.

 Id.





n47. " Public law" is defined as the:



   definition, regulation, and enforcement of rights in cases where the state is
regarded as the subject of the right or object of the duty ... and the law of
the state, considered in its quasi private personality, i.e., as capable of
holding or exercising rights, or acquiring and dealing with property, in the
character of an individual.

 Black's Law Dictionary 1106 (5th ed. 1979).

   In contrast "private law" is defined as law "which is concerned with the
definition, regulation, and enforcement of rights in cases where both [parties]
... are private individuals." Id. at 1076.

   Typically private law arises as a result of contract, property, and tort law
disputes and results in rights and duties that only bind the parties to the
transaction. The contracts, such as the one formed by a proper Internet "terms
of use" agreement, allows for enormous variation by virtue of publicly enforced
private law created by such a contract.





n48.  See Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 12 (1981). The Restatement
explains,



   (1) No one can be bound by contract who has not legal capacity to incur at
least voidable contractual duties. Capacity to contract may be partial and its
existence in respect of a particular transaction may depend upon the nature of
the transaction or upon other circumstances.



(2) A natural person who manifests assent to a transaction has full legal
capacity to incur contractual duties thereby unless he is



(a) under guardianship, or



(b) an infant, or



(c) mentally ill or defective, or



(d) intoxicated.

 Id.





n49.  See id. § 18 ("Manifestation of mutual assent to an exchange requires that
each party either make a promise or begin or render a performance.").





n50.  See id. § 71(1) ("To constitute consideration, a performance or a return
promise must be bargained for.").





n51.  See ProCD, Inc. v. Zeidenberg, 86 F.3d 1447, 1449 (7th Cir. 1996); see
also Hill v. Gateway 2000 Inc., 105 F.3d 1147, 1150 (7th Cir. 1997).





n52.  See Sharon K. Sandeen, The Sense and Nonsense of Web Site Terms of Use
Agreements, 26 Hamline L. Rev. 499, 548-49 (2003) (stating that the recipient of
a click-wrap agreement could manifest assent by clicking on an "I agree" icon,
whereas the manifestation of assent to a browse-wrap agreement can only be
inferred from inaction, and is thus unenforceable due to lack of assent).





n53.  Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 21.





n54.  See id. § 33. The Restatement indicates,



   (1) Even though a manifestation of intention is intended to be understood as
an offer, it cannot be accepted so as to form a contract unless the terms of the
contract are reasonably certain.



(2) The terms of a contract are reasonably certain if they provide a basis for
determining the existence of a breach and for giving an appropriate remedy.



(3) The fact that one or more terms of a proposed bargain are left open or
uncertain may show that a manifestation of intention is not intended to be
understood as an offer or as an acceptance.

 Id.





n55.  Black's Law Dictionary defines judicial notice as "the cognizance of
certain facts which [courts] may properly take and act upon without proof,
because they already know them." Black's Law Dictionary 761 (6th ed. 1990).





n56.  Packer Corp. v. Utah, 285 U.S. 105, 110 (1932).





n57.  499 U.S. 585 (1991).





n58.  Id. at 585.





n59.  Id. at 594.





n60.  Id. at 587 (emphasis omitted).





n61.  Id. at 587-88.





n62.  A "domain name" is a user-friendly alphanumeric address associated with
one or more computers connected to the Internet used in lieu of a numeric
address for those computers. A numeric address is also known as an IP address.





n63.  See Religious Tech. Ctr. v. Netcom On-Line Commc'n. Servs. Inc., 907 F.
Supp. 1361, 1370 n.13 (N.D. Cal. 1995) ("The decentralized network was designed
so that if one link in the chain be closed off, the information will be
dynamically rerouted through another link.").





n64.  See Galloway, supra note 29, at 23 ("TCP makes communication on the Web
notably reliable: information is monitored during transport and is re-sent if
lost or corrupted.").





n65.  Richard Allan Horning, Has HAL Signed a Contract: The Statute of Frauds in
Cyberspace, 12 Santa Clara Computer & High Tech. L.J. 253, 258 (1996).





n66.  For example, the relationship and arrangement of the embedded data in a
particular email file, when compared with other electronic files in a directory
listing, may offer helpful information regarding its authenticity. This data can
be particularly useful when the authenticity of an email is disputed.





n67.  See Religious Tech. Ctr., 907 F. Supp. at 1370 (detailing how Internet
communications travel between and among computers).





n68.  It should also be noted that there are off-the-shelf software programs
that can quickly retrieve "deleted" files that have not been overwritten.
Additionally, expert technicians can generally recover files that have been
overwritten. See Alexander v. FBI, 188 F.R.D. 111, 116-17 (D.D.C. 1998).


