                               64 of 64 DOCUMENTS





          SKYLINE SOFTWARE SYSTEMS, INC., Plaintiff, v. KEYHOLE, INC.

                         and GOOGLE, INC., Defendants.



                         CIVIL ACTION No. 04-11129-DPW



                UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF

                                 MASSACHUSETTS



                421 F. Supp. 2d 371; 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 12546





                            March 24, 2006, Decided



SUBSEQUENT HISTORY: Related proceeding at Skyline Software Sys. v. Keyhole,

Inc., 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 83603 (D. Mass., Nov. 16, 2006)



CASE SUMMARY:





PROCEDURAL POSTURE: Plaintiff corporation alleged infringement of a patent that

described a method and apparatus for efficiently transferring information needed

to display three-dimensional images by defendants, companies. Although the

corporation moved for a preliminary injunction against the companies, before

addressing the merits of that request, the court resolved the threshold dispute

between the parties regarding the construction of various claim terms.



OVERVIEW: Claim construction was a question of law to be determined by a judge.

Courts were to give claim terms their ordinary and customary meaning. The

ordinary and customary meaning of a claim was the meaning that the term would

have to a person of ordinary skill in the art in question at the time of the

invention. Because the most accurate construction was one that included the

insights provided by the specification and the claims themselves, the court

construed the term "data blocks" to mean a block or collection of data or

digital information. The court construed the term "data block describing

three-dimensional terrain" to mean a block or collection of data or digital

information that represented or described a section of three-dimensional terrain

at a particular resolution level and that included any additional data overlaid

on the digital image of the terrain, such as altitude, labels or optional

objects where the patent specifically disclaimed the idea that the data

streaming methods only described the display of images of terrain, and specified

that the data streaming methods could have been used to convey large databases

of data which were to be displayed graphically.



OUTCOME: The court resolved the threshold dispute between the parties regarding

the construction of various claim terms in the patent.



CORE TERMS: block, terrain, coordinate', renderer, memory, specification,

processor, cache, preferably, invention, corresponding, patent, server, display,

software, manager, hierarchical, hardware, dictionary, embodiment, database,

remote, surface, pixel, viewpoint, user's, per unit, supplied, digital, stored





                            LexisNexis(R) Headnotes





Patent Law > Infringement Actions > General Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

[HN1] The determination of infringement is a two-step process. First, the court

construes the claims and, second, the court compares the properly construed

claims to the accused device.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

[HN2] It is a bedrock principle of patent law that the claims of a patent define

the invention to which the patentee is entitled the right to exclude.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

[HN3] Claim construction is a question of law to be determined by a judge,

notwithstanding its evidentiary underpinnings. Courts are to give claim terms

their ordinary and customary meaning. However, the ordinary and customary

meaning of a claim is not the meaning understood by a layperson, but the meaning

that the term would have to a person of ordinary skill in the art in question at

the time of the invention. That understanding provides an objective baseline

from which to begin claim interpretation.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

[HN4] For purposes of claim construction, the time of the invention is the

effective filing date of the patent application.



Patent Law > Claims & Specifications > General Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Aids

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Prosecution History Estoppel > General

Overview

[HN5] In some cases, the ordinary meaning of claim language as understood by a

person of skill in the art may be readily apparent even to lay judges, and claim

construction in such cases involves little more than the application of the

widely accepted meaning of commonly understood words. In such circumstances,

general purpose dictionaries may be helpful. However, where the ordinary meaning

of claim language as understood by a person of skill in the art is not readily

apparent, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit directs

district courts to a hierarchy of sources to aid in claim construction. The

intrinsic record, including the claim terms themselves, the remainder of the

specification, and the prosecution history, provides the best guidance as to the

meaning of the claims. But extrinsic evidence, such as dictionaries, expert

testimony, and learned treatises, may also play a valuable role in claim

construction. However, the court urges caution in their use.



Patent Law > Claims & Specifications > General Overview

Patent Law > Claims & Specifications > Description Requirement > General

Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Aids

[HN6] Among the sources of intrinsic evidence, the United States Court of

Appeals for the Federal Circuit places primary importance on the claims

themselves and the specification. The context in which a term is used in the

asserted claim and the use of the term in other claims can be highly

instructive. The claims, of course, do not stand alone. They must be read in

view of the specification, of which they are a part. Thus, the court has

reaffirmed the long-standing principle that the specification is the single best

guide to the meaning of a disputed term. In addition to its statutory role as a

full and exact description of the claimed invention, the specification may

reveal a patentee's distinctive definition of a term or a disavowal of claim

scope.



Patent Law > Claims & Specifications > General Overview

Patent Law > Claims & Specifications > Description Requirement > General

Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

[HN7] In the claim construction context, the specification is such a valuable

tool that it is entirely appropriate for a court, when conducting claim

construction, to rely heavily on the written description for guidance as to the

meaning of the claims. Nevertheless, the court has warned of the danger of

reading limitations from the specification into the claim. The purpose of the

specification is to enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention.

Specific embodiments of the invention described for teaching purposes should not

be imported into the claim as a limitation. The distinction between proper claim

construction and improper limitation turns on whether a person of skill in the

art would understand the embodiments to define the outer limits of the claim

term or merely to be exemplary in nature.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Prosecution History Estoppel > General

Overview

[HN8] In construing a patent claim, a court may consult the prosecution history,

which consists of the complete record of the proceedings before the Patent and

Trademark Office (PTO) and includes the prior art cited during the examination

of the patent, when construing a claim. Like the specification, the prosecution

history can inform the meaning of the claim language by demonstrating how the

inventor understood the invention and whether the inventor limited the invention

in the course of prosecution, making the claim scope narrower than it would

otherwise be. However, the prosecution history is not a final product; it

represents an ongoing negotiation between the PTO and the applicant. As such, it

often lacks the clarity of the specification and thus is less useful for claim

construction purposes.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Aids

[HN9] Although the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has

attached greater value to intrinsic evidence, it approved the use of extrinsic

evidence in a limited fashion. Specifically, technical dictionaries are helpful

to the extent that they assist a court to better understand the underlying

technology and the way in which one of skill in the art might use the claim

terms. Expert testimony is also valuable for providing background on the

technology at issue, explaining how an invention works, or describing a

distinctive use of a term in a particular field. However, neither dictionaries

nor expert testimony, are reliable sources for claim interpretation for a

variety of reasons. The court's greatest concern with extrinsic evidence,

particularly dictionaries, is that it may lead judges to construe terms in an

overbroad manner. The problem is that if the district court starts with the

broad dictionary definition in every case and fails to fully appreciate how the

specification implicitly limits that definition, the error will systematically

cause the construction of the claim to be unduly expansive.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Aids

[HN10] Because dictionaries provide a broad array of definitions, heavy reliance

on the dictionary divorced from the intrinsic evidence risks transforming the

meaning of the claim term to the artisan into the meaning of the term in the

abstract. One line of cases in the United States Court of Appeals for the

Federal Circuit has adopted the "dictionary down" approach, thereby reducing the

role of the specification to a mere check on the dictionary meaning of a claim

term. In contrast, in Phillips, the court articulated a "claims up" approach,

instructing courts to focus at the outset on how the patentee used the claim

term in the claims, specification, and prosecution history, rather than starting

with a broad definition and whittling it down.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > General Overview

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Aids

Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Prosecution History Estoppel > General

Overview

[HN11] Ultimately, there is no magic formula for conducting claim construction

when the ordinary meaning of the disputed terms as understood by a person of

skill in the art is not readily apparent. The key lies in giving appropriate

weight to each source in light of the statutes and policies that inform patent

law. Accordingly, the claims and the specification are most significant,

followed by prosecution history, and finally by extrinsic sources.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN12] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "data block" to mean a block or collection of data or digital

information, and construes the term "data block describing three-dimensional

terrain" to mean a block or collection of data or digital information that

represents or describes a section of three-dimensional terrain at a particular

resolution level and that includes any additional data overlaid on the digital

image of the terrain, such as altitude, labels or optional objects.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN13] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "data blocks belonging to a hierarchical structure" to mean

data blocks that are organized into multiple levels of resolution, whereby each

level contains data blocks at the same resolution, and each successive level

contains data blocks of a higher resolution than those in the preceding level.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN14] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "first data block" to mean the first data block provided to

the renderer from the local memory corresponding to the specified of

coordinates.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN15] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "terrain" to mean the surface features of an area of land, an

object, or a material, including color, elevation, and existing objects or

structures on the land, object or material.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN16] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "coordinates in the terrain" to mean a set of numerical

values that identifies a particular location in the terrain.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN17] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "resolution level" to mean the level of detail of the data

per unit area.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN18] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "indication of respective resolution level" to mean the

identification of the particular resolution level of the data required.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN19] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "renderer" to mean software and/or hardware object that

performs at least the following functions: (1) determining and providing to

another object the required coordinates in the terrain along with a respective

resolution level; (2) receiving the data blocks corresponding to the specified

coordinates; and (3) using the received data blocks to display a

three-dimensional image.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN20] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "local memory" to mean memory easily accessible to the user's

processor, either because it is physically part of the processor or is attached

directly thereto, and distinct from the memory of the remote server from which

data must be downloaded.



Patent Law > Infringement Actions > Claim Interpretation > Scope

[HN21] The United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts

construes the term "connecting device" to mean a network connection, such as the

Internet, used for transferring data between computers, and construes the term

"processor" to mean a unit of hardware and/or software, distinct for the remote

server, that processes computer-readable instructions.





COUNSEL:  [**1]  For Skyline Software Systems, Inc., Plaintiff: H. Joseph

Hameline, Geri L. Haight, Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo, PC,

Boston, MA.



For Keyhole Corporation, Defendant: Carolyn Chang, Darryl M. Woo, Kent Kemeny,

Maclain Wells, Michael Sacksteder, Robin W. Reasoner, Saundra L.M. Riley,

Fenwick & West LLP, Mountain View, CA; Michelle Chassereau Jackson, Nelson G.

Apjohn, Nutter, McClennen & Fish, Boston, MA.



For GOOGLE, INC., Defendant: Carolyn Chang, Darryl M. Woo, Michael Sacksteder,

Robin W. Reasoner, Saundra L.M. Riley, Fenwick & West LLP, Mountain View, CA;

Michelle Chassereau Jackson, Nutter, McClennen & Fish, Boston, MA.



For Keyhole Corporation, GOOGLE, INC., Keyhole Corporation, Counter Claimants:

Darryl M. Woo, Fenwick & West LLP, Mountain View, CA.



For Skyline Software Systems, Inc., Counter Defendant: H. Joseph Hameline,

Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo, PC, Boston, MA.



JUDGES: DOUGLAS P. WOODLOCK, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE.



OPINION BY: DOUGLAS P. WOODLOCK



OPINION





 [*374] MEMORANDUM AND ORDER



The Plaintiff, Skyline Software Systems, Inc., alleges infringement of United

States Patent No. 6,496,189 (the "'189 Patent") by the Defendants, Keyhole, Inc.

[**2]  and Google, Inc. The '189 Patent describes a method and apparatus for

efficiently transferring information needed to display three-dimensional images.

Although Skyline moved for a preliminary injunction against the Defendants

following the hearing on claim construction, before addressing the merits of

that request, I separately resolve in this Memorandum and Order the threshold

dispute between the parties regarding the construction of various claim terms. 1

See Watts v. XL Systems, Inc., 232 F.3d 877, 880 (Fed. Cir. 2000)  [HN1] ("The

determination of infringement is a two-step process. First, this court construes

the claims and, second, we compare the properly construed claims to the accused

device.")



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



1 Attached as an Appendix to this Memorandum and Order at 37-39 is a Summary of

Constructions, setting forth the proposed constructions by the parties and those

I have adopted.

- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -





I. CLAIM CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY



Following the hearing on claim construction, the Federal Circuit issued an en

banc [**3]  decision designed to order the process of  [*375]  claim

construction. Phillips v. AWH Corporation, 415 F.3d 1303 (Fed. Cir. 2005) (en

banc).



[HN2] "It is a bedrock principle' of patent law that the claims of a patent

define the invention to which the patentee is entitled the right to exclude.'"

Id. at 1312 quoting Innova/Pure Water, Inc. v. Safari Water Filtration Systems,

Inc., 381 F.3d 1111, 1115 (Fed. Cir. 2004)). Limited discovery surrounding the

question of claim construction has occurred in this case, with each party

providing its respective constructions of the claims in dispute. After shared

constructions and full briefing by the parties, the construction of terms in two

claims -- characterized by the plaintiff as "representative" of the universe in

dispute for this lawsuit -- are presented in accordance with the comprehensive

framework set out in Phillips. Since the Federal Circuit decided Phillips after

the submissions and the Markman hearing in this case, I have reinterpreted the

arguments made by the parties in light of the Phillips framework set out below.



[HN3] Claim construction is a question of law to be determined [**4]  by a

judge, notwithstanding its evidentiary underpinnings. Markman v. Westview

Instruments, Inc., 517 U.S. 370, 384, 390, 116 S. Ct. 1384, 134 L. Ed. 2d 577

(1996). Courts are to give claim terms "their ordinary and customary meaning."

Phillips, 415 F.3d at 1312 quoting Vitronics Corp. v. Conceptronic, Inc., 90

F.3d 1576, 1582 (1996). However, the ordinary and customary meaning of a claim

is not the meaning understood by a layperson, but "the meaning that the term

would have to a person of ordinary skill in the art in question at the time of

the invention." 2 Id. at 1313. This understanding provides "an objective

baseline from which to begin claim interpretation." Id.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



2  [HN4] For purposes of claim construction, the "time of the invention" is the

effective filing date of the patent application. Phillips v. AWH Corporation,

415 F.3d 1303, 1313 (Fed. Cir. 2005).

- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -



 [HN5] "In some cases, the ordinary meaning of claim language as understood by a

person of skill in the art may be readily [**5]  apparent even to lay judges,

and claim construction in such cases involves little more than the application

of the widely accepted meaning of commonly understood words." Id. at 1314. "In

such circumstances, general purpose dictionaries may be helpful." Id. However,

where the ordinary meaning of claim language as understood by a person of skill

in the art is not readily apparent, Phillips directs district courts to a

hierarchy of sources to aid in claim construction. The intrinsic record,

including the claim terms themselves, the remainder of the specification, and

the prosecution history, provides the best guidance as to the meaning of the

claims. Id. at 1313-14. But extrinsic evidence, such as dictionaries, expert

testimony, and learned treatises, may also play a valuable role in claim

construction. However, in a departure from the line of cases led by Texas

Digital Systems, Inc. v. Telegenix, Inc., 308 F.3d 1193 (Fed Cir. 2002),

Phillips urges caution in their use. Id. at 1319-1324.



[HN6] Among the sources of intrinsic evidence, Phillips places primary

importance on the claims themselves and the specification. The [**6]  context in

which a term is used in the asserted claim and the use of the term in other

claims can be "highly instructive." Id. at 1314. The claims, "of course, do not

stand alone." Id. at 1315. They "must be read in view of the specification, of

which they are a part." Id. quoting Markman v. Westview Instruments, Inc., 52

F.3d 967, at 978. Thus,  [*376]  Phillips reaffirmed the long-standing principle

that the specification "is the single best guide to the meaning of a disputed

term." Id. at 1303. In addition to its statutory role as a full and exact

description of the claimed invention, the specification may reveal a patentee's

distinctive definition of a term or a disavowal of claim scope. Id. at 1316.

[HN7] The specification is such a valuable tool that it is "entirely appropriate

for a court, when conducting claim construction, to rely heavily on the written

description for guidance as to the meaning of the claims." Id. at 1317.

Nevertheless, Phillips warned of "the danger of reading limitations from the

specification into the claim." Id. at 1323. The purpose of the specification is

to enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Id. Specific

embodiments of the [**7]  invention described for teaching purposes should not

be imported into the claim as a limitation. Id. The distinction between proper

claim construction and improper limitation turns on "whether a person of skill

in the art would understand the embodiments to define the outer limits of the

claim term or merely to be exemplary in nature." Id. at 1323.



[HN8] A court may also consult the prosecution history, which "consists of the

complete record of the proceedings before the PTO [the Patent and Trademark

Office] and includes the prior art cited during the examination of the patent,"

when construing a claim. Id. at 1317. Like the specification, the prosecution

history "can inform the meaning of the claim language by demonstrating how the

inventor understood the invention and whether the inventor limited the invention

in the course of prosecution, making the claim scope narrower than it would

otherwise be." Id. See Chimie v. PPG Indus., Inc., 402 F.3d 1371, 1384 (Fed.

Cir. 2005) quoting ZMI Corp. v. Cardiac Resuscitator Corp., 844 F.2d 1576, 1580

(Fed. Cir. 1988) ("The purpose of consulting the prosecution history in

construing a claim is to exclude [**8]  any interpretation that was disclaimed

during prosecution.'"). However, the prosecution history is not a final product;

it "represents an ongoing negotiation between the PTO and the applicant."

Phillips, 415 F.3d at 1317. As such, it "often lacks the clarity of the

specification and thus is less useful for claim construction purposes." Id.



[HN9] Although the Phillips court attached greater value to intrinsic evidence,

it approved the use of extrinsic evidence in a limited fashion. Specifically,

technical dictionaries are helpful to the extent that they assist a court to

"'better understand the underlying technology' and the way in which one of skill

in the art might use the claim terms." Id. at 1318 quoting Vitronics, 90 F.3d at

1584. Expert testimony is also valuable for providing background on the

technology at issue, explaining how an invention works, or describing a

distinctive use of a term in a particular field. However, neither dictionaries

nor expert testimony, are reliable sources for claim interpretation for a

variety of reasons. As such, I have considered Dr. Feiner's Declaration and the

dictionary definitions proposed [**9]  by both parties, but do not rely heavily

on them in construing the terms at issue here.



The Phillips Court's greatest concern with extrinsic evidence, particularly

dictionaries, is that it may lead judges to construe terms in an overbroad

manner.





     The problem is that if the district court starts with the broad

     dictionary definition in every case and fails to fully appreciate how

     the specification implicitly limits that definition, the error will

     systematically cause the construction of the claim to be unduly

     expansive.





Id. at 1321.  [HN10] Because dictionaries provide a broad array of definitions,

"heavy reliance  [*377]  on the dictionary divorced from the intrinsic evidence

risks transforming the meaning of the claim term to the artisan into the meaning

of the term in the abstract." Id. The Texas Digital line of cases adopted this

"dictionary down" approach, thereby reducing the role of the specification to a

mere "check on the dictionary meaning of a claim term." Id. at 1320. In

contrast, Phillips articulated a "claims up" approach, instructing courts to

focus "at the outset on how the patentee used the claim term in the claims,

specification, and prosecution history,  [**10]  rather than starting with a

broad definition and whittling it down." Id. at 1321.



[HN11] Ultimately, there is no magic formula for conducting claim construction

when the ordinary meaning of the disputed terms as understood by a person of

skill in the art is not readily apparent. Id. at 1324. The key lies in giving

appropriate weight to each "source in light of the statutes and policies that

inform patent law." Id. Accordingly, the claims and the specification are most

significant, followed by prosecution history, and finally by extrinsic sources.

Id.



II. DISPUTED TERMS



Claim 1 reads:





     A method of providing data blocks describing three-dimensional terrain

     to a renderer, the data blocks belonging to a hierarchical structure

     which includes blocks at a plurality of different resolution levels,

     the method comprising:





          receiving from the renderer one or more



          coordinates in the terrain along with indication of a

          respective resolution level;







     providing the renderer with a first data block

          which includes data corresponding to the one or more

          coordinates, from a local memory;







     downloading [**11]  from a remote server one or more

          additional data blocks at a resolution higher than the

          resolution level of the first block which includes data

          corresponding to the one or more coordinates if the provided

          block from the local memory is not at the indicated

          resolution level.











(col. 16, 11. 28-43) (emphasis supplied)



Claim 12 reads:





     Apparatus for providing data blocks describing three-dimensional

     terrain to a renderer, 3 the data blocks belonging to a hierarchical

     structure which includes blocks at a plurality of different resolution

     levels, the apparatus comprising:





          a local memory which stores data blocks



          corresponding to coordinates proximal to a current viewpoint

          of the renderer;







     a communication link, through which the memory

          receives the data blocks from a remote server;







     a processor which receives one or more specified

          coordinates along with indication of a respective resolution

          level from a renderer, provides the renderer with a first

          data block which includes data corresponding to the one or

          more specified coordinates from a local memory, [**12]  and

          downloads over the communication link one or more data

          blocks of a resolution level higher than the resolution

          level of the first block which include data corresponding to

          the one or more coordinates if the first block is not from

          the indicated level.











(col. 18, 11. 12-31) (emphasis supplied)



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



3 "Render" appears to be a typographical error and neither party contends that

the term should be construed as anything other than "renderer."

- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -



From these claims, the parties dispute the meaning of the following terms: data

[*378]  blocks, data blocks belonging to a hierarchical structure, first data

block, terrain, coordinates in the terrain, indication of a respective

resolution level, renderer, and local memory.



The Plaintiff characterized these claims as "representative" and contends that

the representative claims "contain all the claim terms that are in dispute in

claims 1 through 24." (Transcript, p. 5)



A. Data Blocks



I begin with a term found throughout the patent -- "data blocks", [**13]  often

referred to simply as "blocks" in the specification.



Initially, Skyline suggested that the court construe "data block" broadly to

mean "a quantity, set or amount of information or data representing a portion of

the terrain." The Defendants offered instead the following narrower

construction, on the premise that the patentee acted as his own lexicographer

with respect to this term: "an image of a terrain area that is composed of

pixels, where each data block optionally also contains data associated with the

image of the terrain area, such as data describing other objects that overlay

the terrain; each block has one particular resolution." At the Markman hearing,

however, the Defendants did not protest Skyline's critique of equating data with

image, and both parties were open to the idea of data blocks meaning something

like information necessary to render graphically an image of all or part of the

terrain, including any additional features overlaid thereto, at a particular

resolution level. (Transcript, pp. 12-13) Given the principles in Phillips, I

find that the most accurate construction will be one that includes the insights

provided by the specification and the claims [**14]  themselves.



The specification teaches that "image blocks . . . contain data representing the

terrain" (col. 8, 11. 18-20) and the claims speak of "data blocks describing

three-dimensional terrain" (Claim 1, col. 16, 11. 28-29; col. 4, 1. 12), such

that "each terrain area is described in a plurality of blocks at different

resolution levels." (col. 3, 11. 5-6) The method for preparing the database in

accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present invention requires a

processor, referred to as a Terra Builder, to cut up images it receives into

blocks. (col. 9, 1. 55) The end result is that the user's "processor renders

three-dimensional terrain images responsive to the data blocks" corresponding to

the requested coordinates and viewpoints on a display. (col. 6, 11. 56-57)



These excerpts from the specification demonstrate -- despite the seemingly

anomalous statement that "blocks are preferably real-life images of terrain

areas received from airborne or satellite cameras" (col. 8, 11. 36-37) -- that

the term does not refer to the actual images of the terrain area, but to the

data or information that represents sections of the terrain in the preferred

embodiment. In the preferred [**15]  embodiment, the blocks may "include

altitude data of the terrain" and "optional objects to be overlaid on the

terrain." (col. 5, 11. 38, 40-41) These objects may "include, but are not

limited to, labels, annotations, lines and 3D objects." (col. 8, 11. 38-42)



Having said that, the patent specifically disclaims the idea that the data

streaming methods only describe the display of images of terrain. Rather, the

patent specifies that "the data streaming methods of the present invention may

be used to convey large databases of data which are to be displayed graphically,

such as in graphic displays of stock values." (col. 16, 11. 20-24) Consequently,

I must technically construe the term "data block"  [*379]  broadly as a block or

collection of data or digital information, but I do so only with the

understanding that the terms "data block describing three-dimensional terrain"

and "image block", refer to a block or collection of data or digital information

that represents or describes a section of three-dimensional terrain at a

particular resolution level and that includes any additional data overlaid on

the digital image of the terrain, such as altitude, labels or optional objects.

I construe the [**16]  subsequent references to "data blocks" in Claims 1 and 12

as referring in shorthand to "data blocks describing three-dimensional terrain",

as opposed to any kind of data block, because the scope of the claimed invention

is a method and apparatus for providing data blocks describing three-dimensional

terrain to a renderer.



Construction:  [HN12] (data block) A block or collection of data or digital

information.



Construction: (data block describing three-dimensional terrain) a block or

collection of data or digital information that represents or describes a section

of three-dimensional terrain at a particular resolution level and that includes

any additional data overlaid on the digital image of the terrain, such as

altitude, labels or optional objects.



B. Data Blocks Belonging to a Hierarchical Structure



The parties agree that this phrase, as used in the patent, would be understood

by one of ordinary skill in the art to mean data blocks that are organized into

multiple levels of resolution. Skyline, however, takes issue with the two

additional limitations proposed by the Defendants: data blocks that are

organized into multiple levels of resolution, whereby (1)  [**17]  each level

contains data blocks at the same resolution, and (2) each successive level

contains data blocks of a higher resolution than those in the preceding level.



First, in its submissions and at the Markman hearing, Skyline questioned whether

or not the concept of hierarchy, as used in the patent, includes the idea of

"directionality", that is whether each successive level contains data blocks of

a higher resolution than those in the preceding level. Second, at the Markman

hearing Skyline also questioned whether each level of the hierarchy must contain

data blocks at the same resolution, contending that this construction could be

interpreted as meaning that each data block must contain the same amount of

data. Instead, Skyline prefers the less specific construction that the "data

blocks are arranged into multiple levels of resolution, wherein each level of

the structure contains blocks of a different resolution." For support, Skyline

cites to col. 6, 11. 3-6 of the '583 patent.



The portion of the specification cited by Skyline describes how U.S. patent

application Ser. No. 08/939,948 (now United States Patent No. 6,111,583 (the

'583 Patent)), which is incorporated by reference,  [**18]  "uses a hierarchical

database in which substantially each terrain area is described in a plurality of

blocks at different resolution levels." The '583 Patent is relevant because "in

some preferred embodiments of the present invention, the data is stored at the

remote server in accordance with the hierarchical structure described in the 948

application." (col. 3, 11. 13-15) The '583 Patent describes arranging the units

of data into an ordered hierarchy according to successive resolution levels.





     FIGS. 3A and 3B . . ., taken together, are simplified pictorial

     illustrations of a data structure useful in storing a terrain image

     constructed and operative in accordance with a preferred embodiment of

     the present invention. A terrain image is typically stored as a

     hierarchy of  [*380]  one or more two-dimensional grids of one or more

     tiles, with each grid 24 representing the image at a given resolution.

     . . . Each grid has four times more detail then the grid preceding it

     in the hierarchy.



     ('583 Patent, col. 7, 11. 36-49)





The '189 Patent provides even more detail in describing its Fig. 2, "a schematic

block diagram illustrating the data structure of images stored in a database

[**19]  . . . in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present

invention." (col. 7, 11. 27-31)

     Blocks 42 are preferably stored in database 40. . . . Blocks 42 are

     classified in successive resolution levels 44 labeled 44A, 44B, etc.,

     according to the height from which they view the terrain and,

     therefore, the level of detail which they include. A plurality of

     blocks 42A which belong to the lowest resolution level 44A, labeled

     "level 1," cover the largest area per block and therefore have the

     least detail per area unit. It is noted that the size of the

     geographical area covered by blocks 42A of "level 1" is dependent on

     the specific application of database 40 and may be very diverse. For

     example, in some flight applications, a single block 42A includes an

     image of the entire Planet Earth, while in an atom-simulation

     application, which shows the terrain of an atom, block 42A shows the

     entire atom. Blocks 42B of the next level 44B, labeled "level 2,"

     preferably cover a quarter of the area of blocks 42A of "level 1".

     Thus, for substantially each block 42A, there exist four blocks 42B

     which cover the same area. In a similar manner, each successive level

     44 comprises blocks [**20]  42 which cover a quarter of the area of

     the blocks 42 of the lower resolution level.



     Four blocks 55 of a certain level 44C, which cover the same area as a

     block 57 of the preceding level 44B, are referred to as descendants of

     block 57. Conversely, block 57 is referred to herein as the parent of

     blocks 55. The parent block 59 of block 57 is referred to herein as an

     "ancestor" of blocks 55, and is said to be of a lower resolution level

     than its descendants. It is noted that in FIG. 2, the lower resolution

     levels appear higher on the page.



     (col. 8, 11. 59-67; col. 9, 11. 1-21) (emphasis supplied)







From these descriptions, it is clear that the patent claims a database with a

hierarchical structure in which each successive level contains data blocks of a

higher resolution than those in the preceding level. While I recognize that Fig.

2 is only a schematic and level 1, level 2, level 3 etc. are just labels, it is

important to include the successively ordered nature of the database in the

construction of the term "hierarchical structure", even if a database might be

arranged conceptually from the top down rather than from the bottom up.



As for Skyline's concern over describing [**21]  the hierarchical structure with

the limitation that each level contains data blocks at the same resolution, I

disagree that the limitation erroneously suggests that each level has the same

amount of data. As Skyline contends, the amount of data in a given resolution

level depends on the image being depicted. Or as the specification explains, the

"size of the geographical area covered by blocks of level 1' is dependent on the

specific application of database and may be very diverse. For example, in some

flight applications, a single block includes an image of the entire Planet

Earth, while in an atom-simulation application, which shows the terrain of an

atom, block shows the entire atom." (col. 8, 1. 67; col. 9, 11. 1-7)



Construction:  [HN13] (data blocks belonging to a hierarchical structure) data

blocks that are organized into multiple levels of resolution,  [*381]  whereby

each level contains data blocks at the same resolution, and each successive

level contains data blocks of a higher resolution than those in the preceding

level.



C. First Data Block



Skyline would have the term "first data block" construed as simply "a

designation of a data block that may be one of a plurality [**22]  of data

blocks." Defendants suggest the following construction instead: "the data block

stored in local memory that is the first data block to be provided to the

renderer in response to the coordinates in the terrain and the indication of a

respective resolution level received from the renderer."



In the Markman hearing, Skyline explained that it agreed with the idea that "at

some point" in the process the computer has to call a first data block from the

local memory, and that the first data block is provided at a lower resolution

level, with higher resolution levels being streamed or downloaded to the

computer to provide the higher-resolution image. (Transcript, p. 70, 76) 4 From

Claims 1 and 12, it is clear that "a first data block" refers, as the Defendants

suggest, to the data block stored in the local memory that is the first to be

provided to the renderer. (col. 16, 11. 35-27; col. 18, 11. 21, 23-25) The first

data block provided is not necessarily the block with the lowest resolution

corresponding to the coordinates in the local memory. As Skyline contends, and

the Defendants appear to accept, the first data block could "be the closest data

block in the cache manager to [**23]  the resolution level being requested."

(Transcript, p. 75) Nevertheless, however software might adapt the invention,

neither the "representative" claims nor the specification stipulate the relative

resolution level of the first data block to be provided from the local memory.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



4 Skyline questioned, however, the suggestion that the computer has to provide a

new first data block for every new coordinate in order for there to be

infringement. (Transcript, pp. 70-71, 76) I am not ruling on infringement in

this Memorandum, I am only construing the claims. Consequently, I do not address

whether the computer needs to provide a new first data block for every new

coordinate in order for there to be infringement.

- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Construction:  [HN14] (first data block) the first data block provided to the

renderer from the local memory corresponding to the specified of coordinates



D. Terrain



Quoting from The American Heritage College Dictionary 1400 (3d ed. 1997), the

Defendants contend that "terrain" has a plain and [**24]  ordinary meaning --

"the surface features of an area of land; topography" -- and that the use of

"terrain" in the patent is consistent with that meaning. The Plaintiff does not

offer a dictionary definition of the term, but instead argues that the term "is

used in the '189 Patent broadly to include the physical features of an area,

object or material, which includes geographic and/or elevation attributes and

may include other features, such as color attributes and objects.'"



The purpose of the '189 Patent is to provide three-dimensional images of the

Earth's surface to be used by pilots and others, but the specification also

provides that "the terrain is not limited to the Earth or parts thereof, and may

cover other planets (real or virtual) and/or 3D views of surfaces of real or

imaginary objects, such as views showing the atomic structure of a material, and

the like." (col. 16, 11. 16-20) Consequently, the term terrain is plainly not

limited to the surface of the Earth. The Defendants also accept that the concept

of terrain as the surface features of an area can include color.  [*382]

(Transcript, p. 20) The dispute appears to turn, therefore, on whether the term

"terrain," as used in [**25]  the Disputed Claims, includes "objects" overlaid

on the surface of the area in addition to underlying topography of the surface

of the area. (Transcript, p. 19-20, 21)



The Patent contemplates overlaying additional objects or "virtual structures on

the terrain." (col. 8, 1. 51) (emphasis supplied) "For example it is possible to

add planned buildings to the terrain and thus see the effect of the buildings on

the view. Further alternatively or additionally, the objects may be used to

overlay map symbols and other marking on the terrain." (col. 8, 11. 51-55)

(emphasis supplied) This allows "an operator of the server and/or the user . . .

[to] add to the data which describes the terrain annotations which describe

specific points in the scene, such as runways or other destinations.

Alternatively or additionally, the operator may add three-dimensional objects,

such as planned buildings, vehicles, etc. In a preferred embodiment of the

present invention, a group of vehicles are tracked according to their position,

and they are constantly superimposed on the landscape images." (col. 2, 11.

55-64) "Preferably, the user is able to switch between viewing the terrain with

and without  [**26]   the objects, so that, for example, the user may easily

compare the view of a desired area with and without a group of planned

structures." (col. 13, 11. 58-61) (emphasis supplied) Accordingly, the

additional markings or structures that are overlaid on the terrain or the

landscape images are not part of the "terrain".



On the other hand, I find that the specification supports a construction of the

term "terrain" that includes existing objects or structures that are captured in

the virtual images of the land or other surface. The data blocks are preferably

made from "real-life images of terrain areas received from airborne or satellite

cameras." (col. 8, 11. 36-37) Such images will include, therefore, structures

built on the land, such as existing buildings, that can be viewed sufficiently

well. (col. 8, 11. 49-50) In fact, the specification contemplates the processor

being able to "automatically derive [] . . . objects from the images. For

example, the processor may identify roads and/or runways in the images and

represent them as objects so that they appear more clearly in substantially any

resolution of display." (col. 10, 11. 9-14) In that example, the roads and

runways would [**27]  be part of the terrain, although the enhancement of them

as objects overlaid on the land would not be part the terrain.



Construction:  [HN15] (terrain) the surface features of an area of land, an

object, or a material, including color, elevation, and existing objects or

structures on the land, object or material.



E. Coordinates in the Terrain



The Plaintiff construes the phrase "coordinates in the terrain" to mean "any of

a group of one or more numbers used to determine a position in the terrain, such

as x, y, longitude, latitude, height, and/or resolution level." The Defendants

counter that "coordinates in the terrain" must refer to "a pair of numerical

coordinates, such as latitude and longitude or x and y coordinates, of a

particular location in the terrain." Before turning to the heart of the dispute,

I note that resolution level is not within the meaning of the "coordinates in

the terrain". Claim 1 and various parts of the specification refer to the

"coordinates in the terrain" and the "resolution level" as separate variables.



The debate with respect to the term coordinates' is a consequence of the fact

that the term connotes two different meanings, as understood [**28]  by a person

of skill in  [*383]  the art that may be readily apparent even to lay judges,

and that the term appears to be used in the two different ways within the patent

specification. Thus, my task requires choosing the most appropriate meaning as

used in the claims in light of the two uses in the specification.



A coordinate' typically refers to an individual value, such as an x-coordinate,

which along with another coordinate on a different axis (y), would locate a

point in a two-dimensional plane. Thus, a longitude coordinate and a latitude

coordinate would together locate a point on the Earth's surface. By adding a

third coordinate (z), the three values together would specify a point in a

three-dimensional space. Consequently, with respect to storing a proposed flight

plan, the specification speaks of inputting "three-coordinate points which

describe the route. The three coordinates preferably represent longitudinal,

latitudinal, and height coordinates of the points along the course[.]" (col. 10,

11. 39-41) Similarly, "each block is referenced using longitudinal and

latitudinal (x, y) coordinates of one of the points in the block, such as the

top right corner pixel, together with the [**29]  resolution level of the

block." (col. 9, 11. 35-38) However, the term coordinates' can also be used to

refer to a set of two or more values used to determine the position of a point

on a plane or in space. In this sense, the statement that "each object is

preferably accompanied by coordinates which state the position of the object

within sub-block" can be thought of as referring to a set of at least two

coordinate elements that together identify the object's location. (col. 8, 11.

43-44) From this perspective, the plural form of coordinates' simply

contemplates that more than one data block may be requested at a time and that

to identify each block one needs a set of coordinates. Consequently,

coordinates' may refer to the plural of coordinate' or to the set made up of at

least a pair of coordinate points.



The question, then, becomes whether "one or more coordinates in the terrain"

refers to one coordinate, such as x, or more than one coordinate, such as x and

y, or rather to one set of coordinates, such as x/y, or more than one set of

coordinates, such as x/y and x1/y1. I find that adopting the latter

understanding reconciles the claim language ("one or more") with the Defendants'

[**30]  concerns and the specification. This meaning also makes sense when

contrasted to the reference in other claims to a "plurality of coordinates",

that is to more than one set of coordinates requiring more than one data block

to represent the terrain to be viewed.



If "one or more coordinates" meant that only one numerical value ('coordinate')

would be sufficient, the processor could not provide the renderer with the data

block(s) corresponding to the coordinates of the terrain specified. The

preferred way of structuring the data blocks is to have "a header record

comprising an index to the blocks", (col. 9, 11. 25-26), and to reference each

block "using longitudinal and latitudinal (x, y) coordinates of one of the

points in the block, such as the top right corner pixel, together with the

resolution level of the block." (col. 9, 11. 35-38). Then the "renderer

determines the exact blocks needed and calls for them using their (x, y)

coordinates and their resolution level. Alternatively or additionally, renderer

specifies, for each resolution level, the coordinates of the boundaries of the

necessary areas, and cache manager determines the identities of the required

blocks." (col. 14, 11.  [**31]  10-15) Consequently, even in the alternative

scenario, the system requires multiple sets of numerical values ('coordinates')

that define the boundaries of the particular area of the terrain.



[*384]  Construction:  [HN16] (coordinates in the terrain) a set of numerical

values that identifies a particular location in the terrain



F. Resolution Level



In construing "indication of a respective resolution level", the Defendants

suggested that resolution level referred to "the amount of detail per unit

area." In its Reply Brief, the Plaintiff argued that "the amount of detail" is

not tied to a "unit area." However, in the Plaintiff's Memorandum in Support of

Motion for Preliminary Injunction, the Plaintiff indicated that "the blocks with

the highest resolution level have the most amount of detail per unit area. '189

Patent, col. 3, lns. 6-9." While not specifically addressed at the Markman

hearing by either party, Defendants' construction appears appropriate.



Although, the specification anticipates that "the data streaming methods of the

present invention may be used to convey large databases of data which are to be

displayed graphically, such as in graphic displays of stock values,  [**32]  "

(col. 16, 11. 20-24), as opposed to just three-dimensional views of the

surfaces, Claims 1 and 12 specifically claim a "method of providing data blocks

describing three-dimensional terrain" and an "apparatus for providing data

blocks describing three-dimensional terrain." (col. 16, 11. 28-29; col. 18, 11.

12-13) Consequently, classifying data blocks describing three-dimensional

terrain "according to the height from which they view the terrain and,

therefore, the level of detail which they include," (col. 8, 11. 62-64),

requires that the concept of resolution levels include a per unit area

dimension. The specification affirms this meaning by stating plainly that "the

blocks at lower resolution levels include less detail per unit area, while the

blocks of higher resolution levels include more detail per unit area." (col. 3,

11. 6-9) I construe the term "resolution level" as the level of detail of the

data per unit area, even though in the preferred embodiment "the resolution

level is also dependent on the number of pixels in the image displayed on

display. Preferably, the resolution levels are chosen so that an approximate 1:1

ratio is achieved between the number of displayed pixels [**33]  and the number

of data pixels." (col. 11, 11. 32-37) (emphasis supplied)



Construction:  [HN17] (resolution level) the level of detail of the data per

unit area.



G. Indication of a respective resolution level



Although the Plaintiff did not construe the phrase "indication of a respective

resolution level" in its opening brief, the Plaintiff, in its Reply, took issue

with the Defendants' suggestion that this phrase be construed to mean "data

specifying the amount of detail per unit area corresponding to a level of

resolution in the hierarchical structure of data blocks." Skyline now offers

instead the following broad construction: "something that indicates, points out,

or signifies a respective resolution level."



The first step of the method claimed in Claim 1 is for part of what I will refer

to as "the system" to receive from the renderer "one or more coordinates in the

terrain along with indication of a respective resolution level." (col. 16, 11.

32-34) That part of the system is then able to "provide the renderer with a

first data block which includes data corresponding to the one or more

coordinates, from a local memory" and if that first block "is not at the

indicated [**34]  resolution level," the system downloads more data blocks

corresponding to the coordinates. (col. 16, 11. 39-44) In Claim 12, it is the

"processor which receives one or more specified coordinates along with

indication of a respective resolution  [*385]  level from a renderer [and then]

provides the renderer with a first data block . . . and downloads . . . one ore

more data blocks . . . if the first block is not from the indicated level."

(col. 18, 11. 21-30) The specification describes how preferably the "renderer

determines the exact blocks needed and calls for them using their (x, y)

coordinates and their resolution level." (col. 14, 11. 10-12) All of these

references suggest that "indication of a respective resolution" simply means the

renderer indicates (to the processor) or identifies the particular resolution

level or the particular level of the hierarchical database of the data required.



At the Markman hearing, the parties agreed with this construction except that

Skyline questioned whether it is necessary to bring the concept of hierarchical

structure into this definition. (Transcript, p. 66) Upon reflection, I find that

it is unnecessary to include hierarchical database within [**35]  the

construction of this term because it is already agreed that the database is

organized hierarchically by resolution level.



Construction:  [HN18] (indication of respective resolution level) the

identification of the particular resolution level of the data required



H. Renderer



Plaintiff offers the following construction for this term:





     something that may be implemented entirely in software or may include

     a dedicated hardware processor along with a software package running

     on a general purpose processor, which performs one or more steps of

     the recited method and assists in the display of the terrain based on

     the data provided.





Defendants contend that it is not nearly so broad, offering the following

construction instead:

     a software and/or hardware object that performs each of the following

     steps: (1) determines the coordinates of the terrain data required to

     create an image and sends the needed coordinates along with a

     specified resolution level to another object; (2) receives the data

     blocks corresponding to the provided coordinates; and (3) uses the

     received data blocks to create an image.







Claim 1 teaches a "method comprising: receiving from [**36]  the renderer one or

more coordinates in the terrain along with indication of a respective resolution

level" and "providing the renderer with a first data block . . . from a local

memory." (col. 16, 11. 31-37) Claim 12 provides for an "apparatus for providing

data blocks . . . to a renderer . . . comprising: a local memory which stores

data blocks corresponding to coordinates proximal to a current viewpoint of the

renderer" and "a processor which receives one or more specified coordinates

along with indication of a respective resolution level from a renderer, [and]

provides the renderer with a first data block." (col. 18, 111. 12-13, 16-18,

21-24) This language shows that important aspects of the method run through the

renderer. But according to Claim 9, the renderer does not simply act as a

go-between, providing coordinates and receiving data blocks, it also has the

undisputed job of ultimately converting the information into an image and

rendering the view from the current viewpoint. (col. 17, 11. 65-67)



The specifications provide a similar picture of the renderer's three functions

in the preferred embodiment with references to renderer', renders', and

rendering program'.  [**37]





     In some preferred embodiments of the present invention, the processor

     runs a rendering program which displays the three dimensional images

     based on the  [*386]  viewpoint, the size of the displayed image and

     the blocks received from the server. The rendering program orders the

     blocks it needs using a cache manager, which is preferably a software

     routine running on the processor. If the cache manager has the ordered

     block, it provides it to the rendering program. However, if the block

     is not carried by the cache manager, it is ordered from the server,

     and a replacement block from a lower resolution level is passed to the

     rendering program.



     When the rendering program requires a block including a new point or

     area for display, the cache manager first requests the block of the

     lowest resolution level which covers the area with the least detail

     and then requests subsequent blocks with successively increasing

     detail, until the block with the level of detail required by the

     rendering program is sent. The rendering program renders the

     three-dimensional image using the blocks it has on hand. Each time

     another block is received, the image is rendered again.  [**38]  Thus,

     the user sees an image at substantially all times and is not prevented

     from moving the viewpoint while additional data is being sent from the

     server.



     There is therefore provided in accordance with a preferred embodiment

     of the present invention, a method of providing data blocks describing

     three-dimensional terrain to a renderer, the data blocks belonging to

     a hierarchical structure which includes blocks at a plurality of

     different resolution levels, the method including receiving from the

     renderer one or more coordinates in the terrain along with indication

     of a respective resolution level, providing the renderer with a first

     data block which includes data corresponding to the one or more

     coordinates, from a local memory, and downloading from a remote server

     one or more additional data blocks which include data corresponding to

     the one or more coordinates if the provided block from the local

     memory is not at the indicated resolution level.



     Preferably, the method includes downloading excess blocks not

     currently needed by the renderer to fill up the local memory when not

     downloading blocks required by the renderer.



     Preferably, the renderer  [**39]   renders a view from a current

     viewpoint.





(col. 3, 11. 54-67; col. 4, 11. 1-23, 56-59, 60-61) (emphasis supplied)



Detailed descriptions of the figures in the patent further substantiate that the

renderer performs at least three functions: it determines the coordinates

needed; receives the appropriate data blocks; and renders an image with the data

provided. (See, e.g., col. 11, 11. 19-24 ("Processor preferably . . . comprises

a renderer, which calculates the view from the viewpoint and continuously

renders the view on display" and "determines the coordinates of the pixels it

needs in order to render the view and requests the descriptions of these pixels

from a cache manager."); col. 12, 11. 58-63 ("Renderer uses blocks from cache

manager to render the required view on display. Preferably, when cache manager

provides a block of a lower resolution level than that requested by renderer,

the renderer uses the provided block to interpolate a higher resolution-level

block."); col. 14, 11. 10-13 ("Preferably, renderer determines the exact blocks

needed and calls for them using their (x, y) coordinates and their resolution

level. Alternatively or additionally,  [**40]  renderer specifies, for each

resolution level, the coordinates of the boundaries of the necessary areas, and

cache manager determines the identities of the  [*387]  required blocks."); see

also col. 14, 11. 27-46; col. 15, 11. 33-46.)



The parties do not dispute that the renderer is an object that may be

implemented entirely in software or may include hardware, (Transcript, p. 22),

for as the specification describes:





     Preferably, renderer is as described in the above mentioned U.S.

     patent application Ser. No. 08/939,948. 5 Alternatively or

     additionally, renderer may operate in accordance with any other method

     known in the art. Renderer is preferably implemented entirely in

     software. Alternatively, renderer includes a dedicated hardware

     processor, such as a 3D graphic accelerator, along with a software

     package running on general purpose processor which provides blocks to

     the dedicated hardware processor.



     (col. 13, 11. 8-17)









- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



5 "It is appreciated that the [terrain rendering] method of FIGS. 1A-1C may be

implemented partly in computer hardware and partly in software, or entirely in

custom hardware. Preferably, the apparatus of the present invention is

implemented in suitably programmed computer hardware comprising, for example, a

Pentium-Pro/MNX based central processing unit (CPU)." ('583 Patent, col. 6, 11.

4-10)

- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -



 [**41]  The parties also agree that the renderer receives data blocks

corresponding to the specified coordinates and uses the data provided to display

real-life images of terrain or three-dimensional images of an object or

material. 6 (Transcript, p. 22) The Plaintiff disputes, however, whether the

renderer is limited by the three steps identified by the Defendants and whether

something else, namely the cache manager, may perform those steps. More

specifically, the essence of the debate crystallized during the Markman hearing

into understanding the impact of the statement in the specification that

"alternatively, cache manager determines the identity of the required blocks

and/or sub-blocks." (col. 11, 11. 26-27)(Transcript, pp. 24, 27, 31-33)



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



6 The Plaintiff insists on the verb "assists" (Pl. Brief, p. 10), citing to col.

11, 11. 19 -- col. 13, 11. 17 and Figs. 5, 8. I do not agree that the word

"assists" is necessary. It is clear from the specification that it is the

renderer that renders the view. See col. 11, 11. 19-21 (The renderer "calculates

the view from the viewpoint and continuously renders the view from the viewpoint

and continuously renders the view on display."); col. 12, 11. 58-59 ("Renderer

uses blocks from cache manager to render the required view on display."); and

col. 12, 11. 66-67, col. 13, 11. 1-7 ("When cache manager finishes downloading

an additional block of a higher resolution level from server, the block is

provided to renderer, which updates the rendered view accordingly. Preferably,

when the viewpoint is in motion, renderer updates the view at least ten times

per second so that the user has a perception of constant movement, although

other rates of update may also be used. Preferably, renderer renders the view

each time from scratch without using previously-rendered views.") To the degree

that other components are required for the renderer to render the view, such

assisting components do not detract from the renderer's function of using the

received data block to display an image.

- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -



 [**42]  It is clear from Claims 1 and 2 that in describing both the method and

the apparatus, a part of the system (the processor in Claim 12) "receives one or

more specified coordinates along with indication of a respective resolution

level from a renderer[.]" (col. 16, 11. 32-34; col. 18, 11. 20-23) (emphasis

supplied). This step is also described in the specification as the "renderer

determines the coordinates of the pixels it needs in order to render the view

and requests the descriptions of these pixels from a cache manager." (col. 11,

11. 21-24) As a result, something must perform the function of determining which

data blocks correspond to the coordinates identified as required by the renderer

so that the appropriate data block may be sent to  [*388]  the renderer.

Preferably, it is the "renderer [that] determines which blocks and/or sub-blocks

include the required pixels", (col. 11, 11. 24-26), and therefore the "cache

manager downloads from server the blocks and/or sub-blocks required by renderer

. . ." (col. 11, 11. 62-63) Alternatively, however, it is the "cache manager

[that] determines the identity of the required blocks and/or sub-blocks" from

the coordinates received from the [**43]  renderer. (col. 11, 11. 26-27) But, in

both embodiments of the method, it is clear that the renderer at least performs

the function of determining and specifying to another object what coordinates

are required along with identifying the respective resolution level.



Construction:  [HN19] (renderer) software and/or hardware object that performs

at least the following functions: (1) determining and providing to another

object the required coordinates in the terrain along with a respective

resolution level; (2) receiving the data blocks corresponding to the specified

coordinates; and (3) using the received data blocks to display a

three-dimensional image.



I. Local Memory



The Plaintiff argues that "'local memory' requires no more detailed a definition

than memory of a local computer,'" quoting the Microsoft Computer Dictionary.

Defendants proffered construction is consistent with a more narrow definition of

local memory: "a memory that is part of the local computer that is performing

the steps of the recited method." But, during the hearing, the parties agreed to

the construction "memory easily accessible to the client computer, either

because it is physically part of [**44]  the processor or is attached directly

thereto -- as distinct from the memory of the remote server from which data must

be downloaded." This definition addresses the Plaintiff's concern that local

memory need not actually be physically part of the computer, for example, if

located in a thumbdrive, and the Defendants' concern that it be clear that the

local memory is distinct from the processor that may be running on the remote

server. (Transcript, pp. 68-69)



The language in the disputed claims and the specification highlights that the

"local memory", or "cache memory", 7 is the memory directly tied, although not

necessarily physically, to the processor and not memory local to any other

computing device or remote server. The data in the local memory must be

available to the processor in a direct, rapid way that memory found elsewhere --

such as in the remote server -- is not. See, e.g., col. 11, 11. 58-61 ("The term

cache memory is used herein generally to refer to any relatively small memory

which can be accessed rapidly by processor and is used to save data which is

most likely to be used by the processor."); col. 14, 11. 31-45 ("When a request

for block, identified as "x," and [**45]  having resolution level N, is received

from renderer, cache manager determines, as indicated in block (FIG. 8), the

level j of the highest resolution-level ancestor of block x stored in cache

memory. If the block itself is stored in cache memory (i.e., j=N), the block is

provided to renderer. Otherwise, the highest resolution level ancestor of block

x which is stored in cache memory is provided to renderer, as indicated in

block. As described hereinbelow, cache manager downloads the rest of the

ancestors of block x from server in order of increasing resolution levels, as

indicated by an arrow in FIG. 9. As the blocks are  [*389]  received from the

server, they are supplied to renderer so that the user sees an image whose

resolution increases with time.") The distinction between the local cache memory

and the larger memory stores that are accessible through a "communication link"

is at the heart of the invention. Unlike prior art, this patent purports to

display three-dimensional images on a user's computer without requiring an

unusually large "local memory" by streaming data from a remote source,

preferably over the Internet. (col. 2, 11. 7-20, 26-33.)



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



7 The figures included in the patent refer to the "cache memory 32", and it

seems clear that this is what is referenced when the patent speaks of the "local

memory." See col. 3, 11. 24-27 (referring to a "local cache memory"); col. 13,

1. 40 ("local cache memory").

- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -



 [**46]  Construction:  [HN20] (local memory) memory easily accessible to the

user's processor, either because it is physically part of the processor or is

attached directly thereto, and distinct from the memory of the remote server

from which data must be downloaded.



J. Communication Link & Processor



The Plaintiff construes "communication link" to refer to "the connection between

computers that enables data transfer" citing Microsoft Computer Dictionary 98

(4th ed. 1999). The Plaintiff defines a "processor" to be "a unit comprised of

hardware and/or software that processes computer-readable instructions." The

Defendants did not propose an alternative to the Plaintiff's suggested

constructions of "communication link" and "processor". In the hearing, the

Defendants suggested that I adopt the Plaintiff's unopposed construction, so

long as I also adopt their unopposed constructions of various other terms in the

other claims. Since the scope of this construction is limited to terms in

dispute in Claims 1 and 12, I need not consider the proposed constructions for

other terms in the other claims. But, I will adopt the Plaintiff's constructions

for "communication link" and "processor". [**47]  Given the Defendants' concerns

with respect to local memory, however, I adopt the Plaintiff's construction of

"processor" with the caveat that it is a unit of the user's computer as distinct

from the "remote server." (col. 2, 1. 8)



Construction:  [HN21] (connecting device) a network connection, such as the

Internet, used for transferring data between computers



Construction: (processor) a unit of hardware and/or software, distinct for the

remote server, that processes computer-readable instructions



/s/ Douglas P. Woodlock



UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE



ATTACHMENT



APPENDIX



SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTIONS

  Disputed         Skyline's          Defendants'           Court's

    Term         Construction        Construction        Construction

 data block   a quantity, set or  an image of a       A block or

              amount of           terrain area that   collection of data

              information or data is composed of      or digital

              representing a      pixels, where each  information

              portion of the      data block

              terrain             optionally also

                                  contains data

                                  associated with the

                                  image of the

                                  terrain area, such

                                  as data describing

                                  other objects that

                                  overlay the

                                  terrain; each block

                                  has one particular

                                  resolution



 data block                                           a block or

 describing                                           collection of data

   three-                                             or digital

 dimensional                                          information that

   terrain                                            represents or

                                                      describes a section

                                                      of three --

                                                      dimensional terrain

                                                      at a particular

                                                      resolution level

                                                      and that includes

                                                      any additional data

                                                      overlaid on the

                                                      digital image of

                                                      the terrain, such

                                                      as altitude, labels

                                                      or optional objects



 data blocks  data blocks         data blocks that    data blocks that

  belonging   arranged into       are organized into  are organized into

    to a      multiple levels of  multiple levels of  multiple levels of

hierarchical  resolution, wherein resolution, whereby resolution, whereby

  structure   each level of the   each level contains each level contains

              structure contains  data blocks at the  data blocks at the

              blocks of a         same resolution,    same resolution.

              different           and each successive and each successive

              resolution          level contains data level contains data

                                  blocks of a higher  blocks of a higher

                                  resolution than     resolution than

                                  those in the        those in the

                                  preceding level     preceding level



 first data   a designation of a  the data block      the first data

    block     data block that may stored in local     block provided to

              be one of a         memory that is the  the renderer from

              plurality of data   first data block to the local memory

              blocks              be provided to the  corresponding to

                                  renderer in         the specified

                                  response to the     coordinates

                                  coordinates in the

                                  terrain and the

                                  indication of a

                                  respective

                                  resolution level

                                  received from the

                                  renderer



   terrain    the physical        the surface         the surface

              features of an      features of an area features of an area

              area, object or     of land; topography of land, an object,

              material, which                         or a material,

              includes geographic                     including color,

              and/or elevation                        elevation, and

              attributes and may                      existing objects or

              include other                           structures on the

              features, such as                       land, object or

              color attributes                        material

              and objects



 coordinates  any of a group of   a pair of numerical a set of numerical

   in the     one or more numbers coordinates, such   values that

   terrain    used to determine a as latitude and     identifies a

              position in the     longitude or x and  particular location

              terrain, such as x, y coordinates, of a in the terrain

              y, longitude,       particular location

              latitude, height,   in the terrain

              and/or resolution

              level



 resolution   the level of detail the amount of       the level of detail

    level     of the data         detail per unit     of the data per

                                  area                unit area



indication of something that      data specifying the the identification

a respective  indicates, points   amount of detail    of the particular

 resolution   out, or signifies a per unit area       resolution level of

    level     respective          corresponding to a  the data required

              resolution level    level of resolution

                                  in the hierarchical

                                  structure of data

                                  blocks



  renderer    something that may  a software and/or   software and/or

              be implemented      hardware object     hardware object

              entirely in         that performs each  that performs at

              software or may     of the following    least the following

              include a dedicated steps: (1)          functions: (1)

              hardware processor  determines the      determining and

              along with a        coordinates of the  providing to

              software package    terrain data        another object the

              running on a        required to create  required

              general purpose     an image and sends  coordinates in the

              processor, which    the needed          terrain along with

              performs one or     coordinates along   a respective

              more steps of the   with a specified    resolution level;

              recited method and  resolution level to (2) receiving the

              assists in the      another object; (2) data blocks

              display of the      receives the data   corresponding to

              terrain based on    blocks              the specified

              the data provided   corresponding to    coordinates; and

                                  the provided        (3) using the

                                  coordinates; and    received data

                                  (3) uses the        blocks to display a

                                  received data       three --

                                                      dimensional

                                  blocks to create an image

                                  image.



local memory  memory of a local   a memory that is    memory easily

              Computer            part of the local   accessible to the

                                  computer that is    user's processor,

                                  performing the      either because it

                                  steps of the        is physically part

                                  recited method      of the processor or

                                                      is attached

                                                      directly thereto,

                                                      and distinct from

                                                      the memory of the

                                                      remote server from

                                                      which data must be

                                                      downloaded



communication a network                               a network

    link      connection, such as                     connection, such as

              the Internet, used                      the Internet, used

              for transferring                        for transferring

              data between                            data between

              Computers                               computers



  Processor   a unit comprised of                     a unit of hardware

              hardware and/or                         and/or software,

              software that                           distinct for the

              processes                               remote server, that

              computer --

              Readable                                processes

                                                      computer --

              Instructions                            readable

                                                      instructions

[**48]

