

New Delhi: Lava International today unveiled its Iris X series with the launch
of its much awaited Iris X1. In the sub-8,000 price range, Iris X1 will offer a
very strong proposition with the latest Android 4.4.2 KitKat, power-packed
performance and a great design.

Currently, Lava Iris X1 is one of the few devices in India and the first one
from Lava that is built on the KitKat out-of-the-box platform, offering a
premium and smooth user experience. The platform offers faster multi-tasking
through optimized memory and improved touch responsiveness. Its new phone app
automatically prioritizes contacts based on the people a user talks to the most,
and its smart caller ID looks for matches from businesses with local listing on
Google Maps.

Lava Iris X1 takes a leaf out of the Iris Pro series as far as the aesthetics is
concerned. On the performance aspect, the smartphone provides an excellent
experience on the back of a 1.2 GHz Quad-Core Broadcom BCM23550 processor
powered by 1GB RAM. Iris X1 provides an excellent 3D gaming experience and video
performance with help of a specialized graphics engine based on Videocore
multimedia technology. Iris X1 sports a 4.5-inch FWVGA IPS (854 x 480 pixels)
display that offers high-quality colour-reproduction and great viewing angles.

Iris X1 sports an 8 MP rear camera with LED flash and a 1.4 Am pixel BSI+
sensor. The rear Camera supports full HD (1080p) video recording and playback,
comes with Auto focus, touch to focus functionality and HDR mode. It also
includes a 2.0-MP front-facing camera for video calling.

The device comes with 4GB of internal memory that is expandable up to 32GB via
micro-SD card. The dual SIM phone packs a long-lasting 1800 mAh battery
providing ample back up for multimedia payback, talk-time and stand-by.

Hari Om Rai, CMD, Lava International Ltd. said, "Lava Iris X1 is for the
consumers who not only want a high performance device but also a beautiful
design. Iris X1 is designed to mesmerize the consumers and will surely create
ripples in the market at this price point. We are confident that the latest
hardware and software features coupled with its great design will surely deliver
a rich experience to the consumers."

Kerala IT News

