

Apple has slashed prices of its Indian bestseller iPhone 5s for the third time
in three months, bringing them down to almost half of September levels, in a bid
to shore up sales as demand for iPhone 6s and 6s Plus has nosedived after
Diwali.

iPhone 5s prices now starts at .

'24,999, down from .

'44,500 in September. This makes Indian price of iPhone 5s one of the lowest
globally, despite the depreciating rupee and higher import taxes making India
among markets where Apple products cost the most, retailers and analysts said.

\x93iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sales has again dampened after a brief period of pick
up during Diwali, which prompted Apple to successively bring down price of
iPhone 5s,\x94 a senior executive with a leading retail chain said. \x93This is
interesting since iPhone 5s has been their best seller in the Indian market and
companies seldom drop prices such frequently for popular models,\x94 he said.

Retailers say iPhone 5s accounts for almost 50% of total iPhone sales in India.
Apple had lowered the price of iPhone 5s during Dusseh

ra in October and then again before Diwali in November. An email sent to Apple
did not elicit any response as of press time Sunday.

According to trade sources, the US tech giant\x92s latest move is triggered by
its plans to double India sales in the crucial December quarter, a high sales
period for Apple globally as it\x92s the launch period of new iPhones.

Analysts said Apple\x92s price cut of iPhone 5s is part of its strategy to build
a stronger portfolio in the mid-segment smartphone market.

"The $250-400 (. '27,000) '16,000\xAD.price band is where Apple wants to focus
its energies in India since they want to lock in more consumers into their
eco-system which would build up a base for upgradation when newer iPhones are
launched," said Tarun Pathak, senior telecom analyst at Counterpoint Research.

Pathak said this price band is one of the least competitive and where Indian
consumers typically look for the brand factor in purchase.He said the total
number of consumers in India in the iPhone 5 series was 1.2 million until
September 2015, of the total number of 3.5 million iPhone users who either own
the older or latest model. Retailers said the price cut would help Apple compete
better.

"Samsung's A and E series

smartphones are operating in this price band, but the Korean company has not yet
launched any newer models in these segments, hence Apple can significantly gain
share this quarter," a senior executive with a leading cellphone chain said.

