

NEW DELHI: For those not willing to wait, they're already available in India...
the new iPhone 6s models. But the phones won't come with a company guarantee.
Barely two weeks before some of the most sought after smartphones hit retail
shops in India, Apple's latest offerings - iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus - are
available on eBay India and some reseller sites such as OLX and Quikr for what
appears to be an astounding marked up price.

One can buy an 'imported' iPhone 6s 128 GB model for Rs 1,14,999 on ebay.in,
which will be delivered anywhere in India within five to six days of receiving
payment. The seller also offers a six-month seller warranty on models including
the iPhone 6s 16 GB model for Rs 69,999 and the 64 GB variant for Rs 84,999.
These are backed by an eBay guarantee.

Another seller on used-goods site Olx. in is offering the iPhone 6s 64 GB for Rs
75,000 and can ship it within a day, while one on Quikr.com has put a 65,000 tag
for the 16 GB variant of iPhone 6s Plus.

"There will be no guarantee or warranty on this phone," a seller on Olx.in told
ET. "The phones come from overseas and won't have the standard warranty or
guarantee."

The phones have become available in India five days after the September 25
launch in the US and 11 other countries. The Cupertino-based smartphone maker
said it sold over 13 million iPhone 6s and 6s Plus phones over the first
weekend, a record.

The devices will be available in retail stores in India on the intervening night
of October 15 and 16. While Apple is yet to announce prices for India, as per
trade estimates, the 16 GB iPhone 6s will be priced at Rs 55,000-56,000 and the
iPhone 6s Plus 16 GB model will be sold for Rs 65,000-66,000. "We recommend our
customers buy Apple branded products from authorised Apple resellers to ensure
they receive the best possible customer service and post-sales experience. We
haven't announced the pricing at this point of time," the company said.

Sources at Apple said the phones sold on various websites are imported and won't
have guarantees. They said buyers would be risking paying all the money upfront
with no guarantee of delivery. OLX did not respond to queries on listings on
their sites.

Quikr said it has a comprehensive policy on its website that outlines the types
of products for which listing or posting of classifieds or information is
prohibited. "We also spend time educating buyers about what to check before
buying the product listed by the seller," Atul Tewari, COO at Quikr, said in an
email.

An eBay India spokesperson clarified that the seller warranty was not akin to
manufacturer warranty.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

