

NEW DELHI: After a tepid start to sales of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, there's
been a sharp turnaround with Indian buyers matching the rest of the world in
fervour for the devices. Apple is set for its best-ever quarter in local sales
thanks to promotional offers and discounts it launched before Diwali following
the lacklustre opening.

The smartphone maker shipped more than 413,500 of the latest iPhones in the
first month of its launch to November 15, which is close to what Apple sold in
the entire October-December quarter last year in the world's fastest-growing
smartphone market.

Shipments of the new iPhones made up nearly 74% of Apple's total in the month
and a half that began October 1, according to shipment data from Cybex Exim.
Apple imported 562,500 iPhones between October 1 and November 15. That compares
with 500,000 units it sold in the October-December period last year, its best
quarter thus far.

"The initial momentum was not that strong, so Apple went in for a change and
offered discounts on the new phones," said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at
Counterpoint Research. "But the overall demand for Apple iPhone still remains
strong, thanks to the strong aspirational value attached to the brand."

Research agencies estimate that sales for the quarter ending December may exceed
700,000 units.

Apple launched the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in India on October 16 at Rs
62,000-Rs 92,000 depending on the memory and model, about Rs 14,000-16,000 more
than in markets such as the US, Middle East, Singapore and Hong Kong. Apple
admitted that the high prices may have discouraged buyers.

"We've adjusted some prices around the world for the launch of iPhone 6s and 6s
Plus... Obviously when we increase prices around the world, it's normal to see
some impact on sales rates," Apple's chief financial officer Luca Maestri said
late last month on an earnings call about the impact of foreign exchange
fluctuations in parts of the world including India.

The weak debut prompted a rethink by Apple and the announcement of a buyback
programme offering discounts of as much as Rs 34,000 in early November, just
before Diwali. That strategy seems to have paid off, said retailers and those in
the trade.

"Our iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sales were very good primarily due to the buyback
offer, which started a week before Diwali," said the chief executive of a
leading retail chain in south India. "It started out slow but because of that
offer, which we marketed very well too, we had a very good sale for Apple
phones."

The 413,500 iPhones shipped in the first month represents a trebling of the
monthly average that Apple clocked for its fiscal year ended September. During
the fiscal year, the company shipped a record 1.7 million iPhones, or 142,000
units a month, to India.

The most popular model has been the 16GB iPhone 6s, the cheapest of the new
phones, at 176,000 units. What has also worked for Apple is the expansion of its
retail network besides becoming more widely available online with sellers
allowed to discount prices as they see fit.

"Apple has more reach now compared to last year, so they (Apple) would make sure
that their partners have a level of inventory to manage demand," Counterpoint's
Pathak said.

In line with the growing importance of India--among the few growing markets in
the world and that too at a scorching pace--Apple has expanded distributors to
five from two since the beginning of the year.

"Apple's strategy is simple," said Pathak. "They want to get as many people as
possible onto their ecosystem in India and ensure deeper distribution reach
within India. The platform stickiness of the Apple ecosystem will ensure that
Apple's existing user base is going to be more robust in the coming one year."

This includes the launch of Apple Music in India at a price of Rs ?120 a month?
for individuals and Rs 180 for families (up to 6 users).?

On an analyst conference call last month chief executive officer Tim Cook was
positive about India's potential in the long run. Also, recent relaxations in
retail policy could see the company opening directly owned stores in India.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

