

Someone should write a game for Apple's iPhone 6s, where users sit there with
their phones and pop bubble wrap on the screen.

In this new version of the game, you wouldn't just tap on the bubbles to pop
them, the way you do with existing bubble wrap apps. What a pointless and
unsatisfying game it would be if all you had to do is touch bubbles to pop them.

No, in my version you would have to press long and hard on a bubble before it
popped, just like you have to in real life. And the harder you pressed, the
louder the popping noise would be. How awesome would that be?

I for one would pay good money for such a game. It would the perfect way to
relieve the frustrations of everyday life, not to mention the frustrations of
owning the iPhone 6s itself.

That's right, frustrations.

I'm on to only my fourth day of using the iPhone 6s, and already it's driving me
nuts. How can a phone that is so utterly brilliant in so many respects have such
an utterly mediocre battery life? The phone was dead by 3pm yesterday after a
night on the charger, and it was dead by 7pm the day before that.

Admittedly, I've been driving it pretty hard because I'm reviewing it, but I
review dozens of phones a year the same way and none of them are dead that fast.

3pm! Grrrr! Where is some bubble wrap when you need to pop something?

I wouldn't care, except for the fact that when it's got a charge the iPhone 6s
is the best smartphone I have ever used. Together with the iPhone 6s Plus, the
iPhone 6s has got a new feature known as 3D Touch that creates a new type of
gesture for touch devices, one in which you get different outcomes depending on
how hard you press the screen.

And 3D Touch is brilliant.

Press lightly on the bubble in my imaginary bubble game, and it merely squeaks.
Press harder and it squashes. Press all the way and it pops. It could even feel
like a pop, because Apple has incorporated haptic feedback into 3D Touch, which
makes the iPhone vibrate differently depending on the hardness of the press. 3D
Touch is in only a few apps, most written by Apple, but I can tell it's going to
change the way we use devices, because after just two days it changed the way I
used devices. On Sunday I found myself hard-pressing on my Microsoft Surface Pro
tablet, and wondering momentarily why it wasn't working. Having used 3D Touch
for only a few days, I fear there is no going back to other phones: something
I'm going to rue every 8pm when the phone is out of juice.

Probably the best example of 3D Touch is in Apple's email app. When you're in
your email inbox, a gentle press on an email header causes all the other headers
to de-focus, so you know you're pressing on the right one.

Press a little harder and a preview of the email pops up and stays there until
you either take your finger off the screen, which closes the preview, or you
press even harder, which fully opens the email. When in preview mode you can
even slide your finger for additional functions: a swipe to the right marks it
as read, a swipe to the left archives it, and a swipe upwards exposes other
options such as Reply, Forward and Move Message.

By far, it's the best email experience I've had on a phone. 3D Touch makes it
easy to power through dozens of emails quickly, just with your thumb. If only
you could mark emails as read just by previewing them, without the need for that
extra swipe, it would be perfect. Die, emails, die!

Apple calls that first, preview gesture a "peek" and the harder press a "pop",
which might have been what made me think of bubble wrap. But Apple's pop is
nowhere near as satisfying as the pop I have in mind. If emails could make a
loud popping sound when you delete them, that would be doubly perfect.

The only thing I find more satisfying than popping bubble wrap is deleting
emails so I never have to look at them again.

However, 3D Touch, brilliant as it is, has come at a cost.

To squeeze in the new "Taptic Engine" haptic feedback system used by 3D Touch ,
Apple has apparently had to shrink the phone's battery slightly. Apple says it
has made up for that smaller battery with improved efficiencies elsewhere,
meaning you're no worse off with an iPhone 6s than you were with an iPhone 6,
but that misses the point.

The iPhone 6s has got the best camera of any phone we've ever reviewed (equal
best with Samsung's Galaxy S6 and Note 5, I should say), it's got the best user
experience on the market, it's one of the fastest phones ever released (you
should see our benchmarks), its new fingerprint scanner is the fastest we've
ever seen, and it's one of the best-looking phones there is, with the best
ecosystem of apps and accessories.

So why, oh why, can't the iPhone 6s have an industry-leading battery life too?
It costs enough. The battery on the iPhone 6s should be bigger, not smaller. The
iPhone 6s is slightly heavier than the iPhone 6, again because of the 3D Touch
technology, and it's better for it.

The extra weight, while only barely noticeable, makes the iPhone 6s feel ever so
slightly better in the hand in my opinion. An extra half millimetre of thickness
to accommodate a bigger battery wouldn't have hurt, and it might even have
improved the feel of the phone, just like the extra weight did.

