

Your spanking new iPhone 6sis a beautiful thing. But you'll need a protective
case to keep it that way. Drops, scrapes and marks are hard to avoid if you're
always on the go, so we've found some tough covers to safeguard your smartphone
while giving it a stylish finishing touch.

1. Ted Baker iPhone 6/6sCase in Alli Cascading Floral with Mirror

Featuring a vibrant floral design, this pretty case offers all-round protection
against everyday bumps and scrapes and gives easy access to controls. Selfie
queens can use the built-in mirror before taking a snap and keep their phone in
a handbag without worrying about it getting scratched.

Ted Baker iPhone 6/6sCase in Alli Cascading Floral with Mirror

£29.95, Proporta,

Buy it now

2. Skinnydip iPhone 6/6s Krusty O's Case

The Simpsons fans can protect their tech with this fun case by Skinnydip London.
The colourful accessory is made with flexible silicone and will cover the back
and sides of your smartphone.

Skinnydip iPhone 6/6s Krusty O's Case

£16, Skinnydip London,

Buy it now

3. Rock Dr.V iPhone 6s/6 View Case in Gold

Perfect for multi-taskers on the go, this sleek gold flip case offers strong
protection for the front and back of your phone and allows you to unlock your
device while it's still closed. The slim cover offers a snug fit and also aids
grip - which is great for those who tend to drop their phones.

Rock Dr.V iPhone 6s/6 View Case in Gold

£19.99, MobileFun,

Buy it now

4. Spigen iPhone 6 and 6s Air Skin Soft Clear Case

This semi-transparent case may only be 0.4mm thick, but a premium polycarbonate
build and protective urethane coating means it's tough enough to keep your
iPhone safe from knocks and scratches. If you're not keen on the bulk of most
cases, then this lightweight cover is your best bet.

Spigen iPhone 6 and 6s Air Skin Soft Clear Case

£12.99, Mobile Madhouse,

Buy it now

5. Olixar Maze Hollow iPhone 6s/6 Case in Mint Green

Give your phone a fresh look with this handsome mint green case. With a striking
hollow maze-inspired design, the hard cover has a raised bezel to shield your
device from scratches and dirt and won't add extra bulk.

Olixar Maze Hollow iPhone 6s/6 Case in Mint Green

£15, MobileFun,

Buy it now

Follow us on Twitter

@ESLifeandStyle

and on

Facebook

