

Apple's iPhone 7 will hit the shelves later this week and some of the tech
industry press has already got its hands on the new device.

Today - mere hours before iOS 10 is made available to download - the reviews of
the iPhone 7 started to go live.

Predictably, many of them focus on the most controversial aspect of the new
phone; the loss of the 3.5mm analogue headphone jack.

iPhone 7 goes on sale in the UK - but where are all the queues?

But the omission doesn't appear to have derailed the phone's positive aspects as
review scores remain high - just as they were for last year's iPhone 6s .

Worried about losing your expensive AirPods? This handy connecting wire promises
to keep them safe

We've picked up some of the thoughts of the reviewers here, and broken them down
across the iPhone 7's different features. So you can get an overall picture of
what the experts are saying about the new blower.

Along with dropping the headphone jack, Apple also introduced a new colour, the
easily-scratchable "jet black" and waterproofing. Here's what some reviewers had
to say:

Wired: "I'm happy to trade both headphone jack and home button to get a
water-resistant phone."

Engadget: " If you're looking for newfangled features (or a headphone jack, for
that matter), you'll have to search elsewhere. While it's not thrilling enough
to warrant an upgrade from last year's 6s, the iPhone 7 is nonetheless an
excellent smartphone."

Finally! Scientists create 'unbreakable' mobile phone screen

Apple doubled up the processing power of the new iPhone and promised better
visuals as well as more efficiency. Reviewers generally applauded the new jump
in performance.

New York Times: "The most compelling improvement on the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus is
the sharp speed increase. Spurred by faster chips, everything - switching
between apps, opening the camera - feels snappier."

Ars Technica: "The iPhone 7 usually outperforms the iPhone 6S by 30 or 40
percent, so that 27 percent clock speed jump is responsible for most but not all
of those gains."

iOS 10 update: Three reasons to download Apple's new operating system - and
three reasons not to

Apple claims the battery life of the iPhone 7 will go for around two hours
longer than last year's iPhone 6s .

Given that battery life is one of the main requirements when buying a phone,
here's what the reviewers think about Apple's effort.

Wall Street Journal: "In my punishing lab tests, the iPhone 7 lasted 10-and-1/2
hours. The 7 Plus (which has a bigger battery, but also a bigger screen to
light) lasted about 10 hours. Both of these were about an hour-and-1/2 longer
than a fresh iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, and two-and-1/4 hours longer than a 6s that
has been in use for a year."

TIME: "The iPhone 7 provided a full work day's worth of use and survived until
around 10:30 am the next morning, which falls about in line with Apple's
claims."

Siri may soon be able to breathe, do impressions and inject emotion into speech

Apple touted big camera improvements this time around and even introduced a
two-lens setup on the iPhone 7 Plus. Here are the verdicts:

Forbes: Apple has work to do to catch current smartphone camera kind Samsung,
but the iPhone 7 Plus looks capable of retaking the crown.

The Verge: "In low light, that faster lens and optical image stabilization means
that the 7 significantly outperforms the 6S. But compared to the iPhone 6S, the
iPhone 7 is a step improvement, not a major leap."

Instagram will automatically stop trolls posting nasty comments on your photos

So, with all that taken into account, stay tuned for our own review of the
iPhone 7 coming soon. In the meantime, what do you think of the iPhone 7?

