

Every time a new iPhone comes out, hordes of people wonder whether they should
upgrade. It's no different with the new iPhone 6S. So should you take the punt?
The 6S may be the latest, but is it the greatest? I've been using the 5.5-inch
6S Plus for the last two weeks. There are a few differences I've noticed between
it and the older 6 Plus model. The one that I'm most fond of is the camera.
Apple has injected extra quality into the lens of its 6S series and it shows.
You now get 12 megapixels instead of 8 (and a 5-megapixel selfie camera with a
new flash feature), which means you get appreciably more definition in images.
To be fair, megapixels are not the be-all and end-all of camera technology: on a
list of priorities, they rank only as middling. But this camera has added other
upgrades, such as a little more optical stabilisation. This means you're less
likely to take a blurry photo at any time. It also means that you can take
photos in lower light.

The combination of these features is powerful. A camera is something I score
heavily when it comes to high-end smartphones. So it's not lightly that I now
regard the 6S camera as probably the best on the market. That is the first time
I would have ever said that about an iPhone camera: while the camera on the 6
and the 6 Plus was very good, it was marginally outshone by the lenses on
Samsung's S6 and Sony's Xperia 5 (and Xperia 3 Plus). But the 6S hits a new
level: photos are very, very vivid. For anyone interested, Apple has also added
4K recording (which is twice the resolution of 'full HD') to the 6S and boosted
its slowmotion mode to 1080p ('full HD'). The aforementioned video stabilisation
also applies to video recording.

The last thing to note about the 6S camera is that it now has a feature called
"live photos" where, once activated, the camera records just over a second of
video footage either side of the moment you snapped to give you context. To be
honest, this is not a feature I have found myself using much.

What else is new on the iPhone 6S? Other than the camera, the biggest new
feature is probably 3D Touch. This is where you press harder on a screen to see
a shortcut menu pop up for certain apps such as Instagram, Photos, Camera or
Mail. It's very handy once you get the hang of it - you can take a shortcut to
writing an email, Facebook, Whatsapp or Snapchat message or post with a single
tap, rather than a couple. A few big third-party apps support it, although none
of Google's apps (Gmail, YouTube, Docs) do yet.

Technically, the 6S has boosted its power by "up to 70pc" over the 6 model,
thanks to Apple's new A9 chip. It comes in 16GB, 64GB and 128GB versions. While
I would recommend getting at least the 64GB version, the 16GB is now doable,
thanks to better memory management by Apple.

Battery life on the 6S Plus is, in my experience, slightly better than the 6
Plus. I have not yet needed to recharge it before 8pm or 9pm on the same day. To
be fair, this could also have something to do with the fact that I'm using a
smartwatch more, meaning that I often now glance at the watch to see whether I
need to engage with a message or notification, rather than taking the phone out
and switching the screen on.

In look and feel, the 6S is almost exactly the same as the former 6 model. It
uses slightly stronger aluminium and glass, which may be Apple's way of nipping
any potential 'bendgate' controversy in the bud.

In general, 'S' models of iPhones tend to stick around longer than non-'S'
models (think about the '4S' and '5S' models compared to their '4' and '5'
counterparts). This may be because once the 'S' model is created, any physical
kinks and quirks of the originating model will have been ironed out through
quality control. Whatever the truth of that, the iPhone 6S is now the best phone
you can get on the market, without any reservation. Perhaps Samsung, Sony and
HTC might come up with something special in the next few months. But for now,
Apple has fully retaken the crown.

