

New Delhi: After a tepid start to sales of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, there's
been a sharp turnaround with Indian buyers matching the rest of the world in
fervour for the devices. Apple is set for its best-ever quarter in local sales
thanks to promotional offers and discounts it launched before Diwali following
the lacklustre opening.

The company shipped over 413,500 of

the latest iPhones in the first month of its launch to November 15, which is
close to what Apple sold in the entire October-December quarter last year in the
fastest-growing smartphone market.

Shipments of the new iPhones made up nearly 74% of Apple's total in the month
and a half that

began October 1, according to shipment data from Cybex Exim. Apple imported
562,500 iPhones between October 1 and November 15. That compares with 500,000
units it sold in October-December 2014, its best quarter thus far.

"The initial momentum was not that strong, so Apple went in for a change and
offered discounts on the new phones," said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at
Counterpoint Research.

"But the overall demand for Apple iPhone still remains strong, thanks to the
strong aspirational value attached to the brand," said Tarun Pathak of
Counterpoint Research. Research agencies estimate that sales for the quarter
ending December may exceed 700,000 units.

Apple launched the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in India on Oc . 62,000-92,000
dependtober 16 at ' ing on the memory and model, . 14,000-16,000 more than in
about ' markets such as the US, Middle East, Singapore and Hong Kong.

Apple admitted that the high prices may have discouraged buyers.

"We've adjusted some prices around the world for the launch of iPhone 6s and 6s
Plus... Obviously when we increase prices around the world, it's normal to see
some impact on sales rates," Apple's Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri said
late last month on an earnings call about the impact of foreign exchange
fluctuations in parts of the world including India.

The weak debut prompted a rethink by Apple and the announcement of a buyback
programme offering discounts of as much as

. 34,000 in early November, just be' fore Diwali. That strategy seems to have
paid off, said retailers and those in the trade.

"Our iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sales were very good primarily due to the buyback
offer, which started a week before Diwali," said the chief executive of a
leading retail chain in south India. "It started out slow but because of that
offer, which we marketed very well too, we had a very good sale for Apple
phones."

The 413,500 iPhones shipped in the first month represents a trebling of the
monthly average that Apple clocked for its fiscal year ended September. During
the fis

cal year, the company shipped a record 1.7 million iPhones, or 142,000 units a
month, to India.

The most popular model has been the 16GB iPhone 6s, the cheapest of the new
phones, at 176,000 units. What has also worked for Apple is the expansion of its
retail network besides becoming more widely available online with sellers
allowed to discount prices as they see fit.

"Apple has more reach now compared with last year, so they (Apple) would make
sure that their partners have a level of inventory to manage demand,"
Counterpoint's Pathak said.

