

After a tepid start to sales of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, there's been a sharp
turnaround with Indian buyers matching the rest of the world in fervour for the
devices. Apple is set for its best-ever quarter in local sales thanks to
promotional offers and discounts it launched before Diwali.

The smartphone maker shipped more than 413,500 of the latest iPhones in the

first month of its launch to November 15, which is close to what Apple sold in
the entire October-December quarter last year in the world's fastestgrowing
smartphone market. Shipments of the new iPhones made up nearly 74% of Apple's
total in the month and a half that began October 1, according to shipment

data from Cybex Exim. Apple imported 562,500 iPhones between October 1 and
November 15. That compares with 500,000 units it sold in the October-December
period last year, its best quarter thus far. "The initial momentum was not that
strong, so Apple went in for a change and offered discounts on the new phones,"
said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at Counterpoint Research.

"But the overall demand for Apple iPhone still remains strong, thanks to the
strong aspirational value attached to the brand," Pathak said.

Research agencies estimate that sales for the quarter ending December may exceed
700,000 units. Apple launched the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in India on
October 16 at Rs 62,000-92,000 depending on the memory and model, about Rs
14,00016,000 more than in markets such as the US, Middle East, Singapore and
Hong Kong. Apple admitted that the high prices may have discouraged buyers.

"We've adjusted some prices around the world for the launch of iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus... Obviously when we increase prices around the world, it's normal to see
some impact on sales rates," Apple's Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri said
late last month on an earnings call about the impact of foreign exchange
fluctuations in parts of the world including India.

The weak debut prompted a rethink by Apple and the announcement of a buyback
programme offering discounts of as much as Rs 34,000 in early November, just
before Diwali.

That strategy seems to have paid off, said retailers and those in the trade.
"Our iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sales were very good primarily due to the buyback
offer, which started a week before Diwali," said the chief executive of a
leading retail

chain in south India. "It started out slow but because of that offer, which we
mar keted very well too, we had a very good sa le for Apple phones."

The 413,500 iPhones shipped in the first month represents a trebling of the
monthly average that Apple clocked for its fiscal year ended September.

During the fiscal year, the company shipped a record 1.7 million iPhones, or
142,000 units a month, to India.

The most popular model has been the 16GB iPhone 6s, the cheapest of the new
phones, at 176,000 units. What has also worked for Apple is the expansion of its
retail network besides becoming more widely available online with sellers allo
wed to discount prices as they see fit.

