

Apple Inc. said on Monday that advance orders of its new iPhones were on pace to
beat the 10 million units the previous versions logged in their first weekend
last year, a feat that analysts attributed to the inclusion of sales from China.

The Chinese debut of the prior models, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, was delayed last
year as the company awaited approval from regulators. Many analysts say China is
poised to overtake the United States as Apple's biggest market.

Searching for signs of whether Apple can top its 2014 performance, investors
were initially encouraged by the company's remarks but later tempered their
enthusiasm. Apple shares were up 0.7 per cent in afternoon trading after rising
as much as 2.3 per cent earlier in the session.

Apple did not disclose the specific number of advance orders it received for the
new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. Analysts had expected about 4.5 million for the first
24 hours, compared with 4 million during the first day last year.

Apple began taking preorders on Saturday for the phones, which will begin
shipping Sept. 25.

The company said it was working to catch up to demand for the iPhone 6S Plus,
the larger of the two new phones, which exceeded its forecasts for the preorder
period.

"Preorders this weekend were very strong around the world," Apple spokeswoman
Trudy Muller said in a statement.

After shattering sales records last year with the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, Apple has
been dogged by questions of whether it can sustain the momentum this year.

BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis said the company had always enjoyed a burst of
sales of new phones from diehard fans and customers who are due for an upgrade.

"Will these phones have the same staying power as the iPhone 6?" he asked. "It's
still going to be a challenge."

The exclusion of the Chinese market last year set a low bar for Apple to clear
with preorders this year, he added. However, John Jackson of IDC said the 6S and
6S Plus's strong early performance dampened concerns on Wall Street.

"Apple has this track record of outperforming its own outperformance, but the
iPhone 6 looks like an extraordinarily tough act to follow," he said. "The fact
that they are fast out of the gate with this refresh is a very encouraging
sign."

FBR Capital Markets senior analyst Daniel Ives said he was encouraged by the
response in China, where Apple's website showed particularly long wait times for
the phones.

"It shows that they are off to a white-hot start, with China really being front
and centre as a main driver of initial demand," he said.

After last year's redesign, the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus feature more modest
updates, such as improved cameras and 3D touch, a display technology that
responds according to how hard users press their screens. But Apple executives
have stated that only a fraction of users have upgraded to the iPhone 6,
suggesting the company has ample room to grow. Last week Apple announced the
phones, as well as a new TV set-top box that responds to voice commands, but the
new products underwhelmed many social media commentators and investors.

Apple relies heavily on the sale of its flagship iPhones, which generated nearly
twothirds of its revenue in the latest quarter. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

