

STORY CONTINUES BELOW (SCROLL DOWN)

Apple has unveiled new iPhones, an updated version of its Apple TV, which now
has its own app store and a voice-controlled remote control, as well as a
12.9-inch iPad Pro at a media event in San Francisco.

The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus will be arriving in Australia on September 25.

Here are six things they have that your iPhone 6 does not:

The iPhones now come in rose gold.

Maybe you never cared for the garish yellow gold Apple released to appeal to the
Chinese market. Maybe you want your phone to match your crazy expensive rose
gold Apple Watch (or the just-announced rose-gold-coloured aluminum Apple Watch
Sport you plan to buy). Whatever your rationale, if you wanted another option
besides gray, silver and yellow gold, you got it.

As predicted, Apple has renamed Force Touch as 3D Touch and implemented it in
its new iPhones. The name reflects the fact that there are three levels of
pressure you can now apply to the screen for different results.

Regular tapping works as it always has. Press lightly ' on a photo, email or web
page for instance ' and you'll get a preview of the content without having to
leave the screen you're currently on. Pressing more firmly will allow additional
options, for example opening your camera app directly into selfie mode.

The main camera on the 6s and 6s Plus has been improved over last year's phones.
The new camera is 12MP (compared to 8MP on the iPhone 6) and features a custom
Apple-made signal processor the company says will produce more accurate colour
than past models.

The front selfie camera is now 5MP (up from 1.2MP). Curiously, rather than add
an unsightly flash to the front of the device, the phone's display will flash
white at max brightness to illuminate your subject when you take a picture.
Apple calls this 'Retina Flash', which one hopes is not a commentary on the
effect it will have on your ocular tissue.

There's also a new software innovation Apple is calling Live Photos, which
records the moments before and after you take a picture to allow for more
animated shots.

In addition to 3D Touch and the new camera, a lot of subtle tweaks have been
made to the way the iPhone is put together.

New, stronger aluminum and glass makes the device stronger than its predecessors
(and presumably less likely to bend).

An all new 64-bit A9 processor, with an embedded M9 motion co-processor, will
not only let the phones crunch data and apps harder and faster but will also let
them run low power services for much longer.

Connectivity has also been bumped up to bring iPhone in line with its more
cutting edge competitors. The change means faster internet speeds on next-gen
mobile networks like Telstra's 4GX, as well as better 4G mobile reception while
roaming internationally.

This one is a bit of a cheat, as iOS 9 will also be coming to older iPhones as
well as iPads and the iPod Touch, but it is launching with the 6s and 6s Plus.

A big bump in efficiency in iOS 9 promises longer battery life, which should be
especially noticeable with the improved processing on the 6s and 6s Plus.

On iPhone the operating system also has a new Android-like app switcher for
better multitasking, an improved keyboard and some handy tweaks to built-in
software like Notes and Maps.

Wow, the Australian dollar's position versus the US has not done good things for
the price of iPhones. The cheapest version of the iPhone 6s, which has a meagre
16GB of storage, will be $1079 in Australia.

Those with good memories may already know this is $210 more than the launch
price of the comparable iPhone 6 model that launched this time last year
(although Apple did sneakily raise that price in March).

The gap grows wider the more storage you want, and wider still for the 6s Plus.
If you want the bigger phone with 128GB of storage, you'll pay $1529, $280 more
than the launch price of the comparable iPhone 6 Plus from last year.

If you want a phone outright for less than $1000, it will not be a new iPhone.

