

NEW DELHI: With the stroke of midnight, Apple began sales of the iPhone6s and
iPhone 6s Plus in India, as eager customers queued up outside various stores
across the country to get their hands on their pre-booked devices. The iPhone 6s
and iPhone6s Plus are now available for price starting Rs 62,000 and Rs 72,000
for 16GB models respectively, while higher storage variants cost more.

The prices, which are far higher than those in the US or other countries, were
not deterrent for fans like Parvinder Singh, who bought four iPhone 6s 64 GB
phones for his family and the 128 GB variant for himself.

"I'm an iPhone fan because I love clicking pictures using the phone. I have an
iPhone 6 128 GB now, but I have to upgrade to the new one every year" he said.
Singh was amongst the first buyers in Delhi.

iPhone enthusiasts are a plenty in India and Apple CEO Tim Cook recognized them
in a social media post. "Thanks to all our customers in India who queued at
midnight for the new iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus at midnight," Cook said in a
Twitter post on Friday early morning.

While well lit stores across Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore among other cities were
open till most part of the night, retailers went all out to keep waiting iPhone
enthusiasts engaged. While some had music playing others had brought illusion
artists to perform for the discerning crowd.

Law student Aarushi saved up since the launch of the iPhone 5s to buy the next
upgrade.

"I've bought the iPhone 6s 64 GB for my mom and she surprised me with the same
model that she had preordered. I'm really excited," she told ET.

With high purchase power, India is amongst the fastest growing smartphone
markets worldwide. Gartner expects it to overtake the US to become No 2 after
China by 2017.

The country is becoming important for the iconic smartphone maker as it intends
to start it's own stores with large format retailer Croma and wants distribution
to reach out to much larger number of cities and towns. It even made the new
iPhones available for preorders in the shortest time after global launch.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

