

If it's September, there must be a brand new iPhone line from Apple Inc. And if
this year's iPhone looks suspiciously similar to last year's iPhone, that's
because, well, it is.

Called the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus, the new line marks the first time
Apple has not followed one of its S-series with a design change - a deviation
from its usual two-year design cycle. The height, width and depth dimensions of
the new phones are all identical to the previous iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, though
the weight is slightly less.

The Financial Post was one of a few media outlets globally to receive early
review units of both phones to test all of the new features.

On the inside, there is a faster processor that's up to 40 per cent faster than
last year's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, plus there is up to 50 per cent better
graphics capabilities. The phones feel quicker in simple dayto-day tasks such as
web browsing, switching between apps or restarting. More intensive actions such
as photo or video editing and gaming also load faster or render much more
quickly. The Home button has also been redesigned, using a taptic engine
vibration that creates the illusion of the user pressing a button without
anything actually moving. Removing the button helps seal the phones, making them
water and dust resistant.

Controversially, Apple has also removed the headphone jack. The company said
this was done to help free up space internally for other technology, like a
bigger battery or the taptic engine. Regular headphones can now be connected
using an adapter, which will retail for only $10, for the device's Lightning
port.

Alternately, music lovers can use Bluetooth headphones, such as Apple's new
EarPods that are releasing in October. The only real usability issue with a lack
of headphone jack is when you want to charge your phone while listening to
music, which requires a separate adapter.

The most impressive part about the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is its camera.
Both models have 12-megapixel cameras, as did the iPhone 6s and 6 Plus. But the
new phones feature a larger aperture, which means improved lowlight photos with
better detail and less graininess.

But the real story for this generation, and what Apple is hoping you'll pay
extra for, is in the larger 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus. Instead of just one
12-megapixel camera, the phone has two. One is set at the usual wide angle of
other iPhones, but the second camera is a telephoto lens that's permanently
closer to subjects. This means you can now "zoom in" optically when taking
photos without losing quality.

If you have an iPhone 6s or 6s Plus, you won't see as much of a difference this
year other than the big camera upgrades. But if you have an even older iPhone,
then there is plenty to like about the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.

Both will be available Sept. 16 starting at $899 and $1049, respectively,
offcontract. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Osprey Media Group Inc. All rights reserved.

