

The new Apple iPhone will give the city's battered retail sector a shot in the
arm, experts say, as the price difference between Hong Kong and the mainland
will help stimulate demand from across the border.

Previous iPhone launches have seen long queues in the city, as traders snap up
the latest model weeks or months before it is sold across the border. The iPhone
6S will be offered in both markets on September 25, but prices are likely to be
15 per cent lower here, and with limited supply and strong demand, resellers
still hope to cash in.

ANZ senior economist Raymond Yeung said sales of the phone "will give an obvious
short-term boost to retail sales and help top-line retail sales in September and
October".

Lo Lau, owner of a Mong Kok smartphone shop, expected the new phone - with
official prices starting at HK$6,388 - to fetch HK$11,000 to HK$20,000 at
resale. A street trader said he planned to charge a minimum of HK$12,000 for a
16GB iPhone 6S Plus, the cheapest of the new Apple range.

Demand for the iPhone has driven record profits for Apple in the past. Speaking
at the unveiling of the new model, chief executive Tim Cook said the iPhone
market in China had grown 75 per cent year-on-year, compared with 35 per cent
globally.

China is Apple's second-largest market after the Americas, bringing in US$13.2
billion in the latest quarter, up 112 per cent on the same period last year.

While ANZ's Yeung thought the iPhone would have a positive effect on Hong Kong's
retail sector, he warned the overall outlook remained weak. A reduction in
tourism and domestic consumption has dragged down sales, while a strong Hong
Kong dollar, pegged to the US dollar, has reduced the spending power of overseas
visitors, ANZ says.

At the Apple store in Causeway Bay yesterday, some shoppers who still formed
long lines to buy the current generation of iPhones expressed excitement about
the new model.

"I was using the [iPhone] 5, so I need to upgrade to the new one. At least my
phone has some resell value, so I can go ahead and trade," said Joseph Tsang
Ka-ho, 40, who was visiting the store to learn more about the 6S.

But 26-year-old Terry Lam King-wai was less impressed.

"There's not much difference between the old and the new iPhone 6S. The
appearance is the same, but with a new colour," he said. "I'll probably wait for
the next generation."

