

Apple CEO Tim Cook shows off a new iPad Pro at the company's product launch
event March 21 The 9.7-inch model comes with an Apple Pencil stylus and a side
connector for attaching a keyboard case.

The new iPhone SE draws attention at the company's product launch event at Apple
headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., on March 21.

Serving up big things in smaller packages was the major theme at Apple's press
event held recently, as the company ushered in a downsized 4-inch iPhone SE and
a refreshed 9.7-inch iPad Air - called the iPad Pro - with both products copping
licks from their big sisters.

Unlike Samsung, which sells a lot of those big screen "phablet" phones, Apple's
6 series iPhone sales have been significantly stronger in the smaller-screened,
4.7-inch 6S model, rather than the 5.5-inch 6S Plus. Consumer Intelligence
Research Partners data suggests the iPhone 6S made up 48 percent of all U.S.
iPhone sales during Apple's fiscal first quarter this year, while the iPhone 6S
Plus accounted for 19 percent of all iPhone sales.

So if the customer base prefers petite, maybe it will buy into iPhone SE's even
more downsized dimensions and upscale features, including the same advanced A9
processor and 12-megapixel rear camera of the iPhone 6S. SE also boasts
hand-me-downs including a Touch ID fingerprint sensor and NFC (near field
communications) connectivity for use with Apple Pay. However, the new edition's
screen won't do those 6S "3D Touch" tricks if you keep pressing down on it.

Pricing will be a little lower, too, though hardly rock bottom, to encourage
more converts and compete a bit better with the Chinese Android smart-phone
upstarts (Huawei, Xiaomi) now eating Apple's and Samsung's lunch in developing
countries. An SE will start for $399, or about $17 per month as a line item on a
two-year payment plan, the options consumers are now presented from most
providers when they opt for a phone upgrade.

Copping licks from the 12.9-inch iPad Pro model introduced last year, the new
9.7-inch model also comes with an Apple Pencil stylus and side connector for
attaching a keyboard case, making it more like that Microsoft Surface Pro 4
transformable which has been winning renewed support for Windows OS ways.

Also like the big iPad Pro, the newbie hosts four speakers for real stereo sound
when in either horizontal or vertical configuration, offers Siri voice control,
has a faster processor and a larger internal storage capacity - maxing out at
256GB, a first for any iPad - if you're willing to fork over $899 for the
top-tier model. (The 32GB version is $599, the 128GB model is $749. All of which
went into stores March 31.)

The 9.7-inch Pro actually surpasses its close relation with a 12-megapixel rear
camera and 5-megapixel camera for FaceTime calls (up from 8/1.2Mp). The new
model boasts a significantly improved screen that goes brighter ("500 nits") and
has wider color gamut - akin to the newest big screen TVs. Also, the iPad Pro
screen makes automatic adjustments of color temp relative to ambient light
("True Tone Display") and has a "Night Shift" mode that reduces blue wavelengths
to ready you for sleeping (a feature seen in Kindle Fires, too.)

While still lacking Surface Pro 4 niceties like a slot for a microSD memory card
and a USB 3.0 input, the 9.7-inch iPad Pro does let users plug in an extra-cost
SD card reader or USB camera adapter.

On the Apple Watch front the big news was ... more band colors and new woven
bands.

Oh, and product owners can benefit from the latest software update available -
iOS 9.3.

Early on in the hype fest, Apple CEO Tim Cook touted the maker's 40th birthday
and introduced a new "CareKit" program to help individuals manage their health
care.

