


HIGHLIGHT: Aimed at those who are not brand fans, the release is like a
jacked-up 5s with a nicer finish


SINGAPORE - For those who have become used to bigger screens, the iPhone SE
(picture) is a strange beast. It feels so familiar, yet uncomfortable at the
same time.

Having been on the 6s Plus for a while now, it took me a fairly long time to get
re-acquainted with the smaller 4-inch SE. But while its size might take some
getting used to, the SE is no slouch when it comes to performance. Think of it
as a jacked-up 5s that comes with a nicer finish and more colours (including a
rose-gold version).

Starting from S$658, it is the cheapest iPhone Apple has released to date, and
it is certainly value for money. In terms of hardware, it is nearly as powerful
as the 6s and 6s Plus, albeit with fewer features.

The SE's A9 chip is the same one offered in the 6s and 6s Plus. Benchmark tests
show the SE is as fast as the 6s, and nearly three times faster than the 5s. I
did not notice any difference between the SE and 6s when playing games or
surfing the Web.

Other features carried over from the 6S include the SE's 12MP rear camera,
resulting in fast autofocusing and incredibly detailed photo quality. Unlike the
5s, you can shoot 4K videos and Live Photos. You also get the True Tone flash,
which gives fairly natural looking lighting.

Selfie lovers though may be disappointed to learn that the SE's front-facing
camera is just 1.2MP, unlike the 6s' 5MP.

One major plus for the SE is its battery life, which, for me, lasted more than a
day on regular use. Still, if you have been using the 6s, you might find the SE
lacking in some areas.

For one, it does not have 3D Touch, where you can control your device by
differing the amount of pressure you place on the screen. This feature came with
the 6s, and I would have liked it on the SE, as I use it often.

Apple also passed on upgrading the fingerprint sensor, sticking to the one used
on the 5s. This means that unlocking your phone will be slightly slower compared
with the 6s.

With about 30 million 4-inch iPhones sold last year, there appears to be a
sizeable market for the SE. Apple CEO Tim Cook has said the SE is meant for
first-time iPhone buyers or those holding onto an older device with no intention
to upgrade to a larger phone.

For Apple's target audience, the SE will not disappoint, offering both
affordability and performance.

The iPhone SE is available in space grey, silver, gold and rose-gold metallic
finishes in 16GB and 64GB models. It is sold at the online Apple store and other
authorised retailers.

