

Apple rolled out a holiday shopping list of new devices Wednesday, with its
newest iPhones only part of a lineup that included a new Apple TV and iPad Pro.

"We could not be more excited to be here this morning," Apple CEO Tim Cook said
as he opened the event at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco. "It
has been an incredible year for Apple. We are really firing on all cylinders."

The Apple TV with a new remote that doubles as a game controller makes Apple a
contender in the gaming market, where it will square off against traditional
consoles that cost much more. It also marks the debut of a TV app store.

"For me, the most interesting and intriguing part is Apple TV and what that's
going to mean for entertainment," said Chris Hobbs, president and cofounder of
the software development company Two Tall Totems and president of the Vancouver
iOS Developers Meet Up Group. "All of a sudden, now (Apple TV is) not just for
consuming entertainment, it's actually going to be a full game machine so, we're
going to be able to play games just like we could on the phone.

"It could be a game changer because all of a sudden all those apps we had
written for the iPad and the iPhone are now transferable right onto the Apple
TV." Aaron Hilton, executive chair of the mobile app development company Conquer
Mobile, said with Wednesday's announcement Apple is leveraging the strengths of
its existing ecosystem and bringing them to the home entertainment market.

"It's great news for developers, especially game developers looking to target
this audience," he said. "You can write your code for iPhone first and also make
an Apple TV variant and know you are going to have a decent market pretty
quickly."

The iPad Pro, a powerful 12.9-inch iPad with an optional keyboard and a new
Apple Pencil stylus, is clearly aimed at the enterprise market Microsoft has
been targeting with its Surface lineup and Windows 10. (Microsoft was among
companies on stage at the Apple event, demonstrating Microsoft Office on the new
iPad.)

The iPad Pro has the power to handle demanding applications, and the Apple
Pencil allows for unprecedented accuracy for drawing and sketching. The iPad Pro
is slim at 6.9 millimetres and lightweight at 712 grams (1.57 pounds), with a
full-sized screen keyboard as well as an optional physical keyboard. It has an
eight-megapixel iSight camera and 1080p video recording. No Canadian pricing has
been announced for the device, but it starts at $799 US for the 32-gigabyte
Wi-Fi model, with the Apple Pencil $99 US and the smart keyboard $169 US. The
128GB cellular-plus Wi-Fi model will be $1,079 US.

The new Apple TV adds Siri voice control plus the new remote that doubles as a
game controller. Canadian pricing is not yet available, according to Apple
Canada, but the Apple TV 32GB model will be $149 US, with the 64GB model $199
US.

In overall appearance, there is little change with the newest iPhones, although
features have been upgraded. The iPhone 6S has the same 4.7-inch screen size as
the iPhone 6, and the 6S Plus is 5.5 inches, the same as the 6 Plus.

New to the iPhones is 3D Touch, a pressure-sensitive technology demonstrated in
such features as new "Peek and Pop" that reacts to a light touch with a peek at
a photo, webpage or other content, while more pressure will pop right into the
content. The iPhones also have Live Photo, a new feature that adds sound and
action to photos by capturing time both at the beginning and end of your photo
shot.

The new iPhones deliver 4K video, a first for an iPhone, a 12-megapixel
rear-facing camera, up from the 8 megapixels of the 6 and 6 Plus, with a
fivemegapixel HD camera and a new screen flash for low-light selfies.

Pre-orders start for the iPhones Saturday, with the phones available starting
Sept. 25.

gshaw@vancouversun.com vancouversun.com/digitallife

See video with this story at vancouversun.com

New iPhones don't come cheap

iPhone 6S (unlocked, no

iPhone 6S Plus (unlocked, no contract) contract) iPhone 6s available in gold,
silver, Available in same colours as the space grey, and the new 6S rose gold
metallic finishes 16GB $1,029 16GB $899 32GB $1,159 64GB $1,029 64GB $1,289
128GB $1,159

Apple also announced a monthly plan starting at $32 US that allows iPhone buyers
to upgrade their phones annually, but that option will not be available in
Canada, according to Apple Canada. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All
rights reserved.

