

Apple has sorely disappointed Indian fans by launching a 4-inch iPhone that so
clearly doesn't seem targeted at emerging markets. The new iPhone SE, starting
at $399 '27,500) in the US for the 16GB (.version, will be available in India
from April 8 at ' . 39,000 (about $600), Apple's distributors said, continuing
with its strategy of pricing launch models at a hefty premium in the country .

Grey market traders have natu

rally spotted an opportunity for arbitrage but they say the small iPhone with
high specs hasn't generated the usual interest. The

cost in India of the 64GB variant, which is priced in the US at $499 '34,000),
(.hasn't been announced. Distri

butors Redington and Beetel said pre-bookings will begin at midnight on March
29.

Indian retailers had been expecting much more aggressive pricing, pegging the
new iPhone at a starting level of around ' . 22,000, which could have made it a
volume grosser for the company, four industry executives said.

Some of the surprise over the SE's pricing may stem from Chief Executive Tim
Cook having recently said that India was one of Apple's key growth areas in the
next decade. The company is also seeking to set up its own retail stores in
India. Retailers aren't expecting blowout sales for the SE, recalling the
lukewarm reception for an earlier variant.

"iPhone SE may go down the same way as the earlier iPhone 5c model, which was a
big flop in several countries including India due to incorrect pricing
strategy," said the chief executive of a leading cellphone retail chain. "An
iPhone launch always brings in customers enquiring about pre-bookings, but this
time it has been a dull show."

On the other hand, Apple might adopt a tack it has followed before -cutting
prices sometime after the launch to prop up sales.

Gartner Research Director Vishal Tripathi expects this to happen

because 4.7-inch iPhones are available for just a little more. "The latest
iPhone 6s is available at a market price of '. 43,000-44,000, which is larger
than SE in screen size and has competitive features," he said.

The 4-inch, 16GB 5S is available for around ' . 18,000 online while the iPhone 6
is available for ' . 36,000.The trade feels Apple will have to either drop
prices shortly after launch or offer aggressive buyback schemes if it wants the
SE to catch on.

Apple had priced the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus at ' . 14,000-16,000 more in India
when they were launched in October than in the US and elsewhere, leading to
lacklustre initial demand. The company then announced buyback schemes and a
series of price drops to encourage buyers. That helped Apple contest Samsung for
leadership of the premium segment slot -handsets priced over '. 30,000 -and
toppling it by some measures, as reported by ET on February 20. Apple currently
has around 2% share of the Indian smartphone market.

A grey market seller in Kolkata's Air-conditioned Market said enquiries for
bookings had been low compared with those for the 6s and 6s Plus in
September-October. The grey market price of the SE will

. 32,000-34,000, he said.start at ' A trader at Mumbai's Heera Panna also said
that demand had been higher for the 6s and 6s Plus.

"The launch phase too is much shorter this time, but probably the lower price of
iPhone 6s online has dampened demand, making iPhone SE appeal to only loyalists
and a smaller section of consumers who prefer smaller screens," he said.

He's referring to the gap between sales starting in the US (on March 31) and in
India being the shortest ever. Samsung did the same with its flagship Galaxy S7
and S7 Edge earlier this month, shortening the time between announcement and
introduction in the Indian market, a reflection of how critical the mar ket is
for phone makers.

Apple's pricing may be aimed at ensuring a gap between used phones and new ones
in developed mar kets, said Counterpoint Research Senior Analyst Tarun Pathak.

"I think Apple wants to create breathing space between the refurbished category
and their entry-level offering as they may phase out the iPhone 5S soon," he
said.

"It may work in matured, prepaid markets like the US, Europe, where the Apple
iPhone installed base is high and niche of 4-inch users runs into millions."

