

The gorgeous Galaxy S7 Edge makes the best Android phone that much better.

The fast, powerful, beautiful Galaxy S7 phone is 2016's all-around phone to
beat.

The iPhone 6S Plus has a few key advantages that give it an edge for serious
iPhone users, but its big body still may not fit for a lot of people.

The iPhone 6S offers improved speed everywhere, better front and rear cameras
and a bold new 3D Touch pressure-sensitive display.

Smartphone cameras are becoming evermore skilled and sophisticated - and they
keep getting better. Here are the four best we've seen in recent months.

Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

Product Review:
http://www.cnet.com/products/samsung-galaxy-s7-edge/#ftag=-CAD187281f

CNET rating: 5 stars out of 5 (Spectacular)

The good: The Galaxy S7 Edge has a gorgeous larger curved screen, has a great
camera and larger battery than the otherwise identical standard S7. It really is
something special. The extra navigation tools can be useful when used
judiciously.

The bad: When you pile on these extra navigation tools, they slow you down
rather than speed you up. It's pricier than other good phones.

The cost: $779.99 to $898.19

The bottom line: The gorgeous Galaxy S7 Edge makes the best Android phone that
much better.

Samsung Galaxy S7

Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/samsung-galaxy-s7/#ftag=-CAD187281f

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: Polished design. Awesome camera. Long battery life. microSD storage
slot and water-resistant (again!).

The bad: Annoyingly reflective. Smudge magnet. Plastic-looking selfies even with
no filter. No removable battery, which isn't surprising, but is still a
compromise compared to 2014's S5.

The cost: $669.99 to $759.57

The bottom line: The fast, powerful, beautiful Galaxy S7 phone is 2016's
all-around phone to beat.

Apple iPhone 6S Plus

Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/apple-iphone-6s
-plus/#ftag=CAD187281f

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: Improved speed, better cameras, always-on Siri, and pressure-sensitive
3D Touch display compared to last year's 6 Plus.

And it has slightly better battery life, a bigger higher resolution screen, and
optical image stabilization for photos and video that can make a difference.

The bad: It's really big. It costs more than the smaller iPhone. Other
phablet-sized phones offer longer battery life.

The cost: $789.00 to $1159.99

The bottom line: The iPhone 6S Plus has a few key advantages that give it an
edge for serious iPhone users, but its big body still may not fit for a lot of
people.

Apple iPhone 6S

Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/apple-iphone-6s/#ftag=-CAD187281f

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: Improved speed everywhere (new processor, faster wireless, quicker
Touch ID sensor); a sturdier body; better front and rear cameras; a bold new 3D
Touch pressure-sensitive display that could end up being a really useful tool in
apps down the road, and which already offers new iOS shortcuts.

The bad: Same battery life as the iPhone 6. The 6S Plus model remains the only
way to get optical image stabilization for photos and video, plus better battery
life. You'll need to pay extra to vault past the too-small storage of the
entry-level 16GB version.

The cost: $449.99 (refurbished) to $889.99

The bottom line: The newest iPhones are top-to-bottom better phones with lots of
enhancements; iPhone 6 owners don't need the upgrade, but everyone else should
seriously consider it.

The following CNET staff contributed to this story: Senior EditorJessica
Dolcourt, Senior Editor Scott Stein and Senior Editor Laura K. Cucullu. For more
reviews of personal technology products, please visit www.cnet.com.

