

N FRIDAY the most valuable company in the world, Apple, will unleash its latest
salvo in the smartphone wars.

OThe iPhone 6s boasts innovative new features like 3D Touch and Live Photos
which promise to revolutionise mobile photography, change the very way we
interact with our smartphones, and keep Apple's competitors on their toes for
another year.

But to truly understand how important the iPhone 6s will be to the smartphone
market toda - a market Apple played no small part in creating - we first have to
look back on how the mobile landscape has transformed since 2007.

THE REVOLUTION IN YOUR POCKET In 2007 Nokia was the best-selling mobile phone
manufacturer in the world shipping 436m phones and in the UK the hottest mobiles
were BlackBerry's Pearl and the Motorola KRZR, a descendant of its super-thin
RAZR range.

Then the chief executive of a niche American computer company, best known for
disrupting the music industry with its popular range of MP3 players, revealed
his business had decided to take on the mobile industry. "This is a day I've
been looking forward to for two-and-a-half years. Every once in a while, a
revolutionary product comes along that changes everything," Apple CEO Steve Jobs
explained on 9 January 2007, as he pulled the first iPhone out of his pocket.

Even today in our world of Uber and Snapchat, it's hard to fathom just how
crucial a moment it was.

"If we go back to 2007 when Steve Jobs walked out on stage, I don't think any of
us had even the vaguest idea of the kind of revolution we were about to enter,"
Shaun Collins, the founder and CEO of mobile industry analyst CCS Insight, told
City A.M.

DAWN OF THE APP ECONOMY While Jobs' comments might have seemed like hyperbole at
the time, today they appear prescient of what was to come.

The iPhone is heralded as the origin of the modern smartphone and, in the eight
years since, it has pushed the boundaries of what mobiles can do, in large part
due to something Jobs never even wanted on the iPhone, an App Store.

"The real sea-change brought about by the iPhone was when its App Store launched
in 2008. After the App Store the telephone part of a smartphone became secondary
and suddenly smartphones were all about media consumption," IHS senior mobile
analyst Daniel Gleeson told City A.M.

Indeed since 2008 Apple says over 100bn apps have been downloaded, making the
iPhone one of the most popular computing platforms in the world.

"The App Store wasn't just a watershed moment for the iPhone, it was a
breakthrough moment for the whole smartphone market in general," says Gleeson.

Driven by the popularity of the iPhone and mobile apps, smartphones, a category
of device that barely existed in 2004, when Kantar ComTech reported UK
smartphone ownership was a slim 1.6 per cent, have exploded in popularity.

Today over 70 per cent of us own a smartphone - the iPhone being one of the most
popular devices in Britain - and the overall number is rising rapidly.

Apps like WhatsApp and Instagram were key in the iPhone's early and continuing
success, however Apple now seems determined to push beyond just apps.

GOING BEYOND APPS In recent iPhones, features like Health, (a digital dashboard
of all your health data), Apple Pay (that lets you use your iPhone as a
contactless bank card) and HomeKit (which will let you control connected devices
around the home) are tying the iPhone deeper into our everyday lives.

"The iPhone has already swallowed the PDA, digital camera, video recorder and
now it's looking to integrate your bank card as well," says Gleeson. For example
with Apple Pay an iPhone can completely replace your bank card with a new
payments technology that is secured by your fingerprint and is even safer than
the cards it replaces.

"Apple Pay is one of those advances that's actually trying to resolve the
underlying problem of payment security through technology, rather than just
being a new means of payment," Trend Micro's global VP of security research Rik
Ferguson told City A.M. Innovations like Apple Pay, the App Store and Health
have all cemented the iPhone as the single most important digital device in our
lives.

But today Apple's rivals Google and Samsung have their own App Stores, payment
platforms and health capabilities, so the iPhone-maker must again push the
boundaries of what cutting-edge smartphones can do.

The iPhone 6s is Apple's plan to do just that.

REINVENTING THE WHEEL (AGAIN) While the first iPhone's huge (for its time)
3.5-inch touchscreen was revolutionary in 2007, today every smartphone on the
market has adopted similar touchscreen technology.

With iPhone 6s Apple is planning to leap ahead once again, making a dramatic
change to the way we actually operate our smartphones with a new feature called
3D Touch that brings pressure sensitivity to the iPhone's screen.

Now tapping on an app with different amounts of pressure might bring up new
actions or activate new shortcuts called Peek and Pop, both of which are
expected to change the way we use our smartphones and be a boon for
productivity.

With Peek you can now quickly look into emails or messages without actually
opening them just by using a light touch, and then Pop into the full content or
app by pressing a little harder.

"If we're honest it starts to address some of the user interface limitations
that we've seen on iOS up to now" says Collins, noting that this will cut down
on having to open and close apps all the time.

Another key feature is the upgraded camera on iPhone 6s which produces larger,
even more detailed photos and includes Live Photos, a feature that captures a
moment of video before and after every photo you take and could be the next
evolution of the humble photograph.

"In the world where the selfie and the snap have become the currency of the
internet, Apple is playing to that audience with high quality, innovative
features like Live Photos," says Collins, who expects Live Photos will quickly
become adopted by many.

In 2007 the original iPhone fundamentally changed the mobile landscape, a trick
Apple repeated in following years with its App Store, fingerprint-sending Touch
ID, Apple Pay and best-in-class camera.

On Friday we'll find out if, with 3D Touch and an improved camera with Live
Photos on its iPhone 6s, Apple still has the innovation needed to bring about a
smartphone revolution.

The signs look good.

£ Oliver Smith is a senior reporter at The Memo, an online technology
publication curious about the future.

The iPhone is heralded as the origin of the modern smartphone

