

APPLE yesterday promised a day of "monster" announcements and delivered, with a
giant iPad, a revamped smarter Apple TV and two new -iPhones that are smarter,
faster and tougher than ever.

In one of its biggest days of hardware announcements in recent years, Apple CEO
Tim Cook unveiled the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, the 12-inch iPad Pro and a revamped
Apple TV which, with its own app store, is Apple's push to grab a slice of the
$48.5 billion games market.

In what is likely the last Apple event in a year that began with the Apple
Watch, the launch of two new iPhones also got lost in announcements led by
Apple's promise to bring "innovation" to TVs through a TV app store.

The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus look the same on the outside, with a 4.7-inch screen
for the 6S and a 5.5-inch screen for the bigger phablet.

But under the bonnet the new iPhones have significant improvements, including a
tougher aluminium body and glass to avoid the problems of Bendgate in which some
people reported bending their iPhone 6 Plus smartphones.

The new phones have 3D Touch, which lets you quickly access features of the
phone by applying extra force as you touch the touchscreen, plus a 12-megapixel
camera, a big jump from the 8-megapixel camera in the iPhone 6. Selfie fans will
appreciate an upgrade to the front-facing camera to 5 megapixels plus the
ability to use the glow of the touchscreen as a front-facing flash.

Apple made a push into productivity yesterday with an iPad Pro, a 12-inch tablet
that lets you view apps side-by-side in split-screen, that it hopes is a step
towards reviving a stagnate tablet market.

Potentially the biggest announcement of the event was the launch of a new Apple
TV, with an app store that will allow third-party app makers to transfer popular
games, news, entertainment and lifestyle apps from mobile devices to television
screens.

rod.chester@news.com.au CHANGING THE GAME, PAGE 34 ROD CHESTER TRAVELLED TO SAN
FRANCISCO AS A GUEST OF APPLE

iPad The iPad Pro has a 12.9-inch screen with 5.6 million pixels. It can run two
apps in full side by side, has a 10-hour battery life and is about the weight of
the original 9.7-inch iPad. Accessories include the Smart Keyboard and Pencil.
It will be available in November with prices to be announced.

iPhone The iPhone 6S ($1079-$1370) and iPhone 6S Plus ($1229 to $1529) go on
preorder tomorrow and will be available on 25 September. Features include 3D
Touch, a 12-megapixel camera, ability to shoot 4K video, and a tougher body.

Apple TVApple TV updates the older Apple TV box with a box that looks just a bit
bigger. Inside it's a lot smarter, with Siri for voice control, a smart remote
with a built-in accelerometer and gyroscope for gameplay and it will come with
an app store. Pricing and availability to be announced.

