

A PENCIL?

Apple's gadget gurus reinvented one of the world's oldest writing instruments as
part of the company's new-and-improved product rollout Wednesday that included a
smarter smartphone and the biggest iPad ever.

Dubbed the Apple Pencil, the new $99 stylus was designed for drawing and taking
notes on the new iPad Pro, a titanic tablet that boasts a massive 12.9-inch
screen. The current iPad comes in at just 9.7 inches.

The supersized tablet, which starts at $799, runs with "desktop-class
performance," Apple marketing exec Phil Schiller said.

It will have four speakers and the option for a $169 physical keyboard, which
enables it to run like a laptop.

Front and center at San Francisco's Bill Graham Civic Auditorium were Apple's
new iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, with front-facing camera flash for better-lit
selfies.

Both new iPhones come with 3D Touch, pressure-sensitive technology that allows
the screen to distinguish between a light tap and a hard press.

The phones will also feature a faster Touch ID sensor, so users can unlock their
phones with their fingerprints almost instantly.

The 6s and the 6s Plus will also be available in a new hue, rose gold.

Apple lovers can pre-order the new phones starting Saturday. The iPhones -
which, with a two-year service contract, will cost between $199 and $499
depending on size and memory - will begin to ship Sept. 25.

Apple also showed off its new Apple TV, which comes with a voice-activated,
touch-surface remote.

Built-in Siri, Apple's personal assistant, will help users find movies and
shows, and allows them to ask questions during the screening. Ask Siri "What did
she say?" and the TV will jump back 15 seconds and turn on captions. Request
sports scores and Siri will display them at the bottom of the screen while the
show plays.

Consumer phone expert John Oldshue, founder and editor of Saveonphone.com, said
he was not impressed with the bells or the whistles.

"They're kind of running out of things to do," Oldshue said.

Graphic: WHAT'S SO GREAT ABOUT THE SUPERSIDE iPAD PRO

* Four speakers

* Can last 10 hours on a single charge

* Starting price $799

* Option for added $169 physical keyboard

* Option for $99 stylus "pencil" for drawing and taking notes

Source: Apple

