

Serving up more features in smaller packages was the major theme at Apple's
media event Monday, as the company ushered in a downsized four-inch iPhone SE
and a refreshed 9.7 inch iPad Air called the iPad Pro - with both products
borrowing tricks from their bigger sisters.

Unlike Samsung, which sells a ton of big-screen "phablet" phones, Apple has seen
its 6 series iPhone sales be far stronger in the smaller-screened, 4.7-inch 6S
model than in the 5.5-inch 6S Plus.

Consumer Intelligence Research Partners suggests the smaller iPhone 6S made up
48 percent of all U.S. iPhone sales during Apple's fiscal first quarter this
year, while the iPhone 6S Plus accounted for 19 percent.

So if the customer base prefers petite, maybe it will buy into iPhone SE's even
smaller dimensions and upscale features, including the advanced A9 processor and
12-megapixel rear camera of the 6S.

If you're a big picture-taker, this will really improve your game. You might
never need another camera again.

SE also boasts hand-me-downs including a Touch ID fingerprint sensor and NFC
(near field communications) connectivity for use with Apple Pay. But the
newbie's screen won't do those 6S "3D Touch" tricks if you keep pressing down on
it.

Pricing will be a little lower, too, though hardly rock-bottom, to compete
better with the Chinese Android smartphone upstarts (Huawei, Xiaomi) now eating
Apple's and Samsung's lunch in developing countries.

An SE will start for $399 or about $17 a month as a line item on a two-year
payment plan, the options consumers are now getting from most providers when
they opt for a phone upgrade.

Padding out the line. Drawing from the 12.9-inch iPad Pro model introduced last
year, the new 9.7-inch tablet also comes with an Apple Pencil stylus - beloved
by artists - and side connector for attaching a keyboard case, making it more
business-friendly, like the Microsoft Surface Pro 4 transformable that has been
winning renewed support for Windows OS.

Also like the big iPad Pro, the newbie hosts four speakers for real stereo sound
when in either horizontal or vertical configuration. It offers Siri voice
control, and has a faster processor and a larger internal storage capacity -
maxing out at 256GB, a first for any iPad - but you must pay $899 for the top
model. (The 32GB version is $599, the 128GB model is $749. All will be in stores
March 31.)

The 9.7-inch Pro surpasses its close relation with a 12-megapixel rear camera
and 5-megapixel camera for FaceTime calls (up from 8/1.2Mp). The new model
boasts a significantly improved screen that goes brighter ("500 nits") and has
wider color gamut - akin to the newest big screen TVs.

Also, the iPad Pro screen makes automatic adjustments of color relative to
ambient light ("True Tone display") and has a "night shift" mode that reduces
blue wavelengths to ready you for sleeping (a feature seen in Kindle Fires,
too).

While still lacking Surface Pro 4 niceties such as a slot for a microSD memory
card and a USB 3.0 input, the 9.7-inch iPad Pro lets users plug in an extra-cost
SD card reader or USB camera adapter.

On the Apple Watch front, the big news was a $50 price cut to $299 for the
starter Sport model, plus more band colors and new woven bands. Gee whiz.

And product owners can benefit from the latest software update available today -
iOS 9.3.

Early on in the hype fest, Apple CEO Tim Cook touted the maker's 40th birthday
on April 1, introduced a new "CareKit" program to help consumers manage their
health care, and hailed Apple's commitment to 100 percent renewable energy
operations, already reached in the United States and China.

Cook also reiterated Apple's commitment to protecting "your data and privacy"
against governmental pressures to crack the security codes, a stance he said has
been met by an "outpouring of support" from customers: "We will not shrink from
our responsibility."

takiffj@phillynews.com

215-854-5960 @JTakiff

