

KOLKATA: Apple's aggressive sales strategy in India may have backfired to some
extent as bookings for the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have fallen short of
expectations, said some of the company's trade partners. Against a bold target
of tripling pre-bookings for the devices, which will be available in India on
October 16, these have risen by just 10-15% compared with last year for the
previous models, the partners said. They said buyers expect lower prices online
once the phone becomes widely available.

Thanks to lower online prices, Apple's ambitious sales target for the new
generation of devices could still eventually be met. Earlier this year, Apple
had allowed its distributors to sell at the lowest price to the e-commerce
channel, leading to a surge in sales after having followed a conservative line
that meant all vendors had to hold their rates at the company-mandated level.

READ ALSO:

Adding to buyers' hesitation on pre-bookings is price. The entry model costs Rs
8,500-9,500 more than last year's launch price, said the executives cited above.

"Almost a couple of thousand potential customers who we had reached out for
pre-bookings said they would be in a wait-and-watch mode since they feel prices
online would crash two-three weeks after the launch just ahead of Diwali (in
November)," said the chief executive officer of a leading consumer electronics
chain who didn't want to be named.

He pointed out that even during the current online festive sales, the biggest
discounts were on (older) Apple products among mainstream brands. Leading
cellphone and consumer electronics retail chains said they were forced to reach
out to customers for pre-bookings, unlike the previous year when demand
outstripped supply. The India experience thus far runs counter to the global
scenario - Apple recently reported record sales for the latest iPhones with more
than 13 million units sold three days after the initial launch. An executive at
a leading ecommerce company said iPhone pre-bookings have been muted, largely
because of high prices.

READ ALSO:

Offering price protection

Retail chains such as Big C and Lot Mobile in the south have even offered
'one-month price protection' to drum up bookings. This means that, in the event
of prices dropping in a month, bookers will be paid the difference. Others have
offered instant buyback at 50% of the price for older iPhone models. These
initiatives don't seem to have helped much though.

"We reached out to 10,000 customers but have managed to pre-book just 1,300
models amounting to Rs 6 crore, which is a slight jump over last year.
Expectation of online discount has dampened business," said Lot Mobiles
Executive Director K Krishna Pawan.

Bengaluru-based retailer Sangeetha Mobile's Managing Director Subhash Chandra
said pre-bookings of the latest iPhones were below expectations. "However,
consumers may want to see the models once they are launched and then may buy,"
he said. Apple will launch the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus at midnight on October 16
in India. The company has priced the 6S at Rs 62,000 (16GB),Rs 72,000 (64GB) and
Rs 82,000 (128GB) while the larger-screen 6S Plus will cost Rs 72,000 (16GB), Rs
82,000 (64GB) and Rs 92,000 (128GB).

Pre-bookings started at the beginning of the month. Telecom operators such as
Airtel and Vodafone have partnered Apple this year to offer pre-booking plans.
Apple hadn't responded to emailed queries at press time. Counterpoint Technology
Market Research senior analyst Tarun Pathak said the high price of the latest
iPhones has no doubt deterred consumers, but many are also waiting, since Diwali
is still a month away, holding out the prospect of better deals.

"A significant number of consumers can also buy last year's iPhone models, which
are now expected to get a price cut, and will be much lower than the current
models," Pathak said. "However, we expect a good October-December quarter for
Apple, since last year only 50% of Apple owners in India had bought the last
iPhone and hence others would certainly upgrade to one of the models this year."
According to Counterpoint, Apple sold 1.7 million iPhones in India between
October 2014 and September 2015, the company's financial year, compared with 1.1
million units in the year-earlier period.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

