
DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Nov. 25 -- Abans Group, the Authorized Reseller and Service Provider
for Apple in Sri-Lanka launched the new iPhone 6s and 6s plus on November 19.

Abans authorized Apple reseller and service provider marked its presence in
Sri-Lanka in 2007 with iPod's later branching into a wider product range
comprising of the MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, MacBook Pro Retina Display, iMac,
iPad Air 2, iPad Mini 3, MacBook Gold, MacBook Space Grey, iPhone 5s, iPhone 6
and now the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus. iPad pro will be launched shortly.

A pre-order campaign was initiated on November 13 by Abans Group leading up to
the night of the event wherein customers who pre-ordered their latest iPhones
before November 19 collected them on the day of the launch.

American Express joined hands with Abans to offer customers two installments
waived off on all pre-orders till November 19.

Adding to the excitement of the night consumers were given a free back cover,
screen protector, assistance to transfer existing data onto their new phones,
free training and demonstration of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.

Since its launch at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus
has flourished with rave reviews often being referred to as a game changer in
the iPhone series.

The star feature of this phone is the "3D Touch" technology, which enables you
to activate menus or options by pressing down harder onto the screen without
having to specifically open the app.

Both the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus contain an A9 processor with a 12-megapixel-rear
camera which is an upgrade to its predecessor of 8 megapixels. Along with
improved camera quality consumers are also able to shoot 4K videos and "Live
Photos" where pictures captured are generated into short video clips.

Visit Abans Apple iStores to experience the new iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus and
get a free demonstration and free training from our Apple product professionals.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

