

The groundbreaking company has just launched its latest offering, the iPhone 6s
and 6s Plus, complete with 3D touch, in a bid to hold off its competitors in the
ever-evolving smartphone market

APPLE has launched its latest line of products with the bang tech fans are
accustomed to, showing off everything from the latest iPhone to a new iPad.

Nearly four years after the death of Apple founder Steve Jobs, the company has
made its latest pitch to retain position as the market's leading innovator.

Unlike last year there was no live performance by U2, no new phone design and no
free album given out to all consumers.

Instead this year Apple boss Tim Cook came to Cupertino in Silicon Valley armed
with the largest iPad ever released and the most technologically advanced iPhone
.

Unveiled in the early hours of Thursday morning (AEST time), the iPhone 6s and
6s Plus appear virtually identical to 2014's model but under the covers you will
find a near totally different phone.

A major feature is the 3D touch, which allows users to do different things
depending on how hard they press the screen.

Both multi-touch and force touch can be used and this means the phone can detect
gestures and open new menus based on how hard the screen is pressed.

The new phones carry an A9 chip which is marketed as being 80 per cent faster
than the iPhone 6 and is thought to have about 90 per cent greater display
power.

Meanwhile the new iPad Pro has stepped up in the power stakes and has a much
larger screen which is about 32.7cm.

This allows a full-sized virtual keyboard to be displayed on its screen while in
use, though Apple is now also marketing a line of physical keyboards to be
carried alongside it.

But be prepared to pay up, because the iPhone 6S retails for between $1079 and
$1379 while the 6S Plus goes as high as $1529.

Bond University technology expert Dr Stephen Holden tells Coast Weekend Apple's
launch was a "steady as she goes" affair in a bid to preserve their position as
the market leader.

"From a business perspective Apple are the market leaders and it always has to
be a case of steady as she goes," he says. "When you are at the top of the
market there is only one way to go and that's down which is what Apple are
trying to avoid by solidifying its position.

"However they are starting to follow some of what Samsung has been doing with
its phones and from a market perspective we are not looking for a hero here,
they all exist in a symbiotic relationship and feed off each other." Dr Holden
says both operating systems iOS and Android were increasingly borrowing from
each other's innovations.

"These two companies, Apple and Samsung, especially poke ideas out there through
their phones and tablets and then watch closely to see what works," he says. "If
an idea flies then you can bet your bottom dollar that the other will borrow it
for their next phone.

"This is great for consumers because the competition keeps allowing for
innovation." Has Apple solidified its position?

We'll find out on September 25 when the products begin rolling out.Do you have a
tech query for Pottsy? Email andrew.potts@news.com.au

