

Downsizing my iPhone from the 6S Plus to the new SE has been an interesting
experience.

I can now sit down in the car and elsewhere with the iPhone SE in my front
pocket without risking an injured undercarriage (the iPhone 6S Plus doesn"t bend
easily, believe me) and err, making the trouser line look strange.

Also, talking on the iPhone SE looks nicely retro and unobtrusive compared to
the phablet-sized iPhone 6S Plus.

Small really is better at times.

I can drive the 6S Plus mostly with one hand and thumb, but the iPhone SE is
that much easier to do that with, thanks to the smaller 4-inch screen.

For upgraders who felt the iPhone 6 and 6S are just too big, the SE is totally
worthwhile: the camera from iPhone 6S, faster processor and new radios (both
Wi-Fi and LTE) are great additions; also, Touch ID is actually much more useful
on the SE than on the iPhone 6S Plus, as my large fingers are more typo prone on
the smaller screen.

The smaller screen is the deal-breaker for me though: I"ve been spoilt by the
large 5.5-inch display on the iPhone 6S Plus which lets me view more things at
once with less scrolling and zooming around.

The iPhone SE had me wondering about the seemingly intractable problem of device
sizes having to be both large and small at the same time, to be practical to use
yet portable.

I can actually write pretty long documents on the iPhone 6S Plus by flipping it
on its side, and using the larger keyboard that appears on the screen and both
thumbs. A smaller, 4-inch screen would take a while to get used to - and unlike
the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus which have iOS Reachability features to help people
with small hands drive them, there"s nothing equivalent for us with
non-Trump-sized mitts on the iPhone SE to assist with the comparatively tiny
display.

If you can live with the smaller screen though, the iPhone SE is a great entry
into Apple"s iOS walled garden, and good value for money as a new device that
should keep going for the next two to three years easily.

The iPhone SE had me wondering about the seemingly intractable problem of device
sizes having to be both large and small at the same time, to be practical to use
yet portable.

I"m hoping the answer won"t be Siri or Cortana or another voice recognition
personal digital assistant, because having millions of people constantly talking
to their mobile devices would be a horrendous dystopia.

Purloining the Panama Papers a piece of cake

Silly me, I must stop assuming skills and cleverness are applied in situations
where taking advantage of carelessness and incompetence will do much better.

A global law firm like Mossack Fonseca, with lots of high-profile clients,
should make every effort to ensure that their IT systems are up to date and
secure, right? Bulletproof secrecy and all that.

Except it seems Mossack Fonseca didn"t, according to security experts Wired UK
spoke to.

The Panama Papers may have been leaked by an insider, or an outside hacker or a
government wanting to shed light on murky financial dealings worldwide; either
way, judging by how "holey" Mossack Fonseca"s systems are, whoever engineered
the data breach probably didn"t have to work very hard to gain access.

Nor is it likely that there were any form of intrusion detection systems active
to alert that the data was accessed: the Panama Papers data arrived over a
period of a year, in little bits and pieces, with nobody noticing.

Lax security practices among law firms are apparently not unusual. It wouldn"t
surprise me if opportunistic activists and even criminals pay greater attention
to legal beagles" internet-connected systems from now.

And accountants and... just about every single professional person or firm
holding sensitive information. Just something to think about.

