

Click for image

Apple has officially pre-empted the iPhone 7 rumors by inviting all of us to a
live-streamed event on March 21 to presumably "loop you in" on a new 5-inch
iPhone 5se and "mini" 9.7-inch iPad Pro, but let's not stop us from rounding up
the latest speculation on what comes after all that...

INTEL INSIDE

How many times has that headline been used over the years? Anyway, reports
surfaced this month that Intel will supply a "significant portion" of LTE modems
for the iPhone 7 - not such good news for fellow supplier Qualcomm. Motley Fool,
citing a report from CLSA Securities, writes that this could be a $1 billion
(yes, with a B) opportunity for Intel.

Motley Fool goes on to suggest this must refer to Intel's XMM 7360 modem, which
supports LTE category 10, which boasts downlink speeds of 450Mbps and uplink
speeds of 100Mbps. "This would represent a substantial improvement over the
Qualcomm MDM9635 modem inside of the iPhone 6s/6s Plus, which supports 300
megabits per second download and just 50 megabits per second upload." But there
is a question of whether this deal is really true, and how Apple would then need
to manage building CDMA-friendly phones with Qualcomm chips for some regions and
non-CDMA phones for others with the Intel or Qualcomm processors...

MacRumors says that Apple already boosted LTE on its iPhone 6s and 6s Plus
phones, but with users' chowing down more video and other demanding apps, you
can understand why they'd keep pushing.

WRAPAROUND SCREEN

Not to get ahead of ourselves (well, actually that's pretty much all we do in
this column), some now say that the much discussed possible iPhone with OLED
display could be a whopping 5.8 inches and wrap around the sides of the
smartphone. Apple's largest phone now is the 5.5-inch iPhone 6s Plus.

Colleague Yoni Heisler, citing a DigiTimes report that such a phone with an
organic light-emitting diode screen could hit the market by next year or the
year after, suggests that a much bigger iPhone isn't a crazy idea.

"Though Apple was once beholden to the iPhone's 3.5-inch form factor, the
company in recent years has demonstrated a bit more flexibility as it pertains
to screen size."

Then again, there are some big doubts about this big phone ever becoming a
reality. Look no further than AppleInsider's "Absurd report claims Apple is
prepping a 5.8" iPhone with OLED display for 2018."

DUAL-CAMERA BECOMES MORE REAL

People just can't wait to see how Apple implements a dual-lens camera (one being
a zoom) into its iPhone 7 line-up.

Boy Genius Report speculates that Apple could even pull a page from the new
Android-based Samsung Galaxy S7's book by coming out with a dual-lens camera
using some of the same innards.

"The camera of the Galaxy S7 is without a doubt one of the best new features in
Samsung's newest flagship series. In fact, when unveiling the new camera,
Samsung compared it extensively to the iPhone 6s to prove to the audience how
much better it is. In an ironic twist of events, could the same image sensor
make its way to the upcoming iPhone 7?"

BGR goes on to point out that Samsung boasted in a non-Galaxy S7 press release
this past week about its fancy camera sensor and will be making the technology
available to partners. While Apple might not be one of those, it is possible
that Apple could fetch similar technology from Sony, whose camera sensor
technology has also been shown to be used in the latest Samsung smartphone.

 Matt Gonzalez from MacRumors does a nice job envisioning how the Apple iPhone 7
dual-lens camera could work in this video as well.

CASE OF THE IPHONE 7 CASE

One way that iPhone rumormongers and rumor followers sniff out news about the
next great Apple smartphones is by keeping an eye on what new cases look like,
and cases glimpsed this past week add credence to the idea that Apple is
abandoning the traditional 3.5mm headset jack for a proprietary Lightning-based
one.

9to5Mac, citing images shared via the Twitter account @OnLeaks, notes that these
cases don't have a hole for a 3.5mm headphone jack. Suspicious indeed!

APPLE vs. FBI A LAUGHING MATTER

Or so thinks Samantha Bee, the newish late night TV show host, who hacked her
own phone before the government got a chance to do so.

