

IT LOOKS LIKE AN OLD iPHONE 5s TO ME!

This new 4-inch smartphone takes its design from Apple's 2013 iPhone 5s, but
don't be fooled by its looks.

The iPhone SE is packed with a number of tasty upgrades and although it's mini,
this thing is mighty.

Tucked inside the all-metal shell is an A9 processor (the same brains used in
the iPhone 6s) and there's a 12 megapixel camera which can now shoot footage in
4K quality.

Live Photos also arrives on this smaller phone which makes your pictures come
alive when you tap the display.

Apple fans picking up one of these new phones will also get access to Apple Pay,
which allows you to pay at the till without the need for a wallet.

HOW MUCH IS IT GOING TO COST ME?

The iPhone SE is Apple's cheapest ever phone at launch.

If you fancy buying one it will cost you £359 for the 16GB version or £439 for
the 64GB model.

Contract prices have yet to be revealed but expect to pay around £20 per month.

IS IT BETTER TO BUY THE iPHONE 6s?

Apple's flagship iPhone 6s does have more features than the new SE.

These include a 3D Touch display and bigger HD screen.

The 6s Plus also has a larger battery which brings a lot more power to the
device.

However, this extra tech does come at a price with the iPhone 6s costing around
£200 more than the SE.

Apple has also recognised that some customers prefer a smaller phone - and the
firm has shifted 30 million of its 4-inch models in the last year alone.

WHEN CAN I GET THE SE?

Although the device was unveiled only on Monday, pre-orders have gone live today
on Apple's website.

All the big operators are set to announce their deals later.

The iPhone SE will land in shops on March 31.

OUR VERDICT...

THE iPhone SE may seem like an odd decision from Apple.

From the outside this new device is almost identical to the ageing iPhone 5s
which first launched back in 2013.

However, this mini phone is packed with top-end specs including Apple's
blistering A9 processor and excellent 12 megapixel camera.

But it's the price that could make this phone a winner.

At £359 this is the cheapest mobile that Apple has ever launched and it could
finally make owning a decent iPhone affordable.

