

Apple's aggressive sales strategy in India may have backfired to some extent as
bookings for the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus have fallen short of expectations,
according to some of the company's trade partners. Against a bold target of
tripling pre-bookings for the devices, which will be available in India on
Friday, these have risen by just 1015% compared with last year for the previous
models, the trade partners said.

They said buyers expect lower prices online once the phone becomes widely
available, which means Apple's ambitious sales target for the new generation of
devices could still eventually be met. Earlier this year, Apple had allowed its
distributors to sell at the lowest price to the ecommerce channel, leading to a
surge in sales after having followed a conservative line that meant all vendors
had to hold their rates at the company mandated level.

Adding to buyers' hesitation on prebookings is price. The entry model costs .
8,500-9,500 more than last year's launch ' price, said the executives cited
above.

"Almost a couple of thousand potential customers who we had reached out for
pre-bookings said they would be in a waitand-watch mode since they feel prices
online would crash two-three weeks after the launch just ahead of Diwali (in
November)," said the chief executive officer of a leading consumer electronics
chain who didn't want to be named.

He pointed out that even during the current online festive sales, the biggest
discounts were on (older) Apple products among mainstream brands.

Leading cellphone and consumer electronics retail chains said they were

forced to reach out to customers for prebookings, unlike the previous year when
demand outstripped supply. The India experience thus far runs counter to the
global scenario -Apple recently reported record sales for the latest iPhones
with more than 13 million units sold three days after the initial launch.

An executive at a leading ecommerce company said iPhone pre-bookings have been
muted, largely because of high prices.

Retail chains such as Big C and Lot Mobile in the south have even offered
'onemonth price protection' to drum up bookings. This means that, in the event
of prices dropping in a month, bookers will be paid the difference. Others have
offered instant buyback at 50% of the price for older iPhone models. These
initiatives don't seem to have helped much though.

"We reached out to 10,000 customers but have managed to pre-book just 1,300 mod

els amounting to ' . 6 crore, which is a slight jump over last year. Expectation
of online discount has dampened business," said Lot Mobiles ED K Krishna Pawan.

Bengaluru-based retailer Sangeetha Mobiles MD Subhash Chandra said prebookings
of the latest iPhones were below expectations. "However, consumers may want to
see the models once they are launched and then may buy ," he said.

Apple will launch the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus at midnight on October 16 in
India.The company has priced the 6s at ' . 62,000 (16GB), ' . 72,000 (64 GB) and
' . 82,000 (128 GB), while the larger screen 6s Plus will cost '. 72,000 (16GB),
' . 82,000 (64GB) and . 92,000 (128 GB). Pre-bookings started at ' the beginning
of the month. Telecom operators such as Airtel and Vodafone have partnered Apple
this year to offer prebooking plans.

Apple hadn't responded to emailed queries at press time.

