

Should you fork over $650 or more to upgrade to the new iPhone?

It's a question many folks are asking  after Apple gave a sneak peek of new
editions at a media event here. The improved specs for the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus
editions are overwhelming: better battery performance, a more powerful chip,
water-resistant body, more storage and a camera that has geeks like me drooling.

But if you've got an iPhone 6 or 6S, do you really need any of that?

Re-selling your old phone, trading it in, getting a new contract or paying full
price for the device is costly and an ordeal for many.

Buy the new one or stick with an old iPhone?

If you have the iPhone 5S or earlier, it's a no brainer. You want to have the
latest technology, not a phone from 2013.

If you've got a more recent model, such as the iPhone 6 or 6S, and are happy
with it, then by all means hold onto it. The phone still works, you've got an
always-on connection to the Internet, and the 6 and 6S runs the latest apps,
just like the 7.

And for that matter, the entry level model, the SE, which sells for $399, gives
you all the cool stuff you'll find on the iPhone 6S and 6 Plus but at a lower
price and a smaller 4-inch screen.

Two of the coolest new features being touted in the ads for the iPhone 7 are
software enhancements, and they'll work on older phones as well, as part of the
iOS 10 mobile operating system upgrade.

Siri, the personal digital assistant, will now work with many of your favorite
apps, including LinkedIn, Uber and Square Cash. iMessages also gets a new,
visual coat of paint. Your texts will have bigger fonts, and you'll have access
to funny stickers and new tools like being able to draw pictures directly onto
texts.

More storage is a big deal

For many of you, the biggest upgrade of all is the extra storage on the new
phones. Many people who get a 16 GB entry-level phone download some apps, take
some photos and videos, and within weeks, they're already out of room.

The new editions of the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, and the previous models, the 6S and
6S Plus, all start at 32 GB, which is twice the storage, and welcome.

There is no way to upgrade your memory without buying a new phone since Apple
doesn't offer expandable storage, like many rivals do.

So if you're out of room, have a cracked screen and your phone is sluggish, I'd
certainly recommend getting the latest and greatest with the iPhone 7.

No headphone jack

This could be a deal-breaker for many of you. The new edition iPhones ditched
the long-standing headphone jack in order to make room and extend the battery
life. Headphones now get connected via the Lightning charging port, or you can
use wireless Bluetooth headphones. (To make it less painful, Apple is loading an
adapter to connect older traditional headphones to the Lightning port.)

Many online have expressed outrage at having to buy new headphones for the new
iPhone and have raised concerns -- how to charge the phone and listen to music
at the same time?

Belkin International to the rescue. The accessories manufacturer announced last
week a new device to do both: charge while listening to music, with the $39.99
Lightning Audio + Charge RockStar, which will be available Oct. 10.

Bottom line

The specs pretty much say it. The iPhone 7 is a slightly lighter phone, with
longer battery life, water resistance, better storage and improved camera.

But if your phone is fine and you're happy with it, by all means, save the money
and stick with what you've got.

