

Agence France-Presse

SAN FRANCISCO

Apple is bolstering its money-pumping iPhone line while looking to dive deep
into businesses with iPads and dominate living rooms with Apple TV hardware
tuned to app-loving lifestyles.

Tricked-out new iPhone 6 models, along with overhauled Apple TV hardware and
iPad Pro tablets with enlarged screens, were major announcements at the
technology titan's media event in San Francisco.

"Apple did the typical good job at the event," Gartner analyst Brian Blau said.

"Overall, I don't think it is going to push the needle for Apple in a good or a
bad direction. These are great devices and cool features."

Apple shares ended the official trading day down slightly less than 2 per cent
at $110.15 (Bt3,986.40) and danced around that price in after-market trades.

"If you are an investor, you are probably not that excited about today
[Wednesday] because you didn't hear numbers and these features won't impact
sales this quarter," Blau said.

3D touch

Apple introduced two updated iPhones to build on the success of large-screen
handsets introduced last year that have dominated the high-end smartphone
market.

The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have the same overall dimensions as the previous
versions, but with new technologies under the hood.

One of the key new features is called "3D touch", which responds to pressure
exerted on the screen to allow users to look inside messages and applications.

"Apple has performed the ultimate conjuring trick: Change everything about the
iPhone, but make it look almost identical to the old model," IHS Technology said
in a posted analysis.

By responding to sensing pressure, the phones enable users to dip in and out of
content without losing their place.

"It will further refine our use of touch as a main user interface," Blau said.

The 6S has the 12-centimetre display of its predecessor and the 6S Plus, which
updates one of the more popular handsets in the "phablet category", has the same
13.97-centimetre screen.

But the devices have more powerful processors that allow for improved graphics,
harder glass and a new aluminium body. Pricing will be kept at the same levels
as the earlier versions.

For those buying without carrier subsidies, Apple will sell the devices on a
24-month instalment plan at $27 per month for the $650 iPhone 6S and $31 for the
6S Plus, making the price nearly $750.

Apple will take pre-orders starting tomorrow and deliver the phones on September
25 in the US, Britain, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
Japan, New Zealand, Puerto Rico and Singapore.

The new iPad Pro has the power and capabilities to replace a laptop computer,
Apple said. It had aspects reminiscent of Microsoft Surface Pro tablets, such as
covers that double as keyboards.

Apple chief executive Tim Cook called the device "the biggest news in iPad since
the iPad".

The new tablet with a 32.76-centimetre display also includes a detachable
keyboard and stylus, sold separately.

According to Apple senior #124vice president Phil Schiller, the device features
"desktop-class #124performance" and operates faster than 80 per cent of portable
PCs #124that shipped in the last 12 months.

The new iPad will be available in November starting at $799.

The iPad Pro stylus, called Apple Pencil, was designed for high-precision
illustration and 3D design applications. Apple Pencil will be sold for $99 more
and the keyboard for $169.

Avi Greengart at the research firm Current Analysis tweeted that the new tablets
"are aimed directly at enterprises. That's a long sales cycle, but could finally
stop [the tablet market's] sales slide."

Upgraded Apple TV includes voice search, touch-screen remote control and an app
store in a challenge to Google, Amazon and Roku.

Apple TV was overhauled as people increasingly stream films and television shows
on-demand online and turn to mobile applications for entertainment.

"We believe that the future of #124television is with apps," Cook said.

Apple released a software kit for outside developers, and showed off early
versions of Apple TV applications already being crafted by show streaming
services Netflix and Hulu, as well as HBO.

Apple TV has the potential to take the kinds of "casual game" apps popular on
mobile devices and put them on television screens, according to analysts.

Siri virtual assistant software newly built into Apple TV will allow for natural
language searches for shows, for example, by asking for something funny or a
certain actor by name.

The new Apple TV will launch in late October at a starting price of $149. Apple
TV has lagged rivals with similar devices.

According to the research firm Parks Associates, Roku leads the US market with a
37 per cent market share, to 19 per cent for Google Chromecast and 17 per cent
for Apple TV. Amazon's Fire TV devices have 14 per cent.

"For Apple TV to succeed it #124will have to give people what they already want
on a TV: TV shows," said Forrester analyst James McQuivey.

Apple also said the operating system for its Apple Watch, watchOS 2, would be
made available as a free update September 16.

The company offered no sales figures but Cook said customers "love using Apple
Watch," and that user satisfaction "is an incredible 97 per cent."

The latest iteration of the Watch, created with French fashion house Hermes,
features a hand-stitched leather band and starts at $1,100.

