

Sept. 29 -- Some camp out on the sidewalk for days. Others line up so early the
local coffee shop hasn't opened. No matter the method, being the first to get
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus is a big deal. Don't wait to protect the brand new
Apple iPhones - OtterBox cases are available now.

Slip the meticulously designed iPhone 6s or svelte iPhone 6s Plus into an
OtterBox case as soon as it leaves the box so it stays pristine all year long.
From the slimmest Symmetry Series to the rugged Defender Series, the full
OtterBox case lineup for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus means there's something
for everyone.*

"We know people who wait all night long to get the first feel of the latest
iPhones don't want to cover them up," said OtterBox President and CEO Pete
Lindgren. "Our goal is to keep the feel and user experience as close to the
'real thing' as possible. When you pull your new iPhone with 4K video and 3D
Touch out of the box, you can cover it knowing trusted OtterBox protection works
seamlessly with every feature and function."

Defender Series is the perfect companion for cautious techies that need extra
layers of security. Triple-layer protection guards iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus
from harm from almost any angle.

Commuter Series has double-layer protection for Apple lovers on the go. A
slipcover and thin polycarbonate shell provides slim protection and offers
custom color combinations on otterbox.com.

For those who want to keep iPhone as thin as possible, Symmetry Series
complements the curves of iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus with a variety of colors
and graphics. Plus, the slim form is easy to slip into pockets and pull out to
capture Live Photos at a moment's notice.

Folio-lovers can cover iPhone 6s in Strada Series, the slim, leather folio case
with trusted OtterBox protection. In sleek black and burgundy, iPhone 6s wears a
classic, tailored look with full folio screen protection.

Coming soon, techies who use iPhone 6s for every search, app, snap and tap can
stay charged with Resurgence Power Case. The iPhone 6s power case offers
military-rated drop protection in a slim, two-piece design that snaps around the
device. With the press of a button, Resurgence charges iPhone 6s up to 100
percent, then stops. The auto-stop charge technology saves power for later, when
it's needed most.

For the truest touchscreen experience, OtterBox offers Alpha Glass to stop
scratches from reaching iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus' vibrant displays.
Fortified to help avoid splintering, Alpha Glass applies flawlessly to the
touchscreen, retains screen responsiveness and pairs perfectly with OtterBox
Symmetry Series, Commuter Series, Resurgence Power Case and Strada Series cases.
Alpha Glass is coming soon in both Clear and Privacy to protect against prying
eyes.

OtterBox iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus cases are available now on otterbox.com
and at select retailers. For more information, visit otterbox.com.

Source: OtterBox

