

New operating systems, enhanced iPhones, the first iPad Pro and a completely
updated Apple TV: Apple's fall calendar is fully loaded.

September 16: launch of iOS 9 and WatchOS 2.0

Apple will simultaneously update its mobile and watch operating systems, iOS
(for iPhones, iPads and iPods) and WatchOS (watches) respectively. The new iOS
is more proactive, doing things such as suggesting the opening of an app
according to habits, reminding you of an upcoming meeting depending on traffic
patterns or simply playing music as soon as your headphones are plugged in.
News, a new current events app, will also make its first appearance, beginning
in the US, UK and Australia. On the iPad, you can now view two apps side by side
for the first time. And finally, a special functioning mode will give you the
option to use the phone in a way that will increase battery life by up to three
hours.
 Compatible with all devices dating back to the iPhone 4S, iPad 2 and
fifth-generation iPod touch, iOS 9 will be available as a free download.

On the same day, a significant update for the Apple Watch will also come out,
which will allow you to download native apps, meaning you don't need an iPhone
in proximity to use them, lower the brightness of the screen when the watch is
charging and even respond orally to emails.

September 25: launch of the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus
 Introduced during Apple's September 9 keynote conference, this latest
generation of iPhones stands apart thanks to the inclusion of the latest
processor chip (A9); the integration of Apple's 3D Touch technology, which
associates different finger pressure with control of different functions; as
well as an improvement to the camera, now 12MP in the rear and 5MP in the front
and capable of filming in 4K.
 Both new phones will be available for purchase on September 25, but pre-orders
will begin on September 12. On a two-year contract, the iPhone 6S will start at
$199 for the 16GB model, and move up to $299 for 64GB and $399 for 128GB. The
iPhone 6S Plus 16GB model will start at $299, and cost $399 for 64GB and $499
for 128GB.

September 30: launch of Mac OS X El Capitan
 The latest operating system for Mac will be called El Capitan, named after a
rock formation in Yosemite National Park. There won't be any spectacular
upgrades to the system besides the fact that you can now easily operate two
program windows at the same time and that you can now see real-time information
in the search bar (weather, traffic, sports scores, etc.).
 Mac OS X El Capitan will be released as a free download. Its launch should also
precede the announcement of a new line of computers.

End of October: launch of the new Apple TV
 The new Apple TV unit boasts two major changes: a new remote control that
includes a touch screen and can be voice-operated thanks to Siri, and access to
the App Store that now gives your television access to numerous games and apps.
 The 32GB version will cost $149 while the 64GB version will come in at $199.

November: launch of the iPad Pro
 Apple's greatest new release this fall will undoubtedly be the first iPad Pro,
which sets itself apart from the rest thanks to a 12.9inch display and the
possibility of using it with an optional magnetically-connected keyboard or a
stylus called the Apple Pencil, which has sensors in its tip to help mimic the
effect of using a real pencil on paper.
 Pricing for the iPad Pro will range from $799 to $1,079 depending on its level
of storage and 4G connectivity.

