

The issue between the Federal Government and technology major Apple to create
software to unlock the iPhone 5c of San Bernardino shooter Syed Rizwan Farook
has not come to an end. In fact, The New York Times has unveiled that Apple
engineers would prefer to quit rather than cracking Apple's iPhone for security
agencies.

The US government has requested Apple to develop a 'GovtOS' to unlock Farook's
iPhone, but Apple has refused to do so. Former Apple engineering manager
Jean-Louis Gassee said that Apple has an independent culture and a rebellious
one. The company would not come under government pressure and will fight for
rights of users.

If the government aims to force the company to get something out of Apple
engineers, they would not mind quitting, added Gassee.

Window Snyder, former senior product manager for Apple's security and privacy
division, affirmed, "If someone attempts to force them to work on something
that's outside their personal values, they can expect to find a position that's
a better fit somewhere else".

Another important point is that the development teams are isolated from one
another. It is only when a product launch approaches and the different sections
come together to ensure everything is perfect in that product.

As per New York Times report, currently there is no team, which is needed to
develop the software. In that situation, any collaboration would be a difficult
knowing the working culture at Apple. It has to be seen what Apple will do to
stand by with its decision.

May be, it will pay daily penalties. Apple is one of the biggest companies in
the world and what happens in the legal suit has to be seen. Apple is fighting a
court order received by the Federal Bureau of Investigation requiring the
company to develop new software to disable passcode protection and allow access
to the phone of Farook. Justice department said that it will respond to Apple
complaint in the court.

A report published in the Mashable News said, "That will likely be the headline
following the March 21 product event at its headquarters in Cupertino,
California. The widely anticipated 4-inch iPhone (possibly called the iPhone SE,
though iPhone 6C and iPhone 5SE are in contention) will probably not move the
bar on innovation. Instead, it will ensure that the company ably fills the
"small and affordable" smartphone check box."

If you're wondering who wants a 4-inch iPhone when there are some excellent
(albeit larger) choices like the 6S and 6S Plus, just look around at all those
still clutching an iPhone 5, 5s or 5C. You may even spot a few iPhone 4 and 4S
owners, too. They've been itching to upgrade but have little interest in a phone
that might feel too large for their hands or pockets.

"In just a few short days, Apple is going to take the wraps off of its first
brand new iPhone of the year. It won't be the iPhone 7. In fact, it won't be all
that "brand new" either. Instead, the iPhone SE is expected to essentially be an
iPhone 6 with a 4-inch screen wrapped in a housing that looks similar to the
iPhone 5," according to a news report published by BGR News.

We don't yet know how big Apple's new iPhones will be or if the displays will be
the same size and resolution as the current models, but we do know that the new
phones are going to be thinner than the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus. Way back even
before the iPhone 6s was unveiled, the world's most accurate Apple insider had
some details to share about the iPhone 7.

In a report published by the HoustonChronicle, "Apple employees are discussing
what they will do if ordered to help law enforcement authorities. Some say they
may balk at the work, while others may even quit their high-paying jobs rather
than undermine the security of the software they have created, according to more
than a half-dozen current and former Apple employees."

"Such conscription is fundamentally offensive to Apple's core principles and
would pose a severe threat to the autonomy of Apple and its engineers," Apple's
lawyers wrote in the company's final brief to the U.S. District Court for the
Central District of California.

"It's an independent culture and a rebellious one," said Jean-Louis Gassee, a
venture capitalist who was once an engineering manager at Apple. "If the
government tries to compel testimony or action from these engineers, good luck
with that."

