
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 7 -- Shanghai/Beijing: Judging by the volume of online chatter,
there's a lot less buzz in China ahead of this week's expected launch of the new
Apple Inc iPhone, and people on the street say they're more likely to "wait and
see" what the latest device offers than rush out to buy.


 Posts on China's popular Sina Weibo microblogging site show the iPhone 6, which
took China by storm in 2014 with its new, larger screen, attracted around 15
times more comments in the month before launch than this year's model.
 The muted online anticipation for the iPhone 7 underlines the challenge Apple
faces to revive growth in China, where an economic slowdown has slammed the
brakes on what was once touted as the firm's next big growth engine.
 Apple's Greater China sales dropped by a third in April-June, albeit after more
than doubling a year earlier, and revenue was down by more than a quarter to
$8.8 billion - around a fifth of its total sales. Its 7.8 percent market share
ranked fifth in China, trailing local vendors Huawei Technologies Co Ltd, OPPO
and Vivo, which together accounted for 47 percent, according to IDC data.
 The California-based company's online stores for iBooks and movies was also
closed in China after Beijing imposed strict curbs in March on online
publishing, and Apple has been on the losing side of intellectual property
battles here.
 Beijing student Wang Yue, 23, said she was in no hurry to buy an iPhone 7. "I'm
looking forward to the launch, but I won't rush to buy anything," Wang, who uses
an iPhone 6S that was launched last year, told Reuters. "I want to know what new
functions it's got. My feeling is there are no real major changes from the 6S,
so I think I'll hold off for a while."
 Apple is widely anticipated to unveil the new iPhone 7 at an event in San
Francisco on Wednesday. The company, which doesn't give a regional breakdown for
its iPhone sales, didn't respond to requests for comment.
 Among half a dozen consumers Reuters spoke to most said they would first check
out the new phone's functions or wait for the price to drop. Only one planned to
definitely buy any new model.
 "The word among consumers is the updates are not going to be revolutionary, but
smaller changes," said Ben Cavender, Shanghai-based director at China Market
Research Group, who described current consumer interest in China as "muted".
 WAIT FOR EIGHT
 More than anything else, the upcoming iPhone 7 may be a victim of the success
of the iPhone 6.
 China sales of the iPhone 6 soared in the first quarter of last year, helping
drive up Apple's China revenues by 71 percent. A year later, weaker sales of the
6S contributed to the company's first global decline in iPhone sales and first
revenue drop in 13 years - though globally the 6S was the top-selling smartphone
in April-June, according to Strategy Analytics.
 The research firm estimates iPhone shipments in China will decline 20 percent
in the second half of this year to 21 million from a year ago.
 "Apple is struggling with consumer 'iPhone fatigue' in China, while competition
from Huawei, Oppo and others remains fierce," said Strategy Analytics analyst
Neil Mawston.
 Weibo chatter in the run-up to the iPhone 7 launch has, however, topped levels
seen ahead of last year's 6S launch.
 Some Chinese shoppers are even already eyeing a potential iPhone 8 model that
could be launched with more significant changes next year, the 10th anniversary
of the first iPhone.
 "Because it's just one year, lots of people are choosing to wait for the iPhone
8," said Wang Bo, a finance worker in his thirties at a securities firm in
Shanghai. "The changes with the 8 will be much bigger, which I think will be a
drag on sales of the new phone this year."
 Wang, who uses both an iPhone 6S and a Huawei P9, said he plans to buy this
year's new iPhone when it's released in China.
 But convincing other shoppers in China - and the United States - to replace
their smartphone is a tougher sell today than in 2014, when many Chinese were
buying an iPhone for the first time.
 Concerns that Apple has hit "peak iPhone" have buffeted the firm's shares this
year, with the stock price up just 2.35 percent, lagging the benchmark S&P 500
Index.
 "The biggest thing that's changed since 2014 is that the iPhone is widely
available," said Ben Thompson, who analyses the technology sector at
Stratechery. "There's a lot more growth potential when people have their first
chance to buy an iPhone, but that potential has now been realized."

