

APPLE iPHONE 6s PLUS REVIEW *****

WHEN Apple launched its giant iPhone 6 Plus last year we weren't that impressed.

Too difficult in your hand, too big for your pocket and far too expensive, were
our initial complaints.

However, sometimes you have to hold your hands up when you make a mistake.

Having spent a lot more time with the 6 Plus over the past year, we've grown to
love this giant smartphone and yes, we admit it, we got our 4-star rating wrong.

Now Apple has released an update to its super-sized phone.

The iPhone 6s Plus may look similar to its little brother, but there's plenty of
new features to make this a worthy upgrade.

The biggest change comes in the form of Apple's new giant 3D Touch display.
Press the 5.5in Retina HD screen and you'll open the usual apps, pictures and
content.

But tap and press harder and you'll get access to more menus. Apple is calling
this Peek and Pop and having put it to the test it's a definite gamechanger.

Sending messages, checking emails, playing music and even gaming is made so much
easier. The iPhone 6s Plus also features two new cameras which bring a touch of
added quality to your photos and videos.

On the back of the phone is an excellent 12-megapixel snapper which has the
ability to film in ultra high definition 4K quality.

Videos look amazing in this format but they do come with a price - the file size
is massive and 16GB owners will run out of space fast. Apple has also introduced
its new Live Photo mode which snaps a tiny piece of video before and after it
takes the photo. It's a neat feature that will grow on you the more you use it.

For selfie fans there's an upgraded front-facing camera which now includes a
flash for low light photos of your face.

There's some new brains tucked inside the iPhone 6s Plus and this A9 processor
is blisteringly fast.

Battery life is also impressive and, with average use, you can almost squeeze
two days of use from a single charge.

There's still some room for improvement as the screen isn't as bright or sharp
as some of its rivals, it can't be charged wirelessly and it's still pricey.

The new 6s Plus is also slightly heavier than the older model.

Some will still find iPhone 6s Plus too big to handle but if you fancy going
super-sized, you won't find much better than this new offering.

