

Reuters

San Francisco

Apple said that advance orders of its new iPhones were on pace to beat the
10million units the previous versions logged in their first weekend last year, a
feat that analysts attributed to the inclusion of sales from China.

The Chinese debut of the prior models, the iPhone 6 and 6Plus, was delayed last
year as the company awaited approval from regulators. Many analysts say China is
poised to overtake the United States as Apple's biggest market.

Searching for signs of whether Apple can top its 2014performance, investors were
initially encouraged by the company's remarks but later tempered their
enthusiasm. Apple shares were up 0.7 per cent in afternoon trading after rising
as much as 2.3 per cent earlier in the session.

Apple did not disclose the specific number of advance orders it received for the
new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. Analysts had expected about 4.5 million for the first
24 hours, compared with4 million during the first day last year.

Apple began taking preorders on Saturday for the phones, which will begin
shipping on September 25.

The company said it was working to catch up to demand for the iPhone 6S Plus,
the larger of the two new phones, which exceeded its forecasts for the preorder
period.

"Preorders this weekend were very strong around the world," Apple spokeswoman
Trudy Muller said in a statement.

After shattering sales records last year with the iPhone 6and 6 Plus, Apple has
been dogged by questions of whether it can sustain the momentum this year.

BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis said the company had always enjoyed a burst of
sales of new phones from die-hard fans and customers who are due for an upgrade.

"Will these phones have the same staying power as the iPhone6?" he asked. "It's
still going to be a challenge."

The exclusion of the Chinese market last year set a low bar Apple to clear with
preorders this year, he added.

However, John Jackson of IDC said the 6S and 6S Plus' strong early performance
dampened concerns on Wall Street.

"Apple has this track record of outperforming its own outperformance, but the
iPhone 6 looks like an extraordinarily tough act to follow," he said. "The fact
that they are fast out of the gate with this refresh is a very encouraging
sign."

