

Despite its disarmingly petite demeanour, this little smartphone manages to pack
in a surprising lot

When news of Apple launching a 4-inch iPhone broke, it was met with widely mixed
reactions. On the one hand, there were legions of users who still swore by a
small form factor phone, one that literally fit within that elusive one-thumb
radius. On the other, there were those who scoffed as this seeming devolution
from the current-day phablet rage.

Well to each their own. But still, a tiny iPhone packed with the same guts as
Apple's flagship devices is compelling indeed. The iPhone SE does after all have
the same brains (the A9 processor along with the M9 motion coprocessor), camera
(12MP iSight camera capable of 4K recording, optical image stabilization etc,)
WiFi 802.11ac and fingerprint sensor as the top-end iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.

We got our hands on one and dived right in.

First looks

From the familiarly designed iPhone box itself, beholding it there's an
unmistakable sense of deja vu of the iPhone 5S--it's just so tiny compared to
the much larger packaging we've been accustomed to with today's phones.

Peeling away that shrink wrapping and opening the box reveals the phone nestled
in, where the first reaction is "aww, adorable!" It's clearly been a while since
we've seen a 4-inch phone.

Package contents are nothing out of the ordinary--the mandatory booklets,
earphones, a charger and charging cable. Lifting out the phone, it's immediately
apparent how much my hands missed the feeling of a small phone--it just.. fits.

At first, it's hard not to mistake this phone for the old-school iPhone 5S.
Apple's decision to adopt a design that is so reminiscent of their earlier
4-inch phone instead of the newer rounded design language that has prevailed
since the iPhone 6S is a curious one.

Be that as it may, the phone is expectedly well crafted. From the matt-chamfered
edges to the satin finish on its aluminium body, it feels undeniably 'Apple'. On
the face of it, everything looks normal--the power button up top, the mute
switch and volume buttons along the left edge, the nano SIM tray on the right
and the stereo speakers at the bottom along with the USB and 3.5mm headphone
jack.

But capability-wise it's a virtual re-read of the iPhone 6S or 6S Plus, apart
from its more compact 4-inch screen size with its 640x1136 resolution (still
razor sharp at 326ppi) and the absence of 3D Touch.

But its two core components--the processor and the camera--being the same as
what's used in its flagship sibling--makes for a compelling proposition. It
implies you now have the ability to do 4K video recording (with on-phone
editing,) with simultaneous 8MP photo capture an optical image stabilization in
a phone that's smaller than anything else out there with similar capabilities.

The phone also shares many of the other 6S goodies such as Live Photos, the
fingerprint scanner, the 'retina' flash with color matching for the front camera
et al. So that's top-notch performance in a tiny smartphone package.

This is the kind of phone that grows on you. Before long, you'll wonder how it
was possible to forfeit that innately human single-handed use. I took a bunch of
photos and videos and fired up some of my favourite apps (from news readers like
Flipboard to games like Real Racing 3.) It took a while re-calibrating my own
interaction with the 4-inch interface (especially typing!), but before long the
'disruption' of the smaller screen fades away.

The iPhone SE is a fun, snappy phone to use--one that is bound to be an instant
hit with anyone who's pined for the days where phones were comfortably handheld.
Its premium pricing unfortunately foils the plans of anyone under the incorrect
notion that a smaller iPhone would have been a low-priced one (even though at Rs
39,000 for the 16GB version it is the lowest priced iPhone you can officially
buy today from its current generation.)

I am thinking, though, that this phone would probably turn out to be the
most-requested iPhone from friends and family visiting from the US, the price
delta being so large.

If you're looking for a phone that's akin to having Bentley-class performance in
a Mini Cooper class body, look no further. The iPhone SE goes on sale in India
starting Friday, 8 April.

Stay tuned for our deep-dive review.

