
ABSTRACT

Review: New iPhones bring better cameras, animation in still images, shortcuts
to tasks

FULL TEXT

NEW YORK >> Photography gets even better with Apple's new iPhones.

Although the iPhone is already among the best smartphones for everyday shots,
images from previous iPhones haven't been as sharp as what rival cameras
produce. The new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus models address that, with 50 percent more
detail, while introducing animation for still images and brighter low-light
selfies.

Screens remain at 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches diagonally, but they have new
technology offering shortcuts to frequent tasks.

The iPhone 6s starts at $200 with a two-year contract in the U.S., and $649
without. The Plus costs $100 more. Both models start shipping Friday in the
U.S., China, Japan, the U.K. and several other markets. Last year's models are
now $100 cheaper than the new ones.

You might not need a 6s if you just got a new phone last year, but go for the 6s
over the 6 if you're ready to upgrade from an older model. After testing both
new models for nearly two weeks, I find the price difference worth it.

Cameras get better

At 12 megapixels, instead of 8 megapixels, the new cameras produce sharper
photos. The difference is particularly noticeable when cropping or enlarging
photos for printing. Samsung's high-end phones are at 16 megapixels, but their
images are wider. If you chop off the sides to match the iPhone's 4-by-3 ratio,
resolution is about the same. More important is getting your shot in focus, and
the automatic focus on both cameras is good.

Other improvements in the iPhone's camera result in better contrast and less
distortion than before. Trees look greener and buildings browner in several test
shots. Samsung's phones have also been good at contrast, but colors are
sometimes off. Orange construction barriers look red using Samsung's Galaxy S6
phone, while a greenish statue came out grey. The iPhones reproduce colors more
accurately.

For video, the iPhone catches up with several Android phones and can now record
at Ultra HD, also known as 4K. There aren't many 4K displays available yet, so
this is mostly about recording memories for tomorrow's screens. But the new
phones do let you zoom in during playback, so you can see some of that 4K detail
today. The Plus model also has better anti-shake technology, so scenes don't
look as though you're on a boat.

Still images on the front camera improve to 5 megapixels, from 1.2 megapixels,
matching Samsung's phones. Better yet, the new iPhone's screen functions as a
flash so faces come out when snapping selfies in bars and other low-light
settings. This is rare in smartphones.

Animated photos

When you open the camera app, the phone continually records video in the
background. Snap a shot, and the phone saves some of that video leading to that
shot, plus some afterward - three seconds in all. Now, that photo comes to life
when you view it. Apple calls this "Live Photos." Just tap and hold the screen
to see the three-second animation. Share it with other iPhones, the Apple Watch
and Mac computers - and soon, through Facebook.

