

Illustration: Liu Rui/GT

Apple is hoping that the mania for iPhones in China never fades. After the
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus were unveiled on September 9, pre-orders were sold
out in China in 12 hours. Chinese Apple fans are as keen on the new toys as they
were on previous models.Apple reported $13.23 billion in revenue for China, its
second largest market, in the last quarter. Amid skepticism about China's
economic downturn, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivered a rare speech to reassure
investors, saying China still "represents an unprecedented opportunity over the
long term."Clearly, Apple needs China more than ever before.

According to Kantar Worldpanel's research this April, the iPhone's market share
has dropped in 17 developed economies. However, China, including Hong Kong,
Macao and Taiwan, was the only territory to show positive growth. After the
launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, the iPhone's market share in China surged from
18.1 percent last November to 27.6 percent this February.As China's strong
demand is becoming essential to Apple's prosperity, the company's strategy has
changed substantially. Apple's recent event in San Francisco indicates evident
pandering to the Chinese consumers: For the first time, China was promoted into
the first wave of markets to get the new iPhone; Rose gold, a kind of pink
favored by Asian women, was added to cater to the Chinese demand.But a pandering
strategy doesn't mean Apple is becoming more consumer-friendly, especially in
prices. Being enlisted as a first-wave market cannot lower the prices of iPhone
6s and iPhone 6s Plus in China. There are jokes about how to trade a kidney for
an iPhone in China, a sarcastic way to mock the exorbitant price of the
handset.It is unfair to put all the blame on Apple for iPhone's high prices,
because a large part of the extravagance is caused by external factors, such as
China's heavy tariffs.However, the high prices, combined to some degree with
innovation, give Apple a halo of luxury. China's growing middle class don't find
it unacceptable to spend 5,000 to 7,000 yuan ($784.30 to $1,098.60) on something
regarded as a sign of living a wealthy and stylish life.Many iPhone users in
China will spend a fortune to buy an iPhone, but are unwilling to pay a few yuan
for a useful or interesting app. They, even though not IT geeks, will happily
jailbreak their handsets at some roadside fake "Apple franchised stores," which
will ruin the well-knitted and stable iOS. The iPhone is more related to the
users' sense of status and lifestyle, instead of practical usage.But even though
the iPhone still dominates, we can legitimately wonder how long this
mania-driven prosperity can last. Apple has to realize that its over-dependence
on the iPhone, which contributes two-thirds of its revenue, and its growing
reliance on the Chinese market, which is believed to surpass the Americas sooner
or later, are profitable in the short term, but risky in the long term. Apple
seems to be trapping itself in an "update model," by relying on hardware
upgrades on a yearly basis instead of seeking more eye-catching innovations to
stir more enthusiasm.There are signs indicating Apple is facing more challenges
from competitors in China. In July, German market research agency GfK found
Apple's market share had slightly dropped, while Chinese smartphones, like
Xiaomi and Huawei, are winning more fans. Like the once-ubiquitous Nokia, Apple
may find itself dropped by Chinese when something better comes along. The author
is a reporter with the Global Times. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn

