

NEW DELHI: For those not willing to wait, the new iPhone 6S models are already
available in India. But these phones won't come with a company guarantee. Barely
two weeks before the sought-after smartphones hit retail shops in India, Apple
iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus are available on eBay India and some reseller sites
such as OLX and Quikr for an astounding marked up price.

One can buy an 'imported' iPhone 6S 128GB model for Rs 1,14,999 on ebay.in,
which will be delivered anywhere in India within five to six days of receiving
payment. The seller also offers a six-month seller warranty on the models,
including the iPhone 6S 16GB model for Rs 69,999 and the 64GB variant for Rs
84,999. These are backed by an eBay guarantee.

Another seller on used-goods site Olx. in is offering the iPhone 6S 64GB for Rs
75,000 and promising to ship it within a day, while one on Quikr.com has put a
65,000 tag for the 16GB variant of iPhone 6S Plus.

"There will be no guarantee or warranty on this phone," a seller on Olx.in told
ET. "The phones come from overseas and won't have the standard warranty or
guarantee."

Through this route, the phones have become available in India five days after
the September 25 launch in the US and 11 other countries. The Cupertino-based
smartphone maker had sold over 13 million iPhone 6S and 6S Plus phones over the
first weekend, a record.

The devices will be officially available in retail stores in India on the
intervening night of October 15 and 16. While Apple is yet to announce prices
for India, as per trade estimates, the 16GB iPhone 6S will be priced at Rs
55,000-56,000 and the iPhone 6S Plus 16GB model will be sold for Rs
65,000-66,000.

"We recommend our customers buy Apple branded products from authorized Apple
resellers to ensure they receive the best possible customer service and
post-sales experience. We haven't announced the pricing at this point of time,"
the company said.

Sources at Apple said the phones sold on various websites are imported and don't
carry guarantees. They said buyers would be risking paying all the money upfront
with no guarantee of delivery. OLX did not respond to queries about the listings
on its site.

Quikr said it has a comprehensive policy on its website that outlines the types
of products for which listing or posting of classifieds or information is
prohibited. "We also spend time educating buyers about what to check before
buying the product listed by the seller," Atul Tewari, COO at Quikr, said in an
email.

An eBay India spokesperson clarified that the seller warranty was not akin to
manufacturer warranty.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

