                              100 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          The Business Times Singapore



                             May 14, 2016 Saturday



When the parts add up;

South Korean tech giant LG has built the world's first mass-market modular

smartphone.



BYLINE: Sherwin Loh , When the parts add up



SECTION: DESIGN; Lifestyle



LENGTH: 936 words





HAVE you ever wanted your smartphone to be more flexible, and do more? More than

what it was designed for, and more flexible than what it is currently capable

of'



This is what tech companies plan for, which explains why they always come out

with new, slightly improved products each year, to meet rising expectations. The

industry calls it "the rolling out of incremental upgrades", to convince owners

that their current devices are not good enough.



But what if these upgrades were made available in another way'



The latest LG G5 flagship Android smartphone is an upgrade from last year's LG

G4, in that it has a slightly faster processor and a better camera, but it

retains the quad high-definition screen from before.



What the South Korean tech giant has done though, is build the world's first

mass-market modular smartphone.



A modular smartphone is a device made of different components that can be

independently upgraded or replaced.



Since some phone parts, such as the screen, memory, RAM and even camera, are

good enough to last a few years, users do not have to change them often. The

base of the LG G5 can be removed by pressing a release catch, and there are

currently two upgrade modules to pick from, to fit onto the phone.



The first is the LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O PLAY. This module is slightly larger

than the original one removed from the G5, and it introduces high definition 32

Bit audio playback on the device.



This trumps the 24 Bit playback on the LG G5, but not everyone appreciates,

enjoys or needs 32 Bit audio.



While some phones offer software-based upscaling for high resolution audio, the

Hi-Fi Plus module uses an actual digital-to-analogue converter processor. The

other module is the LG Cam Plus, which upgrades the camera's operations with a

better camera grip, and actual camera buttons.



Once fitted, users hold the phone horizontally. The module adds a rear bump to

the phone and the buttons offer precise video and photo taking.



Granted, the purchase of the phone and both modules drive up the overall price

of ownership, but the choice to upgrade is now yours.



The true test of this modular design is seeing how LG intends to grow the

segment. One can forsee a separate camera lens or gamepad module but if nothing

new comes out, or if next year's follow-up is not compatible with this batch of

modules, consumers will know that the company has no long-term plans for the

market.



The Android Marshmallow operating system provides greater security to the

platform and if you are a fan of Android's menu drawer, LG does have it

available as a separate download from its store.



Design wise, LG has dropped its use of a removable rear panel, though the

removable bottom module keeps one of the best features of LG's phones, which is

a removable battery that can be easily replaced.



The switch to a metal chassis also puts it on a par with the likes of Apple,

Samsung and Huawei, in maintaining a more premium look and feel for flagship

devices. Previously, LG had the power and volume controls placed on the rear

panel, just under the camera lens. This is very useful, since you no longer have

to use your thumb to unlock the biometric sensor on phones, and the volume

controls are within reach of the forefinger. For some reason, LG has kept the

power and biometric sensor on the rear here, but they have moved the volume

controls back to the edge of the phone.



As for the camera, LG has added a dual camera here, and with it comes an amazing

wide angle option for the 8MP lens, but not for the sharper 16MP one.



Wide angle lens allows for more of the scene to be recorded, whether it is a

group shot or a close-up of the food on the dining table. Unfortunateky, the

16MP rear camera, while an improvement over last year's G4, is nowhere near as

quick or sharp as the one on Samsung's new Galaxy S7 phone.



LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O PLAY S$298



A DAC (digital-to-analogue converter) is a processor that converts the digital

signals in digital music tracks into analogue signals, which can be heard via

headphones.



A high quality DAC is needed for listening to the original audio as it was

recorded, but very few smartphones have a dedicated DAC, which is why some

audiophiles rely on a portable DAC, which they plug into their phones. Those

devices can cost over S$400, so LG's hardware-based DAC, which can be fitted on

to the phone, is a worthwhile investment.



It even comes with a housing that contains a second USB-C port, so that you can

use this module with other phones in the market.



LG Cam Plus S$158



Think of this module as a frame for the LG G5, to make it feel more like a

camera. When it is inserted into the LG G5, the bump in the rear, which also

houses an additional 1,200 mAh battery, acts as a cradle that provides a better

phone/camera grip.



Located on the edge of the module are a quick-access camera button, a video

record button, a jog wheel for zooming in and out, and a two-step shutter

release button.



Even if you don't need high resolution audio, it's great to take photos with the

Cam Plus module, and be able to zoom in on objects, and toggle between video and

camera mode with one hand, instead of fiddling with the touchscreen.



SPECS



LG G5



Processor Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 Octa-Core (Dual-core 2.15 GHz & dual-core 1.6

GHz)



Display 5.3-inch IPS LCD, Corning Gorilla Glass 4, 1,440 x 2560 pixels, (554

pixel per inch pixel density)



Camera Rear: 16 MP (f/1.8) + 8 MP (f/2.4), laser autofocus, Optical Image

Stabalisation, LED flash. Front: 8 MP (f/2.0)



Operating System Android 6.0.1 (Marshmallow)



Memory 32GB, with microSD support (up to 200GB), 4GB RAM



Battery Removable Li-Ion 2,800 mAh



Price S$988



LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: WORTHWHILE INVESTMENT LG's hardware-based DAC can be fitted on to the

phone and comes with a housing that contains a second USB-C port, so that you

can use this module with other phones in the market.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





