                              102 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                   The Hindu



                              June 7, 2016 Tuesday



A matter of perspective



LENGTH: 841  words



DATELINE: Bangalore





Bangalore, June 7 -- After breaking through the resolution barrier with the QHD

display-wearing G3 and oozing style with the leather-backed G4, LG once again

brings some new tricks to the party with this year's G5. The Korean

manufacturer's 2016 flagship pushes the envelope on many counts, by using an

interesting camera setup and tinkering with modularity.





 But first the specs. The G5 straddles the line between handling and size by

opting for a 5.3-inch QHD display (a norm for top-end phones now), 4GB of RAM

and 32GB of onboard storage, which is expandable. The phone uses a

top-of-the-line Snapdragon 820 processor, which is free from the heating and

performance issues faced by last year's 810. This phone comes with three

cameras; a pair of 16MP and 8MP shooters sitting side by side on the back and an

8MP shooter on the front. Unlike HTC before it, who used dual sensors to add

depth effects to images, LG's 8MP sensor has a field of view of 135 degrees,

compared to the traditional 75 degrees available on the 16MP one. Prepare to be

the official photographer for large group shots from now on.

 With modular smartphones (read phones with removable and upgradable parts, like

computers) being talked about and rumoured to be on the horizon, the industry is

waiting to see who makes the first move. And as per the norm, LG has taken a

lead. While the G5 is not truly modular, it features a slot at the bottom that

can slide out on the press of a button, allowing the battery to be swapped out,

and for add-ons to be inserted for extra functionality. Currently available

add-ons, dubbed 'friends' by LG, include a camera grip with extra controls and a

bigger battery and a hi-fi DAC and amp for enhanced music playback, apart from

some accessories, which include a rolling assistant that can control home

function and livestream video. The included LG Friends Manager app serves as a

command centre for the friends.

 Moving on to build, this is where the G5s personality begins to waver a little

bit. The phone is easy to handle, well-weighed and sturdily built, with smooth

metal all around. However, the button placement on the back, which LG had

pioneered and gained appreciation for, is now skewed, with power button and

fingerprint sensor residing under the camera and volume rocker returning to the

side of the phone. The solitary power button and the sloping border look

ungainly on an otherwise well-designed phone.

 The UI also tells a similar story. Optimus UX 5.0 is better put-together than

previous iterations, and has some useful features, such as the ability to add

five buttons to the software navigation bar at the bottom, and a Smart Bulletin

like HTCs Blinkfeed which displays music controls, data from LG Health and info

from supported apps like Evernote. The Smart Doctor option which provides

in-built tuneup options for RAM and storage management and the useful Knock Code

that allows users to unlock the phone with a pattern without turning on the

display are available as well. The QSlide apps (mini apps which can be melded

into background and restored) and Capture+ functionality feel a little like

afterthoughts, and LGs implementation of the app drawer (which is unavailable by

default and requires a separate launcher to be downloaded from the LG Smart

World portal) is a little confusing.

 On the performance and features front, the Snapdragon 820 is a return to form

for manufacturer Qualcomm, and the G5 breezed along merrily, with no

overheating. The G5 is also packed to the gills with connectivity features, with

even the IR blaster with remote function making a return.

 LG has always been known to make excellent cameras, and the G5 is no slouch

here. The main camera takes crisp, detailed images, and even low light

situations can be sorted by manual adjustment with the excellent manual mode.

The software is robust and allows granular control over images. The G5 also has

simple and auto modes for easier photography with fewer options. The wide angle

camera provides an interesting new perspective, though how much use it can be

put to in daily use is debatable. The G5s selfie game is also on point, with the

front camera resolving a good amount of detail.

 While a lot of the UI and design choices are subjective, the biggest chink in

the G5s armour is its 2,800 mAh battery. While it is removable and supports

quick charge for ridiculously quick topups, the battery rarely got us through a

full day of moderate use. Extended photography sessions can take a toll on this

phone, so it would be best to have a charger or power bank handy.

 This is the story of the LG G5. It's a phone with a lot of promise that could

have benefited from a clear sense of purpose. The hardware is excellent, and

some of the software is truly helpful, but the feeling that it tries to do too

many different things at once is unshakable. The G5 is an above average

smartphone, a great camera phone and an experiment in modular smartphone design.

But at an asking price of over Rs.50,000, it needs to know what it wants to be.



LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





