                              103 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             March 29, 2016 Tuesday



LG introduces UX 5.0 Android Marshmallow-based user interface



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 297 words





NEW DELHI:recently announced the global roll out of its flagship smartphone LG

G5 worldwide. The company has now unveiled itsUX5.0 custom UI for Android. LG

said that, the new UX 5.0 software will not only be arriving with the LG G5 but

on "upcoming smartphone models as well."The South Korean giant says that UX 5.0

is user-centric and it supports easy connection for finest control of LG

Friends, the modules (CAM Plus, Hi-Fi Plus, and 360 CAM) introduced for

thehandset.



One of the main highlight of the UX is LG Friends Manager, which will enable the

users to easily pair different modules of the G5 with the device. Moreover, the

users will also be able to download and install the required applications from

the Google Play store.The LG UX5.0 consists of improved support for thecamera.

The users will now be able to switch between the standard 78-degree lens to the

135 degree wide angle lens, set 360-degree panorama shots capture by LG 360 Cam

as wallpapers, capture different angles of images at the same moment using both

front and rear cameras and capture shots from both standard and wide angle lens

to create a picture-in-a-frame effect.Along with this, the LG UX5.0 also include

new homescreen with the app drawer, updated LG Health app, Always-On display,

File Manager app, Quick Help app, Smart Doctor app, LG Backup and accurate

fingerprint recognition.



Talking about the LG UX5.0 Juno Cho, president and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile

Communications Company, said, "We analysed the lifestyle of smartphone users to

provide a superior mobile experience and greatly expanded the usability with LG

UX 5.0. LG UX 5.0 and G5 were designed to provide an innovative user experience

that reflects the needs of our most demanding customers."



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





