
DATELINE: India


India, June 2 -- LG Electronics has announced the launch of its first ever
modular smartphone, G5 in India. This highly anticipated smartphone comes with a
sleek metal uni-body featuring a Slide-out battery and a Modular Type design
that gives a greater smartphone experience. G5 is also accompanied with LG
Friends, a collection of companion devices like LG CAM Plus, LG 360 CAM and LG
360 VR.

Encased in a sleek metal aluminum body and Slide-out Battery to easily swap out
a discharged battery for a fully charged one in seconds, the LG G5 surpasses the
visual experience of its predecessor, the LG G4.

First, the G5's 135-degree wide angle lens lets you choose between standard or
wide angle to get more in the shot. Second, the Always-on Display makes
notifications just a glance away with the time, date and more available anytime
without waking the G5. Third, the 3D Arc Glass featured in the smartphone's
5.3-inch display creates a gentle curve and a smooth colorful metal surface
through an advanced microdizing process which takes anodized aluminum to a whole
new level.

Furthermore, the insulative antenna is invisibly integrated into the body
without disrupting the seamless look of the metal uni-body. LG designers took
the metal body concept one step further by adding a Shiny Cut edge for added
contrast and a more comfortable grip.

Speaking on the occasion, Kim Ki Wan, Managing Director, LG Electronics India,
said, "We are really proud to bring the LG G5 to India. With this smart phone,
we are living up to our promise of Innovation for a Better Life; LG has always
brought something really innovative to the world of smartphones. This year yet
again with G5, we have come up with a very unique concept of modular smart
phone. This phone will certainly amaze the smart phone users with its ability to
be transformed into multiple devices like digital camera, Hi-Fi player and more.
G5 will certainly redefine smart phone experience for consumers."

Commenting on this launch, Ajay Yadav, VP - Smartphones, Flipkart said,
"Technology is one of the key drivers in the Indian smartphone market. LG's G5
is packed with innovation and new-age technology. We are happy to introduce LG's
flagship product as an online exclusive on our platform. The pre-booking
response has been great and we expect this new offering from LG will be a hit
with our customers."

Sunil Lalvani, Vice President and President of Qualcomm India, said, "Qualcomm
Technologies is very pleased to work with LG on their latest flagship device,
the LG G5, featuring the Snapdragon 820 processor with Qualcomm TruSignal
Multi-Antenna Boost technology, enabling a superior and reliable connected
experience. LG and Qualcomm Technologies have worked together for many years
with the shared goal of enabling new and exciting user experiences for
consumers. We look forward to seeing the LG G5 launch in India."

Compared to the previous generation Snapdragon processor, Qualcomm Technologies'
most advanced CPU architecture offers double the speed and power savings. Adreno
530 graphics demonstrate up to 40 percent faster graphics performance and up to
40 percent more power efficiency compared to the previous generation. The
Snapdragon 820 processor also supports 4K capture and playback at four times
more than the resolution of 1080p, enabling users to watch and capture their
daily moments in stunning de-tail and clarity. The processor is also optimized
for VR, generating quality pixels and life-like colors to deliver the ultimate
VR experience to G5 users.

As part of the ecosystem, LG is introducing a wide range of companion devices,
aptly called LG Friends, to deliver fun while providing a new mobile experience
far beyond traditional smartphone boundaries.

LG G5 will be available in India at Rs. 52,990/-

Key Specifications:*

Chipset: Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 Processor

Display: 5.3-inch Quad HD IPS Quantum Display (2560 x 1440 / 554ppi)

Memory: 4GB LPDDR4 RAM / 32GB UFS ROM / microSD (up to 2TB)

Camera: Rear: Standard 16MP, Wide 8MP / Front: 8MP

Battery: 2,800mAh (removable)

OS: Android 6.0 Marshmallow

Size: 149.4 x 73.9 x 7.7mm

Weight: 159g

Network: LTE / 3G / 2G

Connectivity: Wi-Fi 802.11 a, b, g, n, ac / USB Type-C) / NFC / Bluetooth 4.2

Colors: Silver / Titan / Gold / Pink

Published by HT Syndication with permission from SME Channels. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

