                              115 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                            Belfast Telegraph Online



                      February 21, 2016 Sunday 2:25 PM GMT



The new LG smartphone allows you to play with your pets from your desk



BYLINE: By Martyn Landi



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 355 words





Details from the new LG G5 were announced on Sunday at the Mobile World Congress

technology show in Barcelona.



LG has announced a modular smartphone that enables users to attach additional

features such as a better camera lens to the device.



The new LG G5 comes with a removable battery slot and additional features such

as a camera and a speaker that can be slotted into this area with the battery at

the base of the phone.



The Korean firm's president Juno Cho described the new device as "an adventurous

theme park in your pocket".



Google is also working on a modular smartphone where users can add and remove

features, though it is thought to be far from completion. A small second battery

inside the phone keeps it running while any swap is made.



LG made the announcement at a press conference ahead of the Mobile World

Congress technology show in Barcelona.



The G5 will also have an "always-on" screen, though LG added this will only

highlight part of the screen and use less than 1% of the battery every hour.



The phone's rear camera also comes with a wide angle lens, which can be used to

take photos in a 135 degree range - wider than the viewing range of the human

eye.



LG also announced their own virtual reality headset, following in the footsteps

of a host of companies to create such a device.



The LG 360 VR connects to the G5 smartphone, and has a dedicated screen for each

eye, which LG says makes images shown 20% sharper than other headsets. It is

being powered by Qualcomm's new Snapdragon processor, one of the most powerful

available.



Facebook-owned Oculus, PlayStation and HTC are all due to release VR headsets in

the coming months.



The technology giant also unveiled a 360-degree camera that can be used to take

photos and video, as well as post to Google Street View.



A spherical robot called the Rolling Bot was also revealed. It can be controlled

remotely over a Wi-Fi network, and the firm says could be used as a home

security product.



It also comes with a Pet Care mode so users can monitor and even talk to their

pets when they're not home, as well as beam a small laser onto the floor for

them to play with.



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT





           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)

                              All Rights Reserved





