                              12 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                   Gulf Times



                             April 7, 2016 Thursday



LG mobile sales staff attend training for G5 smartphone



LENGTH: 258  words





The LG Electronics mobiles sales staff who participated in the training for the

G5 smartphone.



LG Electronics has trained its mobile sales staff across Qatar on the

capabilities of the upcoming LG G5.

The training was provided at a leading cinema hall in Doha with the content

shown over a wide screen with surround sound.





The participants were later treated to lunch at a leading Asian restaurant

followed by a special screening of the movie Batman vs Superman.

"The LG G5 is a pioneer phone in modular design and it was only befitting that

we trained our sales staff in a unique way to help them better understand the

unique features that the G5 has to offer," said C V Rappai, director and CEO of

Video Home & Electronic Centre.

"Having the training in a cinema as against a mundane training room was also

part of the LG G5 campaign theme of Let's Play More," he explained.

The LG G5 has so far won a record 33 awards including Best New Smartphone at MWC

2016 from the GSMA's Glomo Awards, the mobile industry's longest established

awards platform for innovation,

excellence and achievement.

The LG G5 boasts of a sleek, metal uni-body featuring a slide-out battery and a

modular type design. With LG Friends, a collection of companion devices that

include Cam plus, LG Hi-Fi Plus with B&O PLAY, 360 VR, 360 Cam, Rolling Bot,

Tone Platinum, H3 by B&O Play, the G5 can be transformed into a digital camera,

Hi-Fi player and more.

The LG G5 will be available by the third week of April in Qatar across Jumbo

Electronics showrooms and leading hypermarkets.



LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 183





                      Copyright 2016 Gulf Times Newspaper

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





