

The sheer scale and insanity of Barcelona's Mobile World Congress is testament
to the impact mobile technology is having on the world. The conference is as
fragmented, diverse and fast-paced as the technology ecosystem it represents and
absorbing it in its entirety is impossible in five days. What you do get instead
is a peek at the products and ideas that are likely to change our lives over
coming months and years - some small, some significant. Of the plethora of
gadgets on display these three offerings stood out.

LG's G5 smartphone I wasn't expecting a lot from LG this year. The South Korean
giant had a middling 2015, with its G4 flagship smartphone underperforming
sales-wise despite being a great device and the company posting losses of tens
of millions of dollars. And the G series itself hadn't seen a great deal of
evolution, taking the solid but uninspiring route of bigger screen sizes and
modest design changes with each update. Not any more. LG has defied expectations
and is daring to innovate, announcing a modular flagship handset that will allow
users to swap out accessories - dubbed "Friends" - to upgrade or change their
phone as much as they want. You simply snap off the bottom of the phone, slide
out a module with the battery, take the battery off and attach it to a new
module. LG has so far only announced two modules - a "CAM Plus" camera controls
module, and "Hi-Fi Plus" dedicated DAC module for superior audio, but says there
are plenty more coming. The G5 is that rare smartphone upgrade that offers a lot
more than just a bigger slab of glass; LG has made a statement with its G5 here
at Mobile World Congress but it remains to be seen whether it's one that will
reverberate beyond the conference floor. The G5 is coming to Australia sometime
in April.

HP's Elite X3 Again, I was not expecting innovation from the likes of
Hewlett-Packard. HP's X3 is a bold enterprise--focused smartphone designed not
to just be your next phone, but your next computer, too. Running Windows 10, the
X3 is the latest device to use Microsoft's "Continuum" software, which detects
how the phone is being used and automatically adjusts the interface.

It boasts all the usual flagship features one would want from a high-end
smartphone - 5.9-inch display, 16-megapixel rear camera and dual front-facing
speakers developed with Bang and Olufsen, but like LG's G5 it's the accessories
that make the X3 special. Users who want a full laptop experience can buy the
"HP Mobile Extender", an accessory that plugs the phone into a 12.5-inch
laptop-like device, effectively making the phone a laptop.

Meanwhile, the "HP Desk Dock" - about the size of a hockey puck - comes with a
DisplayPort to power one monitor (up to 1080p resolution) along with an Ethernet
port, two USB-A ports and one USB-C port. You provide the monitor, mouse and
keyboard and you've got yourself a desktop computer. It's all a bit confusing
but it's adventurous, and HP should be applauded for that.

Oppo's fast battery charging Despite all the gains made in areas like camera
quality and screen resolution, battery life still feels like a sore point for
smartphones. It was all too common to see conference attendees wandering around
looking for power-points or lugging their phone around plugged into a portable
power pack for extra juice. So when Chinese technology firm Oppo announced a new
version of its ultra-fast charging technology that promises to fully charge your
phone in just 15 minutes, people took notice. The company says its "Super Vooc
Flash Charge" will get your battery level from 0 to 100 per cent in just a
quarter of an hour. The technology will probably only be available on Oppo
phones initially, but there's no real reason it couldn't be adopted more widely
across the industry and help ease our battery nightmares.David Swan went to
Mobile World Congress as a guest of Huawei.

