                              140 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               MediAvataarME.com



                             August 15, 2016 Monday



LG flourishes while Moto struggles in the US



BYLINE: shnehasish@yahoo.co.in (MediavataarMe News Desk)



LENGTH: 784  words





As I mentioned in my last blog post, so much attention is paid to the epic

tension between Apple and Samsung, we often ignore other players in the market,

especially in the US. In the three months ending June 2016, Samsung accounted

for 35% of smartphone sales and Apple 32%. Following in third was LG at 14%,

with Motorola fourth at 5%.



For LG, this represents a steady upward trend over the past two years, doubling

in share from the second quarter of 2014 at 7%. On the other hand, for Motorola,

this represents a similar share seen prior to the launch of the original

iteration of the Moto X in the 3rd quarter of 2015, and down from 10% from the

1st quarter of 2016. With constant comparisons now being made between the LG G5

and the upcoming Moto Z Droid, let's look at these two often overlooked players

and what success means for them.



LG leverages LG G5 and prepaid market



The LG G5 was released in the US on April 1, following its introduction at

Mobile World Congress as the first "modular" phone to reach the market. These

modules, however, require that the battery be removed each time, and the LG

Hi-Fi Plus (one of the cooler modules available) will never come to the US. In

its first quarter of sales, the LG G5 was the 10th best-selling smartphone in

the US at 2.2% and the best-selling LG smartphone in the market at 15.3%. It

supplants the LG G4, which had been LG's top-selling phone since Q3 2015, and

before that, the LG G3 (its flagship model released two years ago).



All that being said, LG's growth in the US has not depended completely on its

latest flagship, but also on shifts we've seen in the market landscape over the

past two years. When we look past the LG G5 and its predecessors, LG's next

best-selling devices are in the mid- and lower range of the market, including

the LG K7, LG Leon, and the LG Sunset/Sunrise. These models are not typically

available through the Big Four carriers but through smaller, prepaid carriers

like MetroPCS, Boost Mobile, and TracFone. Forty-six percent of LG connections

are prepaid, the highest of any manufacturer seen in the US. And these other

carriers now represent 26% of smartphone connections in the US, up from 20% two

years ago. In the six months ending June 2016, LG is the top-selling

manufacturer on MetroPCS (40%), Boost (31%) and TracFone (34%).



Moto's transition-driven lull



That brings us to Motorola, which continues to foster a close relationship with

Verizon but also has made a push to smaller carriers including TracFone,

Consumer Cellular and Republic Wireless. In fact, of Motorola smartphones

purchased in the second quarter of 2016, 46% are connected to Verizon and 44%

are connected to a smaller carrier rather than AT&T, Sprint or T-Mobile. The

Moto G and Moto E are the best-selling Moto phones connected to these smaller

carriers, while the Droid Turbo 2 (released in October 2015) remains the

top-selling device connected to Verizon.



So, what accounts for Motorola's lower share this quarter? First, with any

manufacturer that announces a new flagship phone, sales will drop in the period

proceeding as consumers wait to see if the latest device is worth upgrading to.

Second, and this should come as a surprise to no one, a period of transition is

expected between ownership under Google to ownership under Lenovo. The Motorola

name is no more, replaced by Moto. The latest versions of the Moto G, the G4 and

G Plus, were released in developing markets first and only became available to

US consumers in July, exclusively through the Moto Maker. The Moto X series has

been discontinued.



As for what likely will be the first true test of the new Moto, the launch of

the Moto Z Droid, announced at Lenovo Tech World in June as the first truly

"modular" phone and exclusive to Verizon, what's its potential to jump-start

Moto growth?



Of current Motorola smartphone owners, 38% intend to change their device in the

next year. Sixty-four percent of these consumers are on Verizon. While a

majority, 58%, of Motorola smartphone owners intend to stay loyal, this is a far

lower rate than Samsung owners (85%) and Apple (92%), but higher than LG owners,

of whom only 51% intend to stay loyal. Battery life will be most important to

these potential Moto consumers, cited by 89%, a potential boost for their

modular design with the promise of 22 hours of extra battery using the offGRID

power pack. What remains to be seen is whether these Moto Mods, or the Moto Z

Droid, will be enough to revive Motorola's share.



Written by Lauren Guenveur,Mobile Analyst Kantar Worldpanel



http://imgs.syndigate.info/434/1381/60/147123524228.jpg



LG flourishes while Moto struggles in the US



http://imgs.syndigate.info/434/1381/68/147123524447.png







LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1381





                       Copyright 2016 World of Media JLT

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





