                              141 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Samsung Galaxy S7, LG G5 unveiled



LENGTH: 500 words



DATELINE: Bangladesh





Bangladesh, Feb. 22 -- Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and LG Electronics Inc

unveiled their latest smartphones at the Mobile World Congress industry show in

Barcelona on Sunday, seeking to buck the slowdown in industry growth.



Phone makers face another tough year in 2016 as subdued global growth and

persisting currency weakness in key emerging markets sap consumers' spending

power. A push by Chinese manufacturers to expand overseas amid slowing growth in

their domestic market may also undercut margins further, reports Reuters.



In a bid to recapture market share, Samsung launched two new versions of its

Galaxy S smartphone and brought in Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg

for a surprise appearance to tout the potential of virtual reality, prompting

hundreds of people to rush to the stage to record the moment.



LG, which lost money from its mobile business last year as its flagship products

struggled, introduced a modular design to its new G5 smartphones that allows

users to replace or upgrade functions such as camera and audio independently.



It also launched a virtual reality headset and accessories including a drone

controller to pair with the G5.



Analysts and investors cheered LG's features, which they said were different

enough to possibly revive sales, but were lukewarm about Samsung's offerings,

saying they only featured incremental upgrades.



"I think it's possible for LG's mobile business to recover on its new product

launch, since they delivered significant changes with the G5," said Seoul-based

HDC Asset Management fund manager Park Jung-hoon.



"The Galaxy S7, however, doesn't seem to be creating as much buzz," Park said.



Samsung shares were down 1.3 per cent as of 0212 GMT, underperforming a 0.2 per

cent fall for the broader market, while LG shares were up 3 per cent.



Revamps could prove key to smartphone makers as 2016 shapes up to be another

tough year: researcher TrendForce expects the smartphone market growth to slow

to 8.1 per cent from 10.3 per cent a year earlier.



Margin pressures are also expected to intensify for the industry as Chinese

manufacturers seek to expand overseas to counter slowing domestic demand.



Samsung on Saturday said its mobile payments service, Samsung Pay, will launch

in China in March, a month after Apple launched its Apple Pay service in the

world's biggest smartphone market.



The company fell out of the top five in the world's top smartphone market last

year but hopes that its easy-to-use payments service will help it regain sales

momentum.



"The challenge you have got in the smartphone market is breaking through all

that sameness. From a design and functionality perspective, everything looks and

feels the same," said Bob O'Donnell, president of Technalysis Research.



"So the challenge is finding things that stick out."



Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 The Financial Express

                              All Rights Reserved





