

LG's G5 hits store shelves on Friday. Its tactic is to offer top-of-the-line
specs in a (slightly cheaper) phone than its competitors. The G5 also boasts an
unusual and experimental look - a modular design that lets you pull the bottom
off to accommodate a new battery or other accessories.

Standout feature: It has a removable battery, which makes it pretty unusual. In
fact, it's not just the battery that's removable, but the whole bottom - sort of
a first step to a truly modular smartphone that lets you swop out parts for
other hardware features you may want. For example, LG has announced a speaker
attachment it made in partnership with audio company B&O Play. The promise of
more accessories makes it an intriguing option.

Pros: The LG G5 ticks the right boxes - a big 5.3-inch display, strong software
performance and a good camera.

Along with the removable battery, it offers an SD card slot to augment the 32GB
of storage that comes standard with the device. It also has an (optional)
always-on display that can keep you up-to-date without pulling too much battery
power.

In terms of general performance, the device's Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor
makes it pretty snappy.

As a camera, the LG G5 also stands out by sporting two - one with a wide-angle
lens. It's a little gimmicky, but undeniably fun.

Overall, it's a strong phone with a lot of promise to become something more
interesting if LG's attempt at modularity takes off.

Cons: It's strange. There's no other way to describe it. It's not necessarily a
bad thing, but shoppers should know that LG is taking its own design cues here.

Its fingerprint sensor/power button is located on the back - there are no
buttons on the front of this device. All navigation is done through the
software.

It feels quite boxy, perhaps due to the removable slot at the bottom, which
makes less comfortable to hold than its curvier competitors. Still, its sturdy
metal body has a light, almost plastic feel.

Battery life was lacking, not quite making it through a whole day of testing -
though having the extra battery to swop is a plus.

The display is also a little less vibrant than either Samsung's Galaxy S7 Edge
or the iPhone 6S Plus, but not significantly less clear. And if you're looking
specifically at Android phones, it's worth noting that this is not waterproof. -
Washington Post

