

If you are an Android watcher then circle February 21 on your calendar. On that
date at the -Mobile World Congress the two Korean heavyweights Samsung and LG
announce their 2016 flagship smartphones - the Samsung Galaxy S7 and the LG G5.

A host of new bendable and foldable phones to entice us are also likely to make
an appearance, but the focus is going to be on the flagships.

Samsung comes to MWC with a disappointing balance sheet. The success of the S7,
S7 Edge and any other variant is vital to its future in the premium smartphone
market, but with a reported 12 per cent cut in shipments this year, and an
increased emphasis on mid-range phones, it might invest more of its energy
down-market.

Let's not forget too that with the dollar below US70c, more Australians might
buy mid-range phones, a market where Samsung needs to compete against Chinese
manufacturers Huawei, OnePlus, Oppo and Xiaomi.

An avalanche of leaks gives us a fair idea of what to expect from the S7. The
microSD card slot might be restored given that not being able to expand storage
disappointed many S6 users. There's another reason this might happen. Android
Marshmallow has a feature called "adoptable storage" that can seamlessly
increase the phone's internal storage by integrating microSD card memory.

The S7 is likely to have a USB Type-C connector. Google included USB-C on the
recent Nexus 5x and 6p. It's becoming a common feature of Android. There are
also suggestions that Samsung might introduce retina scanning for signing in. A
pressure sensitive display might also be in the mix given Samsung's stated
ambition to implement its version of Apple's 3D Touch.

The good money is on an S7 and S7 Edge with a 5.1-inch or 5.2-inch screen and a
larger 5.7-inch S7 Edge + models, and a QuadHD rather than 4K display, with 64GB
the standard for internal storage. The S7 might ship with a Qualcomm Snapdragon
820 -processor or Samsung custom-built Exynos 8990 processor, and there are
conflicting reports on whether the camera will have a new smaller-pixel sensor
or a Sony sensor. The phone will run Android 6 Marshmallow.

So what would lure me to the S7? I like new features that add practicality. Of
the ones listed, a retina scanner for signing in, and expanded storage through a
-microSD card sound good. Buying USB Type-C connectors will annoy many, but it
brings faster charging with a claim of 0 to 100 per cent in 30 minutes - we'll
wait and see. There's been talk of Samsung implementing its -version of Apple
Live Photos, but it's a take-it-or-leave-it proposition for me. I have never
lost sleep over still photos not moving.

There are also reports of Samsung launching its Project Valley foldable display
smartphone at MWC. If it does it will be the talk of the town, but Australia is
not among a leaked list of countries where apparently it will be trialled.

Meanwhile, LG is prepping its G5 and with Samsung feeling the pinch, 2016 is an
opportunity for it to recapture lost ground.

Rumours are that the G5 will opt for a metal chassis rather than last year's
leather finish. The main display is likely to be about 5.3 inches with a QuadHD
display. The G5 is believed to have a second display, a ticker across the top of
the phone that operates even when the main display is black.

LG will no doubt persist with its power button/fingerprint -sensor on the back;
its placement has been a trend setter with -Google introducing its Imprint
sensor on the back of the Nexus 5p and 6x last year. LG also had its volume keys
on the back; they might move to the side.

Again there's talk of a biometric scanner, here an iris scanner, and of the G5
having two camera lenses on the back that will allow for 135-degree wide angle
shots. There are also reports of a "magic slot", an ability of selected pieces
of hardware to automatically pair with the phone. A 360-degree camera is
believed to be one of them. Like the S7 the G5 may have a Snapdragon 820
processor. But unlike it, the G5 may have a removable battery - maybe it's my
pipe dream but I'd prefer to swap in a battery than have a super thin phone you
can't recharge out and about.

Where Samsung intends to fold screens, LG might again be tempted to flex them,
and maybe fold them too. That's if it introduces a G Flex 3 upgrade to last
year's Flex 2. The Flex range is known for its bendable screen and "self-healing
back". But as I found out last year, scratch too hard and there's no
self-healing. If it makes an appearance, the Flex 3 is tipped to have very
potent specs such as a 6-inch screen, a big 20MP camera and 8-core
processor.There will be other handsets as well. HTC might follow up last year's
HTC One M9 with an M10 but it's believed it will be announced in Taiwan in March
and not at WMC. If Sony is a creature of habit, it will announce an -Xperia Z6
tablet to match the Z5 Xperia handsets it released.

