                              147 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                The Toronto Star



                             April 11, 2016 Monday



Mod squad starts with the LG G5;

Cool cameras, good battery outshine the bigger ideas from firm's latest flagship



BYLINE: Raju Mudhar Tech Reporter



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. S10



LENGTH: 533 words





Described as the world's first modular smartphone, LG's G5 is definitely trying

to set itself apart from the pack. Spring always sees a pack of new Android

flagships, which these days are often variations on a theme.



Competition is fierce, and being unique or the first with new ideas is a good

way to build buzz, particularly the idea of a modular smartphone, which some

other companies have also been toying with.



The G5 is not the build-your-own phone of our dreams, but it's still an

interesting flagship that has its priorities straight about what matters most in

a smartphone.



Name: LG G5



Price: $300 on a two-year contract/$800 outright



Operating system: Android 6.0.1



Screen: 5.3-inch LCD capacitive touchscreen with 1440 x 2560 resolution (554 ppi

pixel density)



Features: New modular design with additional accessory attachments; removable

battery; fast battery charging; micro SD slot; rear fingerprint scanner; "always

on" display



Camera: Two cameras on the rear. Primary: 16 megapixels with laser autofocus,

OIS, HDR. Secondary: 8 megapixels with a wider angle lens. Front camera: 8

megapixels.



Weight: 159 grams



Battery: Removable Li-Ion 2800 mAh battery



Competition: iPhone 6S/6S plus, Samsung Galaxy S7/Edge



What's good: The LG G5 has a sleek all-metal body that feels good to hold and

has a nice screen-to-body ratio.



The new modular design supposedly makes it easy to repair. For most people, the

real reason to buy is the swappable battery, a feature most high-end flagships

skip.



Its "always on" display always shows the time, but lacks some of the features of

Samsung's latest phones.



The other big reason to buy this phone is the camera. The main 16-megapixel

camera has the usual 78-degree angle, but the secondary eight-megapixel has a

135-degree angle, so from the same spot you can get more of the background and

it's great for scenery shots. There is also multi-view, which creates an instant

collage using all three cameras.



Fast charging works really well and in a half-hour you can get up to a

70-per-cent charge.



What's bad: The modular design feels like hype more than anything right now.

There are just two attachments, a camera and a digital audio converter. We

didn't get a chance to try them out, but reports are that they don't change the

phone much.



While this is a very good Android phone, it still feels a little behind some of

it competitors, such as the latest Samsungs, in terms of design and performance.



What's interesting: While Google got the modular hype with Project Ara, kudos to

LG for once again trying to do something a bit different. If LG sticks with this

design philosophy, there could be some real variety and possibly a value option

for consumers who want to upgrade components. The big question is whether that's

what consumers want, and can there be a compelling enough option to break the

current cycle of buying a new phone every few years.



The bottom line: Early adopters should definitely take a look at this phone for

its baby steps into a modular future. Other Android fans should also take a look

because the camera is fun and really interesting.



Quick charging and an easily swappable battery mean power-hungry users have two

good ways to get more juice.



LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                 Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited





