                              14 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)



                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday



LG G5 World's Best Smartphone at Mobile World Congress 2016



LENGTH: 496 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, March 15 -- LG Electronics bagged a total of 33 awards at the Mobile

World Congress (MWC) 2016 held recently in Barcelona, Spain. LG'S amazing G5

Smartphone alone amassed 21 major awards including the events top honour - the

"Best Mobile Handsets & Devices Award", securing LG'S status as the most

honoured company at the show. With an estimated 100,000 attendees, the MWC 2016

is considered to be the industry's keystone event.



The awards ceremony recognized the Modular Type innovation behind LG'S latest

flagship smartphone, the LG G5 and Friends, demonstrating how the company is in

the forefront of mobile communications. LG G5 and Friends earned top honours

from Android Authority, Digital Trends, Trusted Reviews and Ubergizmo, among

others.



"The initial response to our new LG G5 has been phenomenal and rewards the

effort our experts have made to create something genuinely innovative and unique

in the smartphone category," said Juno Cho, president and CEO of LG Electronics

Mobile Communications Company and added, "The G5 and its Friends modules are

aimed at giving consumers a more playful smartphone experience and these awards

suggest that we have offered something truly different in the market."



LG unveiled the G5 Smartphone to high acclaim before a 2,000-strong crowd prior

to the main MWC event. The flagship smartphone is a brand new design with a

sleek, metal unibody featuring a Slide-out Battery and a Modular Type design

that gives a greater smartphone experience. Complete with LG Friends (a

collection of companion devices), the G5 can be transformed into a digital

camera, Hi-fi Player and more.



The 21 Awards amassed by LG G5 are Best Mobile Handsets and Devices (GSMA),

Major Revelacao (4gnews), Best Smartphone (Alphr), Best of MWC 2016 (Android

Authority), MWC Top Pick (Android Central), Best Innovation (Android Pit), MWC

2016 Winner (BGR), Most Innovative (Chip Chick), Best Innovation (Computer

Bild), Top Tech of 2016 (Digital Trends), Best of Innovation/ Best Smartphone

(Expert Reviews), Best of Innovation/best Smartphone (Know Your Mobile),

Editor's Choice (Men's Health), Best Smartphone/ Most Innovative Company

(Mobilegeeks), Best Smartphone/ Best Accessory (Slashgear), Best in Show

(Techradar), Best of MWC (Tom's Guide), Best of MWC (Tom's Hardware), Best of

MWC 2016 (Trusted Reviews), Best of MWC (Ubergizmo).



Abans, the sole agent in Sri Lanka for LG Smartphones, will officially launch

the multi award winning LG G5 Smartphone in the upcoming months. The World's

best smartphone 2016 will soon be available at all Abans Showrooms and selected

key partners with unmatched offer for credit card holders and other customers.

LG G5 will be on 0 percent interest at Abans Showrooms Island wide. Be Smart,

Choose Smart.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





