                              152 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                 Indian Express



                           February 25, 2016 Thursday



At MWC 2016, LG and Xiaomi stole Samsung's thunder;

Xiaomi's Mi 5 launch and LG's modular G5 stole the limelight from excellent

Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge launch



BYLINE: Nandagopal Rajan



LENGTH: 504  words





Xiaomi's Mi 5 launch and LG's modular G5 stole the limelight from excellent

Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge launch



During MWC, friends and acquaintances kept asking which phone I thought was the

most innovative of the lot on the show. This time, it was easy for me to give an

answer: yes, I thought the LG G5 was the most interesting. And most people would

nod in agreement.



The LG G5 shows us a glimpse into what the world of smartphones will be a few

years from now. Swapping a better camera module because you are out on a picnic,

or an extra battery because you won't be near a charging port for days. Yes, the

modular phone concept is finally here. This might not be exactly what Google

(http://indianexpress.com/tag/google/) and others are working on, but the fact

that it has hit the bullet with a flagship shows LG has shown the guts to be

innovative.



Just across the aisle in Hall 3, Samsung is getting a lot of attention as

always. However, this time people are more intrigued by the VR showcase and are

queuing up for a chance to try the headset on. They like the Samsung Galaxy S7

too, but most think it is almost the same as the S6. The same is the case with

the S7 edge too. If the cards said S6 and S6 edge, it would have taken everyone

some time to call it a bluff.



Samsung has for some years now had this tendency to hold the awe factor back

every alternate year and 2016 seems to be one of those years. This means the

Samsung Galaxy S7, and S7 edge are natural progressions of their predecessors

and don't try and change the game on their own. Of course, the edge has become

better, of course the camera is one of the best in the world, of course this is

among the best Android phones money can buy but haven't we come to expect that

out of Samsung? Where is the surprise element, the one thing that makes you the

best Android flagship? I guess we will have to wait for that till the Note 6

arrives later this year.



By being averse to taking risks with its flagships, Samsung might be letting go

of a large opportunity and leaving the door ajar for players like Xiaomi

(http://indianexpress.com/tag/xiaomi/) to make a bigger impact. Three days after

the gala Samsung launch, this Chinese startup had a relatively small event a bit

far from the main MWC venue. But all of the world's press was there at what was

Xiaomi's first big event in Europe. The Mi 5 has some innovative features like

the camera with four-axis image stabilisation, but it also has a price that is

half that of Samsung's flagship.



The innovation for companies like Xiaomi and LeEco is in offering the same stuff

as Samsung or LG at much lower price points. Let's not miss the point here that

the Mi 5 runs the same top-end Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor as the S7 and

G5.



Yes, Samsung is not in the same game as these Chinese challengers, but with the

market getting more competitive every passing quarter the Korean giant has to

start overwhelming its competition. That sense of purpose is the only thing that

will win it new markets and users.



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





