                              156 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday



The rise of the dual-camera smartphone;

Expect more higher-end phones to feature dual-lens designs



BYLINE: Trevor Tan



SECTION: DIGITAL



LENGTH: 778 words





The best camera is the one you have, according to the old adage. Now, smartphone

makers are not content with giving you one rear camera in your gadget, but two.



When Apple launched its new iPhone 7 Plus last month, one of the much touted

features was its rear dual-camera system.



The addition of another camera module opens up more possibilities for

manufacturers to improve on the image quality, like having different focal

lengths or adding a monochrome sensor, according to Miss Karissa Chua, consumer

electronics analyst at research firm Euromonitor International.



How we test   We look at the three smartphones (LG G5: For the landscape

photographer, Huawei P9: The bokeh and monochrome master and Apple iPhone 7

Plus: Jack of all trades) available in the market that come with a dual-camera

system.



For a fair comparison, we used only the native camera app of each smartphone. We

used the Auto mode with automatic high dynamic range turned on for day and night

landscape shots. We also took three panoramic pictures of the same scene, with

the best one used for comparison.



Shallow depth-of-field images were also taken using the native camera app's

offerings from each smartphone.



The iPhone 7 Plus has a 28mm camera to shoot wide-angle photos and a 56mm camera

for more close-up photos, with each having its own 12-megapixel image sensor.



But Apple is not the first to release a smartphone using a dual- camera set-up.

LG and HTC were there first - in 2011. But the LG Optimus 3D and HTC Evo 3D used

dual cameras to take 3-D still and moving images.



It was not until 2014, when the HTC One M8 was launched, that a true dual-camera

system for still photography was realised. It uses an additional image sensor to

capture depth information.



This allows users to re-adjust the focus point in post-processing to create a

shallow depth-of-field or bokeh effect - whereby the main subject is sharp with

other parts of the image blurred.



But the trend has gained momentum this year. In February, the LG G5 was launched

with a dual-camera set-up that works almost like the iPhone 7 Plus. But the G5

uses a 10mm and a 24mm camera.



In April, Huawei launched the P9 - its first smartphone after announcing its

partnership with German camera maker Leica.



Instead of harnessing two focal lengths, like the G5 and iPhone 7 Plus, the P9

uses one camera to capture colour information and the other for monochrome

details.



Last week, Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi announced its new Mi 5s Plus

smartphone. It comes with a dual-camera system that works just like the Huawei

P9.



Growth of the smartphone market is projected to slow to a compound annual rate

of 5 per cent from this year to 2021, according to Euromonitor International.

However, consulting firm Deloitte Global estimated that out of the 2.5 trillion

photos to be shared online worldwide this year, 90 per cent of them will be

taken using a smartphone.



Thus, smartphone makers are pulling out all the stops to get consumers to

upgrade their devices ahead of their replacement cycle. And the camera becomes

an important factor.



The use of a dual-camera system will increase the perceived value of

smartphones. As such, said Miss Chua, expect more dual-camera designs - also

referred to as dual-lens - to be incorporated into the higher-end smartphone

models.



Mr David Yoh, mobile communications business director of LG Electronics

Singapore, said: "The success of the dual-lens camera (in LG G5) has led to

other models adapting and implementing this feature, setting a trend of more

smartphones with the dual-lens feature to provide consumers with more

photography options."



"It has been a success for P9 with its world's first Leica dual-camera," said

Miss Ada Xu, global public relations director at Huawei.



She said global shipments of Huawei P9 had surpassed six million units as of

end-August this year.



The technology in dual-camera designs is still quite new. So "there is still

room for improvement in both the hardware and software to fully optimise the

potential of such technology", Miss Chua said.



But consumers are already seeing the benefits. "I noticed better-quality images

in low-light conditions and a wider dynamic range," said PR consultant Chong Jan

Jee, 23, who uses an LG G5. She also felt her smartphone camera's auto-focusing

was faster and more accurate.



Mr Nelson Tan, 40, a professional photographer and instructor, felt that

photography enthusiasts will not rely on camera phones for their planned shoots,

but having a smartphone with a good dual-camera system will not hurt. "The

improving technology of smartphone cameras means that we can take even better

pictures any time."



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Smartphone makers are putting dual-lens camera systems into their

flagship phones to attract customers.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





