                              162 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Voice & Data



                                  May 6, 2016



LG's G5, V10 smartphones certified by NIAP in US



BYLINE: Sanjeeb Kumar Sahoo



LENGTH: 301  words





NEW DELHI: South Korean handset maker LG has declared that the V10 and also the

G5 both have been certified from the U.S. National Information Assurance

Partnership for use in military and venture plans.



NIAP administers the globally recognized Common Criteria Evaluation and

Validation Scheme (CCEVS) for evaluating security conformance with the Common

Criteria international standard. NIAP certification is recognized by the

governments of 25 Common Criteria member countries such as Canada, France,

Germany, India, Japan, South Korea and the United Kingdom

(www.commoncriteriaportal.org/ccra/members).



LG's flagship smartphones are equipped with LG's GATE technology for enhanced

platform, network, and application security that allow for secure, reliable

access to enterprise data. GATE, or Guarded Access to Enterprise, is LG's

enterprise-level security platform developed in 2013 to provide a variety of

security solutions such as anti-hacking and mobile device management systems for

enterprise mobile devices. GATE's layered security components help to maintain

the integrity of software components, strengthening system protection and

safeguarding corporate data without compromising performance.



What's more, LG G5 and V10 also feature Google's Android for Work which

leverages the LG GATE network capabilities. Included in Android for Work is a

container solution which separates and secures work apps from personal apps.



"With the growing importance of higher security in business these days, we

believe a firm security platform is a must for mobile workplace devices," said

Chris Yie, vice president and head of marketing communications for LG Mobile

Communications Company.



"This certification is confirmation that LG smartphones are among the most

secure mobile devices available today," said Yie.



LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





            Copyright 2016 Voice & Data, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





