                              163 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                             June 8, 2016 Wednesday

                                 Delhi Edition



ET REVIEW THE FIRST OF ITS KIND



BYLINE: Hitesh.Bhagat@timesgroup.com



SECTION: PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 769 words





Expensive flagship phones really have to be perfect don't they? Even the

slightest blemish can be amplified to almost comical levels. We've seen some

fantastic premium flagships this year Samsung's S7 edge, Apple's iPhone 6S and

HTC's 10. This is space that LG will be competing in, evident from the fairly

high price tag. However, it doesn't come in empty handed the G5 is the first to

actually include a modular design not only can you remove the battery, it is

compatible with some additional accessories called 'Friends'. More on that in a

bit. In addition, there are some nifty camera tricks, thanks to the dual lens

setup on the rear camera.But let's move on to the device.



As you might know, the G5 is part of a series of flagships from LG.This is the

first in the series with a full metal unibody design. A special process gives

the metal a softer 'feel' though it might also fool some into thinking that it's

plastic.One of LG's signature design elements volume + power on the back panel

is gone! Now you have the volume rocker on the left and the circular fingerprint

scanner on the back (which also works as the power button when you click it). We

wish LG had kept volume on the back panel as well it's convenient (not to

mention second nature for Android phones) to have volume and power buttons next

to each other.



Up front, the screen takes up most of the space and it curves down at the top.

The curve doesn't serve any purpose other than design. On top, you'll see the

headphone jack and an IR emitter. Speaker and USB type C port are on the bottom

while the dual camera module and fingerprint scanner are on the back. The

scanner is slightly raised and has a chrome ring, making it easier to find.

There are no antenna lines visible just some tiny 'gaps' in the metal around the

periphery. Towards the bottom, there's a tiny button that sits flush with the

frame press this in and it detaches the removable module.The battery will also

slide out which means this is one of the few flagships with a removable

battery.A couple of modular Friends have been announced for the camera and

audio. The camera module has a tiny battery inside it adds a physical shutter

button and a nicer camera-like grip. The audio enhancement module by B&O

supposedly works to improve audio quality. We couldn't get to test these out

till the time of going to



press. The idea is that LG and third-party can design more of these Friends to

work with the G5 and possibly future LG flagships.Seems like a good idea but

hinges on LG selling a significant number of G5's to begin with.



The camera is one of the highlights of the device. The primary camera is a 16MP

unit with optical image stabilization, f1.8 aperture and laser autofocus. This

is a bril liant camera that



captures loads of detail in most con ditions. The wide a p e r t u r e g ive s a

nice depth of field.



The second lens is an 8MP with f2.0 ap e r t u re a n d u l t r a wide angle of

view.



It has a 135-degree field of view and you'll be surprised at how much you



can fit into the frame with this.Even in a small space, you will likely capture

the entire area. This camera works best outdoors. The camera app offers loads of

features too: time lapse, manual mode, panorama, RAW image capture, HDR, film

effect and some interesting pop-out and multiview modes (these modes use both

cameras simultaneously).



The G5 also has the amazing



Snapdragon 820 with 4GB RAM and 32GB storage. It can tackle any sort of app or

game without a hiccup. The interface is powered by Android 6.0.1 not much

bloatware and there are some nice extras: you can have five on-screen buttons

for instance, there are handy phone management tools built in, a very nice

universal remote app and even a way to re-install recently uninstalled apps if

you deleted something by mistake. Battery life is about a day with nor mal use

though it might need a charge by late evening if you're a heavy user.Luckily, it

does support fast charging.



Undoubtedly, there are some things that are really great about the G5 but there

are also some things that have no place in a Rs50k + smartphone. For starters,

the build quality. There is a very significant, sharp ridge at the place where

the battery module detaches from the phone. The screen is good but it has

thicker bezels than we're used to. The modular functionality is very limited and

the current Friends are expensive add-ons. So it's a tough call to take. Our

vote still goes to the S7 edge (for simply brilliant design, quality and

unparalleled camera) or the iPhone 6S Plus (for a better overall experience,

including battery, OS, apps and camera).



LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





