

Expedia.com.sg is a one-stop shop for all your travel needs. You can pick and
choose from a wide selection of over 271,000 hotels and 400 airlines worldwide.

With Air+ Saver, you can get more value for your holiday. Book your flight and
hotel together and get free hotel nights. Terms and conditions apply.

Cannot decide which hotel to book? Book your flight with Expedia first and get
up to 55-per-cent off hotels if you come back within 10 days.

Catering to travellers of different budgets, Expedia offers luxury villas to
pocket-friendly hotels, and full-service to low-cost airlines.

Visit expedia.com.sg for details.

The LG G5 modular smartphone from LG Electronics is a showcase of cutting-edge
technologies and rich features.

The phone sports dual 78° and 135° camera lenses for wide-angle shots and an
always-on display that shows the time, date and notification icons continuously
with minimal power consumption. It also has Dolby Digital Plus and 7.1 channel
audio for cinema-style sound that delivers dialogue and nuanced effects clearly
even in noisy environments.

The LG G5 runs on Android 6.0 Marshmallow and has a 5.3-inch QHD display.
Available in Singapore from tomorrow onwards, the LG G5 retails at S$988.

Visit lg.com/sg for details.

Quench your thirst with Lightly Sparkling Ribena. To celebrate its launch in
Singapore, Ribena will be having roadshows with Mediacorp artiste Ya Hui as the
host.

She will visit Ang Mo Kio Hub FairPrice tomorrow; and Jurong Point FairPrice and
IMM Giant on May 22.

Get to spin the sure-win wheel with every S$10 purchase of Ribena products,
inclusive of a can of Lightly Sparkling Ribena. Prizes include a S$5 voucher.
Take part in the Q&A session to win a limited-edition Ribena Sparkling EZ-link
card.

Visit ribena.com.sg for details.

Borden Singapore, manufacturer of the Eagle Brand Green Medicated Oil, has
launched an aromatherapy roll-on called Fresh On.

The roll-on is refreshing and invigorating, and helps to relieve everyday
fatigue and stress.

Formulated from natural aromatic ingredients, it helps the user to stay alert.
Apply onto the temple, under the nostrils, and behind the earlobes and neck to
allow its therapeutic attributes to give relief.

According to Borden Singapore, Fresh On relieves motion sickness, giddiness and
itchiness from insect bites. Packaged in a handy 8ml bottle, Fresh On is
suitable for people who travel, play sports or do outdoor activities. Retailing
at S$29.99, it is available at all three terminals at Changi Airport and at
leading pharmacies.

Visit bordeneagle.com.sg for details.

Derma-Rx has unveiled scalp and hair products to complement The DRx Trichology
Centre's hair regeneration treatments after 17 years in the premier skincare
line arena.

The Derma-Rx Trichology range comprises four products. Scalp-clear Prewash
(S$65) contains fruit enzymes to exfoliate the scalp while removing excess oil
and dirt. Purifying Shampoo (S$59) revitalises the scalp and strengthens hair
from root to tip.

Nourishing Conditioner (S$59) penetrates the hair to deliver moisture and
nutrients to make hair soft and smooth. Trans-follicular Serum (S$109) promotes
healthy hair growth and protects the scalp from external factors that can lead
to hair loss.

Visit ceutika.com for details.

Malaysian airline Firefly is celebrating its ninth birthday this year and it
thanks its passengers for its support throughout the years. Having started
operations in 2007 with just two 50-seater Fokker 50 aircraft, Firefly now has a
fleet of 19 ATR 72 turboprops aircraft.

Over the years, Firefly has attained many achievements. In 2015, it collaborated
with Peugeot to create the Peugeot Lounge. The lounge was recognised as the
nation's First Automotive Airport Lounge by the Malaysia Book of Records.

The airline recently launched the Kota Bharu-Langkawi route to provide
convenience to Firefly passengers on the north-eastern side of the country.

Quote FYHAPPY9 to get 20-per-cent off base fare for flights from Singapore and
Ipoh till April 30.

Visit fireflyz.com.my for details.

Supplement your skincare routine with Imedeen. Imedeen skincare tablets contain
naturally based ingredients chosen for their anti-ageing effects and positive
impact on skin condition.

Time Perfection 35+ helps protect collagen and elastin fibres against harmful UV
rays. It also helps to whiten your skin. Prime Renewal 45+ aims to stimulate the
regeneration of collagen. Lastly, Imedeen Hair & Nails gives you the essential
nutrients needed for healthy hair growth.

Imedeen products are sold at Guardian, Unity and Watsons outlets, with prices
ranging from S$48 to S$173.

Visit imedeen.com.sg for details.

