

LG Electronics mobile business chief Cho Juno poses with the company's new
flagship smartphone, the G5, before holding a meeting with local reporters, at
an experience zone in southern Seoul, Thursday. / YonhapBy Lee Min-hyung

LG Electronics on Thursday waxed lyrical about its new flagship smartphone, the
G5, shrugging off challenges from Apple's new 'budget iPhone' amid a slowdown in
the high-end smartphone market.

The hype is part of LG's bid to build strong brand loyalty at a time when the
company needs a turnaround to end the underperformance of its mobile unit and
rebound from its relatively weak profile in the premium device market.

'Cost-effectiveness is not what device makers necessarily pursue, but they
should create a very special value and make something out of it,' Cho Juno, LG
Electronics' mobile chief, said in a meeting with reporters in southern Seoul.
'The same thing goes for us. That's why we do not care too much about a rival's
product. LG will tackle the lukewarm market response in the high-end handset
market in the same regard.'

Apple launched the iPhone SE, a revamped version of its iPhone 5S, on Monday in
the United States. The less-expensive Apple smartphone is expected to land here
in May, more than a month after G5's official Korean launch on Mar. 31.

The remarks came as the company held a press event offer hands-on experience for
its modular handset, the first of its kind, as its global debut nears.

Under the theme of fun and imagination, the company previously unveiled the LG
Friends, a line of companion devices equipped with interchangeable modules, as
its first move into the relatively young modular device industry.

'LG Electronics does not care seriously about rankings, at the moment, as we are
focused on making sure the new device provides consumers a variety of options to
have fun,' Cho said. 'By combining fun and imaginative elements, we are sure to
overcome market uncertainties.'

Regarding Samsung's Galaxy trade-in program, Cho said the company is in internal
talks to launch a similar program of its kind, but declined to comment in
detail.

Earlier this month, Samsung Electronics launched its own smartphone upgrade
program, Galaxy Club, in a move to strengthen customer loyalty. Apple was the
first to introduce a trade-in program, launching the iPhone Upgrade Program in
the U.S. last year.

'We are in discussions to launch our own customer care program, but no specific
blueprint has been drawn,' Cho said.

The company cannot exclude the possibility of giving up on such a marketing
strategy, as its archrivals have already made that move, according to the mobile
chief.

Speaking on the proposal of an ecosystem for modular device development, the
company expressed its excitement, as this will help not just the company, but
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to attain sustainable growth.

'If we set an example by creating a new sales channel for the modular device
ecosystem, this will generate explosive synergy in the saturated smartphone
industry,' Cho said.

