                              176 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)



                            April 21, 2016 Thursday



Unique modular idea



SECTION: Pg. 12



LENGTH: 586  words







HIGHLIGHT: LG's phone with "~friends' offers the option of switching or adding

components





SMARTPHONE manufacturers walk a tightrope as they evolve their industrial

design. They must show new, fancy features such as new colours and materials,

but at the same time keep enough of the design features of previous models to

reassure fans.



This week, LG released the G5, which turns away from the styling of previous G

series handsets. The G5 has a smaller screen than the G4 (5.3 inches instead of

5.5 inches) but is a little heavier.



Even so, it feels light in the hand and easy to handle. The extra weight is down

to a new, modular design, which just means you can take bits off it and put

others on.



Modular phone



Few other manufacturers have used modular design in their phones. It all works

through a clever removable base. Press a discreet, flush side button and the

bottom centimetre or so of the phone slides out, complete with a bright green

battery. You can then separate the battery from the base - and be warned, this

takes some courage because it doesn't feel like it wants to come apart. You can

then replace it with a chunky camera shutter unit with an ergonomically useful

trigger button and bigger battery or with an audio unit with a Digital Analogue

Converter in it.



Clip-on friends



There are other accessories - friends, LG calls them, but try not to be put off

by that - and more will follow. The audio unit is designed in conjunction with

Bang & Olufsen and creates very high quality audio when you're listening through

headphones. It has a Micro-USB connector on it, so you could use it with other

phones, too. The Cam Plus module is one of the more useful "friends".



In other words, LG has designed a phone that has the potential to get better as

it goes along, just by updating software and adding an extra gadget, or

replacing a battery, say. Note that every time you attach a new friend, you have

to reboot the phone, but this doesn't take long.



Of course, lots of people may not buy any extra friends for their phone, so how

does it stand up on its own?



Design



First of all, the design is pretty good. It doesn't have the out-there styling

elements of the G4 (heavily scooped concave screen, leather back complete with

stitching) and it's all the better for it. This is a demure, understated phone

that feels smooth, apart from the join between the display and the removable

bottom edge, but that's to be expected. The screen here is still concave but

only very gently so.



Camera



One of the most striking things about the G5 is that it has two cameras on the

rear. Two different lenses gleam out at you.



There's a regular camera, with 16-megapixel resolution, which is what you'll

probably use most of the time. It's pretty good, quickly responsive and not

prone to too much shutter lag. Picture quality is strong overall.



The wide-angle camera can be useful in certain settings.



But then there's the eight-megapixel wide-angle camera. It has a 135-degree

lens, wider than the human eye can see.



Verdict



The LG G5 is unique. There are no other phones (currently) that you can take

apart and rebuild as you can with the detachable bottom on the G5. The design is

strong, though the build quality is not immaculate. But the strengths are many:

good battery life, decent performance, an excellent main camera and interesting

extra wide-angle camera alongside. LG has definitely succeeded in making a phone

that is not a me-too copy of its rivals. Not everyone will buy into the

"friends" eco-system, but the fact that accessories like the camera shutter and

the audio improver exist is pretty cool.



- INM



LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: GGT





                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





