                              180 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               The Sun (Nigeria)



                             June 8, 2016 Wednesday



Why substandard products dominate building materials' market



BYLINE: Uche Atuma



LENGTH: 2379 words





Stories by Maduka Nweke Substandard products have remained a clog in Nigeria's

bid for industrialisation





Stories by Maduka Nweke



Substandard products have remained a clog in Nigeria's bid for industrialisation

and the housing sector appears to be the worst hit. This is because substandard

building materials are still flooding the market. The damage this has done to

Nigerian industrialisation is better imagined than experienced considering the

quantum of destruction witnessed by those using them.





Whether the menace would continue or abate is a matter of conjecture as

Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) seems handicapped by the various lapses

that hinder its drive to stamp  the scourge out of the system.

The SON has the mandate to support and regulate made-in-Nigeria goods as a way

of developing the economy and at the same time check imported goods.

Nigerian producers have three major disadvantages because they are operating in

a disadvantaged infrastructural environment and naturally the costs of their

products are higher than those of their competitors overseas. But even more

important is the fact that these products are competing with substandard

products and menace of dumping. Every nation must protect its industries such

that others would not come and bring products and sell below the normal price

such a product should go for considering all the cost elements.

SON has been complaining that absence of its personnel at the nation's borders

has made it difficult to prevent the influx of substandard foreign products into

the country. Despite the challenges posed by porous borders, it said it is

devising a mechanism to effectively monitor the borders.

oPorous boarders: SON lamented that out of the 155 entry borders in the country,

only five are monitored by operatives of the organisation. There is, therefore,

need for Nigerians to assist the agency in its efforts to eradicate sub-standard

products in the country and one of the ways to do this is to patronise products

that have the Nigeria Industrial Standard (NIS) certification mark in the case

of locally made products and SON mark for foreign products. The danger posed by

the consumption of substandard goods to the health of the nation cannot be

overemphasised. The implication is that the boarders are not properly guarded by

both the Customs and Immigration officials.

oIllegal vessel discharge: The fact that the boarders are not properly

monitored, means that vessels carrying all sorts of goods are not checked but

are allowed to dump things that ordinarily would be regulated out into the

country.

oCompromise on the part of law enforcement agents: It is clear that most of the

illegal dumps pass through regulated ports. Many of the substandard goods that

pass through the Nigerian boarders were certified by law enforcement agents.

When these goods come into the country, what the owners do is just tip the law

enforcement agents at the boarders and they are allowed in to the detriment of

the country. oForeign collaborators: If foreign suppliers check what goes out of

their ports, they would be able to check the continued production of substandard

goods. Since they have failed to do that, the owners would have passed the first

hurdles and the moment the Nigerian boarders are also permeated, the goods would

eventually find their way into the market.

oPoor policy implementation: Most times, policy summersault results in the

manufacture of goods that do not meet the local standard. This forces some of

the goods earlier banned but are lying in the ports to be allowed into the

country.

oGlut of foreign goods: Most Nigerians craving for foreign goods do anything to

discourage the made-in-Nigeria goods. Some government officials, while on

official trips overseas, use the opportunity to bring in all those things that

are banned in the country. And because the security agents do eye service, and

do not check their luggage.

oPoor economy: Due to poverty, some security agents collect tips from importers

to let go these substandard products only for their colleagues to chase the

goods down to the market or the consumers homes.

oBusiness environment: The Nigerian environment is not so regulated because very

few Nigerians can be patriotic enough to help the security agents. This is why

there is influx of small arms in the country. If the business environment does

not suit it, it can't thrive.

oGlitch: Technology has remained the greatest of problems in various boarders in

the country. Most officials that check and test these foreign goods do not have

the matching equipment to measure them and so they are bamboozled into accepting

substandard products as quality standards.

oHigh level of ignorance on the dangers of substandard goods: Most of those who

deal on and patronise these substandard goods cannot trace their origin and are

unaware of the danger they pose to their health. In the case of the second hand

goods termed okirika, they don't know where they were picked from but only that

the designs suit them.

oPoor sensitisation: The fact that government is not doing enough to educate the

public on all these, the public would continue to fall victim. Many times some

sicknesses that are alien to our environment are brought in through such means

while government looks elsewhere.

Some time ago, SON lamented that some of the companies it regulates are yet to

key into its Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) for local

manufacturers even as there is no evidence of SON's Conformity Assessment

Programme (SONCAP) certification for their raw materials importation.  According

to the Acting Director General, SON,  Dr. Paul Angya, "when our Inspectorate and

Compliance team visited some steel pipes companies recently, it was rather

amazing that some of them were not even aware of the applicable industrial

standards. Some of the companies were even manufacturing according to the

specifications given to them by particular clients.

"The situation cannot be tolerated in an organised economy. We have discovered

the level of pipes in circulation  without any identification  marks for

traceability of the pipes to particular manufacturers in line with the

requirement of NIS 324:1997 and NIS 198:1984, non-compliant  gauges, early

corrosion  as well as short length.

We are determined to reduce the level of substandard products in circulation to

the barest minimum."

you are therefore offered this opportunity to embark on immediate house cleaning

and serve your customers well. The time to begin is now and SON will do the best



 possible to protect those unsuspecting consumers. As a facilitating agency, we

are giving you three months from today to address these issues effectively or

face sanctions.

"SON will immediately shut down the operations of anyone caught as an economic

saboteur. We therefore called this meeting to enable all hollow pipes

manufacturing companies to know the right things to do and carry them out. As it



 is our style, immediate enforcement begins after this forum while we give a

guided grace period of 90 days for those who want to tidy up their

non-conforming operations before we carry out wholesome raiding, seizure and

evacuation of all sub- standard pipes in warehouses and firms as well as

prosecution of offenders."



SON pegs 5-yr jail term, N5m for substandard goods dealers



The weather may soon become hotter for dealers in substandard goods if the

warning by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to jail defaulters for

five years without any option of fine is anything to go by.

The SON recently said that it is poised to deal with any company bent on feeding

the Nigerian public with substandard goods. It made the revelation during the

SON/Steel Pipes Stakeholders' Consultative Forum held at the African Sun Hotel,

Ikeja, Lagos, recently where about seven steel pipes manufacturers were in

attendance.

Speaking at the forum, the Acting Director General of SON, Dr. Paul Angya, said

after the SON team inspected the manufacturing processes of some hollow steel

pipes manufacturing companies to ascertain their level of compliance to the

current Nigeria Industrial Standards (NIS), it was found that they were not

complying with the rules.

Angya stated that henceforth, any company still dealing in substandard goods

would be regarded as an economic saboteur to the country and would not be

treated kindly. He said there is five-year jail term for manufacturers of

substandard goods without option of fine, adding that if the presiding judge is

lenient, he could fine the company N5 million in addition to being shut down.

"The present SON under my watch will not condone shortchanging of consumers'

value for money or flooding the markets with substandard products," he said.

"SON will immediately shut down the operations of anyone caught as an economic

saboteur. We therefore called this meeting to enable all hollow pipes

manufacturing companies to know the right things to do and carry them out. As it

is our style, immediate enforcement begins after this forum while we give a

guided grace period of 90 days for those who want to tidy up their

non-conforming operations before we carry out wholesome raid, seizure and

evacuation of all substandard pipes in warehouses and firms as well as

prosecution of offenders," he said.

Angya noted that there was need to confirm the manufacturing processes in line

with applicable standard, quality control and quality assurance and factors

responsible for non-compliant products in circulation as well as take

appropriate action.



Device to download 5-6 apps a day berths in Lagos with LG G5



A new flagship mobile device, the LG G5, created to unleash people's desire to

play around with its environment has berthed in Lagos. It is a device that

captures the excitement of what a smartphone is meant to be.

According to the Managing Director, LG, Mr. S. H. Kim, when smartphones were

first introduced, the public were so fascinated that they could download five to

six apps a day. He stated that these days, the public do not see much excitement

anymore even when a new smartphone is released.

He therefore asked, "Does that mean people's appetite for fun has disappeared?

Of course not. Today's consumers are just looking elsewhere, such as action

cameras or drones. Does that mean the era of smartphones is over? At LG, we

think smartphones' best days are still ahead. The LG G5 is not the only device

we'd like to introduce to the public this time."

Kim stated that the device, LG G5, comes with "Friends" - extensive companion

devices that enhance the user experience in dynamic ways. He explained that

these "Friends" have been optimised to play with the LG G5.

He further explained: "At LG, we believe that 'Life's good when you play more'

and we actually have enjoyed every step of creating the G5 and Friends, dreaming

to reignite your instinct to play. The future of smartphones is still full of

possibilities and the LG G5 and Friends are just the beginning."

He said, as a transformative, modular design, the new LG G5 is made to help the

user get the most out of life. "It is a forward-thinking modular design that

lets you use companion devices for enhanced camera capabilities. The slide-out

battery can be swapped in a flash to help the user stay connected.

"Designed with compromise, the LG G5's sleek, light weight and colourful. The 3D

arc glass of the phone gives the display a gentle curve on the top of the device

for a seamless look. With a balance of form and function, the LG G5's modular

design lets you customise your phone features based on your needs. Simply slide

the battery out and replace it with LG Friend, when it comes to features," he

concluded.

If this is so, then why settle when you can have it all," he concluded.



FG urged to develop grazing reserves in North



From Theresa Egba, Abuja



Fulani herdsmen, under the umbrella of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders

Association, have called on the Federal Government to focus more in developing

grazing reserves in the North following the crisis between herdsmen and farmers

in the country.

The National Secretary of the group, Baba Othman Ngelzarma, made the call in an

interview at a retreat on Livestock and Dairy Development in Abuja, yesterday,

with the theme, "Setting an Agenda for Commercialising Livestock and Dairy in

Nigeria."

According to him, grazing reserve, which was proposed by the Federal Government

should be immediately looked into while ranching should be done in due process.

"Ranching should be planned for but they should focus more on the grazing

reserve. We have 415 grazing areas in Nigeria, 141 areas are gazetted and are

mostly located in the North. Three to four are located in Oyo and Ogun states.

The Federal Government is the owner of these lands while the state governments

are only custodians.

"Cattle breeders are willing to accept this plan set aside for them because we

are already sensitising them. They too are tired, they have lost their

properties and families in the course of the crisis," he said.

The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, while

delivering his keynote address, [#x200e]assured that steps are being taken for

cattle improvement programme, which will be aggressively pursued using

artificial insemination.

According to him, steps are being taken to improve the quality and quantity of

milk as well as beef quality in Nigeria, including "establishment of clusters of

diary farmers, which would be equipped with milk collection facilities,

establishment of ranches to be planted with high quality improved tropical grass

varieties and quality waters. Some of the grass seed would be imported to

Nigeria.

"Capacity building for dairy farmers, among others development of livestock and

dairy industry occupies a prime position in the agricultural roadmap of the

current administration. The intention is to develop a sustainable livestock and

dairy industry," he said.

Earlier, Food Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO)

representative, Dr. Louise L. Setshwaelo, proffered that to address the long

standing and long term challenges, the livestock sector needs to prioritise a

few critical areas that would ultimately make tangible impact to its

productivity, liavelihoods and competitiveness.



LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1228





                   Copyright 2016 The Sun Publishing Limited

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





