                              182 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Daily Mirror



                              April 8, 2016 Friday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



GADGET OF THE WEEK



BYLINE: KEVIN LYNCH



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 48



LENGTH: 329 words





LG G5



Price dependent on contract



****



While most new Smartphone releases these days usually amount to updates that

play safe with the formula, LG's latest flagship handset feels like a welcome

radical attempt at doing something new.



The G5's unique modular design lets you swap in optional add-ons via its

detachable bottom bezel.



At present there are just two of these - a camera grip and a cool

digital-to-analogue convertor for high-end audio created in partnership with

Bang & Olufsen.



Thankfully, the G5 stands up as a strong current wave Android phone even without

its attachments.



Slightly smaller than its predecessor (5.3ins compared to the 5.5ins of the G4),

the G5 nevertheless offers a superb QHD IPS LCD 2560 x 1440 resolution display

that's incredibly bright with great viewing angles.



Similar to Samsung's recent Galaxy S7, in standby mode it offers handy

white-on-black always-on notifications without having any negligible impact on

the battery.



Battery performance is good but not great, lasting easily through an average

day. On the plus side, its Quick Charge 3.0 tech allows the phone to charge to

70% in just 30 minutes thanks to its USB-C port, and it's also removable, which

is a real rarity these days.



Aside from its modular design, the G5's rear camera is the other major talking

point thanks to its dual-lens system.



Its main 16MP sensor delivers a standard, tight field of view, while a secondary

8MP sensor allows for wide-angle shots. It's a nicely executed idea, opening up

the options for shots enormously.



The G5's power button remains on the rear, but this time doubles as a

fingerprint scanner. However, it isn't perhaps as responsive as one would

expect, possibly due to its small surface area.



Fast in use and capable on all fronts, the G5 nevertheless sits just behind the

Galaxy S7 for me as the Android phone to go for in terms of performance and

features.



Having said that, the as yet untapped potential of its add-ons could one day

change that.



LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DMR





                            Copyright 2016 MGN Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





