                              190 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

                               Australian Edition



Samsung, LG kick off new battle in Barcelona



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH



SECTION: AUSTRALIANIT; Pg. 28



LENGTH: 642  words





Marketing: South Korean rivals Samsung and LG are finding it harder to inspire

the public to buy a new premium smartphone. As the Mobile World Congress kicks

off in Barcelona, LG has launched the LG G5 while Samsung has unveiled the

long-awaited Galaxy S7.



LG, a strong force in the television and white goods markets, was ousted last

year from the list of top five phone makers.



Meanwhile, Samsung, the dominant force in Android, is slowly bleeding market

share to other manufacturers. Sales of last year's S6 were disappointing and

manufacturing didn't cater to the public's preference for the S6 Edge ahead of

the flatscreen S6.



The South Korean giants have decided to deal with the situation in their own

distinct ways. LG has chosen the radical route, revamping its smartphone design

and releasing a premium G5 smartphone that's more about what you connect to it,

rather than the phone itself.



The G5 has a 5.3-inch 2K display, double the processing power of its

predecessor, 40 per cent faster graphics, and the power to capture and playback

4K video.



The phone takes wider-angle snaps with a 135 degree lens and supports faster

charging, up to four times standard charging, according to LG.



An "always-on" section of the screen shows information such as date, time and

battery status. LG says it will consume just 0.8 per cent of the battery per

hour.



LG has retained the fingerprint sensor, which doubles as the power button, on

the back of the phone. But the volume rocker control has moved from the back to

the side of the phone.



You can remove the battery and slot in a microSD card for extra storage. The big

news is the series of devices called LG Friends that slide inside the phone,

mostly through a long, thin rectangular slot at the bottom.



They include a 360-degree camera and a headset called the LG 360 VR for viewing

virtual reality video.



There's an 8-megapixel rolling ball camera called Rolling Bot that can be

adapted to home security, an LG Tone Platinum headset for listening to 24-bit

sound, high-end H3 earphones by Bang & Olufsen that support 32-bit audio, and a

controller for DSLR camera-like operation.



LG, in partnership with drone maker Parrot, has also showcased a compact "smart

controller" for drones and other third-party devices. Clip this into an LG phone

and you are ready to roll. The total revamp of the phone, literally from inside

out, is a radical departure for LG, which last year was promoting the G4's

cosmetic benefits, such as its leather back cover.



Samsung, on the other hand, has again played it safe with the 5.1-inch S7 and

5.5-inch S7 Edge with tweaks to last year's S6. Like LG, Samsung's phones have a

2K display with four times the resolution of full 1080p high definition.



Samsung has restored support for a microSD card, but there's no return to a

removable battery - a signature feature of its earlier models.



The handsets support wireless charging and will support Samsung Pay, due in

Australia this year.



After introducing water resistance with the S5, and ditching it with the S6,

waterproofing is back with the S7. Both the S7 and S7 Edge have an IP68 rating,

which makes them useful devices at the beach or around the pool.



Samsung repeatedly sunk the boot into Apple at the launch, displaying photos

taken by its premium iPhone 6s Plus and highlighting their shortcomings against

those of the S7.



Samsung also launched a 360-degree spherical camera called Gear 360. It has dual

fisheye lenses, each with 15 megapixel image sensors, that lets users capture

near 4K video quality of 3840x1920 pixels in 360 degrees, along with 30

megapixel still images.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg spoke at the launch,

describing Samsung's VR as "the best mobile VR experience yet". Samsung's

virtual reality headset, Gear VR, is a cut-down version of Oculus Rift, which is

made by Facebook acquisition Oculus VR.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





