

HUAWEI P9 PRICE: £449 WEB: www.HUAWEI.COM A smidgen thinner than an iPhone 6s,
and equally as impressive in terms of build quality and materials, the Huawei P9
is the Chinese giant's new flagship handset. For my money the phone most likely
to kill you if it was hurled full force at your face, this is a sturdy handset
that's all about power.

WHAT'S SPECIAL ABOUT THIS ONE? Huawei partnered with the camera wizards at Leica
to "co-engineer" a world class, dual-lens camera into something as thin as a
biscuit. But exactly how involved Leica has been in the entire process (beyond
simply putting its respected name to it) has come into question since the phone
launched. Which is a shame, because the P9 has an astonishingly good camera
regardless of who built it, with shots that leave even Apple's latest lenses in
the dust.

PROS: Super-powered processor, battery life and dual-lens camera. CONS:
Operating system is ugly as hell and riddled with apps you don't need.

HTC 10 PRICE: £569 WEB: www.HTC.COM/UK The HTC 10 isn't the thinnest or lightest
Android on the market. But it's a loveable little chunkster with reassuringly
expensive heft and a rounded and outrageously chamfered backside that fits
nicely in the palm. It's an incredibly handsome phone, all industrial and outer
spacey, the kind of thing an astronaut might use to phone the moon.

WHAT'S SPECIAL ABOUT THIS ONE? There's a beefy one-volt amplifier built into the
headphone jack, which coupled with high-res, 24-bit audio hardware makes the HTC
10 the ideal phone for music fans.

PROS: Top audio hardware. Bloat-free OS.

CONS: Patchy camera focusing and underperforming battery life.

LG G5 PRICE: £529 WEB: www.LG.COM/UK/G5 Before you even get to the LG G5's
attention-grabbing party trick, you're looking at a top-end Android device for
attractive young people. A dual camera design allows for wide-angle photography,
the 5.3 inch screen is scalpel-sharp and black as the night, and the battery
life will chug through an entire day with some breath to spare.

WHAT'S SPECIAL ABOUT THIS ONE? The LG G5 is one of the first real modular phones
to market, allowing you to swap out and replace the guts of the handset to add
new functions. By holding a button on the phone's edge you can rip the bottom of
the thing right off, leaving it vulnerable to upgrades such as an increased
battery capacity, a functional camera grip or a high-res Bang & Olufsen audio
converter.

PROS: It's a great phone to begin with. Modules could stave off obsolescence.
CONS: Modules will cost money. And they won't be made if this thing doesn't
sell.

