                              195 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                         The Evening Standard (London)



                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Snap to it: pick and mix super-accessories to build a modular phone



BYLINE: Phoebe Luckhurst



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 39



LENGTH: 512 words





YOUR smartphone is an extension of the self. Crucially, it is a portable version

of your mind: its apps organise your thoughts and relationships, and reflect

your interests, both meaningful (Tinder, Candy Crush) and fickle (that French

vocab app you flirted with in the summer). Customising this interface is

equivalent to compartmentalising your brain.



But while it is mentally agile, physically, it's immutable: you can amend and

update your phone's software but you can't hack off chunks of metal at will.



However, innovation needs somewhere to go, and the modular smartphone is the

next frontier. It was the talk of the Mobile World Conference in February this

year, when LG revealed its G5 phone, which was released to the public at the

beginning of autumn. The G5 (pictured) looks like a normal, highfunctioning

phone, but comes with accessories that you can append to the main phone in order

to up its functional ante.



For this first iteration, LG has focused largely on cameras: the phone

incorporates two separate cameras on the back of the handset, but it also has a

360 Cam lens, a piece of hardware that connects to the phone via wi-fi or

Bluetooth. It shoots in wide-angle, 13-megapixel clarity, and can capture both

high-quality photos and videos. You can also attach the Cam Plus Friend, another

piece of hardware that riffs on the functionality of an SLR camera: the

accessory has a zoom wheel and shutter button.



LG revealed a designated audio system at the phone's launch too, created in

collaboration with Danish brand, Bang & Olufsen. The B&O Play is a portable

hi-fi and headphone amplifier, which improves the sound quality of the music,

turning the whole kit into an (almost) sophisticated sound system.



And the phone also makes necessary overtures towards battery life, the bugbear

of any smartphone user who has ever found themselves facing down a Friday night

wandering up and down Hackney Road, phone defunct, hoping a mate finds them and

points them in the direction of their evening. The LG G5 can be cleaved open

easily, so you can swap the battery pack for a charged one.



Is there a future for the modular phone? Granted, Google's version, Ara, was

stymied last month: the planned handset reportedly had six modular sections,

including camera lenses and speakers. "Google has suspended Project Ara, its

ambitious effort to build what is known as a modular smartphone with

interchangeable components, as part of a broader push to streamline the

company's hardware efforts," reported Reuters at the time.



The G5 has, therefore, become a test case for the whole industry. Early reviews

are cautious: many endorse the concept but suggest it has not been executed

flawlessly. There is a meandering Reddit thread about the phone: one user says

he has had to replace it twice and was onto his fourth Cam Plus module, and

another said he was on his sixth handset. LG has not commented on the reports;

to be fair, teething problems are typical.



So go forth and build your own brave new world, with as many lenses as you can

affix.



Phoebe Luckhurst @phoebeluckhurst



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EST





                   Copyright 2016 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





