                              197 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                             April 11, 2016 Monday



LG Electronics sees nearly 70% surge in profit in Q1



LENGTH: 314 words





Tech giant LG Electronics' operating profit surged nearly 70 percent in the

January-March period, according to its earnings guidance released Monday.



The company said it posted 505 billion won ($441 million) in operating profit

and 13. 4 trillion won in revenue, up 65.5 percent and down 4.5 percent,

respectively, compared to the same period last year.



LG Electronics CEO Jo Seong-jin attends a press conference in Seoul in March.

(Yonhap)



The operating profit beat previous market estimates in a range of 300 billion

won to mid-400 billion won.



Its operating profit jumped 44.9 percent quarter-on-quarter while its revenue

decreased 8.2 percent during the same period.



Market analysts said that the increase in operating profit was mainly driven by

a decline in prices of raw materials for liquid-crystal displays, increased

shipment volume for high-end organic light-emitting diode TVs and seasonal

factors in the home appliance segment.



LG released its earnings guidance for the first in its history. Its domestic

rival Samsung Electronics had been the only listed firm in Korea that publicizes

estimated earnings figures before announcing an official quarterly financial

report.



"LG will be able to achieve record profits this year on the back of a usual

sales hike of TVs and home appliances in the coming months in addition to

anticipated sales growth in the electric car component and solar panel modules

businesses, only if its mobile business unit turns to profit thanks to the newly

released G5 smartphone," said Song Eun-jeong, an analyst from Hi Investment &

Securities.



Shinhan Investment predicted that the cumulative sales of the G5 this year would

surpass the 12-million mark this year.



The G5 sales has reportedly crossed the 15,000 mark on March 31, the first day

of its launch. The figure is three times higher than that of the firm's

preceding flagship G4.



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





