                              199 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                             April 11, 2016 Monday



LG posts strong profit rise in Q1



BYLINE: By Lee Min-hyung



LENGTH: 489 words





G5 will drive Q2 growth



LG Electronics posted 505.2 billion won ($440.6 million) in operating profit in

the first quarter of this year, up 65.5 percent from the previous year,

outperforming previous market estimates.



The figure hovered above earlier market expectations by around 100 billion won.



In preliminary guidance on Monday, the company said its sales were 13.36

trillion won, down 4.5 percent from a year ago. The company plans to unveil a

specific breakdown for its divisional earnings later this month.



Analysts voiced their consensus that the earnings growth is expected to have

come from robust performance in its home appliances business.



Expectations are that the company's home entertainment (HE) division, which

deals with the television business, has driven the robust growth, due to

increased demand for organic light-emitting diode (OLED) televisions, Shinhan

Financial Investment analyst John Soh said in his report.



High-end appliances, such as refrigerators and air-conditioners, are also

another growth driver for its January-March earnings, he said.



Earnings from its new flagship smartphone, the G5, have not been reflected in

the earnings guidance, as the figure includes sales from the January-March

period. LG launched the new modular-type handset on Mar. 31 in the global

market.



Hana Financial Investment analyst Kim Rok-ho said, 'Whether its mobile business

has contributed to the growth remains uncertain due to the high flexibility of

the handset division.'



Regarding market expectations for the April-July period, the company is expected

to continue its winning streak, backed by increased demand for its new handset

and seasonal factors for air-conditioners, they said. Expectations are that the

mobile division will achieve a major turnaround from the second quarter, halting

its longtime underperformance due to failures from its previous handset, the G4.



While its local rival _ Samsung Electronics _ has been reporting estimated

quarterly earnings since 2009, this marks the first time LG has reported its

estimated earnings. LG said the move came as the company aims to deliver more

clear information over its earnings, minimizing fluctuations in stock prices

coming from viral rumors before quarterly earning seasons.



Meanwhile, LG Electronics has received a stronger-than-expected response for the

G5, selling more than 15,000 here on the first day of its launch, according to

telecom industry reports. The figure is a more than threefold increase from its

predecessor, the G4, which sold some fewer than 5,000 during the same period

last year.



Last month, the company also unveiled its premium appliance brand, LG Signature,

and Signature Kitchen Suite, the business-to-business (B2B) version of LG

Signature, adding the company plans to launch them in key markets including the

United States within this year.



LG Electronics closed at 64,300 won on the Seoul bourse, up 0.94 percent from

the previous day.



LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





