                              19 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 19, 2016 Friday



Can LG make 'real difference' with G5?



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 706 words





LG Electronics mobile chief Cho Juno speaks at an event in Seoul last year where

the V10 smartphone was released, in this file photo. Cho plans to update LG's

handset business strategies at a news conference with Korean media on the

sidelines of this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona, Spain, which

will run throughout next week. / Korea Times file



BARCELONA, Spain - Can LG Electronics make a real difference with its new

flagship smartphone - the LG G5 (G5)?



In a rare decision, LG Electronics, which is Korea's second-largest mobile

manufacturer after Samsung Electronics, has decided to unveil its G5 on Feb. 21,

just ahead of this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC) convention to be held here

next week.



Previously, LG had been skipping the annual MWC to introduce its mobile phones

in order to avoid clashing with Samsung, which has used the annual mobile fair

as its podium to release 'another Galaxy.'



This is the first time for LG Electronics to unveil its G-series handset at the

annual MWC fair since the firm entered the smartphone industry.



'LG Electronics hopes this year's MWC will lay the ground to rev up momentum in

the company's handset business,' said an executive at one of LG Group's tech

affiliates.



LG Electronics has been struggling with its mobile division as emerging Chinese

rivals continue to roll out new features on smartphones at low prices.



More consumers are flocking to products manufactured by budget service providers

like Xiaomi and Huawei, forcing LG Electronics out of the top five in 2015 when

it came to smartphone shipments.



The LG executive said it is now looking to reinvent the company's strategy with

no room for 'another mistake.'



LG Electronics remained tight-lipped about the new features of the upcoming G5.

But the executive said, 'One thing that I can say is that the G5 will clearly be

better than the V10 smartphone, which failed to make an impression on consumers

and investors.'



It's highly likely that the G5 will have a metal frame to differentiate it from

previous versions.



Also, the new G-branded mobile phone will be powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon

820 application processor (AP), as the U.S.-based telecom chip giant completed

its 'customization process' to address the AP's overheating problems, said the

executive.



More importantly, while LG agreed that the MWC is the event to highlight its

efforts in the mobile payment business, which is promising and highly potential

for all tech titans from Apple and Google to Samsung, LG isn't ready to divert

attention from its G5 at the MWC, as the company has delayed the official debut

of LG Pay until the second quarter of this year.



'Yes, LG Electronics won't release LG Pay during the 2016 MWC,' said a company

spokesman.



Its mobile chief Cho Juno will update its mobile strategies in a press

conference with Korean media scheduled for Feb. 23 at the Sofia Hotel, here. Cho

plans to discuss its revised pricing strategy of the G5 during the meeting.



In a related note, LG said it will exhibit two mid-range models - the X Cam and

X Screen - to widen consumer choice for competitive budget models. The LG Stylus

2 is also a successor to the LG G4 Stylus, which is a budget model.



All of these will also be exhibited during the convention.



While LG pins high hopes on raising profits, it remains to be seen whether it

will hit the jackpot with the G5 as the company still has to compete with the

Samsung Galaxy 7 and Apple's new iPhone in the premium mobile segment.



LG Electronics saw a steep increase in sales of its LTE-based smartphones in the

second half of last year. However, it reported operating losses of 77.6 billion

won and 43.8 billion won during the third and fourth quarters, respectively,

attributing such dismal performance to heated competition.



CounterPoint Research, a market research firm, said the average selling price of

smartphones, a key barometer to gauge the profitability of handset

manufacturers, may drop to $240 per unit this year from $247 a year earlier.



'Smartphones were already commoditized as a new order has prevailed in the

industry thanks to the Chinese. If you want to see a turnaround in profit, then

you should cut costs and release more competitive models to lift sales,' an

analyst said.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





