
DATELINE: Mumbai


Mumbai, Feb. 25 -- One of the biggest tech events in the world, the Mobile World
Congress is held in Barcelona every year. MWC is a mammoth catwalk for mobile
manufacturers to strut their stuff, and this year has already seen some
announcements of really cool gadgets you need in your life right now. Here's our
pick of the lot.


 Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge
 Xiaomi Mi5
 The freshly launched Mi5 is a true coming-of-age for Xiaomi. It's the company's
flagship smartphone that rivals all the giants out there. With a beautiful
design, that's curved at the back, it comes in metal and Gorilla Glass 4.0. The
higher-end version comes in ceramic. The specs put the Mi5 as one of the
speediest devices out there. It's got a new 64-bit Snapdragon 820, 4GB of RAM
that's faster than the usual RAM used and a very fast 128 GB storage. The screen
is a 5.15 inch display with impressive sunlight readability. The phone has a
16-megapixel 4 axis optical image stabilised Sony camera on the back with a
4-megapixel ultrapixel camera out front for clear selfies in any light.
 LG G5
 One of the biggest tech reveals this MWC came as a big pleasant surprise from
LG. The company revealed the LG G5, the world's first modular phone. The phone
also offers add-ons which they term as friends. For instance, there's a Bang &
Olufsen Hi-Fi audio digital to analog converter that can be placed in the phone.
Plus, the phone can interface with a 360-degree camera and other companions. The
phone itself is beautiful, with a 5.3 inch IPS Quantum display that is powered
by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 820, 4GB RAM and 32 GB internal storage. The back
sports an interesting dual camera setup. Either you can shoot using the
16-megapixel camera or you can switch to the 8-megapixel wide angled camera for
a larger view. The front selfie camera is an 8-megapixel shooter. LG with the G5
has opened up new possibilities in technology and it would be interesting to see
which other friends they present to expand your mobile experience.
 G5 Friends
 You can pull out the bottom of the smartphone which holds the battery so you
can swap in a bigger one. That bottom unit can be replaced with an LG Cam Plus
camera module that gives you a pro cam feel or a B&O hi-fi unit for good music.
The friends are also companion tech, like a 360 VR camera and a cool looking
goggle. The best part is the rolling bot to keep an eye on your pets remotely
and worry them by moving it around remotely.
 Sony Xperia X Series + more
 Sony's Z series are no more. Say hello to the new X series of smartphones. The
Xperia X Performance, X and XA. The XA is more budget, but the X and the X
Performance are the ones that stand out. Sony takes their signature design to a
new level with curved glass and premium metals. The tech comes in the form of a
whopping 23-megapixel camera with what Sony calls a Predictive Autofocus, that
predicts your subject's next move and tracks them. Both sport five inch screens
but the Performance sports a Snapdragon 820. Like LG, Sony has also brought
along a few friends. The stand out one is a device called Xperia Ear, which is a
Bluetooth headset that functions as your personal assistant. Then there's also
the Xperia Eye, a wearable camera with a 360-degree spherical lens to capture a
natural view. There's the Xperia Projector is a mini projector of sorts, while
Agent is a home-automation system, both of which are in concept stage now.
 HTC Desire Range
 HTC Vive
 While HTC Vive is not a smartphone, it's a Virtual Reality device that's a
collaboration between HTC and Valve. While we have been seeing the Vive for some
time, the version announced at MWC is a proper consumer one that comes at a
staggering $800. For this price, you get the VR unit, which looks sleeker that
what we've seen, with circular indentations for sensors looking very cool and
cyberpunk. You also get a pair of controllers and sensor-base stations you can
place around your play area to detect your movements. The controllers themselves
have 24 sensors to detect movement with haptic feedback. The HTC Vive looks like
a lot more attractive a package than the Oculus Rift. But even though you pay
more, you definitely get a complete package.

