                              202 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          The Business Times Singapore



                           February 25, 2016 Thursday



Virtual Reality, innovation take centre stage at mobile show;

Handset launches apart, announcements by brands such as Huawei, LG and Sony

pique interest at Barcelona event



BYLINE: Natalie Koh , Virtual Reality, innovation take centre stage at mobile

show



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 1009 words





IT was not all about handsets at this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC).



The MWC, held annually in Barcelona, Spain, is traditionally known for handset

launches, and this year's did not disappoint. But a few other announcements by

brands such as Huawei, LG and Sony, too, piqued interest at the event.



Given that the global smartphone market is projected to slow, with market

intelligence firm IDC forecasting a 9.8 per cent growth for 2015, a large drop

from 27.5 per cent in 2014, it seemed only a natural course of action for brands

to widen their nets.



For some brands, such as Samsung and LG, that meant expanding into the Virtual

Reality (VR) business. For others, it meant flexing their innovation muscles.



Huawei, for instance, eschewed the VR trend entirely, even skipping the rumoured

launch of the P9, which would be the latest in its P series smartphones, and

instead announced its flagship Matebook, a laptop-tablet hybrid.



Sony, on top of its Xperia X series, unveiled a series of concept gadgets that

might just revolutionise the future. And LG introduced the modular Android

smartphone, the G5, along with the LG Rolling Bot, a little ball of a droid -

much like Sphero's BB-8 - that you control with your G5 remotely.



On why Huawei went into the laptop-hybrid market, Henry Hsu, chief operating

officer of the consumer business group, Southern Pacific region, said in a group

interview with The Business Times at MWC 2016: "Last year, we did some research

and found most of us have phones for fun and sometimes for work. We realised we

were doing well for handphones that catered to certain needs of the customers -

mostly play and entertainment. But when it comes to office space, Huawei is

totally out, so we started studying the PC market."



That was when they decided to develop a book for the PC market. It was also

strategic for the brand "to create a holistic portfolio".



The Matebook runs on Windows 10 and is powered by a 6th Generation Intel Core

m-series processor and a solid-state hard drive with capacity of up to 512GB.

The design is thin and sleek, weighing in at 640g, with a 12-inch display and a

battery life that promises nine consecutive hours of Internet use.



Despite being China's No 1 and the world's No 3 seller of smartphones, Huawei

still struggles with its brand image.



Things may have improved for it in the region, with market share in Australia

and New Zealand having broken past the 10 per cent mark, while in Malaysia and

the Philippines have climbed steadily over the past year, reaching 6 per cent in

the former and 5 per cent in the latter from around one to 2 per cent a year

earlier.



In Singapore, however, it's a different story with market share at 3 per cent.



"Singapore is slightly more brand conscious," Mr Hsu admits. "Huawei is not sexy

to them as far as they're concerned . . . but as a brand develops, like it or

not, the business centre is always the last to accept the trends. It always

comes through the outskirts first."



But Mr Hsu, who is a Singaporean and based in Kuala Lumpur, maintained that

beyond the image of the brand, Huawei produces quality products. "I always tell

my friends, 'Take away the logos, use our phones, and you will find our phones

are really good and it's true'."



LG's launch of the G5 came as little surprise, and neither was the launch of the

360 CAM and 360 VR, LG's camera and VR headset. What did come as a pleasant

surprise was the G5 accessory, the Rolling Bot, which allows you to control your

TV and air-conditioning, use it as a laser pointer, and keep an eye on the home

when you're not in, thanks to a built-in 8MP camera.



The Rolling Bot was not in perfect working condition at the MWC demo, displaying

a slow response to commands. But the product is still under development and is

expected to go on shelves in five to six months.



While Forrester analyst Thomas Husson was impressed with the G5, he was less so

about LG's VR endeavours.



"The LG 360 VR headset is a way to leverage the hype around Virtual Reality, and

to further the emergence of self-created content. But don't expect VR content to

be broadly available this year, with the exception of a small niche of gamers,"

he said.



Sony went in a different direction, revealing four concept gadgets - the Xperia

Ear, Xperia Eye, Xperia Agent and Xperia Projector - the last of which made the

biggest impact. The gadget projects an interactive interface on any flat, clear

surface, allowing you to tap, type, draw and swipe on it as you would on any

touchscreen surface.



The Xperia Agent and Ear are virtual assistants of sorts. The former answers

questions and provides notifications (much as Apple's Siri does) by projecting

information on a flat surface The latter is an earpiece that offers similar

functionalities to your phone dashboard, providing weather updates, event

notifications and allowing you to make calls and send messages.



In another show of VR, the Xperia Eye works much like the 360-degree cameras of

Samsung and LG, except it comes with only one camera and is placed flat on a

surface to capture its surroundings. All four gadgets are conceptual and have no

specific launch date yet.



Analysts noted the VR trend at the MWC, but said they are over-hyped.



"Most handset manufacturers today have referred to VR initiatives. This is a

great way to create a WOW effect but VR will only offer limited value in 2016. .

. Like for 3D, content will be the missing piece in the beginning. Self-created

content will help drive Virtual Reality but we're not there yet," said Mr

Husson.



"The engineering and manufacturing brilliance we will see from the likes of

Samsung and LG will do too little to drive the type of consumer demand the

market so badly needs to maintain past meteoric growth rates," said Forrester

analyst Julie Ask. "New growth will come from developing markets in need of less

expensive devices that are less power hungry more sensitive to the local

conditions."



Companies also need to "do a much better job connecting new hardware to tap into

app and service ecosystems", Mr Husson said.



LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Huawei's booth at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona (above).

China's No 1 seller of smartphones eschewed the Virtual Reality trend entirely

and instead announced its flagship Matebook, a laptop-tablet hybrid, at the

annual event.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





