

Huawei Matebook
(US$699-US$1,599)

"STYLE" and "Huawei" aren't quite words you utter in the same breath, but that
bias could change once you lay your hands on its new 12-inch, Windows 10
Matebook.

Rather than follow the predictable footsteps of other brands launching their new
smartphones at the Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona, Spain, Huawei
raised eyebrows with Matebook, which works as a tablet and laptop.

The aluminium unibody features a sleek design with no unsightly seams. It
doesn't heat up as easily as a plastic body, which means a longer lifespan for
the processor and battery.

At just 6.99mm thick, with a weight of 640g, it's also thinner and lighter than
Microsoft's 8.45mm-thick Surface Pro 4, which weighs 766g.

A thin device like this means sacrifices - there are no ports. You'll need its
all-in-one MateDock (US$89) as an accessory, which includes USB ports, an
Ethernet jack and an HDMI port. The dock is compact and easy enough to carry
around, and comes in a leather case that matches the Matebook cover-cum-keyboard
(US$129).

There's also the nifty Matepen (US$59), an elegant stylus which triples as a
laser pointer and presentation clicker. With 2,048 levels of pressure, the
Matepen is incredibly sensitive - the screen senses the stylus without them even
touching.

Powered by a 6th Generation Intel Core m-series processor and a solid-state hard
drive with capacity of up to 512GB, the Huawei Matebook also packs a powerful
punch.

The Huawei Matebook was created as "a sum of details", says Henry Hsu, chief
operating officer, consumer business, group, Southern Pacific region, for Huawei
Technologies.

"We believe we are the new thing - what we call the dynamic premium. Meaning we
listen to our customers. . . We put in the best in everything we can have, and
because we do that, words like craftsmanship and usability come up."

The MateBook will be available in Asia, Europe and North America in the coming
months.

Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge
(US$998 & US$1,098)

THE brand that is synonymous with digital style did not disappoint. At the South
Korean brand's unpacking event on Feb 21, they "unboxed" the new 5.1-inch
Samsung Galaxy S7 and 5.5-inch S7 edge on a platform with walls that literally
opened up before the audience.

A close-up of the device was unveiled via a Virtual Reality (VR) show, viewed
through their Gear VR, a headset developed with tech company Oculus VR. When the
audience removed their headsets, who else but Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook
which bought Oculus VR for US$2 billion in 2014, showed up to make a surprise
keynote speech to support Samsung's VR efforts. An opening like that was bound
to raise expectations for the product itself, and Samsung easily stepped up to
the plate.

The audience ogled the 32GB device's beautifully contoured outer covers, with
glass and metal meeting seamlessly on the sides. One feature to note is the
rear-facing camera, which is almost level with the back of the phone.

While Samsung has been criticised for a lack of innovation with its MWC
offerings, users would appreciate the insertion of a microSD card slot, giving
you the option of expanding memory size to up to 200gb. They've also managed to
make the phone water resistant, despite the added slot. The devices will be able
to withstand a depth of 1.5m for up to 30 minutes.

New features include a more user-friendly edge panel, an Always-On Display, and
a dual pixel camera sensor for shooting in low-light conditions.

The Galaxy S7 4G+ and Galaxy S7 edge 4G+ will be available in Singapore from
March 12.

LG G5
Price to be announced

TECH fair or playground? It was hard to tell at LG's space. A ball-shaped robot
rolled through a mini race course, while visitors queued up to try out LG's new
VR headset. Rows of tables displayed the features of the new LG G5 against a
lime green backdrop.

It was all part of what the South Korean brand called the LG Playground, a
"smartphone ecosystem" that revolves around the G5, its companion devices and
supporting programs.

Most impressive was the phone's modular design that allows you to transform the
G5 into a digital camera or music player by swapping out parts of the phone.

The smartphone also offers a wide-angle lens option on the 16mp back camera, and
an Always-on feature, so you can always view the time and notifications at a
glance.

Companion devices include the 360 VR, their compact VR headset; 360 CAM, a
360-degree camera; and the Rolling Bot, a spherical robot that can be controlled
with the G5 remotely to keep an eye on your home and control certain home
appliances.

There is no launch date for the LG G5 in Singapore yet.

Sony Xperia X Series
Price to be announced

THE Xperia Z series stayed in the background as the new X series - the Xperia X,
XA and the Asia-only X Performance - took centre stage.

Design-wise, the Xperia X is reminiscent of its previous phones but is still
visually appealing, with an incredibly thin bezel adding to the series'
aesthetics.

The Xperia XA is pretty much a scaled-down version of the Xperia X. The X boasts
an impressive 23mp camera and a 13mp secondary camera, with an auto-focus
technology that tracks moving objects. In turn, the XA has a 13mp camera on the
back and 8mp camera at the front, without the auto-focus tracking capability.

The X Performance was not on show at MWC, but is said to have a more powerful
Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor, as compared with the Xperia X's 650
processor.

The Xperia X series is expected to hit shelves in mid-2016.

