                              204 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               Irish Independent



                           February 27, 2016 Saturday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



LG goes for Samsung's crown with gorgeous G5



SECTION: REVIEW;FEATURES; REVIEW; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 248 words





The most interesting part of following Android smartphones is how quickly the

leadership chops and changes. For more than three years, Samsung ruled the

roost, partially because it was the only one offering large-screen handsets.

That leadership isn't clear anymore - with rivals such as Huawei and Motorola

now showing us high-quality smartphones at lower price points.



LG has been overlooked in Ireland, mainly due to shops and mobile operators

keeping it out of circulation for their own commercial reasons. But it is

putting out smartphones that you'd be foolish not to consider the next time

you're thinking of an upgrade.



The new G5, in particular, is a powerhouse that mixes pleasing design with

fairly cutting-edge specifications.



Its high-resolution 5.3-inch screen is probably the perfect size for those who

don't quite want the 'phablet' dimensions of the biggest phones but do want

something that can handle the increasing amount of online stuff they now use

their phones for.



I really like that LG has put two cameras on the back of the phone, a main

16-megapixel snapper and a second, wide-angle, 8-megapixel lens. It adds a lot

to the type of photo you can shoot on this handset.



Unusually for high-end phones, the G5 has a removable battery. This is still a

popular thing for many people. Otherwise, it comes with 32GB of onboard storage

plus an external memory-card slot for more capacity. It has 4GB of Ram, making

it ultra-fast. It also comes in a couple of different colours.



LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IIN





             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





