                              206 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            March 17, 2016 Thursday



LG strengthens ties with developers for G5 success '



LENGTH: 548 words





LG Electronics mobile business chief Cho Juno delivers a welcoming speech at a

developer conference at the Nurikkum Square in Digital Media City, western

Seoul, Thursday. / Courtesy of LG ElectronicsBy Lee Min-hyung



LG Electronics said Thursday that it will bolster partnerships with developers

as a core business strategy to halt the years-long sagging performance of its

mobile unit.



The move came as the Android handset manufacturer held a developer conference

for its much-hyped G5 flagship smartphone. The world's first modular handset has

gained favorable responses for innovation, which critics say its rivals failed

to bring to this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona last month.



Under the theme of 'Play with Friends,' the company unveiled a series of

business blueprints to build what it calls a symbiotic ecosystem with small and

medium-sized enterprises (SME) and startups for the development of modular

devices. The company highlighted its LG Friends, a series of modular companion

devices that can plug into the G5, will be at the forefront to change the

current smartphone landscape, helping the company bounce back from the

relatively weak profile of its mobile business.



'We are going to open the LG Friends online store on Apr. 18 in a move to build

a co-existing partnership model with developers,' LG Electronics mobile chief

Cho Juno said during the developer conference. 'The online marketplace will

serve as a venue where both sides can actually make profits and continue to

extend partnerships.'



The event came about two weeks ahead of the official launch of the new handset.

The move is interpreted as an effort to take advantage of the market infancy for

modular device industry. LG Electronics, however, has yet to disclose the exact

launch date.



The company said it will also unveil its software development kit (SDK) and

hardware development kit (HDK) next month to provide more concrete guidelines

for developers.



LG Electronics Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Ahn Seung-kwon said, 'The

ecosystem for smart devices should be conducted in a mid- to long-term

initiative.' He said the company will continue to use the modular-based

development ecosystem for its future devices to build a mutual growth model

between developers and handset makers.



More than 400 developers and industry insiders packed the event to discuss the

new hardware ecosystem. The modular devices are gaining the spotlight from

global information and communication technology (ICT) giants such as Google and

Lenovo, as one of their differentiation strategies amid narrowing technology

gaps among handset makers.



Google previously hinted at unleashing its Project Ara smartphone which uses

interchangeable modules. Lenovo also recently unveiled its modular tablet X1.

But the modular devices have yet to be commercialized, due to such barriers as

costs and concerns over practical use.



Last month, LG Electronics unveiled a series of modules offering such features

as an improved camera and audio system. In particular, the company has formed a

partnership with Danish premium audio system manufacturer Bang & Olufsen.



The electronics giant is also planning to expand the developing ecosystem

globally by launching the second round of its developer conference in San

Francisco next month.



LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





