                              213 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                             July 26, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung Electro, LG Innotek bet big on dual camera demand



LENGTH: 306 words





[THE INVESTOR] South Korea's top two electronics parts makers -- Samsung

Electro-Mechanics and LG Innotek -- are betting big on surging demand for

dual-camera smartphones.



The parts units of Samsung and LG have been somewhat struggling in recent months

amid cost-cutting pressure from smartphone manufacturers in a saturated market.

But as their clients are focusing more on premium features especially on

cameras, their dual-camera module business are recently gaining a fresh

momentum.



LG G5 that features a dual camera



Dual-camera smartphones have two camera modules, with each of them working alone

or together to improve camera functions.



LG Electronics has adopted the upgraded cameras into its premium smartphones.

The latest G5 features a 16-megapixel camera with a standard lens and an

8-megapixel camera with a wide-angle lens. LG Innotek supplies the modules.



LG Innotek is also said to be supplying its dual-camera modules to the upcoming

Apple iPhone 7 that comes out in September. It recently decided to build a new

camera module plant in Vietnam due to a possible surge in iPhone demand.



"Except orders from LG Electronics, LG Innotek is expected to supply 31.2

million dual-camera modules in the latter half of this year. Compared to

single-camera modules, profits from dual-camera modules are more than double,"

said Park Hyoung-woo, an analyst at SK Securities.



Samsung Electro-Mechanics is also expected to benefit next year as the next

Galaxy S phone, tentatively called Galaxy S8, is widely expected to adopt a dual

camera for the first time.



The company plans to start supplying dual-camera modules to Chinese handset

makers in the latter half of this year.



"Dual cameras will make up almost one-third of the company's total sales next

year," said Lee Soo-hak, an analyst at Hanwha Investment and Securities.



By Lee Ji-yoon (



LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





