                              214 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               India Retail News



                      March 24, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition LTE Launches in US



LENGTH: 596  words





March 24 -- The LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition LTE - the first Android Wear

smartwatch with cellular connectivity that lets you make and receive calls right

from your wrist - is now available for pre-order at AT&T and Verizon stores and

ATT.com and Verizon.com.



With a classic timepiece design featuring a hairline-etched stainless steel

body, durable hypoallergenic TPSiV elastomer band and a full circle 348ppi

P-OLED display, this smartwatch sports three buttons on the right side to

provide quick access to shortcut, LG Health and other apps. Plus, it's

compatible with Android smartphones1 including the all new LG G5, which arrive

at Amazon, AT&T, Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, B&H, Costco, Sprint, T-Mobile, U.S.

Cellular and Verizon in April.



"The future is here. With the LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition LTE, our customers can

get even more functionality out of their wearables, in a way that used to seem

like something only out of science fiction," said Morris Lee, President of LG

Electronics Mobile USA and Head of North America Mobile Business. "To be able to

make and receive calls, right from a device that is not only a smartwatch, but

looks like a beautiful classic design, is yet another example of LG's practical

innovation and on-going desire to help ensure that life's good!"



LG's newest smartwatch works when paired or it can go alone, when carrying a

smartphone isn't practical or convenient like morning runs or a match on the

tennis court. And its high-capacity 570mAh battery and Power Saving Mode lets

the smartwatch last throughout the day with power to spare.2 There's also an

Ambient mode that can be enabled or disabled with the simple press of the crown

button.



AT&T customers can now pre-order the LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition LTE, compatible

with NumberSync, at www.att.com and AT&T stores. LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition LTE

is the first Android Wear device enabled with NumberSync, which allows you to

send and receive texts, as well as make and receive calls from your smartwatch

using the same number that your friends, family, and colleagues already

recognize, even when your phone isn't nearby. It is available now for $99.99 on

a two-year agreement when you buy a LG G5 on AT&T Next.3



The LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition LTE is also now available for pre-order at

Verizon for $449.99 with a new two-year contract or $499.99 at full retail

price. Verizon customers will enjoy one of the first 4G LTE smartwatches

available on Verizon and can add it to existing plans for $5 per month4. And for

a limited time, get $100 off the LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition LTE with the

purchase of the all-new LG G5 or LG V10 on a two-year activation.



LG's newest smartwatch works when paired or it can go alone, when carrying a

smartphone isn't practical or convenient like morning runs or a match on the

tennis court. And its high-capacity 570mAh battery and Power Saving Mode lets

the smartwatch last throughout the day with power to spare.



Specifications may vary by carrier. Please visit AT&T and Verizon for more

information.



Key Specifications:



* Chipset: 1.2GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 400



* Operating System: Android Wear



* Display: 1.38-inch P-OLED Display (480 x 480 / 348ppi)



* Size: 44.5 x 14.2mm



* Memory: 4GB eMMC / 768MB LPDDR3



* Battery: 570mAh



* Network*: Bluetooth 4.1 / Wi-Fi / LTE / 3G5



* Sensors: Accelerometer / Gyro / Compass / Barometer / PPG / GPS



* Color: Space Black



* Other: Dust and Water Resistance (IP67)



LG and the LG logo are trademarks of LG Corp. Other company and product names

may be trademarks of their respective owners.



Source: LG Electronics MobileComm USA



LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





