                              224 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            National Herald Tribune



                              May 15, 2016 Sunday



LG smartphones get U.S. Government approval for enterprise and military use



LENGTH: 305  words





LG Electronics (LG) announced today that the G5 and V10 smartphones have been

certified by the U.S. National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) for

compliance in meeting international security standards in corporate

environments.



NIAP administers the globally recognized Common Criteria Evaluation and

Validation Scheme (CCEVS) for evaluating security conformance with the Common

Criteria international standard. NIAP certification is recognized by the

governments of 25 Common Criteria member countries such as Canada, France,

Germany, India, Japan, South Korea and the United Kingdom

(www.commoncriteriaportal.org/ccra/members).



LG's flagship smartphones are equipped with LG's GATE technology for enhanced

platform, network, and application security that allow for secure, reliable

access to enterprise data. GATE, or Guarded Access to Enterprise, is LG's

enterprise-level security platform developed in 2013 to provide a variety of

security solutions such as anti-hacking and mobile device management systems for

enterprise mobile devices. GATE's layered security components help to maintain

the integrity of software components, strengthening system protection and

safeguarding corporate data without compromising performance.



What's more, LG G5 and V10 also feature Google's Android for Work which

leverages the LG GATE network capabilities. Included in Android for Work is a

container solution which separates and secures work apps from personal apps.



"With the growing importance of higher security in business these days, we

believe a firm security platform is a must for mobile workplace devices," said

Chris Yie, vice president and head of marketing communications for LG Mobile

Communications Company. "This certification is confirmation that LG smartphones

are among the most secure mobile devices available today."



LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 National Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





