

LG V20 could be the premium smartphone you've been waiting for, since according
to the image, the build quality looks terrific

Being the first non-stock Android running smartphone is certainly a perk for the
upcoming LG V20, but the latest image leak highlights some features of the
smartphone from the outside, which you are about to see. Though the quality of
the image is far below average, you can see the thin size bezels, and the
general screen-to-size ratio of the device is going to be high because a very
small portion of the smartphone's body is actually surrounding the display.

Unfortunately, we cannot see the speaker present on the front side, so that
could mean the smartphone will have back-facing speakers. While it does not
appear in the image, LG V20 is said to be in the same league as its predecessor,
the G5, which could mean that we'll be looking at a modular design in the same
fashion. While modular smartphones could improve in the future, right now
customers just want the perfect phone that will work as soon as they unbox them,
and without going through all the unnecessary attachment of gizmos and modules
to improve their experience.

One other thing that LG will have to be careful of is not to downgrade the
quality control of its smartphones. LG G5 has been severely criticized right
down to the software chunks, and die-hard LG smartphone fans naturally do not
want the company to become a thing of memory. The V20 is said to come with
improved features, such as a terrific rear camera just like its predecessor, and
we could be looking at a dual camera too.

One other thing LG should work on is its software. Users have heavily criticized
LG for its bloatware and the phone stuck in boot loops, so if the company is
focusing so much on the hardware, perhaps it's the software that needs to be
focused on instead. Whatever product we get to see in September, we'll fill you
in on all the details, so stay tuned for that announcement.

Source

