                              228 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)



                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday



Smart treats to really wag Fido's tail



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 572 words





At the Mobile World Congress last week in Barcelona, Spain, big mobile brands

like LG, Sony and Samsung asked the question: has the smartphone had its heyday?



The answer, of course, was no - they still want us to buy their phones - yet

each was looking for ways to reinvent the smartphone and extend its reach beyond

the device itself.



Ancillary gadgets, from virtual reality headsets to toys for your pets, are now

popping up everywhere.



Here are three of our favourite innovations from the show.



LG Rolling Bot



One of a range of "friends" unveiled with LG's new G5 modular smartphone, the

Rolling Bot is the cutest of them all. It has an inbuilt 8MP camera, speaker and

laser and can be controlled remotely via your home's wi-fi through an app on the

G5, no matter where in the world you are. LG says the Rolling Bot is designed to

keep your pets from getting lonely while you're out of the house.



You can check up on your furry friend through the bot's camera and save snaps

and videos.



Or you can roll the bot around the house shooting a little red laser for Fifi to

go bananas over. You can talk through the mic in your phone and your pet will

hear you through the bot's speakers. "What's up, dog!"



Other non-pet-related uses include remote control capability with compatible

devices, and home security.



Cat S60 smartphone



Caterpillar makes those fun yellow trucks and as such, its line of "Cat Phones"

is designed for the rough and tumble of construction and trade work.



That doesn't mean its latest phone won't be a damn cool gadget for any regular

Josephine.



With military-grade strength, the CAT S60 will withstand a drop of 1.8m and the

touchscreen will work even with wet hands or when wearing gloves.



It's waterproof up to 5m submerged for an hour, and can take video and stills

underwater.



As if all that isn't cool enough, it has an inbuilt thermal imaging system,

powered by FLIR Systems, a world leader in the field.



The phone sports two rear cameras - a thermal camera and regular camera - which

work in tandem to overlay both the thermal and visual images for a clearer

rendering.



Sony Xperia Ear



There's been much hype over the past year about how we'll all soon be talking to

our phones constantly for directions and everyday tasks, with artificial

intelligences like Apple's Siri, Microsoft's Cortana and Google Now rapidly

improving.



Sony has taken things one step further by creating an ergonomic earpiece so

you'll have a personal assistant everywhere you go, without having to look at

your phone.



It connects to the internet on your phone via Bluetooth, fits comfortably in

your ear and is very lightweight.



It will last for up to four hours of talk time or 80 hours of stand-by time, but

the case has three charges in it, potentially extending the device's life span

all day while out and about.



Sony says the Ear is designed to give smartphone owners back their eyes so

they're not constantly looking down at their phones.



Hands-free navigational directions are a cinch as you ask it where to go and it

tells you the answers.



It will also read Facebook, SMS or WhatsApp messages out to you so you don't

have to pick up your phone - and you can dictate a reply. You can search the

web, ask it to make phone calls, and customise a number of other commands and

notifications to suit you, such as how it greets you when you first put it

on.Fairfax



--------------------



CAPTION:



The Rolling Bot has an inbuilt 8MP camera, speaker and laser.



LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





