                              230 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                The Toronto Star



                              July 29, 2016 Friday



LG Electronics profit jumps despite smartphone woes;

Television, appliance divisions report record results, however mobile group

remains in the red



BYLINE: Youkyung Lee The Associated Press



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B6



LENGTH: 259 words



DATELINE: SEOUL





LG Electronics Inc. said Thursday its second-quarter net income jumped 19 per

cent thanks to strong sales of high-end TVs and home appliances that outweighed

another quarterly loss in its handset business.



Its April-June earnings came in at 268.51 billion won ($315.37 million), on

sales of 14 trillion won ($16.4 billion).



LG said its TV and home appliance divisions reported the strongest results in

the company's history.



The TV business saw higher profit even as its sales and shipments dropped due to

lower sales in emerging markets.



Instead, its portion of premium models, such as the OLED TV, went up, boosting

profitability.



The company expected that demand for the high-end TVs would be robust during the

current quarter.



But its mobile phone division was in the red for a fifth straight quarter

despite the company's ambitious launch of the G5 smartphones.



Initially, the G5 received positive reviews with its modular designs that

feature a bottom that pops out and can be swapped in with other hardware.



But LG failed to increase sales of flagship phones. Its overall smartphone

shipment declined from last year.



LG's mobile phone division lost 153.5 billion won ($179.7 million) during the

quarter.



The company's handset business has never been profitable since April last year

and it quickly lost market shares to up-and-coming Chinese phone makers.



The company said that its mobile division's performance will improve in the next

quarter with the launch of its V series smartphones, which feature a large

screen, as well as more mid- and low-end models.



LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                 Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited





