                              232 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                      IBNS



                       August 26, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST



LG launches 'X Cam' Smartphone in India



BYLINE: India Blooms News Service



LENGTH: 265  words





New Delhi, Aug 26 (IBNS): LG Electronics India Limited (LGEIL) on Friday

announced the launch of its latest smartphone, LG X Cam in India.



The X Cam is designed to deliver exceptional value to those who want a

smartphone with a unique feature such as a Dual camera, that too at an

affordable price. Like the LG G5, the X cam inherits a similar 120-degree wide

angle lens to complement the standard lens. The 13MP standard angle lens and the

5MP wide angle camera on the rear of the X cam delivers as wide a field of view

as the human eye, basically it captures 53% more area than the traditional

cameras on the smartphones.



The X cam offers Pop-out Picture feature which combines the two images taken

with the standard and wide angle lenses to create a picture-in-a-frame effect.

Available only on the X cam Panorama View automatically scrolls a wide image

instead of a static image and the Signature feature allows users to add a

caption or byline after taking a photo. Amit Gujral, Marketing Head Mobiles, LG

India said, With X Cam, we are giving consumers a Dual camera smartphone at a

reasonable price point. We are sure that the Indian consumers will like the very

rare in smartphones, wide angle feature, something that has been inherited from

our premium smartphone LG G5. This wide angle photography would be a unique

experience in this segment and consumers shall surely embrace this new

experience, which otherwise is possible only with nature gifted eyes LG X Screen

will be priced in India at Rs. 19,990 and will be available from today across

stores in India. Image: LG twitter page



LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





            Copyright 2016 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





