
DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, March 5 -- LG

To keep pace with changing times, LG wants to make a difference with its latest
flagship concept, the G5. Taking a leaf out of Google's modular phone model, the
concept looks as good as any of Android top range phones. It has a 5.3-inch
screen with a 2560 x 1440 resolution snugly sitting inside an aluminium unibody.

If one pulls out the chin of the phone, it comes clean off along with a battery
inside. That chin can be replaced with any of the extra modules that LG sells.
One of the modules is Cam Plus, which adds dedicated camera controls, an
enlarged camera grip and up to 50 per cent extra battery life to the phone.
Another module made for audiophiles in collaboration with the audio company Bang
& Olufsen is called the Hi-Fi Plus, and it is a 32-bit DAC and amplifier unit
capable of outputting high quality beats using the included H3 B&O Play
earphones.

Another prominent feature is the presence of the dual camera unit on the back,
carrying a regular 16-megapixel sensor and a 135-degree wide angle 8-megapixel
sensor. It has Snapdragon 820 processor complemented by 4GB of RAM, 32GB of
internal storage that can be expanded. It runs on Android 6.0, and has a
2,800mAh battery.

Samsung

Last year, with the launch of Galaxy S6 and the S6 Edge, Samsung wanted to prove
that it can make desirable phones out of glass and metal. In doing so, it had to
compromise on many fan favourites like micro-SD cards and water proofing. A year
later, the company wants to build on the great design without sacrificing any
functionality.

So, the S7 and the S7 Edge look pretty similar to their predecessors, albeit
with curved backs which makes them easier to handle.

More importantly, they restore all the features that were missing from the
predecessors like water and dust resistance and use of a micro-SD card to extend
the internal 32GB storage. Both the phones come with QHD Super AMOLED displays,
but where the S7 is just 5.1-inch, the one on the bigger curvier Edge is
5.5-inches. The back camera is downgraded from 16 to 12 megapixels which makes
for a smaller bump on the back, but Samsung ensures that it still makes good
photos owing to better lenses. Running Android 6.0, both the phones have
Snagdragon 820 processors. They will come with features like always-on display
in black, gold or silver options.

360 Cam

To make the Virtual Reality (VR) technology a success, LG has come out with 360
Cam, a 360-degree video camera.

This compact finger sized camera packs two 13-megapixel sensors placed under
180-degree lenses.

Capable of capturing photos and videos in full 360 degrees, the cam can connect
to LG G5 or can record to a micro-SD card in its base. It works with apps like
Google Street View and YouTube 360.

360 VR

Realising that Virtual Reality (VR) is going to be a big thing soon, tech
companies are coming out with VR headsets. While Google has a very cheap
cardboard, Samsung has a bulky gear VR. LG, however, has come out with a sleek
headset. Calling it 360 VR, the company has ensured that the handset is light
and is comfortable to use. It can be used using a USB-C cable only. When the
headset ships it will work only with the LG G5.

Gear 360

The Gear 360 is Samsung's answer to LG's 360 cam and it works on the same
principles. It comes up with a cylinder that is perfect for capturing the
360-degree environment around us. That is achieved through two 15-megapixel
cameras placed under F2.0 fish eye lenses on the front and the back. While the
cameras record video at 30 frames per second, the F 2.0 lenses make sure that
the image is bright and sharp even in low light conditions. The Gear 360 is
capable of making photos, recording videos, time-lapse videos and even looping
videos. At 153 grams, it is super light in weight and of syncs with the latest
Galaxy phones using either Bluetooth or Wi-fi Direct.

Matham is a tech geek. Follow him on Twitter @AdarshMatham

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

