

The Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge has a larger curved screen and larger battery than
the otherwise identical standard S7.

The iPhone 6S Plus has a few key advantages that give it an edge for serious
iPhone users, but its size might not a good fit for some users.

The LG G5's modular design lets users swap in accessories and has two rear
cameras, expandable storage and a replaceable battery.

For hardware prowess, value for money and extras, the Google Nexus 6P is hard to
beat, even if its design errs on the big-and-boxy side.

There are some people on everybody's gift list who never seem to want anything,
but whom you know deserve something great.

Fortunately, phones make a great gift and that old handset your hard-to-buy-for
giftee is using needs to be replaced.

Here are four of the best candidates for the job:

Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

Product Review:
http://www.cnet.com/products/samsung-galaxy-s7-edge/#ftag=CAD187281f

CNET rating: 5 stars out of 5 (Spectacular)

The good: The Galaxy S7 Edge has a gorgeous larger curved screen and larger
battery than the otherwise identical standard S7. It really is something
special. The extra navigation tools can be useful when used judiciously.

The bad: When you pile on these extra navigation tools, they slow you down
rather than speed you up. It's pricier than other good phones.

The cost: $599 to $799.99

The bottom line: The gorgeous Galaxy S7 Edge makes the best Android phone that
much better.

iPhone 6S Plus

Product Review:
http://www.cnet.com/products/apple-iphone-6s-plus/#ftag=CAD187281f

CNET rating: 4.5 stars out of 5 (Outstanding)

The good: Improved speed, better cameras, always-on Siri, and pressure-sensitive
3D Touch display compared to last year's 6 Plus. And it has slightly better
battery life, a bigger higher-resolution screen, and optical image stabilization
for photos and video that can make a difference.

The bad: It's really big. It costs more than the smaller iPhone. Other
phablet-sized phones offer longer battery life.

The cost: $599 to $1,149.96

The bottom line: The iPhone 6S Plus has a few key advantages that give it an
edge for serious iPhone users, but its big body still may not fit for a lot of
people.

LG G5

Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/lg-g5-review/#ftag=CAD187281f

CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)

The good: The LG G5's unique modular design lets you swap in fun accessories. It
has (two!) great rear cameras, expandable storage and a replaceable battery - a
rarity in high-end phones.

The bad: Although you can swap out some parts, there aren't enough to make this
feature compelling. You can only access the phone's app drawer in a specialized
theme.

The cost: $624

The bottom line: This is the phone to get if you want a removable battery, but
it fails to live up to its world-changing Swiss Army knife potential.

Google Nexus 6P

Product Review: http://www.cnet.com/products/google-nexus-6p/#ftag=CAD187281f

CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)

The good: One of the first two Android 6.0 phones, Google's metal Nexus 6P has a
sharp, high-resolution screen and a solid camera, an accurate fingerprint
reader, loud speakers and works with every major carrier. Its lower cost makes
it a good top-tier value buy.

The bad: It's big, a bit boxy and top-heavy, the fingerprint reader's position
isn't always convenient, and the 6P ditches the wireless charging of previous
models.

The cost: $499 to $649

The bottom line: The Nexus 6P doesn't have the most inspiring design, but when
it comes to hardware prowess, value for money and Google extras, this best-ever
Nexus is hard to beat.

The following CNET staff contributed to this story: Section Editor Jessica
Dolcourt, Senior Associate Editor Lynn La, Senior Editor Scott Stein and Senior
Editor Laura K. Cucullu. For more reviews of personal technology products,
please visit www.cnet.com.

