                              239 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                            August 23, 2016 Tuesday



LG V20 confirmed as running Android Nougat 7.0, becomes first non-stock Android

phone to do so



LENGTH: 333  words





LG V20 is said to be announced during the first week of September, and after

much speculation it's finally confirmed that it'll be running Android Nougat 7.0



After a storm of speculations, it can finally be agreed that the upcoming LG V20

is going to be the first non-stock Android running smartphone to run Android

Nougat 7.0 as soon as you remove it out of its retail packaging. This is very

good news, since users will not have to be kept waiting for OEMs to waste months

and months just to release a brand new update, so you'll be able to see just how

well the newest operating system from Google performs on devices that are not

running the stock version of Android.



LG V20 is said to be in the same league as its predecessor, the G5, which could

mean that we'll be looking at a modular design in the same fashion. While

modular smartphones could improve in the future, right now customers just want

the perfect phone that will work as soon as they unbox them, and without going

through all the unnecessary attachment of gizmos and modules to improve their

experience.



One other thing that LG will have to be careful of is not to downgrade the

quality control of its smartphones. LG G5 has been severely criticized right

down to the software chunks, and die-hard LG smartphone fans naturally do not

want the company to become a thing of memory. The V20 is said to come with

improved features, such as a terrific rear camera just like its predecessor. In

fact, V10 was considered to be a very good smartphone that was not surrounded by

all the hype that other phones came along with prior to their official

announcement.



This time however, LG V20 should bring the hype team with it, and that will

naturally require LG to invest a heavy amount of resources for marketing

purposes. If such an approach is not undertaken, and if quality control is not

up to the mark, we could be looking at another failed Android smartphone that

provided what customers are not looking for, at least at this time.



Source



LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





