                              241 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                     February 22, 2016 Monday 11:54 AM GMT



MWC 2016: six of the hottest new smartphones and gadgets;

From Samsung's even more curvy Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge to Cat's thermal camera

phone, the best new tech from day one at Barcelona's Mobile World Congress



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 804 words





The first day of the biggest trade show in smartphones has been and gone with a

myriad of shiny new gadgets launched from Samsung, Sony, HP, LG, HTC and even

Cat. Here's what's hot from Barcelona's Mobile World Congress.



1. Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge



Following up on the redesign of its primarily plastic smartphones into popular

premium metal and glass slabs, Samsung's back with the even more curvy 5.1in

Galaxy S7 and bigger 5.5in Galaxy S7 Edge.



They both bring back fan favourites of waterproofing and expandable storage with

a microSD card slot. But possibly the most significant thing is that they have

larger batteries, hopefully ending the eternal hunt for a power supply.



Samsung also launched a 360-degree camera and will start bundling its Gear VR

headsets with the S7.



2. LG G5



Not to be outdone by its Korean rival, LG launched arguably one of the bravest

flagship Android smartphones to date. Its new G5 has a metal body, 5.3in quad HD

screen, fingerprint scanner on the back and runs Android 6.0 Marshmallow.



But unlike everything else the bottom of the phone is removable, exposing an

expansion port and the battery. LG hopes consumers will buy into a modular

design that allows them to add more battery, accessories and add-ons by slapping

them into the bottom of the phone.



LG also had a slender and light virtual-reality headset, a robotic ball with

cameras, IR blasters and a laser pointer built in and a 360-degree camera.



3. HP Elite X3



Computer manufacturer HP is having another stab at the smartphone game after

failing with the Palm Pre and a few others.



The Elite X3 is being pitched as the do-it-all Windows 10 device. A dual-sim 6in

phablet that slots into a dock to turn it into a Windows 10 PC of sorts,

allowing users to connect to an external display, keyboard and mouse.

Microsoft's Lumia smartphones will do something similar, but HP also showed off

a "Mobile Extender" that connects to the X3 to turn it into a laptop.



The device has its own battery, a full keyboard, a 12.5in display and various

ports.



It's all powered by Windows 10's Continuum feature, which provides a PC-like

experience from a smartphone when connected to a keyboard, mouse and screen.



The idea isn't new - Motorola tried something very similar with its Atrix

smartphones that slotted into a laptop accessory - and while it will be Windows

10 on the laptop or desktop, users will be limited to Windows Store apps.

Desktop apps require x86 chips such as those made by Intel, not mobile chips

such as the Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 within the X3, no matter how powerful they

are.



4. Cat S60 thermal camera phone



Industrial machinery and clothing brand, Cat, has been making rugged Android

smartphones for a couple of years, but its latest has a new trick up its sleeve.



The S60 features a built-in Flir thermal camera for checking temperatures,

spotting hotspots and even finding people trapped in wreckages, according to the

company.



It's also waterproof to 5m depth, designed to survive falls of up to 1.8m and

certified to US military specifications for shock, heat, dust, salt and other

conditions that ruin regular smartphones.



5. HTC Vive



HTC and Valve's long-awaited virtual reality headset, the Vive, finally has a

price and release date. The Vive will cost $799 (£564), with pre-orders starting

on 29 February, shipping in early April.



In competition with Facebook's Oculus Rift VR headset, which costs $599, HTC is

pitching the Vive as the "complete VR solution" bundling it with two wireless VR

controllers, head-tracking sensors and two VR titles. The Vive also has a camera

built-in for enabling augmented reality experiences as well as VR, plus is has a

phone built into it for making calls, sending messages and checking calendar

invites.



It remains to be seen whether consumers, who will also have to either have or

shell out for a very powerful computer to run either the Vive or the Oculus

Rift, will be swayed by a gaming and computer accessory costing as much as a

smartphone.



6. Sony Xperia Ear



Sony's trying to make Bluetooth headsets cool again (if they ever were). The

Xperia Ear is a small earbud that does more than just make calls. It aims to put

a digital assistant into your ear, allowing users to get the latest news,

weather, social media updates and schedule information.



It responds to voice commands and can perform web searches or give directions,

but does not use Android's built-in Google Now voice assistant, instead relying

on Sony's own systems.



Other manufacturers have tried and failed to make tiny Bluetooth headsets more

than just hands-free calling accessories, including Motorola with its Hint. But

none have managed to overcome the stigma of wearing such a device in public or

convince consumers they want such a thing.





     ·    The mobile makers are coming for the PC market and it's all

          Microsoft's fault





LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





