                              244 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            August 23, 2016 Tuesday



LG V20 smartphone to come with dual camera setup



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 244 words





NEW DELHI: South Korean tech giant LG is all set to launch its V20 smartphone

next month. And to build up the anticipation for the same, the manufacturer has

posted some images on its official US Instagram account, claimed to have been

clicked with the V20. The images offer details about the camera setup of the

device.The successor to the V10, the LG V20 will likely have a dual camera

setup.



This would be comprised of a wide angle lens and a normal lens, pretty much the

same as that of the G5. One of the images posted by the company clearly

indicates that it has been taken using a wide angle lens.A GIF has also been

posted to the Instagram account. It seems that users will be able to select

specific parts of the images to animate, while keeping others static.The company

recently announced that its V20 smartphone will come with a 32-bit Hi-Fi Quad

DAC (digital to analog converter).According to LG, the Quad DAC will help in

making the sound output of the phone crisp and clear sound. It'll also result in

up to 50% reduction in ambient noise. LG said that it worked closely with ESS

Technology , a leader in high-performance analog and audio devices, to ensure

that the Quad DAC delivered the best audio experience for future owners of LG

V20 .As per recent leaks and renders, the LG V20's rear will be largely similar

to the company's current flagship - G5. The phone is also expected to have a

fingerprint scanner.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





