                              248 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                           February 25, 2016 Thursday



Qualcomm wins back Samsung, LG business



BYLINE: By Kim Yoo-chul



LENGTH: 517 words





BARCELONA, Spain - After a year of struggles, U.S.-based Qualcomm fully

normalized its business tie-ups with Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics.



Qualcomm said at this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC), here, that the

company's flagship Snapdragon 820 processor was being used for Samsung

Electronics' latest smartphones - the Galaxy S7 (S7) and S7 with a curved design

(S7 edge).



Given that Samsung has the largest smartphone market share, the tie-up will be

beneficial, according to officials.



'With Samsung, this year will be better for Qualcomm than last year, when it was

excluded from several batches of Samsung's Galaxy S6 smartphones,' an official

said Thursday (KST). 'The partnership with Samsung will be constructive in the

future and be expanded into new projects.'



The 820 chip adopted Samsung Electronics' 14-nanometer processing technology and

will be used in the two latest Samsung smartphones for the U.S. and

Europe.Samsung said it would use the company-owned Exynos-branded mobile

application processors in the smartphones for Korea.



Due to overheating problems, which Qualcomm CEO Steve Mollenkopf later admitted,

the U.S. company was in deep trouble last year. It ordered its engineers to

address the issue and to immediately customize chips for different handset

models.



Because, unlike Samsung, LG Electronics does not have its own factories to

produce mobile application chips, the 'Qualcomm trouble' forced the company to

change plans for the release of its flagship models.



But the Qualcomm CEO appeared at LG's mobile event for the G5 to praise LG's

successful development of its first modular smartphone.



During the LG event, more than 14 seats were reserved exclusively for Qualcomm

officials.



'Qualcomm has high hopes for good sales of the G5,' an LG official said.

'Qualcomm apologized again to LG for the instability of the early version of the

820 chips. However Qualcomm promised to expand the partnership into the

automotive business, which is promising.'



LG Electronics earlier said it was planning heavy promotional campaigns to

increase its global share.



Qualcomm said the smartphone industry would grow and that its own growth would

be in accordance with industry growth. It stressed that its decision to invest

in joint ventures and TDK was also aimed at strengthening its presence in the

smarpthone industry.



According to GSMA Intelligence, smartphones will account for half of all mobile

connections this year as the main focus switches to the developing world.



'Affordability is a major factor influencing smartphone adoption, especially in

the developing world,' said GSMA Intelligence forecasting unit analyst Gu Zhang.



'Smartphone prices are expected to fall due to increasing competition, a drop in

the cost of materials and improvements in software.



China will remain the biggest smartphone market this year, in which Samsung is

one of the top-tier players.



But Qualcomm hopes Samsung will introduce more budget variants of its

Galaxy-branded models for India, which is set to replace the U.S. as the world's

No. 2 smartphone market from the second quarter of this year.



LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





