                              250 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                      February 21, 2016 Sunday 6:30 AM EST



LG And B&O PLAY Collaborate to Enhance Audio Experience on New Smartphone



LENGTH: 372  words





Sunday, February 21, 2016: LG Electronics (LG) announced today that it has

entered into an agreement with premium audio firm B&O PLAY to offer smartphone

users an enhanced high-quality audio experience. Firmly grounded in 90 years of

audio and design excellence, craftsmanship and product innovation from Bang &

Olufsen, B&O PLAY interprets the same values for new types of contemporary

products aimed at quality and design-conscious customers, in line with LG's

position as a leader in smartphone audio.



The two companies have been working closely together on the new LG G5 to ensure

the best, most immersive sound experience for LG G5 users. LG will be the first

company to offer powerful Hi-Fi audio features co-designed by B&O PLAY.



"We are very excited to work with LG. With LG's dedication to premium

smartphones, the collaboration gives us the opportunity to bring B&O PLAY's

acoustic excellence to an even broader customer base," said Henrik Taudorf

Lorensen, President of B&O PLAY. "B&O PLAY appeals to music lovers who want the

best available products on the market. They are uncompromisingly innovative,

without boundaries and constantly on the go, and they expect the same from the

headphones as well as the mobile devices they choose, so this is a perfect

match."



Building on its many advances in smartphone audio, LG plans to expand its

collaboration with B&O PLAY to enhance the competitiveness of its smartphone

audio experience further.



"By collaborating with B&O PLAY, we believe we can meet and surpass the

heightened expectations of consumers seeking the next generation of enhanced

audio experiences on their smartphones," said Juno Cho, President and CEO of LG

Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "Our collaboration with B&O PLAY has

proven mutually beneficial, and LG will continue to work with other leading

companies in a variety of different industries in order to set new standards for

innovation in the premium smartphone market."



While its collaboration with B&O PLAY is a new development, LG has a long

history of integrating high-quality audio in its premium smartphones as

exemplified by the new LG V10, which is just one of many smartphones to earn

praise for its best-in-class audio capabilities.



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





