                              254 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                              Mirror Publications



                            October 11, 2016 Tuesday

                                 Mumbai Mirror



Modular smartphones: The future or just a gimmick?



BYLINE: Monit Khanna



SECTION: SCI TECH



LENGTH: 660 words





After LG introduced add-on modules for its G5 smartphone, Motorola is following

suit with the Moto Z.



The smartphone industry seems to have reached a saturation point. The only

innovations seem to happen with faster processors, higher resolution displays,

or better cameras. However, none of these upgrades actually offer a unique user

experience.



It's true that a better display would definitely look amazing, faster performing

hardware will help us be more productive, and better optics will help us capture

our memories in a much better way, but these smartphones lack the revolutionary

element; something unique that makes us sit up and take notice.



There were days when brands like Nokia and Motorola would compete to deliver

unique devices that not only performed well, but awed everyone with their sheer

engineering feat and beauty. Remember the Nokia Communicator or the edgy Moto

Razr?



Today, we see phones that are identical to each other - giant glass displays in

the front and a camera at the back, with either glass, metal or plastic bodies.

Gone are the days of the flips, the swivels and the sliders. Those phones feel

pretty dated from today's standards, but they did revolutionise the way mobile

phones were imagined.



There haven't been many notable inventions in the industry either. Sure, we have

the flexible displays and chipsets and we're close to getting a working flexible

prototype, but getting a production-ready unit will still take time.



One idea of delivering a unique smartphone user experience that actually got

many phone geeks interested was seen in a video two years ago, which went viral

on YouTube. This video showed the concept of making our smartphones modular,

where we can swap out outdated parts for upgraded hardware or optics, and we

don't actually need to change our phones for it. Just like on a desktop PC.



Although this was just a concept, it got manufacturers thinking. And then in an

instant, Google stepped in to make this dream a reality by initiating Project

Ara.



While the tech giant has since suspended work on Project Ara, it could well

license the technology to other vendors.



Meanwhile, LG made a bang at the Mobile World Congress 2016 by launching its

flagship, the G5 (left). It came with add-on modules, which LG calls LG Friends,

where users can swap modules into the smartphone for extra battery, or better

audio, etc.



This did seem to be working on the lines of a modular smartphone, and it is

consumer-ready, but these add-ons didn't entirely make the smartphone modular,

as one couldn't swap for a better processor or display. Moreover, the smartphone

needed to be turned-off for swapping modules. It wasn't perfect by any means,

but it was definitely a start.



Then recently, Motorola unveiled its flagship Moto Z (left) and Moto Z Play in

India. These phones too are modular, and appear slightly more practical than the

G5. For starters, the device won't need to be switched off to swap modules. The

modules available look good too, as they double up as back covers, with a few

designed by Kate Spade.



You could also get a JBL speaker module, or a projector module, all to be

slotted into the back of the smartphone, just like the case.



Although these modules aren't reasonably priced, they do offer a good amount of

productivity, and in a way, make the smartphone modular.



There are still numerous barriers to overcome in order to achieve a true modular

smartphone. Chief among these are the chipset of the smartphone, support from

third parties to create modules, and the performance and practicality that they

must offer.



That said, this does finally seem to be that revolutionary new technology in the

smartphone industry, and it'll be interesting to see how this transforms in the

coming years.



We're well into the modular smartphone era. We aren't very close to the ultimate

goal - a seamlessly and completely modular smartphone - but we've come far from

where we began.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





