
DATELINE: New Delhi


After a couple of slow quarters, HTC is trying to make a comeback of sorts in
the Indian market with six new smartphones, priced between Rs 13,990 and Rs
52,9990. While HTC has for some time been eyeing the mid-budget segment in
India, it seems to banking once again on its core, the high-end users. With HTC
10, the company admits, caters to users who don't mind spending on a unique
device - in other words, an expensive smartphone.

"Why do people buy a flagship phone? Simply because a flagship offers something
unique. I don't think they would mind paying that extra Rs 3,000 for a
beautiful, unique phone that comes with the latest technology, in terms of
camera, audio and more. That is the kind of consumers we are targeting with HTC
10 in India," reasoned Faisal Siddiqui, president, HTC South Asia. HTC 10, the
Taiwanese company's flagship model, is priced the same as the new LG G5 and will
compete with the likes of Samsung S7 series and the Apple iPhone 6s series.

However, the real comeback device for the company, which has not been in the
pink of financial health for the past year or so, seems to be its virtual
reality device. "We are looking to bring HTC Vive to India, in the next couple
of months. The problem is we are in a sell-out situation - so much so that we
can't even meet the demands in the US right now. It is selling for $799 in the
US, and the Indian price obviously will be different. We will decided the price
as we come closer to launching the headset in the country."

"I wouldn't really call HTC 10 the comeback device for the company, because we
were very much there. I, however, admit our portfolio has been a little weak in
the last eight-10 months. We had Rs 15,000 and below devices which were all 3G,
and the market changed very quickly to 4G so we were actually surprised. We went
back and quickly created devices, which are all 4G-ready. We will not create 3G
devices anymore."

Siddiqui says the six phones that HTC launched on Thursday are at different
price points and cater to different segments. All the phones look different, he
adds. "The HTC range has something or the other for every smartphone user in
India. We want to go with the entire range and don't leave any price point
vacant."

So, what sets HTC 10 apart from flagships like Samsung Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 edge
and LG G5? Siddiqui says the biggest innovation is the camera. "The company has
made huge strides on the camera front. Even the front camera in the phone comes
with an OIS, making it the world's first smartphone to offer it," Siddiqui says.
"In the past, our cameras have not been that great and that is why we have spent
a lot of time getting the camera right this time," he admits.

Audio, or the sound quality, of HTC phones has always been one of its strengths.
Siddiqui says they have carried this legacy forward with the HTC 10, bringing in
the ability to optimise frequencies of right and left ear separately.

