                              262 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday



LG mobile chief shrugs off impact of Samsung Galaxy Note 7 recall



LENGTH: 314 words





[THE INVESTOR] LG Electronics mobile chief Cho Juno shrugged off the impact of

its cross-town rival Samsung Electronics' Galaxy Note 7 recall on the sales of

the company's new big-screen phone V20.



"I'm not sure whether the Galaxy Note 7 recall is a boon for us or not. What's

important is how our product is recognized by consumers," he said at the phone's

launch event held in Seoul on Sept. 7.



LG Electronics mobile chief Cho Juno speaks at the V20 launch event held in

Seoul on Sept. 7. Lee Sang-sub/The Investor



The V series phablet debuted last year to comprise LG's premium smartphone

lineup together with the flagship G series.



The V20, the first smartphone to run on the latest Android OS Nougat, has

drastically upgraded audio and camera functions, the company said.



The phone, among other things, has a removable battery, a unique feature now

when most handset makers like Samsung and Apple are embedding non-removable

batteries into their flagship models.



"We had planned a bigger-screen smartphone with slim design. Considering a huge

battery drain while watching videos, we have decided to adopt a removable

battery," he said.



"But I don't think battery type is directly linked to safety."



Samsung recalled about 2.5 million Note phones globally due to faulty batteries

that caught fire while charging.



The latest LG smartphone comes after the dismal failure of the flagship G5, the

first modular smartphone. Especially, the company failed to meet demand in the

early days of the launch due to production constraints.



"For the V20, we poured resources to increase the yield rate. Unlike the G5 that

was launched globally, the V20 will be launched in some key markets for

big-screen phones such as the US, Korea and Hong Kong," he said.



He added the company had no immediate plan to launch the phone in China, the

world's largest smartphone market, citing supply issues.



By Lee Ji-yoon (



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





