                              274 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                              QWeekend (Brisbane)



                             July 16, 2016 Saturday

                                QWeekend Edition



TECHNOLOGY



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44



LENGTH: 346 words





TOP GADGET



Huawei P9 $799 / consumer.huawei.com/au



If the camera is the most important feature in your phone, this new handset is a

pretty picture. Huawei has teamed with German camera maker Leica to create a

smartphone with dual 12-megapixel cameras that work as one to create remarkable

images. Not only does the two-camera setup create depth in photos, the P9's

camera app has an unprecedented number of camera settings, from wide-aperture

model to create stylish bokeh to a challenging full manual mode. The phone

itself is encased in smart buffed metal and is more premium than its price

suggests, though its rear fingerprint sensor and Google Android customisation

require adjustments.



TOP ACCESSORY LG Hi-Fi Plus $229 / lg.com.au



Updating your phone, piece by piece, is a fascinating idea and the missing

pieces of LG's cunning plan for its G5 smartphone are falling into stores now.

The Hi-Fi Plus, created with B&O Play, replaces the bottom of the G5 phone, and

adds a dedicated digital-to-analogue converter (DAC) and an amplifier. After

prising off the old phone base and battery, and installing this audio addition,

users can listen to 32-bit audio with greater clarity and control over its

stereo delivery - the difference is marked. It adds about a centimetre to the

bottom of the phone but, if you tire of it attached to your handset, you can use

an adaptor to plug it into your laptop.



TOP APP Pokemon Go Google Android/Apple iOS / freeNintendo's Pocket Monsters

never went away but they're back in a highly addictive way in this new app.

Pokemon Go is free to download and use, until you desperately need more Poke

Balls or "evolve" the monsters you've caught. And, unlike most apps, it

encourages you to walk around the streets to collect more Pokemon characters.

Real-world locations around you appear in the app's maps as Pokestops or Gyms

where you can battle other players, and you must walk there, letting your phone

track your location, to catch more Pokemon or interact with those you own. A

fascinating use of augmented reality and geo-tracking technology.



LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





