

The new Samsung Galaxy S7 duo has been announced, bringing to mind the Meatloaf
lyrics, "two out of three ain't bad". Some will remember I sent a letter to the
Korean electronics giant some time back, but the letter was returned to sender.
At first I was confused by this until I remembered that job titles are of high
importance to the Koreans and I had used the general term product manager
instead of what the exact title was, hence the return. Despite that I suspect
others had also contacted Samsung and provision for the SD card was returned,
along with the S5 waterproofing. There's still no replaceable battery but for
many that is not really an issue.

As for the past couple of releases, this is an incremental upgrade with a better
battery for models with a better screen and a faster CPU. The main memory has
been upgraded from 3 to 4GB. Another improvement is the camera. While it is
still rated at 12MP, each pixel is larger, which translates to brighter
pictures, better handling of low light resolution, faster focusing and a claimed
f-stop of 1.7, which is very good for a phone camera. The S7 still has a
5.1-inch screen with the Edge version coming with the larger 5.5-inch version.
No prices as of yet, but I expect they will be the same as the S6 variants were
at release.

The other new phone option to choose from is the latest LG G5 built with an
aluminium enclosure compared to the glass-backed Samsung. The screen size is
5.3-inches placing it right in between the S7 and S7 Edge for size. It is a tiny
bit thicker and heavier but not so you would notice. There is a fingerprint
sensor on the back so unlocking with one hand is easy. Screen resolution is the
same as the latest Samsung at 2,560 x 1,440, or what some call 4K. CPUs are
about the same and the G5 also supports a microSD slot. The LG does, however,
have a removable battery so a win there over the S7 range. The LG is not water
resistant so a point off there as there is no support for wireless charging. The
camera options are also different, with the LG having two lenses on the back:
one regular and one wide angle, so it's kind of a tie depending on what features
are important as a camera user.

The LG also has a modular accessories option to support a camera grip with an
extended battery, an audio converter and others to come, but these add to the
size and weight of the device. Like Samsung the LG has a VR headset in the works
but the Samsung one comes for free with early orders. All in all it is a bit of
a toss-up depending on what features you are looking for and how well everything
actually performs in the real world.

This week's malware story comes from Microsoft. In an interesting twist,
researchers from FireEye security convinced the Windows EMET program designed to
protect Windows to instead attack it. To be fair this only works on older
Windows versions, i.e. less than 10. Also this week on the Android front, it
turns out that about 2 billion apps, that would be data-stealing apps, have been
downloaded by users. About 12,000 apps in the Android Store have been identified
as containing a wide range of malware.

Ingress is a location-based game from Niantic, a subdivision of Google. Imagine
you have been playing the game since beta, been involved in various organised
activities and even bought something from the store. Now imagine being blocked
from playing, no warning, no reason given, and no meaningful response from the
help desk. Remind you of any other companies? A fruity organisation comes to
mind. Ingress and games like it are free to play but be wary of investing too
much time on it, and don't spend your hard earned cash, because there is always
the chance that you'll suddenly find yourself unable to play.

So where do you come down on the Apple vs iPhone FBI hack story? Huawei agrees
with Apple as do many others. The authorities disagree and want Apple to open up
or at least allow for unlimited password tries to support a brute force attack.
If I was living in today's US, then I would be very wary of giving the current
administration even more ability to peer into private data.

The antiterrorist in me wants any and all methods used to curtail the tide but
the cynic says don't trust them. The analysts say that the FBI has all the info
they need without the contents of the phone including cloud backups. The FBI
wants all the data and they are also using this as a test case. This will be an
interesting case to watch as it unfolds further.

