                              27 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 12, 2016 Friday



LG scraps plan to unveil 'LG Pay' at MWC '



LENGTH: 498 words





LG Electronics mobile chief Cho Juno speaks in a company event to unveil its V10

smartphone in downtown Seoul, last year. / Korea Times fileBy Kim Yoo-chul



LG Electronics has scrapped a plan to unveil the company's new mobile payments

system - LG Pay - at this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona.



'LG Electronics has delayed the official launch of LG Pay to the second quarter

of this year to help the new LG flagship smartphone - G5 - receive more media

attention,' an LG official said Friday.



The official denied that the decision was made because of poor support from

major credit card issuers in the company's target markets such as the United

States.



The LG Group's consumer electronics affiliate will hold its unpacked event to

launch the G5 on February 21 at the Sant Jordi Club in Barcelona.



The G5, which will have a 5.3-inch LCD display supplied by LG Display, is the

first under the leadership of LG's mobile chief, Cho Juno, who is also a de

facto CEO of LG Electronics.



'LG can't afford to see another failure of the G5 amid challenging market

situations after its earlier V10 smartphone apparently failed to get much

traction,' said another official at one of LG's technology affiliates.



Since late last year, LG Electronics has been preparing to add the mobile

payment function to its smartphone lineup. In November, LG signed a non-binding

memorandum of understanding with Shinhan Card and KB-Kookmin Card to promote LG

Pay.



It has been said that LG could have the resources to do a universal card for

mass markets. The firm's iteration appears to have the standard features -

better display to let users see which card is active, buttons to select them and

contracts to keep it charged up, LG officials said.



LG is the latecomer to the mobile payments market, which Google, Apple and

Samsung dominate.



Although LG officials have no big concerns about the market potential of mobile

payment systems, the successful launch of the G5 has more priority, they said.



LG Electronics also has decided to use space at MWC that was allocated to LG's

telecom affiliate, LG Uplus, to promote the G5.



'On the LG Uplus front, LG Electronics' decision not to share space is

unsatisfactory; however, we have to admit that LG Electronics feels a sense of

urgency to lift its mobile business,' the official said.



LG's top management has let Cho, who has long served as chief operating officer

(COO) at LG Corp., handle LG's handset business. But Cho's leadership is yet to

be proven, given worsening balance sheets.



Last year, LG's handset business reported an operating loss. The company has

been forced out of the 'top 5' in the global smartphone business because the

industry has been reshaped, focusing on price rather than fancy hardware,

benefiting budget Chinese vendors.



'If LG Pay fails to get attention from the media as much as the company wants,

then things will get worse,' the official said. 'The G5 will be the message that

LG still has the ability to stay with chief competitors.'



LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





