                              280 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                    Trak.in



                        June 13, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST



Have Modular Phones Arrived? Lenovo Launches Modular Moto Z, Moto Z Force

Smartphones



BYLINE: Abhishek Joshi



LENGTH: 826  words





First LG did with its flagship smartphone, LG G5, early this year and now Lenovo

has done it with Motorola smartphones. Everything started with Google's

initiative Ara to provide a customizable smartphone to its users who do not want

hard-coded specifications for their daily use.



At Lenovo Tech World 2016 in San Francisco, California, much awaited premium

Motorola Moto Z and Moto Z Force smartphones were announced. Although G5 has a

different structure to replace components in the phone, Moto Z and Z Force get

magnetic snap-on panels.



These attachable panels 'Moto Mods' can house a larger battery, JBL speakers,

projector capabilities and more. Naturally the back panels will make the phone

thicker, but at 5.2mm thickness, Moto Z is the thinnest premium phone in the

world right now.



Just like LeEco Le 2 and Le Max 2 smartphones launched recently, the two Moto

phones ditch the 3.5mm headphone jack for a USB Type-C port, which limits the

utility of the smartphone on the go.



Moto Z and Z Force specifications



Moto Z, the cheaper of the two variants, is much like an upgraded Moto X 2015



     ·    5.5-inch qHD AMOLED touch screen

     ·    Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor coupled with 4GB of RAM

     ·    Memory options of 32GB and 64GB will also be provided to users, and it

          is great that 16GB has been omitted from the range

     ·    External storage can be expanded using micro-SD cards of upto 2TB

     ·    13MP rear camera with optical image stabilization, laser autofocus and

          flash

     ·    The front features a 5MP camera with wide-angle lens and flash, a

          fingerprint scanner like the recently launched Moto G4

     ·    2600mAh battery, which Lenovo claims can give upto 30 hours of battery

          life, however the claim needs to be tested to confirm the real-time

          usage value

     ·    Comes with Android Marshmallow 6.0.1 out of the box and is nearly

          stock Android with minimal mods by Lenovo





Moto Z Force, just like the Moto X Force, comes with a shatter-proof display and

has the same specifications as its sibling above. It comes with a larger 3500mAh

battery which can last up to 40 hours on a single charge. The rear camera has

also been bumped up to 21MP and houses an additional phase detection autofocus

capability.



Both the smartphones have quick charging capabilities built-in and promise an 8

hour usage on a charge of just 15 minutes. Sadly, the phones do not have a 3.5mm

headphone jack for listening to music. You have to make do with a USB Type-C

port instead, which will make you prioritize charging your phone or plugging in

your headphones.



What is the fuss about Moto Mods?



Very frankly, Moto Mods are like extensions to your phone that will add another

dimension to your smartphone. For example, a snap-on JBL SoundBoost speaker back

panel will amplify your smartphone's sound and create a surreal experience for

you.



A Moto-Insta Share projector will project your smartphone's screen up to

70-inch, allowing you to enjoy your favourite videos, TV shows and music videos

in a bigger dimension. A power pack back panel can also be attached to juice up

the battery life by up to 22 hours.



Motorola will also provide a host of other panels to customize and change the

look of your smartphone. Interesting idea to start with, but can the size of the

panels be decreased to accommodate more than one at the same time? Perhaps

watching an HD movie with JBL SoundBoost speakers to create a cinema theatre

like experience?



Mind you, this is just the start and we hope to see this technology quickly

shaping to how users would like their smartphones to be. 2 years back no one had

thought of such attachments, and I am sure two years from now we'll be able to

assemble and dismantle smartphones like Ikea furniture.



Is 3.5mm headphone jack going to be dead by next year?



Smartphones are getting thinner and thinner every year, which accommodating more

than they did the previous year. Size zero is in and technology in general is

becoming more compact.



Now there are some things that have not changed since the time smartphones were

introduced, including batteries and 3.5mm port. Once a smartphones becomes

thinner at 5mm, some components like the headphone port have to removed so as to

adjust other larger and more important components like a bigger battery,

stronger processor and a more efficient GPU.



We have also heard reports of Apple planning to remove the headphone jack

altogether, which makes us wonder if the 3.5mm port is actually going to be

extinct by next year. Smartphone manufacturers are trying to collate multiple

features in one component to reduce the bulkiness of the phone and make it as

modular as possible.



I honestly do not support the decision of doing away with the 3.5mm port unless

an accessory is provided by the handset maker that satiates my need to use both

a charging cable and an earphone at the same time.



The Z and Z Force smartphones look very promising and Lenovo has also confirmed

that the X series is not dead yet, so we can expect these phones to be priced

upwards of Rs. 35,000 in India.



LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





               Copyright 2016 Trak.in, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





