

Company seeks profitability by reducing fixed costs

LG Electronics is scaling down its handset business as it prioritizes
profitability over external growth.

In a quarterly report recently filed by LG Electronics to the Korea Exchange
(KRX), the number of employees working in LG's mobile business by the end of the
first quarter was 7,321.

This was a cut of more than 10 percent compared to last year when the division
had 8,049. On a quarterly basis, the number was cut by 139.

'LG Electronics should be quick and remain adaptive with greater flexibility in
its management of human resources,' the company's mobile chief Cho Juno told
employees via e-mail recently.

LG Electronics said a steady decrease of employees at its handset business
'doesn't necessarily mean' that the LG Group affiliate has plans for massive
restructuring of its workforce.

'The latest measure is part of the company's moves to save fixed costs amid
growing market uncertainty,' LG said.

With the rapid rise of Chinese companies that have been selling smartphones with
improved features, LG Electronics' global position in handsets is being
questioned.

Although LG has a solid brand image with its handsets receiving a positive
response from fans mainly due to strengths in display quality and camera
technology, LG maintains a limited foothold in the U.S. and some European
countries instead of China.

Officials said the continued struggle is mostly due to the company's reluctance
to launch heavy promotional campaigns in China, the world's top handset market,
and even in its target markets.

LG Electronics fared well in its first quarter performance, but its handset
business again disappointed the market with an operating loss of 7 percent and
sales down 12 percent, year-on-year.

Handset losses were up in the first quarter due to lower shipments and increased
advanced marketing expenses for the G5. North America made up as much as 52
percent of its total handset sales, LG said.

It is expected that LG's handset business will face continued pressure as only 3
million G5s have been sold since the device's availability in late March.

The LG report said it expects a 2.7 percent global share for the first quarter,
down from 4.3 percent in 2014.

'LG Electronics' fundamentals continue to look challenging. We would not chase
any potential excitement around G5 sell-through. To the downside, the most
significant risk is also in smartphone success and poor sell-through,
particularly, a lack of high-end success will disappoint investors,' said
Bernstein Research in its recent notes.

Relocation

LG hopes to offset the late recovery of its handset business by investing more
in the vehicle component-related business, which LG Group has identified as the
group's next cash cow.

The number of staff in this division was 4,057 at the end of the first quarter,
up from 1,649 a year earlier, according to the company.

Cho said in the e-mail that his division will continue sending mobile personnel
to other divisions such as vehicle components.

'This is because other LG units want to work with seasoned mobile personnel,' he
said. 'Therefore, efforts to relocate employees will be accelerated.'

Unlike Samsung, LG Electronics relies more on the volatile business-to-consumer
(B2C) business as most of the firm's profits come from the sale of home
appliances, televisions and handsets, the segments that Chinese firms are
clearly dominating with their price advantage.

The company is using clients secured by LG Display and LG Chem to boost its
profile in the car-infotainment business and dashboards amid an emergence of
connected vehicles.

'LG Electronics is in a transitional period,' Cho said in the e-mail.

But the company still needs more time to se tangible results from the relocation
of its mobile personnel to other units, according to analysts.

Its vehicle component division has recently been generating much excitement, but
for the first quarter remained 'tiny' in terms of sales and even more
loss-making in terms of profitability.

'A meaningful contribution from the General Motors (GM) deal should not kick in
before the end of 2017,' said the research firm. 'High growth in the car
infotainment business is what drove sales up 55 percent year-on-year, but the
first quarter sales for the division remained low.'

