                              292 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                    September 7, 2016 Wednesday 9:58 AM GMT



LG unveils first smartphone to come with Android 7 Nougat;

South Korean firm launches top-end smartphone looking to capitalise on rival

Samsung's trouble with exploding Galaxy Note 7s



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 382 words





LG has unveiled the first new smartphone, the V20, to come with Google's latest

version of Android 7 Nougat.



The South Korean firm, which was responsible for manufacturing last year's Nexus

5X for Google and the recent modular G5, hopes that shipping with Nougat onboard

will be enough to tempt buyers away from Samsung's high-profile Galaxy Note 7.

The Samsung phablet runs last year's Android 6 Marshmallow and recalls have been

prompted by exploding batteries.



The new top-end Android smartphone comes with a standard 5.7in quad HD LCD

screen on the front, but also has a smaller always-on "ticker" display just

above it alongside the front-facing camera.



Always-on displays have become popular, with most high-end smartphones,

including those from Samsung, Motorola and Google, offering features that

constantly show or slowly flash notifications and the time on the main screen.

LG introduced the second-screen on last year's V10.



"The V20 was built with storytellers in mind; the visual generation," LG mobile

communications director Frank Lee said at the unveiling in San Francisco. "It

was designed to celebrate the idea of unmissable moments."



The phone comes with two cameras on the back, one standard 16 megapixel camera

and one wide-angle 8 megapixel camera, which are similar to that fitted to the

company's G5 smartphone. The V20 has Qualcomm's Snapdragon 820 processor, 4GB of

RAM and 64GB of storage, similar to competitors.



But it is the removable battery and a microSD card slot that put the V20 among

the handful of top-end smartphones with swappable batteries - a highly desirable

feature for power users.



Whether the two-screen, two-camera, removable battery and " utilitarian

appearance " are enough to sway buyers and revitalise LG's falling mobile sales

remains to be seen.



"I don't think this will set the world on fire," said the Current Analysis

research director Avi Greengart. "That said, if you are looking for a large

phone right now, and a name brand, this could be an option."



The V20's release comes on the eve of Apple's unveiling of its next iPhone,

which is widely speculated to come with two cameras on the back, similar to LG

and Huawei's recent smartphones.





     ·    Android 7.0 Nougat review: longer battery life and faster operation

     ·    Android 7.0 Nougat: 11 tips and tricks





LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





