                              295 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                           The Sunday Times (London)



                            February 28, 2016 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



Gadget fix;

Take-off with a fixed-wing drone, break the mould with a toy printer, square up

to a cube projector, and meet a small streaming device that's making a mighty

noise



SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 35



LENGTH: 513 words





DRONE HOME



quadcopters, it comes with a range of assisted flight modes that will enable

novice pilots to take-off, land and fly home with ease. A lightweight body and

large 2700mAh battery ensures a maximum flight time in excess of 45 minutes

while the 14-megapixel built in nose camera and stabilisers enable smooth

high-definition streaming and first person view flying. Users can download

Parrot's app to programme flight paths and detach the wings for transporting

home when done. (EURO)tbc, parrot Parrot Disco French company Parrot, maker of

remote-controlled quadcopters, is billing its 80kph Disco as a fixed-wing drone

for dummies.



The Disco comes with a range of assisted flight modes that will enable novice

pilots to takeoff, land and fly home with ease. A lightweight body and large

2,700mAh battery ensures 45 minutes flight time, while the built-in 14-megapixel

nose camera and stabilisers enable smooth high-definition streaming and first

person view flying. Price to be confirmed, www.parrot.com



HIGH FIVE



LG G5 smartphone



LG's G5 was one of the few innovators at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.

It comes with the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor, a quad HD display,

wide-angle camera, and cleverest of all, a slide-out battery so you can carry a

spare. It's on sale here in March but is likely to cost over (EURO)600, www.lg.

com



MOBILE MOVIES RIF6



Cube projector Pocket projectors are rapidly growing in popularity but few can

match the Cube for cuteness. Measuring twoinches squared and weighing just 136g,

it is designed to turn the fiveinch display of a smartphone into a giant

120-inch cinema projection. The device has a resolution of 854x480. It connects

to a smartphone or tablet via an HDMI or MHL cable or comes with a slot for a

micro SD card. There is a 90-minute rechargeable battery and a built-in speaker

for audio, but channelling sound through an amplifier is recommended for true

cinematic experiences. (EURO)272, www.rif6.com



TINY DANCER



Mighty music player This recently-launched Kickstarter allows users to play

their Spotify music on the go without a smartphone. Aimed at people who want to

exercise to music but don't want to have to drag their fragile phone to the gym,

the device looks like a iPad Shuffle. Users download an app on their phone and

sync the Mighty to their computer via Bluetooth or wi-fi to store up to 48hours

of offline Spotify tunes. Compatible with Android and iOS devices, the device is

shock and sweat resistant and weighs just 17g. The Mighty, which is due to ship

in November, has physical controls and can be used with wired or wireless

headphones. (EURO)71, www.kickstarter.com



ONE-STOP TOY SHOP



Mattel ThingMaker Mattel's family-friendly ThingMaker allows youngsters to

design their own action figures. A hazard of 3D printers is the heat they give

off, but the ThingMaker comes with an automated door lock that stops little

hands reaching inside when it is in use. Children can design toys on a tablet

and export their finished creations to the printer. Due out in the autumn.

(EURO)272, www.mattel.com



LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STS





                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





