

Agence France-Presse

BARCELONA

South Korean tech giants Samsung Electronics and LG on Sunday unveiled new
smartphones with better cameras and turned to virtual reality to boost interest
in their headsets at a time of slowing sales.

Samsung launched two versions of its flagship phone, the flat screen Galaxy S7
and the curved screen Galaxy S7 edge, with cameras that can take better pictures
under low-light conditions.

First 360-degree camera

The company, the world's number one smartphone maker, also debuted its first
360-degree camera, the Gear 360, in Barcelona where the mobile industry is
gathered for the start of the Mobile World Congress yesterday, in its latest
attempt to remain ahead of Apple.

The camera is designed to make it easy to take all-around photos and videos that
can be uploaded to Facebook and YouTube, or viewed as immersive experiences on
Samsung's virtual reality Gear VR headsets which went on sale in November.

"User generated 360-degree photos and films are going to see rapid growth in
2016. Numerous 360-degree cameras are being launched and users will want to get
access to this content," said Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight.

"Although it can be viewed on a standard smartphone or PC screen, looking at
this content with a VR headset has the most impact, this is undoubtedly going to
drive sales of these products."

Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg made a surprise appearance at the
Samsung press conference to announce a partnership with the South Korean firm to
promote the use of virtual reality on the social network.

"We want to make Facebook the best video platform for virtual reality and
Samsung is the only company in the world that can provide a good experience in
terms of virtual reality," he said.

Rival South Korean tech firm LG sought to steal Samsung's thunder by unveiling
its new premium handset, the G5, its first modular smartphone which is made
using different components that can be independently upgraded or replaced such
as a removable battery.

Focus on accessories

The G5 comes with several accessories such as a sound system developed by Danish
firm Bang and Olufsen and a virtual reality headset which will allow it to
compete with a headset launched by Samsung late last year.

The focus on accessories comes with the smartphone market beginning to slow as
it becomes increasingly saturated.

LG's parent company LG Electronics' net profit halved last year on the back of a
global economic slowdown and increased competition in the mobile sector while
Samsung was only able to boost its market share moderately.

Apple, which will not be present at the congress in Barcelona, saw iPhone sales
fall for the first time on an annual basis in the final quarter of last year,
according to Gartner.

The market research firm said that the 9.7-per-cent increase in smartphone sales
in the final quarter of last year over the same period in 2014 takes the
industry all the way back to 2008 when the global economy was in crisis.

"All of these additional devices, whether it is a virtual reality goggle,
whether it is a camera, whether it is a smartwatch, they are all ways of
generating additional profits," said Ian Fogg, the head mobile and technology
analyst at IHS Technology.

Analysts said handset makers face a tough choice. Focus on the low-price
segment, where sales volumes are large but margins become thin. Or focus on
features which can differentiate their phones.

"We are moving towards a logic of segmentation and improvement, with a better
camera or more autonomy for example, maybe some advances in virtual reality, but
there will unlikely be any major innovation," said Thomas Husson, an analyst at
Forrester.

