                              300 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                            October 6, 2016 Thursday



For LG G6, OLED is not an option but a must



LENGTH: 652 words





[THE INVESTOR] LG Electronics and its display-making sister firm LG Display are

struggling to elevate the low yield rate of organic light-emitting diode panels

that will be used for the Korean tech giant's next flagship smartphone,

tentatively called LG G6.



According to industry sources, the two firms are still gauging the new phone's

OLED adoption that industry watchers consider a must, rather than an option, for

LG to remain a potent player in the crowded premium smartphone market.



"Even its Chinese rivals will be rolling out new phones equipped with curved

OLED screens next year. LG will make all-out efforts to adopt its own," said Yi

Choong-hoon, chief analyst at UBI Research, a local research firm specialized on

OLED.



LG Electronics mobile chief Cho Juno poses with the company's latest flagship G5

modular smartphone at the launch event held in February.



LG says it is too soon to say about the G6 that is expected to be unveiled early

next year. But related rumors are already piling up, especially on its possible

OLED screen.



Currently, Samsung Electronics, the world's largest smartphone maker, uses OLED

for almost 70 percent of its smartphones, including the flagship Galaxy S series

and some lower-end models. With the planned adoption by Apple partially from

next year, Chinese handset makers are also rushing to adopt OLED that is

considered more flexible and energy efficient compared to conventional

liquid-crystal displays.



Despite its leadership in OLED TVs, LG Display is a tiny player in the

smartphone OLED market where Samsung Display boasts a whopping 97 percent market

share. And the OLED adoption by LG phones has also been delayed.



LG Display, which has been supplying LCDs to LG, Apple and some Chinese handset

makers, operates two OLED production lines in Paju, Gyeonggi Province, and Gumi,

North Gyeongsang Province, respectively.



The Paju plant is focusing on orders from Apple. With some panels being supplied

to Apple Watch 2, the company is beefing up production to supply OLED to the

next iPhones possibly from 2018.



While Samsung has recently inked an exclusive deal with Apple to supply an

annual 100 million OLED panels from the second quarter of next year for three

years, LG hopes to be named a secondary supplier but its yield rate has yet to

meet the iPhone maker's strict criteria.



"LG has more than a year to prepare for Apple orders. But for the G6, it will be

forced to make a strategic decision between OLED and yield losses," an industry

source said on condition of anonymity.



OLED panels for LG phones and other Chinese clients are expected to be produced

at the newer Gumi plant. An OLED production system from Canon Tokki, a key

equipment for OLED production whose supply is extremely limited, has recently

been installed at the plant.



"Following the recent equipment installation, the plant will be able to start

production from early next year. However, the yield rate remains an issue," the

source said. He predicted the full-fledged operations will start from later next

year after another unit of the system is installed in the coming months.



The G6 comes at a crucial juncture for LG that has been struggling from sluggish

sales of its more lucrative high-end smartphones, including the latest G5, the

world's first modular smartphone that comes with accessory modules to upgrade

camera and audio functions.



It is unclear whether the G6 will succeed the modular concept. If LG fails to

adopt OLED finally, industry watchers say there would be not many options for it

to differentiate itself from rivals equipped with OLED in the market.



With its third-quarter earnings report scheduled to be released on Oct. 7, IBK

Investment and Securities predicted the company's operating profit in the

July-September period will plunge 63 percent to 218 billion won (US$200 million)

compared to a year ago, citing the money-losing mobile business division.



By Lee Ji-yoon (



LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





