                              303 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                     November 5, 2016 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



Top 10 Consumer Tech Stories Of The Week - Oct 28 to Nov 4



BYLINE: Team TechTree



LENGTH: 775  words





Here's the roundup of the Top 10 Stories of the week...



We have witnessed a lot of rumours, launches, and reports this week along with a

couple of interesting stuffs that happened in the technology world.



This week, Apple was awarded a patent for its bendable iPhone concept, Apple

iPhone 6 got a price cut, Zebronics launched a mechanical keyboard which is

entirely different - much like back-to-pavilion from Chiklet to retro mechanical

style, ZTE and Samsung announced Android flip phones, Gameloft launched Asphalt

Xtreme for free, and OnePlus 4 has been tipped to launch in 2017.



Also, this week, speculations surfaced over the Internet regarding the Samsung

Galaxy S8's bezel-less display and LG G8's iris scanner. We also listed out top

television sets under INR 30,000.



While a top 10 listicle would definitely not be enough to sum up this week,

here's our try as we put in 10 best stories we have covered this week in

consumer technology.



Apple iPhone 6 Gets A Price Cut; Now It Costs Just INR 33,990



In just over a few weeks since the launch of the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus

in India, Flipkart is now offering a pretty interesting discount on the price

tag of Apple iPhone 6. Users can now purchase an iPhone 6 at a price of INR

33,990 instead of the INR 36,990 price tag, thereby giving a discount of INR

3,000 to the new buyers.



Would You Like To See A Bendable iPhone In Future?



Apple has been finally awarded the new patent that was filed back in Aug 28.

However, Patently Apple seems to have claimed that the news did not become

public during the filing process as Apple had applied for the patent under an

Engineer's name, so as to keep the whole patent process under the wraps.



Samsung Galaxy S8 May Come With A Bezel-Less Display



We all know that Samsung is trying its hard luck to once again impress its

customers who lost their loyalty to the company due to the in-famous Galaxy Note

7. But, how far the company is planning to go with its upcoming Galaxy S8 to put

the fire set by Galaxy Note 7 off - this is something we still do not know.



LG G6 May Sport An Iris Scanner



Recently, reports started surfacing over the Internet hinting the drop out of

the modular design in LG's upcoming flagship smartphone, G6, which is expected

to be launched next year. The reports also claimed that the fall of the

company's current flagship smartphone, G5 and its modular accessories due to a

fact that users had to remove the battery to add in modules, was a reason for

the company to take this step.



LG's Flagship Smartphone V20 Will Be Priced At Rs 49,990



Announced in September, the LG V20 is rolling out in global markets. After the

G5's lacklustre reception, LG clearly wants to take on the Galaxy S7 and iPhone

7 with its new phone. In fact, the Korean company is all set to launch its

latest flagship in India. According to gadgets.ndtv.com, the V20 will be pegged

at Rs 49,990.



Apple Mistakes Its Customer For Saddam Hussain's Keen



Sharakat Hussain, a cab driver in Britain bought the iPhone 7 for his sister

last month. Since she did not want the iPhone, Hussain returned the phone and

requested a refund. However, this simple process turned into a mess when an

Apple employee asked Hussain to confirm that he is not related to the deceased

Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussain.



Apple iPhone 6 Gets A Price Cut; Now It Costs Just INR 33,990



South Korean smartphone giant Samsung has recently launched a new dual-display

Android flip phone, dubbed as the W2017, which is currently available only in

China. The smartphone is said to be the successor to W2016 that was launched

last year.



Will OnePlus 4 Be Launched In 2017?



It's been two years since OnePlus launched its first budget flagship smartphone,

the OnePlus One. Now, the company has brought in 2 more flagships already, and

reports say that a new variant of its latest flagship, OnePlus 3 is in the works

too. But, what about the Chinese company's next flagship device?



Xiaomi Unveils The Mi Air Purifier Pro In China



With pollution and electric waste taking toll on the environment, Air Purifiers

are on the brink of becoming a necessity. Little wonder then, the Chinese brand

is quite serious about this appliance space. Improving upon its Mi Air Purifier

2, Xiaomi has unveiled the Mi Air Purifier Pro.



Lenovo Wants You To Design Its Next MotoMod



LG has given up on its modular accessories meant for its flagship smartphone G5.

However, Motorola is still trying hard to make its MotoMods work. In a latest

initiative, the Lenovo's subsidiary is encouraging fans to submit the ideas for

MotoMods. If your idea is really interesting, there is a good chance that it

will be financed through Indiegogo.



LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





