                              305 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          The Courier Mail (Australia)



                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

                              CourierMail Edition



The gains in Spain



BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: SWITCHEDON; Pg. 50



LENGTH: 619  words





Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson takes a look into her crystal headset to see what the

future holds



With more than 100,000 attendees, 2200 exhibitors, and at least one

multi-billionaire, Mobile World Congress lived up to its name as the world's

largest mobile conference this year.



The Barcelona event that takes over eight halls and two venues sets the agenda

for mobile technology in the coming year, and Switched On was there to take

notes.



Below is a guide to three big trends in smartphones, mobile networks, and even

gaming gadgets.



OLD FEATURES NEW AGAIN Smartphones continue to evolve but some well-loved

features have been cut. Many of those are coming back this year, some in

response to feedback and others as an anchor to new systems.



The world's biggest smartphone maker, Samsung, showed it had been listening when

it unveiled the features of its upcoming Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, due out in

March.



While its predecessor ditched a water-resistant body and expandable memory in

its transition to a metal and glass form, those features will return.



Samsung Australia mobile vice-president Prasad Gokhale says the S7 handsets will

feature enhanced water resistance, at IP68 up from IP67, and users can add a

memory card into the phones' hybrid SIM card slot.



"We absolutely were not happy with letting go of those two features," Mr Gokhale

says.



Similarly, LG will bring back the removable battery in its forthcoming phone,

the LG G5, expected in April.



LG Electronics Australia mobile general manager Gino Casha says the new phone's

battery could be removed simply by pushing a switch and pulling it out of the

base of the handset.



Users could replace a flat battery with a fully charged one using this system,

or attach one of several G5 accessories.



"We didn't want to come out with a formulaic device," Mr Casha says. "Anyone can

do that." SMARTER ACCESSORIES Expect a lot more from smartphone accessories this

year, including cameras, home security devices, and virtual reality headsets.



In addition to giving away its Gear VR headset with the Australian S7 pre-orders

this year, Samsung will release a Gear 360 camera for use with its latest

phones. The golf ball-shaped device is equipped with two 15-megapixel cameras to

capture everything around it in two images, which can be stitched together in a

connected smartphone.



The results can be viewed as you move your head while wearing a Gear VR headset,

or on Facebook or YouTube in a move Gokhale says "democratises virtual reality".



LG will also launch a VR camera, the stick-shaped 360 Cam, as well as its own

headset, the 360 VR, that it says is one-third as light as some of its

competitors.



Sony will also focus on intelligent accessories, revealing the Xperia Ear that

will read updates from your phone, and even announce navigation instructions.

However, its Australian release is yet to be confirmed.



Alcatel will also offer a smart accessory in an unlikely form - the box of its

Idol 4S phone will transform into a VR headset for watching immersive videos.



5G FUTURE It might be four years away and currently without a standard, but 5G

was the talk of most carriers at the Mobile World Congress. Telstra revealed it

planned to test 5G technology at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in 2018,

though networks group managing director Mike Wright could not say what that

would entail.



"By then, we'll be starting to get to a world where we're starting to understand

the way the radio signal will be carried," he says, adding the company may use

prototypes to test the network's speed.



A 5G network could deliver data at speeds up to 20 gigabits per second, letting

users download 4K movies in seconds.Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson travelled to

Barcelona as a guest of Samsung



LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





