                              307 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            August 18, 2016 Thursday



Android Nougat to come with improved data saving options



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 345 words





NEW DELHI: Majority of smartphone users have limited mobile data plans, which is

probably the reason why the 'Data Saver' included in Android is quite popular.

And if the latest leaks are to be believed, it's going to get a lot better with

the latest Android release - Nougat . Android's Data Saver option enables users

to set up warning and halt limits, making it easy to manage mobile data

allowances. It also lets users provide unrestricted data access to certain apps.



If that's not intelligent enough, Android Nougat will make Data Saver even

smarter. According to a report by Android Central website, Data Saver option in

Android 7.0 Nougat will enable unrestricted network access to apps, for users

with unlimited data plans. That said, it will also restrain the internet access

to the apps in a limited data plan. These changes were indicated in the

ConnectivityManager API in Android Nougat's SDK. The new data saving features

will also work even if users are travelling abroad and buy prepaid local sim

cards. The amount of data used by background processes will also be managed by

the improved Data Saver option. Slowly, smartphone manufacturers have started

rolling out beta programmes for Android N. Recently, LG started the rollout of

the Android N preview programme for users of its G5 smartphone users. The

programme is currently available only in Korea on the LG U+ network, and will

enable users to experience Android 7.0 Nougat early.The preview programme will

be only available to 2000 testers, who have applied for it on a first-come,

first-served basis, starting August 16. Users can download the LG OS preview app

from Google Play Store and follow mentioned steps to download the preview

release of Android Nougat through the companion desktop application.

Participants of the preview programme will be able to offer feedback and report

bugs, so that the same can be removed from the final release when it's seeded to

all customers. LG will also announce the stable Nougat rollout for G5 users once

it is ready.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





