                              309 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                            February 26, 2016 Friday



MWC 2016 innovations that slipped under the radar



BYLINE: Karan Bajaj



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 786 words





Considering all the high-profile launches, one would think MWC is only about

smartphones. But there's a lot of innovation that complements phones.



LG 360 VR



LG announced a VR headset which is a departure from the usual bulky ones

available today. Weighing only 118 grams, the headset works with the LG G5 over

a wired connection. The prototype was working though the resolution was low and

it allowed a lot of ambient light in which ruined the experience. These issues

might be sorted in the final version. No price or availability was announced but

it should be out later this year.



(Image: Agencies)



Samsung Lens Case



Samsung debuted an official add-on lens case for their new flagship Galaxy S7

-since the camera will likely be a big draw for consumers. The lens case offers

the option of attaching a telephoto or wide angle lens with a screw-in design.

The case itself has a rubber texture which provides for excellent grip while

taking photos while the lenses are made of metal and feel very well-built.



Intex Aqua Fish



If you're one of the few that don't take well to mass market phone operating

systems like Android & iOS, this should interest you. A phone powered by

Sailfish OS, popularized by Jolla, has quietly emerged at MWC this year and

you'll be able to see the Intex logo on it as well. The device is a result of

Jolla's partnership with the Indian brand and the rumour mill suggests that it

will launch in India first. Going by the specifications (Snapdragon 212, 2GB

RAM, 16GB storage, 5-inch HD display), this should be a mid-range phone priced

well under the Rs 10k mark.



ZTE Spro Plus



This is a hybrid tablet pro jector with 8.4-inch super amoled display (2560 x

1440 pixels) and comes in WiFi and WiFi + LTE variants. It runs Android 6.0 on a

Snapdragon 801625 and has a 12,100mAh battery with a claimed projection time of

up to 6 hours. The laser projector has a resolution of 1280 x 720-pixels, 500

lumens brightness with automatic focus and JBL speakers for audio output.



Sony Xperia Ear



The Xperia Ear gives you an always-on voice assistant in a Bluetooth headset.

The assistant can tell you about incoming notifications as well as your calendar

appointments and alerts.Because it's always-on, you can dictate messages, search

the web or even get directions on Google Maps by speaking normally. Finally, you

can set specific actions that execute when its picked up: read the news, traffic

updates or weather reports.



Haier Smartwatch



Haier's upcoming smartwatch has a stylish design and 1.4-inch full circle

display with a resolution of 400 x 400 pixels. What makes this one stand out is

that it's among the first to come with full Android 6.0 operating system. It is

IP56 certified for water resistance, has 8GB storage built-in, Bluetooth, a

heart rate sensor as well as a speaker and microphone. Priced at about 200 Euros

(roughly Rs 17,000), it is expected to launch in April 2016 this year.



(Image: Agencies)



CAT S60



Amongst the sea of smartphones at the event, the CAT S60 smartphone stood out

thanks to the thermal imaging camera. Aimed at the B2B segment (construction,

plumbing, security), the phone can take heat measurements from almost 100 feet

away. Thanks o the strengthened diecast frame, it can withstand 6 oot drops.

Specifications include a 4.7-inch display, Snapdragon 617, 3GB RAM, 32GB

storage, 3,800mAH battery and Android 6.0 OS. It will be available later this

year for US$599.



Sony Xperia Projector



Sony's next generation projector prototype was showcased at the event. The

rectangular projector can be wall or floor mounted and the compact size makes it

easy to carry around. Using it, you can convert any flat surface into a touch

sensitive interface and directly interact with whatever is being displayed.



(Image: Agencies)



Sony Xperia Eye



Another concept from Sony, the Eye is a compact camera capable of wide angle

photo and video. What makes it special is that it's about the size of an HDMI

dongle and can be easily clipped to clothing. It does not require you to press

any buttons to take photos -it automatically detects faces and takes a photo

till the battery runs out.



LG Robotic Ball



This is a special accessory for the LG G5. It's a rolling robot with 8MP camera

which makes it great for home surveillance because can be controlled from

anywhere via an app. It also responds to a laser pointer and can be made to

follow the laser if required. With built-in WiFi, you can see a live stream of

the robot's camera on your LG G5. Finally, the built-in IR emitter means that

you can control other things in your home using the robot. No details on price

were announced, but it was one of the more interesting things at the show.



(Image: Agencies)



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





