                              30 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  The DayAfter



                                August 16, 2016



Others: World's First Modular Smartphone



BYLINE: Anuj Sharma



LENGTH: 640  words





LG G5 has upped the ante for other vendors in the customized Smartphone market



While the world of technology is going ga-ga over the future of modular

Smartphones, South Korean electronics conglomerate LG has already translated the

concept into reality with the G5 - its flagship device that has upped the ante

for other vendors in the customized Smartphone market. The Rs 52,990 G5 features

a "slide-out" battery design and dual rear cameras - the only device to feature

dual primary cameras which work independent of each other - taking us one step

closer to the age of "one device fits all".



The G5 sports a 5.3-inch quad-HD display (2560x1440 pixels) featuring always-on

display technology that allows users to check time and date even when the phone

is in sleep mode.



The Smartphone is powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor, coupled with 4GB

RAM and 32GB of in-built storage that can be expanded up to 2TB via micro-SD

card and runs on Android 6.0 Marshmallow operating system.



Let us see what works for the device.



The device has a minimalistic metal alloy body design and 3D Arc Glass gives the

display a gentle curve on the top, providing it a refreshing look. It is also

comfortable to hold.



The power button placed at the back also acts as a fingerprint sensor and

unlocks the device within seconds.



The magic lies at the bottom which is removable, swappable and supports modules

which LG calls "LG Friends" - a collection of devices like LG CAM Plus, LG 360

CAM and LG 360 virtual reality (VR) set. The battery can be removed by pushing a

button located at the lower left of the body.



LG CAM Plus is a versatile camera module that can be attached through the

battery slot to deliver a comfortable grip and convenient control of a

stand-alone camera.



LG 360 CAM is a compact 360-degree angle camera equipped with two 13MP

200-degree wide angle cameras, 1,200mAh battery and 4GB internal memory which

can be supplemented by a micro-SD card.



While LG 360 VR is a goggle that can be connected with G5 via a dedicated cable

and works exclusively with the G5 to simulate a 130-inch TV viewed from two

meters away.



All the three modules need to be purchased separately.



The quad-HD display produced higher contrast and vibrant images. The pixel

density has also increased from 538ppi in G4 to 554ppi in G5 that makes up for a

brighter viewing experience -- even outdoors. Apps like Instagram were like a

visual treat.



The touch response is smooth and has a super-responsive feel which comes to life

with the slightest touch.



The Snapdragon 820 processor, coupled with 4GB RAM and Adreno 530 GPU, is

capable of playing high-end games and offers a zero-lag computing performance.



For photo enthusiasts, the G5 comes with two rear cameras - 16MP primary camera

and a second 8MP camera for wide-angle shots. LG has tuned its software for both

the rear cameras to work independently. The 8MP front camera captured amazing

selfies, both in low and bright light conditions which many Smartphones fail to

do.



With 2,800mAh battery, we were able to get a 12-hour back-up with calling,

social media apps, music playback, browsing and light gaming.



LG G5 has Quick Charge 3.0 which is 27 per cent faster and 45 per cent more

efficient than the previous generation.



The speaker placed at the bottom is loud enough to watch movies or play games.



What does not work?



When compared with its nearest rival Samsung, LG G5 is neither quite as

beautiful nor does its camera performance shine as brightly as the Samsung

Galaxy S7 Edge, but there is still a lot that the Smartphone offers and being

modular is one of those.



Conclusion: LG G5 is an example of great engineering and a big leap for the

South Korean giant in terms of design, display and camera performance. If you

are a premium device lover, this modular Smartphone is what you would love to

see in your pocket.



LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





              Copyright 2016 dayafter, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





