                              319 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                             March 22, 2016 Tuesday



Gov't, gaming industry in disharmony over VR



BYLINE: By Yoon Sung-won The government and major gaming companies here have

revealed a difference of opinion over virtual reality (VR) technology used for

games.



LENGTH: 580 words





While the administration is promising investments and policy support to foster

VR technology as one of the nation's R&D projects, the largest gaming companies

including Nexon, NCSOFT and Netmarble Games remain diffident over its immediate

applicability to gaming.



The Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning picked VR games and a VR theme

park, Sunday, as one of five VR flagship projects, aiming at nourishing the new

market for VR platforms and related industries. The ministry also pledged to

invest about 50 billion won in the sector over the next two years; and more

afterwards if the first investment proves to be successful.



It plans to establish a VR-related industry complex at Digital Media City in

western Seoul and build related infrastructure such as VR content creation

studios, exhibition halls and test facilities. 'As this year is thought of as

the first year of the VR industry, we will provide active support including the

five flagship projects to vitalize the VR ecosystem here,' a ministry official

said.



The move came as global IT giants such as Google, Apple and Facebook are

increasingly pushing for VR and augmented reality (AR) technologies through

active investments and acquisitions.



Google has developed advanced head-mounted VR devices that are compatible with

smartphones running on its Android mobile operating system. Facebook has made

bolder moves including its $2 billion acquisition of Oculus, one of the world's

leading VR technology firms, in 2014. Last week, Oculus said it will roll out

its first commercial head-mounted VR device named Oculus Lift on March 28.

Taiwan's HTC also plans to release its VR device Vive.



Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics have designed their latest flagship

smartphones Galaxy S7 and G5 to support VR. Adding to its first head-mounted VR

device, the Gear VR unveiled in October 2014, Samsung Electronics introduced its

VR camera dubbed VR 360 at the Mobile World Congress 2016, while LG Electronics

introduced a 360-degree VR camera for its modular G5 smartphone.



In the gaming industry, Sony said it will launch the PlayStation (PS) VR, as a

peripheral to the PS 4 to support VR games, in October. The PS VR has drawn much

market attention as it is expected to be provided with a far greater amount of

compatible content compared to other makers.



Whereas Korea's small and medium-sized gaming companies are seeking a

breakthrough in VR, larger ones here have said it is 'untimely,' considering

that VR devices have not sufficiently penetrated the market.



'We have not officially discussed developing VR games,' said an official at

Nexon, the nation's largest game company. 'VR-related devices are not common

yet. We may start evaluating the market success of VR games after the latter

half of this year.'



NCSOFT, the leading computer online game provider here, also said, 'We are

currently mulling what kind of games we need to develop and how can will utilize

VR devices one they are commercialized.'



Admitting that VR can become one of the company's biggest income sources, Bang

Jun-hyuk, senior advisor to Korea's largest mobile game company Netmarble Games,

pointed out the head-mounted VR devices that are available now are too heavy to

be portable, with models that have been unveiled so far weighing between 300 and

400 grams.



'Mobile games should be freely available regardless of space,' Bang said. 'VR

devices should be light like sunglasses or goggles to be easily worn by gamers

without discomfort.'



LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





