                              336 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  Arab Finance



                              May 17, 2016 Tuesday



LG Egypt celebrates launching a range of new products in Egypt



LENGTH: 267  words





Cairo : LG Electronics Egypt (LGEE) unveiled the company's latest range of

products that has been recently introduced to the Egyptian market in a special

event held at the Dusit Thani Hotel with the attendance of LG's top dealers and

business partners in Egypt. The new products include LG's latest technologies in

home entertainment, appliances, televisions, air conditions and mobiles.







The new LG home appliances included a wide range of refrigerators, washing

machines, vacuum cleaners, dish washers and microwave ovens. The 14 new LG home

appliances introduced to the Egyptian market were carefully selected to suit the

Egyptian consumer by being smart, efficient, power and time saving. On the other

hand, LG also launched six new air-condition models.



LG also introduced 13 new television models to the Egyptian market with

different technologies including LED, UHD and OLED. LG has recently launched the

all-new LG OLED technology in Egypt which delivers the best picture quality

imaginable that shows the purest blacks, most brilliant colors and clearest

images.



Finally, LG launched seven new smartphone models to the Egyptian market

including the G3 Single, G4, G4 Style, G5, LG-V10, K10 and PH1-Stylus 2,

bringing LG's latest mobile technologies to the Egyptian consumers.



In his speech during the event, LG Egypt's Managing Director Mr. Don Kwack said:

"We are very happy to be launching a new range of our world-class products to

the Egyptian market and we are looking forward to expanding our manufacturing

operations in the country soon with our upcoming washing machine production

line".



LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 598





                 Copyright 2016 Arab Finance Brokerage Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





