                              33 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               The Saudi Gazette



                             April 25, 2016 Monday



LG rolls out G5, world's first modular phone



LENGTH: 507  words





To continue enhancing its presence in the Saudi smartphone market and pursue its

goal to launch innovative communications devices for savvy consumers, LG

Electronics, a global pioneer manufacturer of advanced electronics, has taken

the wraps off and launched its long-anticipated smartphone and the world's first

modular phone LG G5.



The G5 comes with stylish and powerful features such as quick charge, up to four

times faster than the standard charging and more efficient than the previous

generation and with a slide-out battery. Other features include a

QualcommSnapdragon 820 processor that is more power-efficient when compared with

the technology of the previous generation.



The new LG flagship has an innovative design and a versatile application, called

LG Friends, which enables users to connect with myriad accessories with minimal

fuss. For example, a user can insert LG CAM Plus into the device and turn G5

into a highly-advanced camera capable of capturing 360 degree panoramic images

and videos for the entire surrounding scene. It is the first camera of its kind

that works in conjunction with Google Street View and supports virtual reality

applications.



LG 360VR is another accessory that can be paired with and seamlessly controlled

by the LG G5, allowing savvy consumers to enjoy viewing videos in virtual

reality mode. It simulates a TV viewed from two meters away. This accessory

comes with two high-resolution screens. Compared with similar products, it is

small and lightweight.



For users who love to listen to high-resolution audio on the smartphone, LG

presents the Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play accessory. Before the appearance of the

G5, such high-quality sound was only available through advanced audio devices.



Tone PlatinumT Bluetooth is the accessory designed with a touch of innovation

for those who seek a premium sound experience. It is the first Bluetooth in the

world featuring aptX HDcodec to deliver CD-like quality audio over Bluetooth

like no other wireless device.



"We will continue to manufacture innovative and creative electronics to keep our

customers happy and make their life easier. Satisfying customers' needs are a

top priority to us. The new smartphone will position LG better in the Saudi

market and make our customers more than just happy. Its specifications will

simply sweep them off their feet," said Eddie Jun, President of LG

Electronics-Saudi Arabia.



Salman Alsabban, Corporate Marketing Manager in LG Electronics-Saudi Arabia,

said: "One of the most appealing features of the G5 is its cutting-edge

technology and ability to pair with various accessories.



It will revolutionize our customers' lifestyle because it has been produced with

this notion in mind. We are proud to play such influential role in the Saudi

market." - SG



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/98/146158056705.jpg



From left: Salman Alsabban, Corporate Marketing Manager in LG Electronics-Saudi

Arabia; Eddie Jun, President of LG Electronics-Saudi Arabia, with other LG

executive e show off the world's first modular phone LG G5



LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1526





                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





