

By ANICK JESDANUN and JOSEPH WILSON

Associated Press

BARCELONA, Spain (AP) -- To revive interest in smartphones, Samsung and LG are
improving their cameras and embracing the nascent world of virtual reality.

Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg joined Samsung at the Mobile World Congress show in
Barcelona, Spain, to announce that their companies are teaming up to push VR in
mobile phones and social networking.

Virtual reality "is now mainly used for gaming, but that is quickly changing,"
Zuckerberg said. "That is why Facebook is investing so much in VR, so we can
deliver these social experiences."

Samsung's new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge promise better photos under low-light
conditions, in part with sensors that capture more light. Both will work with
the $100 Gear VR headset that Samsung released last fall. And Samsung will now
make a 360-degree camera for everyday folks to capture and share VR images.

VR is still in its early days, with much of the interest coming from hard-core
gamers and tech pioneers. Samsung wants to make it easier for everyday people to
create VR videos -- so that friends will buy VR headsets to view them.

LG will also have its own VR headset and 360-degree camera, while the main
camera on its upcoming G5 smartphone will have two lenses -- one for standard
shots, and another with a wider angle to capture more of what's in front of you.

Sunday's announcements at the Barcelona show come as worldwide smartphone growth
has slowed, particularly for high-end devices such as Samsung's S and LG's G
series. Many consumers have turned to lower-cost Android devices that sport
features considered top of the line just a few years ago.

Phone makers used to guarantee upgrades by making phones bigger and bigger --
but phones can't get much bigger for one-handed use. In fact, the new LG phone
is shrinking to 5.3 inches, from 5.5 inches last year. Samsung's Edge is getting
bigger, at 5.5 inches, but because the sides curve like a waterfall, the phone
won't be much wider. The main S7 model is staying constant at 5.1 inches.

With size out of the equation, phone makers have to innovate elsewhere.

"Their problem is that phones from two to three years ago are still in use,"
said Ian Fogg, head of mobile analysis at IHS Technology. "VR is essential. It
is a smartphone-industry initiative to drive consumers to upgrade."

That's been particularly important for Samsung, as its chief rival, Apple,
largely matched Samsung on size, while boosting the iPhone camera's resolution
to 12 megapixels from 8. The iPhone has also gotten better at low-light shots,
even surpassing some stand-alone, point-and-shoot cameras in performance.

"Having seen everything the smartphone can deliver, at Samsung we have other
ideas," said D.J. Koh, the head of Samsung's mobile business.

In a few months, Samsung will start selling its Gear 360 camera, a device with
front and back lenses to stitch together 360-degree videos for VR devices and
apps. Samsung phones will come with apps for viewing those videos on the Gear VR
and sharing them with friends.

Samsung's phones will see improvements, too, particularly in the camera.

Realizing that the megapixel count alone doesn't necessarily translate to
quality images, Samsung is reducing resolution in the new phones to 12
megapixels from 18. That allows individual pixels on the sensors to be larger,
thus capturing more light. The new cameras also allow the camera's aperture to
open wider, letting in more light. Together, the shutter needs to stay open for
a shorter time, reducing the blurring that sometimes mars indoor and night
shots.

Samsung also says its new phones will have a faster focus, which it says will
improve performance at low light.

And for the selfie camera, Samsung is turning the screen into a flash, similar
to what Apple introduced last fall.

Samsung is restoring the ability to add storage, but the battery won't be
replaceable by users, something Samsung had allowed before last year. Instead,
Samsung is increasing the battery capacity in both models, though the Edge's
larger screen and other new features in both models, including an always-on
mode, will sip away power.

The new phones will start shipping March 11, with advance orders to begin this
week. In some markets, including the U.S., Samsung is including a Gear VR
headset for free to those who order ahead of time. Prices will vary by carrier
and region. In the U.S., AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile are offering the regular
version for $650 to $695 and the Edge version for about $100 more. Verizon
hasn't announced prices yet.

LG, meanwhile, designed the LG 360 VR headset to work with an LG smartphone
that's attached by a cable. With Samsung's VR device, the smartphone is inserted
at eye level and becomes the headset's display, increasing the weight on the
head. LG's version has built-in, lighter displays in the headset's eyepieces.

For the G5 phone, an optional attachment will function as a camera grip with
physical buttons to take shots and control video recording. It's part of LG's
new modular approach to design; you'll be able to pop out the phone's bottom and
swap in new hardware features.

Prices and release dates for the LG phone and accessories from both companies
have yet to be announced, though the LG phone is expected in the U.S. in April.

Neither VR system will be as powerful as full-fledged VR devices coming this
year. HTC said Sunday that a consumer version of the Vive will start selling in
early April for $799, with ordering to begin Feb. 29. A personal computer is
required and sold separately.

VR isn't limited to high-end devices: On Saturday, Alcatel announced a mid-range
Idol 4S -- with packaging that can be folded into VR headset.

------

AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun reported from New York.

