                              344 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                           Cape Argus (South Africa)



                           February 27, 2016 Saturday

                                   E1 Edition



LG's new robot a big step in security



BYLINE:  EMILY DAVIES



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 23



LENGTH: 261 words





LONDON: Anyone who has seen the new Star Wars film might think the latest gadget

from LG is straight from the movie set. But while the Rolling Bot from the

cellphone maker may resemble the loveable Star Wars BB-8 droid, it is no toy.



LG insists the spherical robot (pictured) has a serious purpose: home security.

The ball's onboard camera can transmit live pictures to a cellphone app, which

is also used to guide it around the house, so homeowners can see what is going

on at their property while they are away. Revealed at the Mobile World Congress

in Barcelona, the bot links to LG's latest phone - the G5 - via a wireless

internet connection. It will eventually be compatible with other phones.



It is fitted with a speaker and a laser, which is solely to be used as a toy for

entertaining pets. The product will be released later this year, but a price has

yet to be announced.



Elsewhere at the conference was Samsung's latest foray into the internet of

things - a term for household devices designed to communicate with each other.



The tech giant revealed its Family Hub refrigerator, which will be able to

detect when a family has run out of milk and will learn whether they prefer

full-fat or semi-skimmed. The smart fridge uses internal cameras and sensors to

suss out what produce needs replenishing. It then sends a message to a large

touch screen on the door of the fridge, and this can be connected to online

grocers, enabling families to press a button to stock up on essentials direct

from the appliance by using online home delivery services. - Daily Mail



LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: CW





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





