                              350 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            January 10, 2016 Sunday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Ten top product picks from CES 2016



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 718 words





Each year, the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) -- which runs through January 9

in Las Vegas -- plays host to a multitude of innovative new high-tech gadgets.

Here's a rundown of the top 10 hottest products from this year's show.



Fitbit Blaze

Fitness-tracker specialist Fitbit was on-hand in Vegas to present its latest

smartwatch. The Blaze is a particularly stylish model that stands out from the

rest of the firm's range with a look reminiscent of the Apple Watch and a color

LCD. The Fitbit Blaze is announced at $199.95 or [#x20ac]229.95 and is expected

to ship in March 2016.



Logbar iLi

Japanese start-up Logbar presented iLi, a compact wearable device that can

translate any sentence spoken into its microphone into one of three languages

then deliver it back through an onboard speaker -- no Internet connection

required. As yet, the device only works with English, Japanese and Chinese.

French, Thai and Korean should follow soon. Release dates are yet to be

announced.



LG Signature G6

South Korean manufacturer LG has caused something of a stir with its G6, a

77-inch 4K TV with an OLED screen that's just 2.57mm thick. Note that LG has

65-inch and 55-inch (LG G5) models on show at CES too. The Signature G6 is due

out in March 2016.



Tech-No-Logic OneCook

This prototype is essentially a robotic personal chef that can rustle up a whole

host of dishes from ingredients that slot into the device in compartments,

almost like printer cartridges. New recipes can be downloaded and automatically

cooked by the robot at the correct temperature and for the right amount of time.



D-Vine



The D-Vine is a wine-tasting machine that can serve a glass of wine at exactly

the right temperature in just a few seconds. Like a Nespresso-machine of the

wine world, the D-Vine serves each glass from a cartridge-style wine pod that

slots into the machine. A rinse cycle flushes out any residue with water between

each glass served. The D-Vine will start shipping in January priced

[#x20ac]499-699 ($550-760) depending on the model. Note that creator 10-Vins won

the "Best Startup" award at this year's show.



OhMiBod Lovelife krush

Smart-vibrator maker OhMiBod presented the Lovelife krush, a gadget designed to

help strengthen the pelvic floor muscles, which can become weakened during

pregnancy or simply with age. After each exercise, onboard sensors capture and

send information to a smartphone app that logs the data. The Lovelife krush is

due out in spring 2016.



Panasonic DMP-UB900

The world's first UHD (Ultra-High Definition) Blu-ray players were officially

launched at this year's CES, including the Panasonic DMP-UB900. This is

compatible with current Blu-ray discs and DVDs, and features an onboard

upscaling function -- although movies on lower-res discs won't be rendered with

the same razor-sharp level of detail as films actually encoded in UHD. The UB900

is 'smart' too, with Wi-Fi connectivity and an onboard web browser. The

Panasonic DMP-UB900 is slated for release in Europe in spring 2016.



Parrot Disco

French drone-maker Parrot has presented a new model with a minimalist, bird-like

design, inspired by and at one with nature. This flying gadget has an

ultra-light build (700g) but still manages to pack in several sensors and a

front-facing video camera. The drone promises flight speeds of up to 80km/h

(approx. 50 mph). Price and release dates are yet to be confirmed.



Fisher Price Code-A-Pillar

Fisher Price was at CES presenting a robot caterpillar designed to teach the

basics of coding to kids aged three and up. Each of the bug's eight segments

programs it to move in a different way. When switched on, the caterpillar runs

through all the commands in order to move in a specific sequence. Kids can

modify this sequence by rearranging the order of the segments, teaching them

similar skills to those required for computer coding. Code-A-Pillar will launch

in the USA in summer 2016 priced at $49.99 (approx. [#x20ac]46).



Oculus Rift

This isn't the first time that the Oculus Rift has been previewed, but the big

news from CES 2016 is that it's available to pre-order for $599 in the US or

[#x20ac]699 in Europe. The headset is a reference in the field of virtual

reality and features two adjustable AMOLED screens, a microphone and an

integrated audio system with detachable headphones. The Oculus Rift will start

shipping in Q1 2016.



LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





