                              352 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                       June 2, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



LG Plans to Bring Affordable Smartphones to India



BYLINE: Phalgunn Maharishi



LENGTH: 242  words





There is definitely no point in bringing affordable smartphones with no

competitive features.. So, prepare well LG!



The recently launched LG's flagship smartphone G5 comes with a price tag of

whopping Rs 52,990. While we may start dreaming about the smartphone, the only

question that sparks is - Is there a market for such costly smartphones in

India?



Well, the answer is definitely subjective. However, LG seems to have decided

that they would be bringing more affordable smartphones this year in India.



Adding more on this, the company has announced to launch 5 - 6 smartphones under

Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 price ranges. According to a recent story on India

Today, LG Electronics India MD Ki Wan Kim has informed PTI that the company is

studying various segments and will launch affordable smartphones at first, and

based on the response they get, the company would be planning for future

smartphones designed for Indian consumers.



Having said this, India is definitely a country where we can see affordable

devices with almost every person in every city. Also, with a lot of competitors

like Xiaomi and Huawei bringing in cheaper smartphones with mind boggling

features, we feel LG should definitely start concentrating more on budget

devices, rather just testing the segment!



However, if everything goes well as per the company's announcements and plans,

we can have more smartphones to select from an already available huge plethora

of budget devices!



LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





