                              353 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                              QWeekend (Brisbane)



                            April 16, 2016 Saturday

                                QWeekend Edition



CHIP OFF THE OLD BLOCKS



BYLINE: JENNIFER DUDLEY-NICHOLSON



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 52



LENGTH: 829 words





It's difficult to say whether Australians will embrace mix and match phone

hardware The concept of modular smartphones has been dialled up a notch, with

some big players set to launch their offerings Frustrated with your phone

camera? Need a bigger battery or a fingerprint scanner? The latest tech trend

could let you swap boring or broken parts of your smarthone for better features,

fitting them into the handset like Lego bricks. You could, essentially, build

your own smartphone.



Google first investigated the concept back in 2012, and briefly showed off a

working example of its Project Ara phone last year. This year it promises to

launch the end result of what the industry now calls modular phones. Google's

Lego-like phone is based around a metal endoskeleton with openings to slide in

different blocks - a camera, battery, processor and RAM, fingerprint sensor, and

so on.



In the demonstration, Google ATAP engineer Rafa Camargo installed a new camera

to the phone without even turning it off. Project Ara's website has recently

been redesigned, and two design patents awarded, fuelling speculation Google

will reveal the finished phone at its annual developers conference in May. But

Australians will be able to get their hands on a customisable smartphone before

Google's offering appears. LG will reveal details of its upgradeable phone in

Australia next week, with Telstra confirming it will sell the G5 at launch. The

metal-bodied Google Android smartphone looks like any other but can be

transformed with accessories.



Pressing a button at the bottom of the phone releases its battery and lets users

install a Cam Plus module, for example. It adds a physical shutter button,

camera grip, and extra battery pack to the phone.



Other additions include Hi-Fi Plus, created with Bang & Olufsen, that acts as a

digital-to-analogue audio player for better quality sound. A future accessory

will deliver controls for a connected Parrot drone. LG Australia mobile

communications general manager Gino Casha says "the sky is the limit" for future

G5 add-ons, and the company is "now talking to parties overseas" about what

accessories will come next.



"It came about because we wanted to produce a metal phone with a removable

battery. That is something consumers said they wanted," he says.



But the addition of modules you can add and subtract from the phone will make

the device stand out, Casha says, and deliver upgrades to users without forcing

them to buy -another phone.



Other modular phones include the still-in-development PuzzlePhone, and the $780

Fairphone 2 that recently began shipping. The Amsterdam-based company dubs its

Fairphone "the smartphone with social values," as it's designed to -improve the

"repairability" and longevity of mobile devices. Its parts can be easily removed

and installed with a -screwdriver.



Consultancy firm Telsyte's managing director Foad Fadaghi says it's "difficult

to say" whether Australians will embrace mix and match phone hardware, even

though users tend to upgrade smartphones often to get new features.



"It will really depend on what the price of the upgrades are," Fadaghi says. He

says LG's modular phone could make it stand out from the pack, however, which it

needs to do to take on the might of Apple and Samsung.



BlackBerry PRIV$995, optus.com.au Finally, BlackBerry has a comeback device

worth investigating. The PRIV smartphone runs Google Android software for the

first time and its hardware packs in an 18-megapixel camera, a crisp, 5.4-inch

touchscreen, and a four-row keyboard that slides from beneath it. The keyboard

also doubles as a touchpad. This phone's keys could be deeper, and the camera is

a little slow, but in-depth app controls, regular security updates, and

convenient access to notifications make this BlackBerry phone refreshing.



OtterBox Symmetry Series Crystal Edition $199.95, otterbox.asia Tough cases do

not normally look like they've rolled around the floor of the Swarovski factory.

This new-release OtterBox case for the Apple iPhone 6 and 6S is the exception,

with a faceted crystal-paved rear panel that picks up the light and shines it

right back into the eyes of the beholder. The understated dual-material interior

protects its charge from impacts, and an adhesive glass screen protector is

bundled with the case. OtterBox says its testing now includes exposure to hand

lotion, make-up, jeans pockets, and sweat.



Acorns AU iOS/Android, free This financial app is finally available in

Australia. Acorns can be set to automatically round up each transaction you make

from a linked credit or debit card to $1, and transfer the spare change into one

of five investment portfolios. Users can make regular investments or add cash,

estimate future returns, and track their fund. With bank-level security, you

must enter a lot of personal details, and it costs $1.25 per month for balances

up to $5000, but it's fascinating to watch your virtual cash grow or drop.



topGADGET Technology TOPAPP topchoice



LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





