                              359 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The National



                              June 20, 2016 Monday



Motorola X Force review: Smartphone is not pretty, but very tough



BYLINE: John Everington



LENGTH: 571  words





John Everington



The Moto X Force is not the kind of smartphone likely to be sported by the

fashion-conscious set on a Friday night at Asia de Cuba or the Jetty Lounge.



Rather, it's the sort of device you carry around when you're doing something

active and high impact. Or failing that, it's great if you've got young children

who can't keep their slippery hands off your expensive gadgets.



The X Force isn't designed to win any beauty contests. Its simple metal frame is

offset by a rugged "ballistic nylon" textured back that feels rugged in the

hand, but also a little cheap.



Its 21 megapixel rear camera takes impressive images in a range of conditions,

while falling a little short of the likes of the Galaxy S7 and the LG G5. And

the 5.4 inch Amoled display promises a lot but falls a little short.



But you don't buy a smartphone called X Force for its camera, design and

display. You buy it because it's tough. And make no mistake, this is a

high-impact smartphone.



I didn't have the nerve to test whether it could withstand a five-foot drop on a

tiled floor as Motorola claims. However, its display survived without blemish

after being dropped face down on a hardwood floor several times, as well as a

number of medium-force blows from a standard hammer.



Most gratifyingly, it survived 24 hours in the company of a colleague's

one-year-old, who had inflicted impressive damage on his mother's iPhone a week

earlier.



Not only did the X Force remain unscathed, its 5MP front camera is intuitive

enough even for a toddler to take (several) selfies.



Despite being on the market for some months, the Moto X Force is still a little

pricey at about Dh2,549, more than both the HTC 10 and the LG G5. But while it

lags in terms of display and camera specs, its nigh-on unbreakable design will

definitely appeal to rugged outdoor types, as well as any parent whose little

darling delights in causing damage to expensive gadgets.



q&a tough and resilient all day long



John Everington expands on the Moto X Force's tough credibility:



So how did Motorola make it so tough? Did they leave it in the oven for an extra

12 hours?



It's what they call "ShatterShield" screen technology. It's made up of five

layers, starting with a rigid aluminium chassis and the aforementioned Amoled

display, which is in itself quite flexible. Then there's a dual touch layer, an

interior lens and an outer screen protection ShatterShield lens.



So how tough is it really? Should I take it rock climbing with me?



Motorola is pretty realistic that the X Force is resilient but probably not

designed to be dropped 200 feet off a mountain. That being said, it's tough

enough to be dropped on a hard floor by a toddler (and an adult for that

matter), which matters more to most of us than its climbing credentials.



You mentioned something about a disappointing display?



Disappointing is maybe too strong a word. The X Force's Amoled display has a

stunning 540 pixels per inch density, promising great images. But given the

added screen protection layers, the effect is a little diminished. While videos

look high quality, you don't quite get the brilliant colours of the Galaxy S7

Edge.



What else should I know?



It has a large battery that'll get you through the day with no problem. Internal

memory is expandable up to 256GB via microSD. Regrettably, there's no

fingerprint scanner. And as for that ballistic nylon finish? It's not available

in rose gold.



jeverington@thenational.ae



LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 818





                     Copyright 2016 Abu Dhabi Media Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





