                              35 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Statement on Sprint offering LG G5



LENGTH: 283 words



DATELINE: Lahore







 Kansas: Sprint Corporation has issued the following Press release:







  Sprint (NYSE:S) will offer the LG G5 on its recently expanded LTE Plus

Network, delivering faster download speeds than AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile.

Device pricing and availability date will be announced soon.











 Introduced by LG Mobile Electronics today, the LG G5 has a modular design and

sleek, metal uni-body with a slide out removable battery to easily swap out a

used battery for a fully charged one in seconds. The LG G5's modular design

creates a greater smartphone experience.







 As part of the G5 ecosystem, LG is introducing a wide range of companion

devices. Sprint will soon offer the LG 360 Cam and LG TONE Platinum. Users will

now be able to create their own 360-degree content with the LG 360 Cam. It

features a compact 360-angle camera equipped with two 13 MP wide angle cameras,

1,200mAh battery and 4GB internal memory. The latest in the LG TONE Plus Series,

the LG TONE Platinum is a Bluetooth headset that has earned the Harman Kardon®

Platinum grade for its superior sound quality."There is no better time than now

to join the millions of customers who have already switched to Sprint. With the

launch of the LG G5, customers will get the most powerful device for photography

enthusiasts &ndash; or anyone who wants to leave their camera at home &ndash;

paired with Sprint's super-fast LTE Plus Network. And AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile

customers can save 50 percent off most standard rate plans when they switch to

Sprint. This device is amazing, offering the highest quality images and prints."









 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com







LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





