                              361 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            August 25, 2016 Thursday



LG V20 audio system to be powered by B&O Play



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 258 words





NEW DELHI: South Korean tech giant LG is all geared up to launch its V20

smartphone next month. And to build up anticipation for the same, the

manufacturer has now revealed new details about the audio system of the device.

LG announced that it has partnered with premium audio products maker B&O Play

for the V20. Not only will the upcoming smartphone feature audio system

developed in partnership with B&O Play, it'll also come with B&O Play earphones.



Speaking about the same, Juno Cho, president of LG Electronics and Mobile

Communications, said, "I'm pleased about our close partnership with B&O Play

which started earlier this year with Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play and continues

today with the V20. A growing number of consumers expect a better audio

experience from their smartphones than what has been available in the past and

I'm confident that the V20 delivers on these expectations."Recently, LG posted

some images on its official US Instagram account, claiming to have clicked them

with the V20. The images offered details about the camera setup of the device.

The successor to the V10, the LG V20 is expected to come with a dual camera

setup. This would comprise a wide angle lens and a normal lens, pretty much the

same as that of the G5. One of the images posted by the company clearly

indicates that it has been taken using a wide angle lens. A GIF was also posted

to the Instagram account. It seems that users will be able to select specific

parts of the images to animate, while keeping others static.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





