                              363 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)



                            March 31, 2007 Saturday

                                 Final Edition



Tech Toys; HANNspree pocket TV is a chip off the old block



BYLINE: Vancouver Sun



SECTION: BUSINESSBC; Pg. G5



LENGTH: 383  words





HANNspree HANNSfries 10-inch LCD television, no price yet and no date for

release.



Not, of course, that you'd want to encourage any children of yours to eat fries

with huge dabs of ketchup -- or, in fact, put anything in their rooms that would

cause them to watch even more television than they do, but, hey, this does look

cute. It's a packet of friesTV set from HANNspree (www.hannspree-usa.com) which

is noted for its free form video hardware offerings that brighten up a home,

especially if you're into the pop art of decades ago.



LG Chocolate Flip (LG 8600) wireless phone, $130 with a three-year Telus

contract, $330 without a contract.



Stylish and sleek is how Telus describes this latest offering from LG, which

comes with television, radio (commercial free from XM Canada) and MP3s, a 1.3

megapixel camera and camcorder, downloadable video clips and games. As well,

users in British Columbia, Alberta and parts of Ontario can use Telus Navigator,

which offers real-time audio and visual turn-by-turn directions to help you get

to your destination. Oh, and you can use it to phone people.



Motion Computing LE1700 Core 2 Duo tablet PC, starting at $2,200 US.



Aimed at professionals in fields like health care, field sales and services,

government and the hospitality industry, the LE1700 has what it calls WriteTouch

display that allows you to both write with a digital pen and with a simple

double tap on the screen to switch to using your finger to enter data. And while

the WriteTouch system will allow both pen and finger input it won't respond to

anything else touching the screen. Also comes with a biometric fingerprint

reader that can operate as a mouse.



Samsung SPH-m610 wireless phone, $150 with a three-year contract from Bell

Mobility, $350 without a contract.



The word from the Duchess of Windsor (you do remember her, don't you?) was that

you couldn't be too slim and apparently both Bell and Samsung have taken this to

heart with the SPH-m610, which is less than half an inch thick. Oh, and should

you care, once you've seen the phone, it will allow you to view movies, listen

to stereo MP3 sound, offers TV on the go, ringtones and screen savers, as well

as allowing you to phone your friends to let them know that your phone is so

thin they'll squeal with envy.



networks@png.canwest.com



LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2007



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:

Colour Photo: HANNspree HANNSfries 10-inch LCD television ;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





 Copyright 2007 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication

                                      Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





