                              374 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                           The Advertiser (Australia)



                              May 22, 2016 Sunday

                              AdvertiserTV Edition



Unwrap a smart package



BYLINE: TECH TALK Rod Chester and Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 600  words





These phones come packed with some stylish features, write Rod Chester and

Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



THE smartphone war is not just about Apple and Samsung.



New handsets are appearing from their competitors and they are more compelling

than you might expect.



From the budget model you can take for a dip to BlackBerry's first Android

phone, we round them up and test them out.



HTC 10 HTC, $1099 harveynorman.com.au **** HTC is on the comeback trail and its

candidate for top smartphone is devilishly attractive. The HTC 10 is the

slickest phone that the company has produced to date, with a solid metal body

featuring striking chamfered edges, a tiny border around its 5.2-inch screen and

an accurate fingerprint scanner. Its Android software has been pared back to a

speedy minimum, its front and bottom speakers produce surprising volume and its

Ultrapixel camera is back, though this time the larger pixel sensor is paired

with a healthy 12-megapixel resolution. Its camera isn't the fastest to focus

and the phone lacks water-resistance but it's a worthy comeback that deserves

attention.



LG G5 LG, $1099 lg.com.au ***1/2 The concept behind LG's flagship smartphone,

below, is ingenious: a modular phone you can pull apart and put back together

with better parts. And it works. Press a subtle button and you can remove its

battery and install camera controls or a Bang & Olufsen sound module. Plus, the

Android smartphone is zippy and features a two-camera system, one with a

135-degree wide-angle lens to capture more of what's before you. The problem

with this phone is its execution. A glass seam at the top of its 5.3-inch screen

catches, light can be seen through a crack at its base and its metal exterior is

wavy in patches.



OPPO F1 OPPO, $299 oppomobile.com.au ***1/2 The price of the Oppo F1, above,

defines it as a budget Android phone but its features exceed expectations. This

phone offers an 8-megapixel front-facing camera and 13-megapixel rear camera

|with fast autofocus, plus a few processing extras including a built-in animated

GIF creator and a mode that combines four pictures into a sharp, 50-megapixel

photo - if you're able to keep the phone still enough. The F1 also boasts a

5-inch touchscreen, dual SIM card slots, 16GB storage expandable to 128GB and a

metal body that gives it a premium look.



ALCATEL GO PLAY ALCATEL, $299 kmart.com.au *** Alcatel delivers a budget phone

with an emphasis on being tough rather than fashionable. The 5-inch Android

phone, below, is designed to survive knocks, bumps and splashes, boasting an

IP67 dust and water-resistance rating. You just have to remember to rinse it in

freshwater after a dunk. It comes in five colour combinations with a rubberised

backing and users can add a 32GB memory card to boost the 4GB on board. Its

8-megapixel and 5-megapixel cameras are adequate, although noticeably slow in

focusing. If you're tough on phones and happy with basic features, the Go Play

may suit.



BLACKBERRY PRIV BLACKBERRY, $995 optus.com.au ***1/2BlackBerry's comeback phone

has two things going for it. First is a unique design. Its 5.4-inch touchscreen

slides up to reveal a four-line keyboard for quick email responses. It's also

touch-sensitive and its shortcuts (like sweeping a finger up to add a suggested

word) are useful timesavers. Its second plus is Google Android. This BlackBerry

not only uses Google's software but makes it extra secure with its own patches

and lets users restrict app permissions. Its keyboard is not as well designed as

the Bold of old and its 18-megapixel camera lags but this comeback kid is worth

consideration.



LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





