                              37 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                    February 24, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Statement On Sprint offering LG G5



LENGTH: 391  words





Wednesday, February 24, 2016: Sprint (NYSE:S) will offer the LG G5 on its

recently expanded LTE Plus Network, delivering faster download speeds than AT&T,

Verizon and T-Mobile. Device pricing and availability date will be announced

soon.



Introduced by LG Mobile Electronics today, the LG G5 has a modular design and

sleek, metal uni-body with a slide out removable battery to easily swap out a

used battery for a fully charged one in seconds. The LG G5's modular design

creates a greater smartphone experience.



As part of the G5 ecosystem, LG is introducing a wide range of companion

devices. Sprint will soon offer the LG 360 Cam and LG TONE Platinum. Users will

now be able to create their own 360-degree content with the LG 360 Cam. It

features a compact 360-angle camera equipped with two 13 MP wide angle cameras,

1,200mAh battery and 4GB internal memory. The latest in the LG TONE Plus Series,

the LG TONE Platinum is a Bluetooth headset that has earned the Harman Kardon(R)

Platinum grade for its superior sound quality.



Marcelo Claure, Sprint CEO issued the following statement:



"There is no better time than now to join the millions of customers who have

already switched to Sprint. With the launch of the LG G5, customers will get the

most powerful device for photography enthusiasts - or anyone who wants to leave

their camera at home - paired with Sprint's super-fast LTE Plus Network. And

AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile customers can save 50 percent off most standard rate

plans when they switch to Sprint. This device is amazing, offering the highest

quality images and prints."



Sprint LTE Plus Network



According to Sprint's analysis of Nielsen Mobile Performance Data, the Sprint

LTE Plus Network beat Verizon, AT&T and T-Mobile by delivering faster download

speeds1. Recently, the Sprint LTE Plus Network doubled its reach and now covers

more than 150 markets across the country.



Sprint Unlimited



No one has a better price for unlimited plans including talk, text and

high-speed data among all national carriers. For a limited time, families can

get four lines of talk, text and unlimited data for $37.50 per line2.



Switch to Sprint



Consumers continue to have the opportunity to save 50 percent off most AT&T,

T-Mobile and Verizon standard rate plans when they switch to Sprint3. In

addition, Sprint will pay switching fees up to $650 per line4.



LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





