                              381 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            February 26, 2016 Friday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Pick of the best VR headsets and wearables from Mobile World Congress



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 394 words





While Virtual Reality (VR) headsets were the stars of the show at the 2016

Mobile World Congress, new smartwatches wore noticeably more thin on the ground.

Here's a roundup of the hottest devices from both fields on show at the trade

fair in Barcelona, Spain.



HTC Vive

First revealed at last year's MWC, the HTC Vive has finally got a price and a

release date. This virtual reality headset, developed in partnership with video

games studio Valve, will be available to preorder from February 29 for $799,

with shipping expected to start in April.



LG 360VR

Alongside its new G5 smartphone, LG also unveiled a pair of VR goggles that hook

up to the handset for instant immersion in 360-degree environments. The

headset's two small screens (960x720 pixels) simulate an image that's like

watching a 130-inch TV from two meters away. LG is yet to announce a price or a

release date for the 360VR.



Haier Watch

Haier presented its first smartwatch at this year's Mobile World Congress,

running the full Android OS rather than the Android Wear spin-off. This wearable

is similar in design to the Huawei Watch or the Samsung Gear S2 and it has an

onboard activity tracker (heart rate, calories burned, etc.). It should be

available with a choice of different straps when it launches in 2016, priced at

around [#x20ac]200 (approx. $220).



Garmin Vivoactive HR

Garmin unveiled a new connected watch that measures heart rate directly from the

wearer's wrist, as well as counting steps, measuring calories burned and

monitoring sleep. It automatically detects different activities such as walking,

running, cycling and swimming to keep track of performance on a day-to-day

basis. The Garmin Vivoactive HR is expected to ship in April for $249.99 in the

US or [#x20ac]269.99 in Europe.



Dot Watch

South Korean start-up Dot got MWC buzzing with its freshly unveiled smartwatch.

Compatible with both Android and iOS, this wearable is aimed at visually

impaired users, with pins that rise and fall on the display's surface to give

the time or other types of information in braille (alerts, notifications,

emails, etc.). It can also be used as a teaching device to learn the language.

The Dot Watch is slated to launch in 2016 and an e-reader based on the same

technology could also be developed.



(The Mobile World Congress ran from February 22-25, 2016, in Barcelona, Spain.

Website: mobileworldcongress.com)







LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





