                              383 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday

                               Australian Edition



Bots and PAs roll into limelight



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH, MOBILE WORLD CONGRESS



SECTION: AUSTRALIANIT; Pg. 28



LENGTH: 665  words





Gadgets rained from the skies at this year's Mobile World Congress at Barcelona

as the annual tech congress - traditionally the -domain of telecommunications

companies and mobile phones - gave way to the weird and the wonderful.



Smartphones still command plenty of respect, but here are a few devices that

also managed to turn plenty of heads.



LG Rolling Bot The Rolling Bot is a remotely controlled ball that records video

and audio as you move. It's -designed for LG's flagship phone, the G5, and you

control it with a smartphone. Being a ball, it should keep rolling along like

Old Man River, unless it gets stuck in a ledge or rolls into the sink. LG

promotes its little bot as a mobile home monitor. As long as you keep it away

from obstacles, you should successfully navigate around.



But it's not jet propelled, so don't -expect it to bounce up the staircase.

Would it ward off a burglar? If they saw it darting along they could throw it

into the rubbish or switch it off and pocket it for their own use.



But they may be perturbed that they were caught on remote camera and leave. As

for LG's claim that it's a pet monitor: sure, you can talk to your pet through

its in-built speaker, but hopefully your cat won't claw it or your dog bury it

in the back yard. It connects to home WiFi and Bluetooth and one of LG's claims

is that you can use it to remotely control connected devices.



It shoots eight megapixel stills and 1080p video. A 16 gigabyte -microSD card is

-included for storage. We may have to wait six months or more for Rolling Bot as

it is still under development. Pricing and availability is unknown.



Starship Technologies' delivery robot Forget menacing cyclists riding on the

footpath. Soon delivery -machines will zip past you on the pavement.



Skype co-founders Ahti Heinla and Janus Friis are -behind an internet-controlled

local delivery robot that can ferry the equivalent of two grocery bags.



Just as you track your phone or Uber taxi from afar, you can track groceries,

pizza or red wines from a local store to home from an app.



But what about security? Starship says your goods are safe because no one other

than the recipient can unlock the cargo. But could you prevent someone on the

street stealing the robot with the goods inside? Robot-napping might have to

become a crime.



Heinla and Friis say the robot can be overseen by human operators who would

ensure its safety. But if -humans are needed, why not just use a delivery boy or

girl and keep things simple?



They say the robot would travel at walking pace, just 6km/h. Navigation and

obstacle avoidance software would see it blend in with pedestrian traffic. In

the end, there's lots of challenges for a -delivery robot to meet. We'll see how

good the idea is when a rollout takes place this year.



Sony Xperia Ear Done well, a mobile digital personal assistant can be a new-age

experience. Apple offers Siri, there's Google Now and Microsoft Cortana and you

engage them as you need them: for dictating text, looking up maps and

information, and for commanding your phone to play music tracks. Otherwise you

forget they are there.



Sony Xperia Ear has the potential to take that further, to a place where a

personal assistant becomes an -ongoing conversation, a continual interface

between you and the world. In Xperia Ear's case, that means a perpetual voice in

your ear, reading your emails, the weather, missed calls and telling you about

Facebook updates.



It -interprets your world. Its success will depend on how well Sony -implements

this.



Sony tried a very early version of the concept with its Smart B-Trainer and,

sadly, it wasn't so hot. It will be several months before Xperia Ear comes to

market, so hopefully the user experience will be good by then.Sony Xperia Ear is

designed to work with newer Android smartphones, comes in several colours and

with a case that's an integrated battery charger. Sadly, being a tiny

Bluetooth-connected device, there are limits on battery life, less than four

hours from reports.



LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





