                              385 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                             March 20, 2016 Sunday



LG, Bang & Olufsen to launch new OLED TVs in 2017



LENGTH: 291 words





LG Electronics has teamed up with Danish luxury audio and TV maker Bang &

Olufsen to develop new organic light-emitting diode TVs, with the first set to

be launched next year.



The Korean tech giant said Sunday that the strategic partnership will take

effect from next year and last for five years.



The deal comes at a crucial time for both companies which are struggling to gain

traction amid sluggish sales.



LG's latest Ultra OLED TV



LG is making an all-out effort to elevate OLED TV sales.



The company has poured resources into the production of OLED TVs, while its

rivals such as Samsung and Panasonics still stick to liquid-crystal display TVs

for better profits.



Compared to LCD, OLED boasts perfect blackness and color contrast but its tricky

production raises production costs and TV prices.



Partnering with B&O, the maker of $8,000-plus TVs, LG is expected to further

beef up the premium marketing. The company aims to triple OLED TV sales to some

940,000 units this year.



B&O also hopes to cut costs by outsourcing its money-losing TV production.

Currently, the company produces some 30,000 TVs annually, while LG's production

exceeds 40 million units.



The company said the LG deal will lead to annual savings of 150 million kroner

($23 million) to 200 million kroner when fully implemented in the next three

years.



Amid speculations that B&O is seeking a new owner after years of profit losses,

its share price soared about 10 percent Friday following the partnership

announcement.



This is not the first time for the two companies to join hands.



LG's latest flagship smartphone G5, a modular phone that has an accessory slot

to allow users to upgrade camera and sound functions, has a hi-fi sound system

module that is produced by B&O.



By Lee Ji-yoon (



LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





