                              389 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Mercury News (California)



                             October 3, 2016 Monday



Apple iPhone 7 has worst battery life in its class: new report



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 416 words





ApplecsciPhone 7 sure is snazzy   until it turns into a doorstop.



According to a recent study of the latest high-end smartphones,cthe iPhone 7 is

worst in class for battery life, running out of juice faster than its rivals

during calls and web browsing.



cThe iPhone 7 may be touted by Apple as its best smartphone ever, as is

tradition, but sometimes your best just isnct good enough,c said a blog post by

Which?, a U.K. firm that conducted the research.



The firm measured the iPhone 7cs battery life   making calls and surfing the web

against that of competitorsc Samsung Galaxy S7, HTC 10 and LG G5.



cThe results were staggering,c according to cWhich?.



For making calls, the iPhone 7 lasted 712 minutes, compared to 1,492 for the

Samsung, 1,579 for the LG and 1,859 for the HTC.



During web browsing, the iPhone 7 stayed alive for 615 minutes. Here, Apple was

closer to its competitors than it was with making calls. But it still lagged

considerably. The LG went for 640 minutes, the Samsung for 677, and the HTC

again came out on top, with 790.



The research firm blamed the iPhonecs relatively poor battery life on the size

of the battery.



cSmartphone batteries are measured incmilliampere hours (mAh),c the companycs

blog post said. cThe iPhone 7 has a 1,960mAh battery, whilst the HTC 10 has a

3,000mAh battery: it should hardly be surprising that one battery nearly half

the size of another offers roughly half as much charge.c



Apple already got grief from The Guardian over the iPhone 7cs battery life   and

charging time. Although the online newspaper described the phonecs performance

asccsnappy,c it condemned the battery life as cpoor,c saying it was worse than

that of the iPhone 6S.



cTo get through 24 hours, youcll be forced to have a power adapter close by,

shove it in a battery pack or charge at your desk, which means you wonct be able

listen to music at the same time via cabled headphones   more on that later,c

The Guardian said. ccTo make matters worse, the iPhone 7 has the worst of all

worlds: short battery life and tediously slow charging. Even using the 12W

charger that came with the iPad Pro it took well over two hours to fully charge

the iPhone 7.c



c



Photo:cPhil Schiller, Applecs senior vice president of worldwide marketing,

talks about Applecs iPhone lineup during an event to announce new products,

Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2016, in San Francisco. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez)



The post Apple iPhone 7 has worst battery life in its class: new report appeared

first on SiliconBeat .



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





