                              391 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                              June 6, 2016 Monday



LG Electronics India hires Snapdeal's Saif Iqbal



BYLINE: Writankar Mukherjee



SECTION: STARTUPS



LENGTH: 432 words





KOLKATA: LG Electronics India has hired Saif Iqbal, Snapdeal's business head for

electronics, to shape its ecommerce strategy by December, people aware of the

development said.



The country's largest white goods maker plans to launch televisions, white goods

and smartphones exclusively for online sales so as to minimise conflict with

brick-and-mortar retailing, they said.



Till the time this article was published, LG Electronics India had not responded

to ET's email query in this regard sent on Friday.



Two senior industry executives said LG is one of the last big consumer

electronics brands in the country to adopt the online route.



They said LG was wary of this since it did not want to antagonise the

brick-and-mortar channel, but with online predatory discounting fizzling out and

ecommerce accounting for almost 30% of smartphone and 10% of television sales,

the company has decided to flesh out a full-fledged strategy.



"LG plans to partner with leading ecommerce sites like Amazon, Snapdeal and

Flipkart so that it can launch online exclusive models, control price and the

service experience," said one of the executive cited earlier. "It also wants to

float brand stores in these online marketplaces like the way Samsung has done.

While there may be some products which will be sold both online and offline, the

brand will ensure there are no arbitrary discounts."



Iqbal, an alumnus of Indian School of Business and IIT Roorkee, had built

Snapdeal's presence in white goods, consumer electronics and computers.



Last week, LG entered into an exclusively partnership with Flipkart for online

sales of its latest flagship smartphone, G5.



LG India managing director Ki Wan Kim had recently told ET that he had purchased

LG products from leading ecommerce sites and seen that there are issues with

installation and service. He had said the company will venture into online sales

if it becomes a mainstream sales channel.



LG promotes online sales from its own portal and has even issued an advisory

saying it does not vouch for authorised service support and guarantee

originality of the product purchased from any other website.



While LG has been a long leader in refrigerators, washing machines and microwave

ovens, last December the company overtook Sony to become No 2 in the Indian

flat-panel TV segment.



The company is looking to build its smartphone business.



LG's growth rate in India had been impacted due to low sales of white goods. In

2014-15, the company grew by 12% after three years of no growth. Financial

results for 2015-16 are yet to be declared.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





