
DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, March 6 -- To keep pace with changing times, LG wants to make a
difference with its latest flagship concept, the G5. Taking a leaf out of
Google's modular phone model, the concept looks as good as any of Android top
range phones. It has a 5.3-inch screen with a 2560 x 1440 resolution snugly
sitting inside an aluminium unibody.

If one pulls out the chin of the phone, it comes clean off along with a battery
inside. That chin can be replaced with any of the extra modules that LG sells.
One of the modules is Cam Plus, which adds dedicated camera controls, an
enlarged camera grip and up to 50 per cent extra battery life to the phone.
Another module made for audiophiles in collaboration with the audio company Bang
& Olufsen is called the Hi-Fi Plus, and it is a 32-bit DAC and amplifier unit
capable of outputting high quality beats using the included H3 B&O Play
earphones.

Another prominent feature is the presence of the dual camera unit on the back,
carrying a regular 16-megapixel sensor and a 135-degree wide angle 8-megapixel
sensor. It has Snapdragon 820 processor complemented by 4GB of RAM, 32GB of
internal storage that can be expanded. It runs on Android 6.0, and has a
2,800mAh battery.

Last year, with the launch of Galaxy S6 and the S6 Edge, Samsung wanted to prove
that it can make desirable phones out of glass and metal. In doing so, it had to
compromise on many fan favourites like micro-SD cards and water proofing.

A year later, the company wants to build on the great design without sacrificing
any functionality. So, the S7 and the S7 Edge look pretty similar to their
predecessors, albeit with curved backs which makes them easier to handle. More
importantly, they restore all the features that were missing from the
predecessors like water and dust resistance and use of a micro-SD card to extend
the internal 32GB storage.

Both the phones come with QHD Super AMOLED displays, but where the S7 is just
5.1-inch, the one on the bigger curvier Edge is 5.5-inches. The back camera is
downgraded from 16 to 12 megapixels which makes for a smaller bump on the back,
but Samsung ensures that it still makes good photos owing to better lenses.
Running Android 6.0, both the phones have Snagdragon 820 processors. They will
come with features like always- on display in black, gold or silver options.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

