                              403 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday



360-deg cameras and virtual reality devices



BYLINE: Lisabel Ting In Barcelona



SECTION: WORLD



LENGTH: 401 words





Smartphone companion devices like 360-degree cameras and virtual reality

goggles, and souped-up flagship phones dominated the announcements in the

lead-up to the Mobile World Congress 2016.



Korean tech giants Samsung and LG unveiled their first portable 360-degree

cameras a day before the opening of the world's largest exhibition for the

mobile industry in Barcelona, Spain, yesterday.



These 360-degree cameras allow users to easily create their own virtual reality

(VR) content for viewing on VR headsets, tipped to be the next big thing with

the imminent release of the Oculus Rift and the PlayStation VR set this year.



At the Samsung launch event, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg took the stage

pledging the social media network's commitment to support 360 videos.



"Pretty soon, we're going to live in a world where everyone (can) share and

experience whole scenes as if you're right there in person... That is why

Facebook is investing so much early on in virtual reality," said Mr Zuckerberg.



Specifically, Samsung showed off its Gear 360, a portable 360-degree camera with

two 15-megapixel fisheye lenses facing back- to-back. Content taken can be

viewed on the Samsung Gear VR headset released last November.



Meanwhile, LG unveiled the LG 360 Cam, which sports two 13-megapixel 200-degree

wide-angle cameras, as well as its first VR headset, the LG 360 VR. It also

unveiled other companion devices to its smartphones, including the LG Cam Plus,

an add-on camera module that gives users physical buttons to operate the phone's

camera, and the LG Smart Controller, which allows users to control drones.



The two Korean tech giants also announced the latest, souped-up models of their

flagship smartphones: the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge, and the LG G5.



Analysts think that companion devices like 360-degree cameras and virtual

reality headsets will take three to four years before they gain mainstream

adoption.



Ms Julie Ask, vice-president and principal analyst at research firm Forrester,

cited the high cost and the lack of an open ecosystem as the main obstacles.

"Not all of this technology is easy to set up or control via a mobile device,"

she added.



Mr Thomas Husson, vice-president and principal analyst at Forrester, said: "With

360-degree cameras, self-created virtual reality content will slowly emerge, and

entertainment firms will progressively create immersive gaming experiences."



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





