

LG G5

****

WHEN LG launched its G4 smartphone last year StarTech was left thoroughly
unimpressed.

This phone was about as bland as boiled rice and, although it had a great screen
and camera, we found it impossible to recommend.

Now LG is back with its latest G5 handset and, unlike its predecessor, this
phone certainly isn't boring.

With a removable bottom that lets you add extra accessories, this is the Swiss
army knife of smartphones.

It's clever stuff from the Korean firm with a simple tap of a button on the side
of the device letting you quickly swap the battery and add what LG is calling
"Friends".

Currently these include a camera and sound pack which slot with ease into the
base of the phone.

To make this magic trip happen, LG has had to completely redesign the G5 and
it's certainly an improvement over the bland G4.

This new device now has a curvaceous aluminium chassis which, from a distance,
looks impressive.

Sadly, when you get up close you realise the G5's metal body has been coated in
a type of plastic.

LG says this is to make the device more durable but we can't help thinking it's
a strange decision that cheapens what should be a stunning smartphone.

Luckily things improve when you switch this flagship on as the 5.3-inch screen
is a thing of beauty.

With a slightly curved finish, this QHD Quantum display looks fabulous.

The G5 also features always-on technology which means the time, date and some
basic notifications are displayed when the device goes to sleep.

Impressive

Samsung's latest Galaxy S7 also has this feature and it makes the display look a
whole lot more exciting even when you're not using it.

Another great feature on the G5 is the camera - this phone has three to play
with.

As well as the usual rear and front-facing selfie snapper, there's also a new
wide-angle camera. And with a flick of a switch you can suddenly fit more into
your photos. It's a great addition and gives the G5 a unique feature over its
rivals.

As we've come to expect from LG, the quality from the cameras is excellent and
you can even record home movies in full Ultra HD 4K quality.

With the latest Qualcomm 820 processor tucked inside you'll also enjoy a very
slick experience with the G5 breezing through your daily tasks while its
internal 32GB storage can be boosted to a mightily impressive 2TB.

Sadly, the battery doesn't hold up quite so well and you may find yourself
running low before the day is out - good job it's so easy to remove and replace.

VERDICT: THE G5 is a bold move from LG and they have to be congratulated.

No-one else is making a device that can be customised at the touch of a button
and for pure innovation we'd love to give LG top marks - but we can't.

Once again the design, with a plastic feel in your hand, is simply not good
enough, especially with the competition making some truly stunning phones.

The G5 is a big improvement over last year's G4 and fans of the brand are going
to love its bonus features.

We're just not sure LG has done enough to convince Samsung and Apple fans to
ditch their trusted devices.

