

NEW DELHI: South Korean technology giant LG Electronics will launch its first
action camera next month. Dubbed LG Action CAM LTE, the action camera's the
first of its kind to come with built-in LTE connectivity (hence the name).Due to
LTE connectivity LG's action camera can be used to live stream action footage to
video sharing websites such as YouTube, even without a smartphone. In addition
to that, theAction CAM LTE will also offer remote access functionality through
3G and LTE networks.

This will enable the action camera to be used as a CCTV camera for remote
surveillance, or even as andash cam.Users will be able to download the recorded
images and videos on their, provided the same has been paired with the action
camera.The Action CAM LTE has an IP67 rating for being dust and sand resistant.
In addition, it can also be immersed in water up to a depth of 1m for 30
minutes.will likely launch a handful of accessories for the action cam as well.
One of them is a fully waterproof case that will enable the camera to be used
for activities such as surfing and scuba diving. Then there's an optional mount
that will make it possible to use the Action CAMfor recording smooth videos
while attached to helmets, bikes, cars and other moving objects.The action
camera has a 1,400 mAh battery which is good enough for recordingvideos for up
to four hours.Key specs of the LG Action CAM LTE include a 1/2.3 inch 12.3 MP
sensor, 2GBand 4GB of on-board storage, which can be further expanded up to 2TB
using microSD card. Other than LTE, the action camera's connectivity options
include 3G,, Bluetooth 4.1 and. The camera also comes with GPS, accelerometer
and gyroscope.Apart from being able to live stream HDat 30fps, the LG Action CAM
LTE can also record video in multiple resolutions - HD (120fps), Full HD (60fps)
and Ultra HD (30fps).The Action CAM LTE is the latest addition to LG's 'Friend'
ecosystem of companion accessories, first introduced with its G5 flagship. It
will launch in South Korea next month, followed by key worldwide markets
including North America and Europe.Following the lead of, the most popular name
in action cameras, a lot of manufacturers have forayed into the field. Sony also
unveiled its athis year.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

