                              41 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



LG's groundbreaking phone that snaps right in two;

Digital life



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 859 words





Guys! Guy! I bet you didn't know I could dislocate my . . . (snap)



It would be taking things too far to say that LG has engaged in a bit of self

harm just to get a little attention in the overcrowded smartphone market. But

that is what came to mind when I played with LG's latest flagship phone, the G5,

at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. LG has gone to lengths to come up with

something different this time.



But what else was LG meant to do? It has been making interesting, high-quality

phones for years, with all sorts of snazzy innovations in them, such as genuine

stitched-leather backs, fingerprint scanners in the last place you would expect

to find them, and screens that can bend without snapping, and where has all of

that got the company?



Not precisely nowhere, but the company is still listed in the "others" category

in the IDC market share figures I just looked at, lumped in with companies that

aren't trying half as hard or coming up with phones half as good. So this year,

LG has gone hard core when it comes to snazzy innovation. This year, rather than

make a phone that can bend without snapping, it's made a phone that can snap

right in two.



Towards the bottom of the G5 there's a little button, and if you press on it

just right (and I do mean just right, because there's a bit of an art to it) you

can snap off the bottom of the phone, and slide it and the battery right out. In

turn snap the battery off the metallic bottom section, snap a new one on, and

voila! A full recharge in less than a minute.



It's not the first phone to have a user-removable battery, of course. Plenty of

phones have them. All of Samsung's Galaxy S phones had them till a generation

ago.



But this is the first unibody-style phone - in the same vein as an iPhone or

Samsung's recent Galaxy S models - to have a user-replaceable battery, which is

something.



Though I must say, having a quite visible crack around the bottom of the phone,

where the bottom attaches to the rest of the body, does rather undo the

aesthetic appeal of unibody design.



The three or four LG G5's I played with were all pre-production models, so let's

hope LG tightens up the manufacture and makes the crack less visible, bordering

on invisible. Now that really would be something.



Of course, the user-replaceable battery isn't the main reason you'd get an LG

G5, even if accessing the battery may prove to be one of its more enduring

merits.



The main appeal is the modularity that you get when you snap off the base of the

G5. You don't always have to replace it with the same base, you see, when you

take the battery out. You could replace it with, say, "CAM Plus" camera-grip

base, or the "Hi-Fi Plus with B&O Play" high-definition audio base, or any

number of different of different bases that LG may or may not come out with in

the future.



I've tried the G5 with both the camera base and the high-definition audio base.

I'll dispense with the audio base by saying that I couldn't hear a jot of

difference between the high-definition audio and the G5's regular audio, but

I've never been able to hear a jot of difference with any high-definition audio

products or services.



I just don't have the ears for it, and I'm glad I don't because it saves me a

lot of bother and money being an audio impurist. The camera grip, on the other

hand, now that I could find useful. When you snap on the grip, you wind up with

something akin to the Samsung Galaxy Camera, only without the zoom lens. The

grip makes the phone a lot easier to hold face-high, and you get a shutter

button and a dial for zooming in and out. The other novelty with the G5 is that

it actually has two cameras on the back, a regular one and one with a wide-angle

(135-degree) lens. When you zoom in and out using the CAM Plus grip, the G5 does

a digital zoom inside the frame of the camera, the way any phone camera zooms,

and then when it gets to the full extent of the zoom, it (almost) seemlessly

switches to the other camera for you and continues zooming.



It's a neat trick which, if nothing else, will have you from having to remember

that your phone has two cameras at the back. Not that you would. The wide-angle

camera, while it won't be your everyday camera, is useful enough that you'd

switch to it from time to time, for group selfies and the like.



The thing that gives me pause about the modular design of the LG G5 is not the

modules themselves, but the future. One of the chief advantages of having a

modular, snap-together design is that you can replace units when something

better comes along, without discarding your entire investment.



Does that mean that LG has married itself to this modular design, and that

you'll be able to snap all of your beloved modules into the LG G6 next year and

the LG G7 the year after that? Given the rate at which phone designs evolve,

particularly at LG, it seems unlikely the modules will still fit a year or two

from now, and LG isn't promising it will.



But that will be one, sure-fire way LG can attract attention to itself: come out

with an update to the G5 next year, that doesn't have the same snap-off base.



Guys! Guys! What if I pointed this gun at my foot and ... oh bugger!



LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This year, LG has gone hard core when it comes to snazzy

innovation.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





