                              420 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                              May 17, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung, LG vie at IT trade show



LENGTH: 335 words





Tech giants Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics are currently showcasing

their technical prowess at the World IT Show, an IT trade fair that kicked off

in Seoul on Tuesday.



Consumers are able to see top-of-the-line products by the two companies during

the event, the companies said.



Models pose with Samsung Electronics' virtual reality headset at the firm's

exhibition venue at the World IT Show trade fair that kicked off in Seoul on

Tuesday. (Samsung Electronics)



The two tech giants are in fierce competition in the Korean market and have been

rolling out a range of products including smartphones, TVs, and refrigerators.



Most recently, the rivals have been trying to take the lead in emerging tech

segments such as virtual reality.



Samsung released its VR headset Gear VR in partnership with Facebook-owned

Oculus last year and an accompanying 360-degree camera earlier this year.



Not to be outdone, LG rolled out a series of products, called Friends, earlier

this year. The Friends lineup consists of a mini drone, a rolling robot as well

as a VR headset and a 360-camera. More Friends products will be rolled out down

the road.



Visitors to the World IT Show, a tech trade show, use LG Electronics' G5

smartphone at the firm's exhibition venue. (LGE)



Samsung said visitors to the trade show can experience hands-on the VR devices

and VR videos made in tandem with theme park Everland at its exhibition venue.



The company is also displaying its top-notch home appliances including its super

ultra-high definition TVs and the Family Hub premium fridge that is equipped

with a 21.5-inch (54.6-cm)display on its right door.



LG is showcasing its premium home appliance lineup, dubbed the Signature,

consisting of organic light-emitting diode TVs, a washing machine that sports

dual tubs, and a connected fridge.



More than 400 companies, including mobile carriers SK Telecom and KT, automotive

firm KIA Motors and chipmaker Qualcomm, are participating in the trade show,

which will be held until Friday.



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





