                              421 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung, LG to announce Q3 earnings on Oct. 7



LENGTH: 280 words





[THE INVESTOR] Tech giants Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics, both of which

suffered a major setback in their mobile business in the July-September period,

are scheduled to announce their earnings report on Oct. 7.



Samsung is expected to spend 1.2 trillion won (US$1.08 billion) to make up for

the costs associated with the ongoing recall of the combustible Galaxy Note 7.



A market consensus for Samsung's operating profit stands at 7.62 trillion won,

up 3 percent from a year earlier, while the firm's revenue is expected to come

in at 50.85 trillion won, down 1.6 percent from the same period last year,

according to research firm WISEfn.



Riding positive initial momentum for its Galaxy Note 7 smartphone, Samsung was

expected to post 8 trillion won in sales at first, but the estimate now seems to

be a far-reaching goal as the tech firm is still struggling to pull itself back

together from the recent crisis involving the Note 7's explosive battery.



The firm's display and device solutions businesses, however, will likely post

strong earnings thanks to high demand for solid-state drives, 3-D NAND flash

memory and the price rebound of DRAM chips.



LG, which failed to gain growth momentum with its G5 smartphone released in

March in Korea, is expected to post 351.9 billion own operating profit in the

third quarter, up 16.5 percent from a year earlier. It is expected to log 13.84

trillion won in revenue, down 1.4 percent from the same period last year.



As Samsung has recently resumed its sales for the Note 7 and LG's high-end

smartphone V20 has hit the local market, it needs to be seen whether they will

be able to recuperate from their recent struggles.



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





