                              422 of 820 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Australian



                 November 1, 2005 Tuesday IT Broadsheet Edition



IT update



SOURCE: MATP



SECTION: FEATURES; IT Business / Computers; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 543 words





SOFTWARE



Virtual machine



VMWARE has upgraded its core data centre virtual infrastructure management

software, releasing VMware ESX Server 3 and VMware VirtualCenter 2.



The new releases sport VMWare's recent technical innovations to improve

availability of virtual machines, such as the ability to detect failed virtual

machines and automatically restart them on an alternate host.



ESX Server 3 can milk more power from x86-based dual-core processors and it is

compatible with more NAS and iSCSI networked storage hardware.



VMWare says the uprgraded scheduling and load balancing software can operate at

system resource use rates of more than 80 per cent.



Content manager



ENTERPRISE content management software specialist Tower has updated its flagship

product, TRIM Context 6.



The software is designed to help enterprises manage their electronic document

and records.



The latest version offers a Web Service Connectivity Toolkit, which complies

with Services Orientated Architecture development principles.



The management suite covers document and records, business process integration,

web content, email, collaboration and line-of-business applications



.



Data protection



STORAGE specialist EMC has launched an enterprise software application that

helps corporations to continuously protect data.



The software, EMC RecoverPoint, is designed to allow data centres to roll back

data in production environments.



The software consistently monitors and captures data written to production

environments and writes them in a parallel back-up storage space, EMC says.



RecoverPoint will be available at the end of the year.



HARDWARE



Small-end storage



STORAGE hardware specialist Quantum has released a series of disk-based backup

and recovery systems for small-to-medium companies.



The DX3000 and DX5000 back-up appliances ship as bundled disk arrays,

controllers, interfaces and system control and management tools to minimise

installation overheads.



The systems are designed for Exchange, SQL and Oracle database users.



Graphics power



APPLE is skewing its Power Mac G5 workstations towards industries such as

scientific research, that may require powerful graphics processing, such as

animation and visual effects, not to mention rendering technology used in film,

video, games development and 3D modelling.



The G5 will soon be available with NVIDIA's Quadro FX 4500 graphics card, which

handles up to two 30in Apple Cinema High Definition displays.



The NVIDIA Quadro FX 4500 has 512MB of video memory.



Triple-play wireless



NETWORK equipment supplier Nortel has begun trials in Japan showcasing wireless

technologies capable of delivering voice, video and data services.



It has teamed up with LG Electronics and BB Mobile to conduct the trials

northwest of Tokyo.



The companies want to demonstrate that it is possible to roam between 3G, WiMAX

and WLAN networks while using systems such as voice over internet protocol,

mobile television and multimedia.



"Our demonstration clearly shows that emerging wireless broadband technologies

can be economically harnessed to provide customers with uninterrupted access to

a wide variety of high-bandwidth applications," LGE mobile division executive

vice-president Jae Ryung Lee says.



LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2005



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



JOURNAL-CODE: AUS



                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited





