                              426 of 820 DOCUMENTS



              Copyright 2016 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved

                           GlobalData - SWOT Analysis



                                November 7, 2016



                                   Aixtron SE



                               Dornkaulstrasse 2

                               Herzogenrath 52134

                                    Germany



* * * * * * * * * * SWOT ANALYSIS * * * * * * * * * *

Strengths:



Equipment Revenue



   The company generates major portion of its revenue from equipment sales.

Equipment revenue accounted for 76.3% of Aixtron's total revenue in FY2015. The

company's product portfolio encompasses compound semi-conductors including

MOCVD, CVD and PECVD equipments, Nano CVD reactors; silicon semiconductors

including atomic layer deposition (ALD), atomic vapor deposition (AVD) and

chemical vapor deposition (CVD) systems; organic semiconductors consisting of

organic vapor phase deposition (OVPD) equipment; and nanotechnology products

including graphene and carbon nanotube deposition systems. Its products find

applications in LED applications, data storage, data transmission, display

technologies, communication, signalling and lighting, and energy management and

conversion. The company reported equipment revenue of EUR150.9 million in FY2015

as compared to equipment revenue of EUR148.5 million in FY2014, indicating a

year-on-year rise of 1.6%. The growth in the revenue was mainly due to doubled

equipment revenues for memory and logic applications and MOCVD equipment for the

manufacturing of WBG Gallium nitride (GaN) and Silicon Carbide (SiC) based power

management devices and increase in revenue from Nano CVD reactors MOCVD

equipment to manufacture other optoelectronic devices. The growth was mainly

driven by the demand for MOCVD equipment for LED manufacturing, the largest

contributor to equipment revenue, which contributed 26% to the company's

equipment revenue.



Focused R&D Activities



   Aixtron utilizes deposition technology and nano scale material engineering

for developing and manufacturing its semiconductor products. The company focuses

strongly on product development and research activities for bringing new

products into the markets. During FY2015, the company handled MOCVD equipment

related R&D projects for use in LEDs and for the production of wide band gap

materials for next generation logic and memory applications. Aixtron also

focuses on penetrating growth areas in the area of organic semiconductors.

Robust R&D enabled the company the installation and startup of the Gen8

demonstration tool for organic material; launch of an automated AIX G5+C

allowing a cassette-to-cassette operation; and to introduce an MOCVD tool for

the deposition of compound materials for logic structures (Three-Five-On-Silicon

TFOS). As of December 2015, the Company had 189 patent families of which 97 were

issued patents and 92 were pending for approval. To this end, the company

incurred an R&D expense of EUR55.4 million in FY2015. The company's investment

towards product and process engineering and development could enable it to

deliver innovative and technologically advanced products to cater the growing

needs of its customers.

Weaknesses:



Dependence on Few Customers



The company generates a significant portion of its revenue from its limited

customers, which increases the risks associated with a particular business

operation. In FY2015, the company derived 18.1% of its revenue from one of its

major customers. The loss of such significant customer would materially

adversely adversely affect Aixtron's financial condition. Any fluctuations in

such customers' loyalty may affect the company sales and lead to a decline in

the customer base owing to such dependence on a limited number of customers.

Opportunities:



Outlook: Semiconductor Market for IoT



   The company may stand to benefit from the growing demand for semiconductor

market. According SEMI's white paper on Semiconductor Industry from 2015 to

2025, the key semiconductors used in IoT applications include wireless

connectivity, controllers, and embedded nonvolatile memory. The strong growth of

semiconductors in IoT devices is driven by the need for more data. The

semiconductor and sensor markets for IoT have been witnessing an increasing

demand for ultra-low power (ULP) that uses specialty wafer processes. The global

semiconductor market is estimated to grow from US$342.7 billion in 2015 to

US$655.6 billion by 2025 at a CAGR of 6.7%. The semiconductor and sensor markets

for IoT are estimated to from US$27.6 billion in 2015 to US$114.2 billion in

2025, with a CAGR of 15.3%. Aixtron, being one of the leading global providers

of deposition equipment to the semiconductor industry could capitalize on the

growing semiconductor market.



Strategic Partnerships



   The company's reputation in the market makes it a preferred partner for

several large scale organizations across the sector. The reputation brings in

new opportunities for growth for the company. In April 2016, Aixtron tested and

installed its new organic vapor phase deposition (OVPD) system which is capable

of handling 200x200 mm substrates at Institut Lafayette. Institut Lafayette is a

part of the Georgia Institute of Technology international campus in Metz,

France; and Aixtron's custom built system installation helps to start its

operations. In March 2016, LG Innotek selected the company's AIX G5 WW

(Warm-Wall) reactor configured for 8x6-inch substrates to develop silicon

carbide (SiC) epitaxial wafers targeted at power devices for renewable energy

and automotive applications. Aixtron's AIX G5 WW vapor phase epitaxy (VPE)

system is based on its planetary reactor platform which has the highest

throughput and largest batch capacity in the industry. The AIX G5 WW VPE system

enables LG Innotek to cater to the rising demand for SiC-based systems from

major automotive manufacturers.

Threats:



Dependence on Suppliers



   Aixtron depends upon third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of certain

components, subassemblies and modules. The company requires these critical

components, subassemblies and modules for the manufacture or integration of its

products. Further the company does not have long-term supply agreements with

many of its suppliers. The company depends upon a limited number of suppliers or

a single supplier for these components. This could adversely affect the

operations of the company if there are any uneven changes if the suppliers are

unable to supply products reliably, if there are disruptions in international

trade, trade restrictions and import duties, disruptions at important geographic

points of exit and entry or any production and supply constraints leading to

additional cost burden on the company. The loss of significant suppliers of

products or key components, or their inability to supply the required

quantities, could result in a material adverse impact on the company's operating

results in turn affecting the financial.



Intense Competition



   Aixtron operates in highly competitive electronic equipment industry. The

company faces competition from a variety of other equipment companies. It

competes with Veeco Instruments Inc. in MOVCD market and also competes with a

number of Asian manufacturers including Taiyo Nippon Sanso, Jusung Engineering

Co. Ltd., Nuflare Technology Inc. and Valence Process Equipment. For emerging

organic semiconductor applications, Aixtron competes with established

manufacturers such as Ulvac, Inc., Tokki Corporation, SNU Precision, Sunic

System and others. For CVD, MOCVD and ALD technologies for silicon applications,

the company competes with a range of other equipment companies, including

Applied Materials, Inc., Tokyo Electron Ltd., ASM International N.V., IPS

Technology, Jusung Engineering Co. Ltd. and Hitachi Kokusai Electric Co., Inc.

Since many of its competitors have a longer operating history, greater brand

recognition, established customer and supplier relationships and greater

financial resources, it could become difficult for the company to compete with

them.



Rapid Technological Changes



   The technology market is subject to rapid changes, and to compete

effectively, the company must introduce new products that achieve market

acceptance. The electronic equipment industry is characterized by rapid

technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing market conditions

and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of

products using new technologies or the adoption of new industry standards can

make the existing products or products under development obsolete or

unmarketable. In order to remain competitive and increase its sales, the company

needs to adapt to the rapidly changing business environment.

* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *

Business Description                    Corporate Strategy

Company Overview                        Events

Financial Ratios                        History

Key Employee Biographies                Key Employees

Key Facts                               Locations and Subsidiaries

Major Products and Services             SWOT Analysis

Top Competitors



 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *



   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its

information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and

expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company

websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of

this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted

in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or

otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts

of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot

be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations

that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith

from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a

position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for

actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be

incorrect.



LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016





