                              427 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                     November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



LG G6 May Sport An Iris Scanner



BYLINE: Phalgunn Maharishi



LENGTH: 318  words





The smartphone's iris scanner is expected to be integrated into the camera

module itself, unlike the Galaxy Note 7 by Samsung.



Recently, reports started surfacing over the Internet hinting the drop out of

the modular design in LG's upcoming flagship smartphone, G6, which is expected

to be launched next year. The reports also claimed that the fall of the

company's current flagship smartphone, G5 and its modular accessories due to a

fact that users had to remove the battery to add in modules, was a reason for

the company to take this step.



While that was pretty much a shocker to most of us, a new report states that the

G6 smartphone could actually be bringing in the Iris Scanner in it, after the

Samsung Galaxy Note 7 device didn't do well in the market. According to a recent

post published on BGR, the reports suggest that the company has already started

working on the technology, while it is being said that the implementation of the

same may be different from that of the Samsung Galaxy Note 7.



It is also being said that, Korea's Digital Bakjeongil Times recently reported

that LG is planning an integrated iris recognition module mounted on

smartphones. This means that, the upcoming LG smartphone may be featuring a

single camera module unlike Galaxy Note 7's separate camera for the purpose of

iris scanning. For this to actually work, the company will have to actually add

in some sort of filter into the regular camera module.



However, no further details are yet available, including camera resolution,

sensor size, and aperture. But, with reports hinting at the company's decision

of moving out of modular accessories, this too may install a feeling of fear in

customers' mind. Who knows, when the company will pull it back again!



However, for more details, we may have to actually wait and watch until LG gives

a public announcement regarding its upcoming smartphone, G6 and its expected

features.



LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





