

Modular phone

LG has launched in the Philippines its first modular phone, the LG G5. LG
guaranteed its latest flagship smartphone will stand out in a sea of mobile
devices by making the LG G5 work like Lego - one which you can break apart to
attach other interchangeable accessories such as a slide-out battery and a
high-fidelity speaker.

First the basics: the LG G5 is encased in a full metal body and features a
5.3-inch display, 2,800 mAh removable battery, 4 gigabyte (GB) RAM with 32 GB
storage, and runs on a quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor.

What makes the LG G5 truly unique, however, is its dual-lens rear camera: one is
a standard 16-megapixel camera with 78-degree lens and an 8- MP one with a
135-degree wide angle lens. The latter is what LG claims is 1.7 times wider than
those of existing smartphone cameras and 15 degrees wider than the human eye's
field of view.

LG also launched what it calls "Friends" or modular accessories that can be
attached to the LG G5. There's the LG Cam Plus, which can be attached through
the battery slot to provide additional battery juice and at the same time turn
the smartphone into a digital camera, complete with physical buttons such as
power, shutter, record and zoom. There's also the LG Hi-Fi Plus, which is a
portable Hi-Fi DAC audio player developed in collaboration with Bang & Olufsen
PLAY that gives the phone high-definition audio playback capability. For
adventure-seekers, LG offers a 360-degree camera add-on that can shoot 3-D
photos and video, and a Virtual Reality accessory for viewing VR content.

The LG G5 comes in gray, titan, gold and pink variants and retails for P34,990.

Smaller flash drives

SANDISK has updated its lineup of flash drives with better form factor and
improved storage capabilities.

"Flash drives helped bring to consumers an option that was not available 20
years ago - to store large amount of data into smaller devices," Peter Mah,
SanDisk regional director for Asia Pacific, told BusinessWorld.

"The Filipino consumer has an insatiable appetite for storage. They're highly
engaged in social media. And since mobile devices have become the center of
their lives, digital storage becomes very important, that's why we're bringing
here our latest mobile storage solutions," he added.

The company introduced the next-generation iXpand Flash Drive, which is smaller
than last year's model, and sports a USB 3.0 connector for faster transfer
speeds to Mac or PCs.

The iXpand Flash Drive allows users to automatically back up their camera roll
and contacts, and watch popular video formats 3 straight from the drive. The new
drive also includes encryption software that password- protects files, allowing
people to share their content while keeping sensitive files secure across
devices4.

"More than 70% of users transfer files off of their iPhones to another storage
location," said Mr. Mah, citing a recent SanDisk consumer survey in the US that
found that many iPhone users are looking to free up more space on their phones.

The iXpand Flash Drive features a two-year limited warranty in the Philippines.
It's available in 16 GB (P2,799), 32 GB (P3,799), 64 GB (P5199) and 128 GB
(P7,999) capacities.

S7 alternative

SAMSUNG has refreshed its Galaxy A Series by incorporating features from its
popular Galaxy 7 smartphone range.

The 2016 iteration of Samsung Galaxy A5 and A7 feature the same metal- and-glass
construction of the S7 series and 13-megapixel rear camera with 1.9 aperture.

The Galaxy A Series is also powered by an Octa Core 1.6GHz processor and
fingerprint scanner. It is also LTE Cat6 for fast downloading and uploading of
high-quality videos and files. The Galaxy A Series is also Dual SIM hybrid with
an expandable memory of up to 128GB so you don't need to worry about not having
enough memory space. Samsung also equipped the A5 and A7 with fast-charging
batteries, which goes from 0% to 100% in just 110 minutes. The A5 retails for
P19,990 while the A5 retails for P22,990.

