                              433 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                              June 3, 2016 Friday



LG takes fresh guard to gain foothold in India



BYLINE: Gulveen Aulakh



SECTION: TELECOM



LENGTH: 399 words





LG Electronics believes it still has a chance to make a mark in the highly

competitive Indian smartphone market given the consistently strong demand, which

the struggling player hopes to tap through the eight phones that it plans to

launch this year.



About 10 months into his new role, Kim Ki Wan, managing director of LG

Electronics India, admitted that LG's absence in the high volume price segments

has hurt its position in the fastest growing smartphone market in the world, but

still believes there's enough room for smaller players.



"It is not late... every year Indian smartphone market is growing 10-20% while

global markets are flat. We're not in a hurry, but we should be different," Wan

told ET.



He was referring to industry expectations of about 220 million smartphone to be

shipped in the country this year, which makes 30% of the population, compared

with sales of around 100 million in 2015.



"Our focus will be on identifying consumers, their attributes and needs earlier

than our competitors and come up with new features, services and products, then

we can win the competition," said Wan.



LG lags way behind the pack of smartphones brands in India, with a 0.10% share

as of March 2016, as per Counterpoint Research. It has only two models in the Rs

5,000-Rs 15,000 price brackets, which make up 70% of the volume of smartphones

sold in India, and a very meagre presence in the Rs 15,000 to Rs 50,000 ranges,

which provide higher average sale prices.



Wan said the company will chalk out a five-six year strategy for the company by

the end of the year, which will outline the product strategy for mobile phone

including features, category and price range the company will look at to take on

the market. The new head wants mobile phones to contribute to about 10% to total

revenue, the same as washing machines, in future.



The company expects to touch a 10% share of the entire smartphone market within

a year on the back of three more models in the premium segment, among a total of

eight it plans to launch across price points.



Meanwhile, LG also plans to expand the capacity at its India manufacturing plant

and all future launches this year will be made from its local manufacturing

plant. A senior company executive who did not want to be named added that the

flagship LG G5, launched Wednesday, will be also be made in India, starting the

month-end.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





