                              435 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                           September 26, 2016 Monday



Samsung, LG likely to see contracted earnings in Q3



LENGTH: 414 words





[THE INVESTOR] South Korean tech giants Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics

are likely to see contracted earnings in the third quarter due to sluggish

smartphone sales, market analysts said Monday.



Local financial data provider FnGuide recently set the market consensus for

Samsung Electronics' operating profit for the July-September period at 7.6

trillion won ($6.8 billion). The figure is a more than 8 percent fall from the

same period last year and 1 trillion won below market expectations before

reports of the Galaxy Note 7 explosions.



"The recall may cost Samsung Electronics up to 1.5 trillion won, an equivalent

of around 4.8 percent of this year's estimated operating income," said Cho

Seung-bin, an analyst at Daishin Securities.



The LG Electronics headquarters in Yeouido, Seoul.



Following the recall issue, Hanwha Investment & Securities revised down

estimated sales figures for the Galaxy Note 7 in the fourth quarter from 7.5

million units to 6 million units. More than 200,000 local consumers have already

replaced their Galaxy Note 7 with new ones.



Samsung Electronics' local rival LG Electronics is also expected to report a

gloomy outlook in the third quarter, as sales of its LG G5 unveiled in March

continued to flop in the third quarter despite the solid performance of its home

appliances and televisions thanks to the scorching weather and the Chinese

holiday season.



FnGuide set the market consensus for LG Electronics' operating profit in the

third quarter at 371.5 billion won, a more than 35 percent fall from the

previous quarter.



"The deficits are predicted to widen in its mobile and communications division

due to sluggish sales in smartphones," said Koh Jung-woo, an analyst at NH

Investment & Securities.



The two tech giants, however, are expected to perform better in the coming

quarter, analysts predicted.



"Samsung Electronics may see solid performance in the fourth quarter, as rising

prices of the DRAM and NAND Flash may help its chip business recover," said Lee

Soon-hak, an analyst at Hanwha Investment & Securities.



LG Electronics is also expected to turn around thanks to a reshuffle in June,

the rollout of its new smartphone V20 and solid sales in its home appliances.



"LG Electronics may see a turnaround in the last quarter thanks to lowered fixed

costs following intensive restructuring in its mobile and communication division

alongside the rollout of the V20," said Kim Ji-san, an analyst at Kiwoom

Securities.



By Shin Ji-hye/The Korea Herald (



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





