                              437 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               The Saudi Gazette



                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday



LG Air Conditioners 'Scratch and Win' campaign kicks off



LENGTH: 469  words





JEDDAH - Shaker Group, the sole agent of LG Air Conditioners in the Kingdom,

launched its annual campaign "Scratch and Win" which includes cash discounts and

interesting prizes. Customers are entitled to the cash redemption for their

bought A/Cs, ranging between 20%, 30% and 50% in addition to many valuable

prizes on the daily draws run via the Shaker Group's social media platforms. The

campaign will last for two consecutive months starting from April 3, 2016. It

will be featured at Shaker Group showrooms and LG scattered outlets and Dealers

shops all-over the Kingdom. The campaign will include promotional activities in

the Kingdom tackling the Shaker Group's offers, products and services.



Shaker Group is used to launching such annual campaigns through which it

responds to the customers' demands and enrich their lives. Today, through the

"Scratch and Win" campaign, customer will get a special coupon upon his purchase

of any of LG A/Cs including the Wall Mount, Window, Floor Standing or the

Cassette A/C types. The coupon will entitle the customer to cash discounts and

fabulous prizes just right when he fills the required information by logging in

the campaign's official website. www.shakermegapromo.com



Jamil Bin Abdullah Al Molhem, Shaker Group's Managing Director, said "day after

day, Shaker Group strengthens its leadership in the Saudi market as one of the

top providers of total Air Conditioning and Home Appliances solutions, and this

campaign goes in line with the group's vision in this respect. Shaker Group

prides itself of the great achievement attained by LG Air Conditions since they

have been achieved the number 1 best selling A/Cs for the past 15 years. This is

coupled with the attainment of the ISO Award in the field of the superior

after-sale services provided by Shaker Group. These achievements emphasize

Shaker Group's goals and commitments to maintaining the high quality of its

products, superiority of after-sales services and competitive prices".



Al Molhem added "LG Air Conditions are known for their advanced technology and

attractive designs that elegantly meets the consumers' lifestyles requirements."



Maissam Hannawi, Vice President for Sales and Marketing at Shaker Group, said

"this campaign aims at promoting the LG's new Air Conditions devices that are

equipped with many advantages and smart specifications that respond the

consumer's expectations in terms of luxury, quality and energy saving. The

campaign is a real opportunity to win cash discounts and fabulous prizes

including the recently launched LG mobiles "LG G5", LG Air Purifiers and VIP

family trips to Atlantis Resort in Dubai including the air tickets and free 4

days full accommodations.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/52/146236531506.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/52/146236531506.jpg



LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1526





                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





