                              438 of 820 DOCUMENTS



                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)



                            January 2, 2005, Sunday



Hot picks of the year



BYLINE: By Hisham Harun



SECTION: Tech trek; Pg. 19



LENGTH: 1168 words





LAST year was a great year for techies with a rapid succession of new and

improved models of digital gadgetry, writes HISHAM HARUN



IF ONLY WE HAVE THE MONEY TO BUY new gadgets offering the latest feature

every time one rolls out! There were just so many new gizmos last year.

Some of the big boys even produced up to four models a year. This was

especially so with mobile phones.



First, we were offered a phone with a camera and even before the novelty

had faded, another phone came into the market, offering both still

pictures and moving video capabilities. Then came yet another, one that

swivelled, making it so much easier to take pictures or make short videos.



As these smart phones became more intelligent by the day, consumers were

left more and more confused and boggled by the many options available.



It was the same situation with the pocket PC, audio, television, laptop

and digicams industries. Potential uyers were thoroughly spoilt for

choice. Yet, on careful inspection, there were some that worked and some

that should have been made better before they landed on the racks.



A top favourite of 2004 is the iPod, of which we have seen so many

versions. The latest is sleeker, stores more music and comes in sweet soft

shades. Whatever the model, every tech and music lover worth his salt will

know how wonderful Apple's iPod players are. But these new tinier musical

delights allow you to bring enough music for a three-day weekend

getaway... which is about 1,000 songs!



In addition to the sugary pastel hues in green, pink and blue, it also

comes in gold and silver. The 3.6oz iPods have lightweight scratch-

resistant aluminum casings and have back-lit screens which display full

song names and more.



In the Pocket PC category, the XDA II reigns supreme. Initially, the HP

Ipaq models, which seemed to be wheeled out three or four at a go, were

the benchmark of all Pocket PCs. But the sad thing was that they were too

thick and cumbersome for the palm.



Quick to capitalise on the situation, the O2 people showcased their

super sleek metallic versions - minus the thick-andstick- out-antenna -

that bowled over executives and top management with their function-packed,

cool-looking gadgets.



Lots of storage space, camera and video capability, great design, Net-

friendly, what more could the man-on-the-go need?



About the time the XDA II was introduced, a smart mobile or PDA phone

was being presented to the world by Sony Ericsson. The P900, which in the

same year evolved into the P910, was ground breaking in terms of the

functions it offered.



A rehashed version of the P900, the P910 was smoother, smarter and

sexier.



It offered 64MB of memory, had dual processors, Bluetooth, a memory card

slot and VGA camera.



The P910 also allowed one to send longer e-mails; browse the web on a

large colour touchscreen, and take down longer notes using a wide variety

of input methods via a natural handwriting recognition program and

software text keyboard.



For couch potatoes looking to get the big picture, LG offered the

biggest in 2004 with its model, aptly called television grande. LG's 71-

inch gas plasma beat Sony's biggest older tube model, by 10 inches.



This flat panel is said to be one of the few sharp ones good enough to

display ultra-hi-res pictures without choppy interlacing. And just like

the huge Sony, this three-inch-thick titan is also a multi-tasker - it can

handle nine picture-inpicture windows from video sources.



In the personal computer division, everyone in the industry had been

raving about the delicious new Apple with the sweetest juice around.

Definitely cream of the crop.



Even before one got a taste of what the Apple iMac G5 could do, one was

smitten by its looks. The Apple people had taken out the motherboard,

chips and stuff from inside their upsidedown salad bowl CPU, packed them

behind their flat screen monitor, and dished out a delectably divine PC

like no other!



The Apple iMac G5 is clean, simple and stunning all at once. More

compact than other all-in-one desktops, it offered a 20-inch screen that's

barely two inches thick and desktop-calibre hard drive.



A Bluetooth keyboard and mouse allow you to go wireless, so you may

never need to connect to a wired keyboard and mouse.



What's more, G5's software package includes the iLife multimedia suite,

Zinio Reader and Quicken 2004. Thanks to its faster processor, it delivers

a speedier boost over the iMac G4.



More recently, iPAQ - trying to get into the forefront of the Pocket PC

groove again - launched its new HP 6300 iPAQ model which offered 64MB of

RAM with built wi-fi, something the XDA II doesn't have.



The wi-fi function allows rapid data transfer at Hotspots. This is a

great buy until the MDA III or XDA III rolls out.



A little snag about the HP 6300 is that it still comes with a protruding

antenna.



And the design is not as smooth or sleek as the XDA. But if you're a

function-over-form person, this gadget (which comes with Bluetooth and a

1.2 megapixel camera) is a perfect new toy.



For cameras, last year saw every major camera manufacturer worth its

salt going down the 8 mega pixel route - Canon's PowerShot Pro 1, Sony

DSC-F828, Konica Minolta Dimage A2, Olympus C-8080, Nikon's 8700.



It is difficult to choose because all have their own strengths. For

instance, while Sony has the best design, Konica has its shake-proof,

image-stabilisation function and so on.



Thus, decisions should be made based on what one likes and needs - like

compromising on camera steadiness for a longer zoom or settling for a

shorter lens just for brighter colours.



On the home theatre front, the B&K brand reigned supreme. Its new Series

2 amplifier ref 200.7 and receiver ref 50 combo are still among the best

in the middle range category. They are highlighted here because, when

combined, the two produce sounds that put them in the same league as some

of their upscale brothers which are easily three times more expensive.



This system offers audio reproduction of dialogue and dramatic action

sequences that are to die for. When one hears an earthquake on the silver

screen, it really rumbles. Earth shattering indeed when fixed to a great

set of speakers.



However, if you lack space in your home, then fall back on Bose's

voicecancelling wireless earphones. They are the bomb. And we mean it.

Explosions are... well, like explosions when you're using these plugs.



And if you just want some peace and quiet while on a long-haul flight,

wear these to cancel out the slight humming of the aircraft as you try to

nap. You might just sleep undisturbed until you reach your destination.



So there you have it - some of my very personal choices. You might have

your own favourites and you might not be wrong. Like I mentioned earlier,

there are just too many choices out there, with different functions and

programmes that appeal to some more than others.



Happy New Year.





LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



            Copyright 2005 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad





