                              439 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               New Indian Express



                            January 9, 2016 Saturday



The Year of Great Expectations



LENGTH: 714 words



DATELINE: Chennai





Chennai, Jan. 9 -- Smart Homes >>



Today, we randomly use technology to take care of our electrical appliances. The

only problem is that all the smart appliances are quite expensive. But now, with

Apple and Google pushing aggressively into the smart home market with the

smartphone as the centre of the universe, the component prices have also

decreased. So in the New Year, things would only improve and one would finally

be able to unlock the doors using the smartphone without having to fish out the

home keys.



Wearables >>



Every tech company is trying to find out the next big thing after the

smartphone. For some, the future lies with VR, while for others, the answer is a

wearable. Be it a smartwatch or a smart shoe, the companies believe that smart

wearables are the next milestone. Apple gave a big push to the idea with the

Apple Watch last year. Now with Apple Watch 2 set to see the light of the day,

and companies like Samsung and Sony too stepping up their game, this could well

be an interesting year for the wearables.



Focus on Phones



Be it changing status on Facebook or checking bank balance, we do almost

everything using the smartphone. This year too, the smartphone market is set to

create more buzz.



iPhone 7 and iPhone 6C >>



If things fall in place, Apple will launch iPhone 7 in September. It will not

only come out with a new design, but will also be thinner and faster than the

previous models. But will it do away with the iPhone jack? Will the home button

disappear? And will it be made of liquid metal? So before its launch, one will

have plenty to think about. In all probability, there will be an iPhone 6C this

year with a smaller iPhone 5-esque screen.



Virtual Reality/Augmented Reality Phones >>



Be it the new entrants Oculus or tech giants Samsung and Google, many companies

have been trying to make some Virtual Reality headsets for quite some time. No

one outside the tech bubble cared about them. Even with Google Cardboard, VR

failed to take hold. No one from the cheapest Google Cardboard to the costliest

Oculus Rift could figure out how to stop users from puking their brains out

while donning a VR headset.



This year, with better screens and powerful processors capable of playing video

at better frame rates, could see VR finally making it to the mainstream league.

And it is not just VR. With Microsoft promising to ship a developed version of

its HoloLens sometime this year, it could also be the year when augmented

reality, where we see images superimposed on real life objects, could enter the

popular imagination. The second generation of Google Glass also is set to be in

the market soon.



LG G5 >>



LG has been making some of the most admired Android phones recently. The next

iteration, the G5, is likely to be a stunner if we are to believe serial phone

secret leaker Evan Blass. It will reportedly come with a second screen for

notifications and stuff, will sport a full-metal body and the most surprising of

all, it will come with a 'Magic Slot' that will be used for the likes of 'VR,

360 and Party'.



Surface Phone >>



Microsoft is like the McDonald's of the technology world. Yes, it is selling and

making tons of money from its Windows and Office products. But the younger lot

don't want them anymore. They want something brand new. This year could see the

company coming up with its elusive Surface Phone. Will it be the dream phone to

make Windows fans swoon? Will it be the iPhone killer? Only time will tell.



Samsung Galaxy S7 >>



Samsung hoped that the Galaxy S6 will revive its fledgling fortunes. But it

didn't. They also expected the S6 Edge to do the trick, but even that failed.

Samsung will inevitably come back this year with the S7 and its curved sibling,

the S7 Edge. Both the phones are expected to be launched sometime in March

during the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and both the phones are expected

to be pretty similar to their predecessors. They will be packed with more

powerful internals, a bigger camera and the new USB C port for charging and data

transfers.



Matham is a tech geek.



Follow him on Twitter @AdarshMatham



Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.

                              All Rights Reserved





