

Samsung and LG, Korea's two electronics giants, had better-than-expected
performances in the first quarter, and behind the surprising results were their
meticulous strategies to cut costs, industry watchers said Tuesday.

These companies' sales have remained flat or even fallen but their operating
profits rose higher than what most analysts had expected, thanks to the strict
management of parts and components in stock and other cost-cutting efforts, they
said.

Company officials acknowledged it. 'When a business slump prolongs, it is the
management of the parts inventory that determines corporate bottom lines,' an LG
Electronics executive said. 'As we cannot know how long the sluggish demand will
continue, the company cannot help but draw up its manufacturing process in the
most conservative ways.'

Instead of betting on a wholly new model, companies often release alternative
products by slightly changing the existing ones and improving their functions,
in order to reduce costs and raise profits. 'In this way, businesses can make
the most of the inventory parts used for the existing models,' he said. 'If we
replace the previous model with a completely new one, the parts in stock will
grow and defect rates from new manufacturing lines will increase, pushing up
costs.'

In LG's first-quarter performances, sales dropped 5 percent from forecasts by
local brokerages but its operating profit rose 23.1 percent higher than
predicted. Samsung Electronics' sales, too, increased only 0.5 percent than
forecast but its operating profit was 19.3 percent larger than projected.

'Sales showed little difference from what experts had expected but profits were
surprisingly robust, which means the company put a focus on raising
profitability in the U.S. and Korean markets rather than expanding market shares
in emerging economies,' said Hwang Min-seong, an analyst at Samsung Securities.

Industry sources say the strategy is not entirely new and has been often used in
times of a business slump, citing Apple's iPhone 6 SE (special edition) and LG's
G5 SE, which were released at lower prices than previous models but produced
handsome profits because they used inventory parts. Samsung, too, applied this
formula to its Galaxy S7 phone, trying to maintain the appearance of the
existing product and sharply improving its performance.

The situation is similar with other home appliances, such as TVs, washing
machines and refrigerators, in that the makers minimized costs by focusing on
improving the performance of existing models rather than releasing completely
new ones, they said.

'We can adjust to a temporary slump by cutting costs and enhancing efficiency
through accumulated experiences,' said an executive at Samsung Electronics. 'How
long we can stand in this way depends on when sales recover previous levels.'

The end-producers' strict management of parts in stock is a bane for parts
suppliers, however, which saw sales and operating profits plunge. A local
brokerage estimated the operating profit of KH Vatec, which supplies parts for
the Galaxy S7, would plunge to 1.1 billion won in the first quarter, from 10.4
billion won a year ago. The operating profit of Samsung Electric, a parts maker,
was also forecast to drop to 68.3 billion won, 25 percent lower than an earlier
projection.

