                              442 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                             Lanka Business Report



                             June 11, 2016 Saturday



360 videos set to transform filmmaking, social media and news



LENGTH: 377 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, June 11 -- 360 degree videos, also known as immersive videos, are

expected to revolutionize filmmaking, social media videos and news reporting,

with Facebook this week allowing 360 photos to be uploaded by users.



The technology is fast growing in popularity with several affordable cameras

available on the market. The video from BBC below demonstrates the technology

where users can browse within the video.



Facebook said on its blog: "We introduced photos on Facebook more than a decade

ago, and they quickly became one of the main ways that people share their

experiences with their friends and the world. Hundreds of millions of photos are

shared on Facebook each day, from fun snapshots to photos of major life

milestones, and everything in between."



"Today, we're improving photos on Facebook so that people can share more

immersive views of their world."



Users can now simply take a panorama with a phone or capture a 360-degree photo

using a 360 photo app or 360 camera, and post it on Facebook like a normal

photo.



Facebook will then convert it to an immersive 360 photo that people can explore,

similar to how people experience 360 videos on Facebook.



The technology is set to transform filmmaking and news reporting, and some news

crews have already hit the road with their 360 cameras.



In terms of the gear you need, there are several options such as the LG 360 CAM

or the Ricoh Theta S. The LG 360 CAM appears to be the cheapest on the market,

priced at around 285 US dollars.



The LG 360 CAM is their virtual reality-shooting camera, launched as a 'friend'

to the G5 phone alongside its 360 VR headset. But owning a LG phone isn't a

prerequisite, and it can be used with an iPhone or, with some effort, on its

own, reviewers say.



The camera has two sensors pointing in opposite directions, one on each side,

and both are equipped with a fish-eye lens so that together they capture the

full spherical 360-degree image. LG doesn't provide much in the way of details

about what is inside, but with 13-megapixels each lens has a 206-degree view.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Lanka Business Report. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





             Copyright 2016 Vanguard Management Services (Pvt.) Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





