                              443 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                             March 18, 2016 Friday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Bang & Olufsen outsources TV manufacturing to LG



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 395 words





Bang & Olufsen, the Danish maker of upmarket sound systems and televisions, said

on Friday it had entered a partnership with LG Electronics to outsource its

production of televisions.



The struggling Danish firm, which said in November it was in talks with a

potential buyer, said the deal "will address Bang & Olufsen's key challenges

related to scale and complexity".



"Bang & Olufsen's total production is around 30,000 TVs per year... By

comparison, LG sells 40 million TVs per year," chief executive Tue Mantoni told

AFP.



Working with the South Korean company would allow the Danish firm to leverage

its economies of scale while remaining a niche, luxury brand, he said.



"We will work with them on innovation and technology in some of the areas where

it's important to be bigger," he said.



The group, which also makes sleekly designed speakers, soundsystems and

headphones, said it would now focus on its core know-how in design and

acoustics.



The move would result in annual savings of between 150 and 200 million kroner

($23 million-$30 million, 20-27 million euros), and would bring it closer to a

seven percent margin target for earnings before interest and taxes, it said.



The partnership's first TV using organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays --

screens that deliver a more vivid picture quality and consume less electricity

-- is expected to be launched next year.



The agreement gives the Danish firm "a good possibility to establish a

profitable and competitive production of TVs," Sydbank analyst Morten Imsgard

wrote in a note to investors.



"The deal gives Bang & Olufsen far better conditions to survive as an

independent company," he said.



In February, LG unveiled its first modular smartphone, the G5, which came with a

sound system developed by Bang & Olufsen.



Shares in the Danish company soared in November after it said it was in talks

over a potential takeover offer.



On Friday it said that the talks were continuing but that no binding offer had

been made.



Founded in 1925, the Copenhagen-based company has posted annual losses over the

past three fiscal years as more people listen to music on their mobile devices

and after failing to attract younger consumers.



In a bid to attact more young people, it launched the B&O Play brand in 2012

with the aim of selling headphones and portable speakers to "design-conscious

urbanites with an active lifestyle."



LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





