

LG has been serving India for quite some time now with its range of smartphones
in every segment. Sony used to develop smartphones on the expensive side, but
recently joined the bandwagon to provide similar experience as on the high-end
smartphone on cheaper smartphones. LG's L series did not take off as expected,
while Sony's Xperia series did not impress those looking for budget phones.

In a news that may not be surprising, but saddening, LG and Sony both have
decided to leave the entry level smartphone segment and focus more on the other
segments where sales are motivating. Both of them have shown decline over the
last few months and the market share of LG has dropped to 0.4% while Sony's is
at 1.5%, in 2015. The respective shares in 2014 were 1% and 4%, nothing to write
home about. Domestic smartphone size grew by 20% in 2015 and the leaders have
kept their positions intact.

Motorola, acquired by Lenovo, had also planned to follow a similar route,
despite of different reasons.

The entry-level market is one of the most important segments in India, where the
sales have been increasing every year. Better phones are being launched every
quarter claiming high-end features in low-end prices, which is making this
market very hot right now. The market is dominated by Samsung, Micromax, Intex
and Lenovo who have a market share of 26%, 16%, 10% and 9% respectively in 2015.

Sony and LG claim that the local players and Chinese handset makers are eating
away into their sales, due to high proliferation in the market and competitive
pricing. LG and Sony reek of quality, but fail to deliver the same in terms of
pricing and we have seen in the past that Sony usually prices its smartphones
higher than the usual norm.

"Sony Mobile has shifted its focus more on premium segment within the product
portfolio. The number of models will reduce as compared to last year as we shift
focus purely on the premium segment," was communicated by a spokesperson. Sony
does not have many exciting phones in the mid-range segments either, and the
only high-end smartphones in its kitty are Z5 and Z5 Dual, which come boast of
excellent camera, display quality and sturdiness. Sony needs time to streamline
its operations in India before venturing out into niche segments dominated by
other similar smartphone makers.

"We have our smartphone portfolio starting from a price point of Rs 8,000 and we
shall continue to bring new devices in this price segment. This is in alignment
with our smartphone strategy for India and all our future smartphones that are
in the pipeline are all aligned to this strategy,", said a spokesperson from LG.
LG too is restructuring its entry market division and plans to do thorough
research before launching a new smartphone in this category. The LG G5 launched
at MWC 2016, shows that LG can be one of the best in the premium segment, but
the Indian market does not accept low-end smartphones with no outstanding
features.

Recent entry of LeEco, Xiaomi and OnePlus have created a stir amongst the
citizens of India for offering high-end features in relatively inexpensive
smartphones. It is quite possible other players like Samsung face heat in the
market, however that is definitely not happening until the end of this decade.

