                              451 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  Daily Mirror



                            September 9, 2016 Friday

                                   Edition 1;

                                Northern Ireland



Perfect 10 are best in show



SECTION: THE BEAT;FEATURES; Pg. 7



LENGTH: 981 words





It's been a busy week of unveilings in the world of tech. On top of Apple taking

the wraps off of it's new iPhone 7 on Wednesday and Sony at last confirming the

existence of the PlayStation 4 Pro the same evening, last weekend also saw the

annual buttons and bratwurst fest that is IFA take place in Berlin. Here's my

pick of the new gear shown off at Europe's biggest tech expo. MOTO Z PLAY LG may

have only had modest success with the mix-and-match G5 handset, and Google this

week killed off its Project Ara concept, but Motorola nevertheless used IFA to

throw its weight behind modular mobile phones.



Much like the G5, the Z Play is a pretty solid high-end smartphone in its own

right that has interchangeable back plates.



These allow you to clip on different attachments called Moto Mods, with the

Lenovo-owned firm showing off a smartlooking lens add-on with a 10x optical zoom

built by German optics specialist Hasselblad. WELT SMART BELT First unveiled at

CES in Las Vegas in January, Samsung spin-off firm Welt used IFA to announce a

kickstarter campaign for its waistline-tracking smart belt.



Pledge $119 and, just in time for those post-Christmas diets, you should get

your hands on the discreet wearable which also tracks your eating habits, step

counts and the time you spend sitting.



TOMTOM TOUCH With dedicated satnavs being increasingly eclipsed by smartphone

apps, Dutch specialist TomTom has been moving towards making fitness trackers.

Its latest is the Touch, which has the USP of being able to display body fat

calculations. Pressing a touch-sensitive button sends a small electrical current

through your body which lets the wearable measure the balance between muscle

mass and fat.



While we are yet to see how accurate and reliable these stats are, the

innovative feature certainly one-ups rivals such as Fitbit. SONY XPERIA XZ Sony

rustled up a fair bit of excitement from phone fans by giving a debut to its new

flagship handset at IFA.



With a greater focus on its photography features than predecessor the Xperia X,

the Xperia XZ has a 23mp sensor and improved white balance performance. It also

has fancy five-axis image stabilisation technology which will help stop blurry

videos, is fully waterproof and has the added promise of an early update to

Google's latest Android Nougat operating system.



RAZOR STARGAZER WEBCAM You may wonder what a seemingly humble webcam is doing in

our top 10 picks, but this gamer-focused piece of kit was a major talking point

at the show.



Able to shoot at 720p at 60fps or 1080p at 30fps, it features Intel's RealSense

technology, allowing you to remove and switch backgrounds without the need for a

green screen. On top of that it can also work as a 3D scanner, allowing you to,

amongst other things, scan your face and directly port it into game worlds. It

also boasts built-in noise cancellation as well as Kinect-style gesture/ SONY

facial recognition. ACER PREDATOR 21 X If you were to make an ultimate wish list

for stuff you wanted from a top-spec gaming laptop, it'd probably read like the

Acer Predator 21 X's spec sheet.



ACER PREDATOR 21 X It's the most insane laptop we've seen. For starters, it has

a 21-inch curved display, while inside it's packing not one, but two

top-of-the-line Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 desktop-class graphics cards. Add a

transforming numberpad/touchpad and you've got the ultimate gaming laptop on

your hands - and it will likely cost the world when it launches in 2017.



PHILIPS OLED 901F Philips's first foray into OLED TV territory is a blinder. A

rich 4K panel for ultra-high definition movie playback, it has a sleek design

that lets this 55-inch screen slip into its surroundings.



That is, until you turn it on, at which point your living room bursts into

colour.



That's because Philips has packed its Ambilight technology into the display,

projecting colours matching the on-screen action onto the walls behind to fully

immerse the viewer in the action. Throw in Android TV smart functionality and

it's a winner. LENOVO YOGA BOOK It's hard to find anything truly unique in the

world of consumer tech these days but Lenovo's Yoga Book xcertainly is. The

hybrid XPERIA XZ l /bl k i l i l l i i laptop/tablet taken to its logical

conclusion, it swaps out the physical keyboard for another capacitive touch

display, essentially leaving you with a dual-screened device.



While full-size touch keys with haptic feedback may take some getting used to

for traditional keyboard warriors, Lenovo is also throwing in a top-notch stylus

too, making this as much a digital notepad or art device as a spreadsheet

smasher.



Rumours suggest the Yoga Book will launch (in both Windows 10 and Android

flavours) at a more affordable price than you may think. SAMSUNG GEAR S3 CLASSIC

The smartwatch revolution still isn't in full swing, but that's not stopping

Samsung from trying.



Running the company's own Tizen OS, the 1.3-inch screen Gear S3 Classic offers

an always-on look at the watch face through a Super AMOLED screen.



A rotating bezel lets you dive into app options, while a speedometer and

altimeter join the fitness-tracking sensors.



Samsung's also made the Gear S3 Frontier with a rugged build and LTE

connectivity for smartphone-free watch smarts.



PANASONIC DMP-UB700 4K BLU-RAY PLAYER It may not be much to look at but the

DMPUB700 has a killer feature - its price tag.



Panasonic's latest 4K Blu-ray player costs a relatively affordable £400, putting

4K disc playback within reach of even the casual movie fan. Future-proofed by

conforming to the new "Ultra HD Premium" specification, it has twin HDMI ports

for audio passthrough, and online connectivity for streaming in the latest HDR

shows and movies from Netflix.



ACER PREDATOR 21 X SONY XPERIA XZ PHILIPS OLED 901F LENOVO YOGA BOOK PANASONIC

DMP-UB700 4K BLU-RAY PLAYER RAZOR STARGAZER WEBCAM MOTO Z PLAY SAMSUNG GEAR S3

CLASSIC TOMTOM TOUCH WELT SMART BELT



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DMR





                            Copyright 2016 MGN Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





