                              453 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

                              Australian2 Edition



Facebook's next page: virtual reality



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH



SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 323  words





Friends living thousands of kilometres apart will be able to meet in a virtual

world under plans outlined by Facebook yesterday.



The vision, in a Facebook blogpost, coincided with the -appearance of Facebook

founder Mark Zuckerberg at Samsung's launch of its Galaxy S7 smartphone at

Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, an annual trade show spruiking all things

telco.



Samsung and Korean rival LG unveiled new premium smartphones - Samsung's Galaxy

S7 and LG's G5 - and also announced 360-degree cameras that let users create

virtual reality movies. Users watch the movies while wearing virtual reality

headsets.



Facebook owns Oculus VR, which has developed a high-resolution virtual reality

headset to be released in April. Working alongside Oculus VR, Samsung has

developed a lower resolution, mobile version known as Gear VR. The long-term aim

is to stream footage captured at one location and let people elsewhere in the

world immerse themselves in that environment.



Yesterday at Samsung's launch event, Mr Zuckerberg outlined how Facebook was

optimising video to reduce the drain on internet bandwidth to make virtual

interactions possible across the world. He said Facebook's technology would show

only that part of the 360-degree vista that a viewer was actually looking at in

the highest quality, instead of delivering the entire 360-degree video in high

definition. This capability would be brought to Samsung's Gear VR, he said.



In a blogpost yesterday, -Facebook said it was creating a team focused entirely

on the future of social interaction in virtual -reality.



"In the future, VR will -enable even more types of connection - like the ability

for friends who live in different parts of the world to spend time together and

feel like they're really there with each other," Facebook said.



Last year, Samsung organised for an electrical contractor in Queensland, to be

virtually present at the birth of his son in Perth.TECHNOLOGY P28-29



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





