

You'll get a thousand new Instagram followers with this!" promises the PR guy
for the Lumix CM1. Really? Awesome. With 180 followers after 17 weeks on the
photo-sharing app, that seems impossible, but it got me thinking: would a better
quality camera increase the number of people wanting to see the random and
varied photos of @jaynedarcy?

I grab an LG G4 and start shooting. First: the annoyances.

1. The LG G4 is hand-achingly wide, but I'm used to the narrower iPhone 5, which
is similar in size to the Lumix.

2. The photos on the Lumix seem brighter when I take them, but get dull when I
add them to pre-filter Instagram.

Now, the cheers.

1. The Lumix recognises that I'm often posting photos to Instagram and quickly
offers that link at the top of each photo. Clever.

2. The Lumix has a sliding "camera" button on the side, so you can get straight
into it.

Total followers after experiment: 226. See #techknowreview on Insta for photos.

THE VERDICT The Lumix is the one I turn to for an Instagram-worthy snap. One of
the photos I take with it breaks my record of likes (48!).

CHECK THIS OUT

In need of some Insta inspiration? Check out Instagram Rabbit Hole on wired.com,
which picks some of the best of the 300 million Instagrammers out there. In
terms of popularity, not surprisingly, @instagram has the most Instagram
followers, with 144 milllion; @selenagomez has 69.3 million, followed by
@taylorswift with 69.1 million.

LG G4 RRP $799

Has a 16 megapixel front camera and 8 megapixel selfie camera. Interesting
leather back - which I accidentally nicked, boo. It would be nice if, like the
Lumix, it realised that you are using the camera mostly for Instagram and
offered the link on the photo. Needs quicker access to camera. BTW, the LG G5
will be out soon.

LUMIX CM1 CAMERA PHONE RRP $999

Has a 20 megapixel front camera and 1 megapixel selfie camera (hence the
smooth-faced selfies, no doubt). Gets "wow" comments when you're out and about
with it and makes you look like a professional Instagrammer. (And yes, that job
does exist). Great filters. I usually chose the image taken with this camera
over that taken on the LG G4.

