                              462 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                              May 27, 2016 Friday



HTC 10: 7 reasons you should consider buying it



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 453 words





HTC is trying hard to make a comeback and its latest flagship - HTC 10 , seems

to be a step towards that only. The smartphone has the right combination of

power and aesthetics. For HTC loyalists, the flagship launched in India within a

month of its global launch, so it wasn't that long of a wait either.The

smartphone has all the right features to compete with the likes of Samsung

Galaxy S7 , S7 Edge, LG G5 and Apple iPhone 6s. The HTC 10 will be available

starting June 5.The market for flagship smartphones still continues to exist, as

cheap Chinese devices aren't to everyone's liking.



That said, here are seven reasons why you should consider buying the latest HTC

10.1) Full metal designHTC 10 is among the best devices the Taiwanese smartphone

maker has ever designed. The phone's design is a combination of One A9 and M9,

having a full metal unibody with a curved back. Build quality is extremely good

and the device looks premium and stylish.2) Great displayHTC has put the best

possible display to its flagship HTC 10. The phone sports a 5.2-inch QHD super

LCD (5th generation) display with a resolution of 1440x2560 pixel and Gorilla

Glass protection. It is at par with Samsung's Super AMOLED panels, found on

flagships such as the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge.3) India gets the global

versionWhile Samsung launched the Exynos processor toting variant of its

flagship Galaxy S7 in India, HTC has ensured that India gets the Snapdragon 820

powered version of the HTC 10. Built to perform, the device boasts an AnTuTu

Benchmark score of over 1,30,000.4) Virtually unlimited storageHTC 10 comes with

4GB of RAM and is available in 32GB and 64GB internal storage variants. Not just

that, the device supports microSD cards of up to 2TB ensuring users don't face

any storage issues.5) Nexus-like user experienceHTC 10 has a very clean user

interface. That's because the latest version of the company's new sense UI is

very similar to stock Android, and delivers an almost Nexus-like experience. It

also includes some handy extras. For instance, a new preloaded app called Boost+

clears up junk files and frees up memory. It can also be used to lock individual

apps with fingerprint. This means that everything from WhatsApp to photo gallery

can be secured by fingerprints.6) High resolution audioWith the HTC 10, the

company has ensured that its flagships offers great audio via the external

speakers. The BoomSound enhanced speakers are loud and and support high

resolution audio. HTC has even included hi-res certified earbuds with the

flagship.7) Competitive pricingHTC 10 is priced quite competitively. At a price

of Rs 52,990, it is cheaper than the Samsung Galaxy S7 and LG G5.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





