                              463 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)



                             July 1, 2010 Thursday



Hello, sunshine! Talk about energy savers



BYLINE: TED KRITSONIS



SECTION: GLOBE MEGAWHEELS; CAR GIZMOS / BLUETOOTH SPEAKERPHONES; Pg. G5



LENGTH: 483 words





Your car is likely to spend many hours soaking in the sun's rays during the

summer months and beyond, so it might make sense to harness that energy into a

Bluetooth speakerphone. This trio of solar-powered hands-free Bluetooth

speakerphones are meant to keep you talking with your hands on the wheel.



LG HFB-510 Bluetooth



Solar Car Kit



$79.99



Available at: Best Buy



Much like the others in this group, LG's solar speakerphone needed to be

initially charged the old-fashioned way (three hours) because it would take more

than 30 hours to do it with sunshine alone. Suctioning it to a windshield on a

full charge with the solar panel facing out means the battery should be topped

up regularly. On average, it takes about two hours of sunlight for each hour of

talk time (between 14-16 hours).



Pairing it with your phone via Bluetooth is easy. As a speakerphone, voices

comes through clearly, though background noise from within the car is audible to

the other side. It can speak out contact names of incoming callers, but only

with certain phones - BlackBerry worked, but not the iPhone.



IOGear Solar Bluetooth Hands-free Car Kit



$49.99



Available at: Amazon.ca,



Newegg.ca, Dell.ca and



TigerDirect.ca



One of the best features in IOGear's unit is the option to pair two phones at

once. This means a driver and passenger can be connected to the speakerphone, or

a solo driver with both business and personal phones can pick up whichever one

rings.



Unlike the other two units here, this one won't announce callers' names, and the

overall audio quality of the speakerphone isn't quite as consistent. Noise

reduction and echo cancellation are fairly decent, but louder environments and

chatter in the car with other passengers can make it difficult for the listener

on the other end. On quieter drives, the unit performed much better.



Charging through USB zips by in just over two hours, whereas it requires about

25-27 hours of pure sunlight for a full charge. You can suction it to a window

or clip it onto your visor.



Scosche solCHAT



Speakerphone



$109.95



Available at: Apple Store



As with the others, it's best to charge the solCHAT via USB first to get a full

battery, so it can be kept reasonably topped up with the sun, even though it

charges slowly. Having the included in-car charger in the glove box is a good

idea.



Despite being the loudest speaker of the three, the solCHAT does have momentary

echo effects, though it's not common enough to render conversations incoherent.

It will tell you who is calling by name, but only with phones that allow you to

transfer your contacts to the solCHAT via Bluetooth. Otherwise, it will just

state the caller's number.



In turn, you can dial a number by voice - so long as your phone has a supporting

feature to enable it.



Plus, the device knows to shut itself off when your phone is out of range, and

turn on when you enter the car again.



LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





 Copyright 2010 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





