

NEW DELHI: Recently, it was found that a bug named QuadRooter puts almost 1
billion Android handsets at risk. The vulnerability, discovered by security
company Check Point, is said to give hackers access to user's personal
information by remotely rooting the smartphones. According to the company, the
security bug affects devices with Qualcomm chips, which are installed into
devices during the manufacturing process.

The flaw includes four vulnerabilities, any of which can be used by hackers to
take control of a smartphone. Now, Google has reportedly given its stance on the
matter claiming that the threat is not as serious as it has been projected.

The search giant, as reported by Tech Insider, has said that out of the
aforementioned four vulnerabilities it has fixed three issues as a part of the
August Android OS security update. The fourth vulnerability will be fixed in
September's security update.

Although Google is already sending out fixes for the bug, it still remains
unlikely that all the 900 million smartphones would receive the update. Google
adds that its 'Verify Apps' feature would also be ruling out the malicious apps.
The feature will scan the apps before installing them on the handset. Verify
Apps is switched on by default.

However, those users who have older versions of Android OS running on their
handsets (older than Jelly Bean) would have to manually activate the 'Verify
Apps' feature.

The QuadRooter vulnerability affects smartphone drivers which control
communication between the various chipset components. Check Point recommends
users to download and install the latest Android updates as soon as they become
available, avoid side-loading apk files, read app permission requests carefully
while installing apps and more.

Some of the latest smartphones that are said to be vulnerable to QuadRooter are
Samsung Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 Edge , OnePlus 3, Google Nexus 5X, Nexus 6, Nexus
6P, LG G4, LG G5 , LG V10, OnePlus One, OnePlus 2, OnePlus 3 and more.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

