                              465 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  Daily Mirror



                             August 9, 2016 Tuesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                Northern Ireland



Bug trouble;

Hackers could take control of 1 billion smartphones



BYLINE: RUKI SAYID



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25



LENGTH: 239 words





ALMOST a billion Android phones and tablets could be taken over by hackers after

security flaws were found in their design.



Big brand models including Sony, Google, LG, HTC and Blackberry are vulnerable

to four major bugs in chips made by US giant Qualcomm.



If a rogue app was installed on the device it could access all of its data -

including photos, passwords and personal details - and control the camera and

microphone.



The flaw is in the way the different parts of the phone's electronics "talk" to

each other. It allows a malicious App to behave as if the phone had been

"rooted" - away of bypassing all the security built into Android.



Israeli specialist Check Point, who discovered the four vulnerabilities, named

the flaw Quadrooter and released a free app to test if a phone or tablet is

safe.



They revealed the find at a US security meeting after giving chip-maker Qualcomm

time to devise a fix. Head of cyber security Michael Shaulov said: "It's always

a race as to who finds the bug first, the good guys or the bad."



Brands at risk include Sony (Xperia Z Ultra), HTC (One, One M9 and 10), LG (G4,

G5, and V10, Google Nexus (5X, 6 and 6P), BlackBerry (Priv and Dtek50), Motorola

(Moto X) and OnePlus (One, 2, 3).



Samsung is only affected in the US.



Android maker Google said three of the bugs were fixed in its latest security

update, adding: "Our systems help block applications that exploit holes like

these."



ruki.sayed@mirror.co.uk



LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: AT RISK Nexus 5X



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DMR





                            Copyright 2016 MGN Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





