                              469 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The National



                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday



LG 360 VR headset: Stylish but compares badly against Samsung Gear VR



BYLINE: John Everington



LENGTH: 445  words





John Everington



BARCELONA // In these early days of virtual reality, LG's 360 VR headset,

unveiled on Sunday, is a lightweight and relatively stylish option compared with

the Samsung Gear VR, as well as the numerous other VR headsets inching their way

closer to launch.



It's a shame therefore that the unit I tested at the Mobile World Congress

offered a deeply underwhelming VR experience, one that, in its current

pre-launch incarnation, offers a very poor showcase for the nascent technology.



On the plus side, wearing LG's headset doesn't involve putting a strap over and

around your head like the Samsung Gear VR, resembling instead the VISOR worn by

Geordi La Forge of Star Trek: the Next Generation.



While Samsung makes you strap your Galaxy smartphone to the front of the

headset, the 360 VR connects instead to the LG G5 via USB cable, making the

headset significantly less heavy to wear.



So the 360 VR is lighter and more stylish than its Samsung rival, although style

is relative when you're wearing a screen on your head oblivious to what's going

on around you.



But how does LG's VR experience compare with that of Samsung? In a word, badly.



o Virtual reality gear is turning heads at Mobile World Congress



The trade off with the 360 VR's lack of straps is significant light leakage

around the edges of your field of vision. The result is that the viewing

experience is utterly non-immersive, immediately negating a key aspect of the VR

experience.



Matters aren't helped by the fact focus adjustment is achieved by manually

twisting the eye pieces, a fiddly and frustrating process that involves a lot of

trial and error and repeatedly taking the headset off and putting it back on

again, compared with the simple focus adjustment wheel on the top of Samsung's

headset.



Once you've achieved the right focus and found a dark corner to prevent light

leaking in, the 360 VR offers a VR experience that is, simply put, mediocre,

with low resolution, significant lag, and juddery movement. While viewing the

still 360 image of the LG stand (taken with LG's 360 Cam) was fine, the

rollercoaster video demo rendered very poorly.



It's worth repeating that the LG 360 VR headsets on display at MWC are

pre-launch models, and that company has a few months (June is the current

expected launch date) to iron out bugs.



LG shouldn't underestimate the amount of ironing that lies ahead of it though.

Taking Samsung's Gear VR headset for a spin 12 months ago was a transformative

experience that sold me on VR's potential. Those experiencing VR for the first

time via LG's new headset, in its present incarnation at least, are far less

likely to be convinced. [#x200b]



jeverington@thenational.ae



LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 818





                     Copyright 2016 Abu Dhabi Media Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





