                              470 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)



                           October 23, 2008 Thursday



BMW smoothes out flagship's design;

Where the outgoing 7 was startling, even jarring, the incoming one is comforting

and elegant



BYLINE: JEREMY CATO, jcato@globeandmail.com



SECTION: GLOBE MEGAWHEELS; PREVIEW: BMW 7-SERIES; Pg. G5



LENGTH: 1065 words



DATELINE: DRESDEN, GERMANY





Among gearheads and even casual auto observers, BMW design chief Chris Bangle is

a lightning rod. He sparks passionate responses - and not all of them are

friendly.



He's been called "reckless," "a failure," the champion of a BMW design language

that features "hideous wedges and triangles" and "flame surfacing" that has "led

to revolt among BMW drivers and among Internet forums," as one reader recently

put it to me.



Oh, yes, the American-born design boss has his detractors. In fact, at one time,

more than 14,000 people had signed an online petition to have him fired. BMW has

never admitted it, but it is clear that in answer to the critics the company

toned down some of the extreme design details in a 2005 reworking of the

7-Series car introduced in 2001.



Bangle weathered that storm and remains reluctant to discuss these matters in

much detail. Besides, he has more admirers than critics. For instance, just last

year Bangle and his BMW stylists won the prestigious Red Dot award as Design

Team of the Year.



This is a big deal. The competition attracts thousands of entries every year,

all vying to get the nod for continual design innovation. Former winners of the

team award include LG Electronics, adidas, Pininfarina, Nokia, Apple and

Siemens.



But the real measure of Bangle is found in sales and profits. It's one thing to

sign an online petition, but quite another to sign a cheque on a car designed by

Bangle's team.



The fact is, BMW has been making plenty of money even as Bangle and his team

have transformed the look of every vehicle in the BMW lineup, while making some

enemies along the way.



This decade, BMW has rung up a string of profitable years and, while 2008 looks

challenging thanks to global economic issues, it still expects to achieve a

return on sales of 4 per cent for 2008 - after earning nearly $5-billion (U.S.)

in 2007.



In business, awards like the Red Dot are nice and they are fun to celebrate. But

the final scorecard has two columns: sales and profits.



BMW's profits, while under obvious pressure and sagging a bit here as 2008 winds

down, remain very real. As for sales, just a few days ago, BMW said it is "well

on course" to achieve its goal of selling 1.8 million cars in 2012 - up from 1.5

million last year.



In driving those sales, BMW has particular interest in one key new model - the

2010 7-Series set to go on sale next spring. Its exterior look has certainly

been toned down compared with the previous model.



The man who did the exterior design is, in fact, a young protégé of Bangle's,

Canadian Karim Habib. This 7 is a more classic look, he says, pointing out that

it is the right look for these particular times.



Classic? Or conservative?



Make no mistake, while the outgoing 7 has been a relative sales success with

some 350,000 sold worldwide since being unveiled in 2001, it is worth pointing

out that the fourth-generation 7, the outgoing car, was outsold last year by the

rival Mercedes-Benz S-Class (85,500 units) and Lexus LS (71,760). In 2007, BMW

sold fewer than 50,000 of the 7-Series.



This latest 7 will not spark the same visceral explosions as the old one. BMW is

returning to simple, sleek lines, eschewing the "tearful" headlights and the

over-the-top curves of the lower lid. Most of all, the new design has once and

forever tidied up the bulging trunk lid that critics dubbed the "Bangle butt."



Where the outgoing 7 was startling, even jarring, the incoming one is comforting

and elegant. This may in some way reflect the exterior designer himself.



Habib, a former world-class fencer whose family emigrated from Lebanon before he

caught the eye of Bangle while still attending design school, was recruited into

BMW based on sketches for an original take on a violin. Habib has carefully

combined some key elements of the German auto maker's 3-Series coupe and the

5-Series sedan in the new 7. Then he's added some original flavour.



Well-heeled, status-conscious but somewhat-conservative buyers might very well

fall in love with it. Those are the buyers BMW wants now. Unlike in 2001, this

time around BMW does not need the 7 to make a radical break with its past - to

create interest beyond BMW's traditional customer base.



What we know is that BMW's most senior management took this redesign very

seriously. Six competing design teams submitted potential designs and, in the

end, Habib's survived an exhaustive evaluation process that consumed the

attention of the entire management board.



The challenge with all BMWs, says Habib, is to create a look that expresses

"authenticity and engineering precision," a car that says it is powerful,

dynamic and modern using traditional BMW elements of "stance and proportion" -

that is, the long nose and short deck, most importantly.



Aside from the exterior, though, the flagship of BMW's line also has some

radical innovations under the skin. The auto maker plans to introduce a thermal

imaging camera that spots stray pedestrians at night, as well as offering

Internet access and four-wheel steering to tighten the turning radius.



Thankfully, BMW has continued to refine its controversial iDrive system, adding

extra buttons to make it easier to point and click through various menus on the

in-dash display. BMW has now wisely added a button mounted near the armrest for

instantly controlling the vehicle's suspension system, climate control,

satellite navigation and entertainment systems.



The problem is, iDrive - as well as similar systems offered by Mercedes, Audi,

Infiniti and others - is fundamentally flawed.



To operate so many of the car's functions, the driver needs to take his or her

attention off the road, fiddling with an array of choices presented on the

screen. Thus, it is critical to set all the car's functions before you start

driving.



In fairness, BMW keeps working on its iDrive system and it is getting better.

What choice did the Bavarian auto maker have?



Keep in mind, the competition for buyers of luxury sedans has never been more

intense. Aside from entries by Mercedes and Lexus, Audi is readying a new

version of its A8 and there is talk Infiniti is looking at reintroducing a model

to replace the former Q7 sedan.



BMW's intent is to ignite new passion for the 7 despite its rivals. What this

car won't do is set off a firestorm of protest and derision - the likes of which

we saw with the introduction of the last 7.



LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Illustration



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





 Copyright 2008 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





