                              475 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               The Sun (England)



                              June 5, 2016 Sunday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Scotland



XA in a class by its selfie



SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 49



LENGTH: 248 words





HT e HTC Desire EYE, £184 at one digitals.



t d s a era ck er The 13M on and on tW www.h-co.uk The Eye has 13MP camera the

back and another the front. What's more, both cameras have a dualcolour LED

flash and sensors work in low let you take a selfie by just speaking.



Dmor cam hav colo flas sen that well Clever setting l light. lever settings le

Say "Cheese" for a photo and "Action" to shoot video, all handsfree. And before

I forget, it's waterproof, too.



act LG G5, free on contract ee.co.uk£449 (no contract) at carphone warehouse.



ga o L free o at ee or £ cont car warec LG's la ship clever shot fo Som camera

when spot yo ing, whe w n wa w ve. one s when it recognises and focusyour face

(or several faces group selfie). It's acom latest flagship has a auto for

selfies. Some front cameras shoot they you smiling, others when you wave. This

shoots focuses on for a selfie). automatic. Not the shot you wanted? Keep

framing and it will keep snapping, roughly every two seconds.



iPhone 6s, from £539 at apple.



Apple iP 6s from£5 appl com/Apple's facingca is just but it h clever e feature

many o phones don't.uk frontfacing camera5MP has a extra feature that other

Instead a de a dica dedica flash l the HT the iPho works out wh colour light

would help the shbest, and flashes the screen at greater brightness than the

displacan usuallymanag of dedicated flash like HTC, iPhone what shot a display

usually manage.



The result is the best selfies the iPhone has ever taken. See it to believe it.



LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SUN





                    Copyright 2016 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              All Rights Reserved





