                              478 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                The Irish Times



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



100,000 to attend Mobile World Congress to see latest Samsung, LG and Sony

devices



BYLINE: Pamela Newenham



SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 426 words





Almost 100,000 people are expected to attend Mobile World Congress in Barcelona

this week, with companies such as Samsung, LG and Sony due to unveil their

newest cutting-edge smartphones and tablets.



Under the over-arching theme of Mobile is Everything, the event will examine

topics such as 5G, digital commerce, disaster response, enterprise mobility,

gaming, the internet of things, machine learning, security, smart cities and

virtual reality/augmented reality.



The chief executives of AT&T, BT, Cisco, Huawei, Stripe, Vodafone and WPP are

all confirmed to speak at the four-day event, with the speaker line-up also

including Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, Getty Images chief executive Dawn

Airey, BuzzFeed founder Jonah Peretti and PayPal president Dan Schulman.



Among the most highly anticipated keynote sessions is a presentation by Qualcomm

president Derek Aberle, who will be joined on stage by three-time Formula One

World Champion driver Lewis Hamilton, to discuss how wireless technology is

transforming the future of consumer automotive through motorsport.



"We have an outstanding line-up of chief executives confirmed for this year's

Mobile World Congress, including several who are first-time keynotes at

Barcelona," said GSMA chief marketing officer Michael O'Hara. "This year's

speakers will share insights on a range of hot topics in mobile, from mobile

identity to the internet of things, from digital inclusion to industry

disruption, from network evolution to entertainment, among others."



Samsung released its Galaxy S6 to great reviews at last year's Mobile World

Congress, and this year it is expected to follow up with the Galaxy S7, while LG

is due announce its new G5 Android smartphone.



For the first time in MWC history, the event will showcase drones within the

exclusive Drone Zone.



Mobile World Congress 2015 was a record-breaking year, with more than 94,000

attendees, 2,199 exhibitors and more than 3,800 journalists and industry

analysts.



Elsewhere, as part of Galway Mayo Institute of Technology's (GMIT) annual New

Frontiers pitching competition and awards ceremony, GMIT will host a free

one-day conference on the internet of things. With more than 34 billion devices

expected to be connected to the internet by 2020, and almost $6 trillion

forecast be spent on internet of things solutions over the next five years, it

is a hot topic.



Speakers will include VT Networks founder Mark Bannon, Sigfox UK and Ireland

sales director Kevin Maher, Firmwave chief executive Fintan McGovern and

WebThings Group director Justin Tisbury.



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times

                              All Rights Reserved





