

Security flaws that could give hackers complete access to a smartphone have been
found in the microchips of millions of Android devices, researchers claim.

The computer security firm Check Point told a hacking convention in the US that
it had found a bug - which it calls QuadRooter - that could affect up to 900
million Android phones, including some made by BlackBerry, Google and LG among
others, which is caused by vulnerabilities in the processor chips used in those
phones by the US firm Qualcomm.

There is no evidence that the problem has been used by cyber criminals.
According to Check Point, if a "malicious app" installed on the affected phones
could exploit the vulnerabilities, it could "give attackers complete control of
devices and unrestricted access to sensitive personal and enterprise data on
them".

The alleged weakness, which is linked to the code that controls communication
between different parts running inside a phone, is believed already to be the
subject of a fix or "patch" being built by Qualcomm to remove the issue.

The chipmaker is yet to officially comment on the issue.

Check Point also suggested that the Android platform as a whole - which is open
to dozens of different manufacturers and software developers - was part of the
problem, with updates taking too long to pass through the system.

"This situation highlights the inherent risks in the Android security model,"
the firm said. "Critical security updates must pass through the entire supply
chain before they can be made available to end users."

The security firm has encouraged users to keep their phone's software up to date
in order to keep it secure, and said it had also created a free app called
QuadRooter Scanner, which can check whether a user's phone is at risk.

Michael Shaulov, head of mobility product management at Check Point, told the
BBC: "I'm pretty sure you will see these vulnerabilities being used in the next
three to four months.

"It's always a race as to who finds the bug first, whether it's the good guys or
the bad."

At risk? The models that could be vulnerable Among the models thought to be
affected are: Nexus 5X, Nexus 6 and Nexus 6P Motorola's New Moto X (left) HTC
One, HTC M9 and HTC 10 LG G4, LG G5, and LG V10 BlackBerry Priv Samsung Galaxy
S7 and Samsung S7 Edge (US models) Sony Xperia Z Ultra (right) Blackphone 1 and
Blackphone 2 OnePlus One, OnePlus 2 and OnePlus 3

