                              481 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                              July 31, 2016 Sunday



Sony brings camera, audio competency into Xperia X Performance



BYLINE: By Lee Min-hyung



LENGTH: 367 words





The photo shows Sony's latest flagship handset, Xperia X Performance, taking a

picture of a moving object by using its 'predictive hybrid autofocus' function.

/ Courtesy of Sony Korea



After a years-long slump in its smartphone business, Sony appears to have

finally found what it needs to focus on.



The Xperia X Performance, the latest flagship handset of the Japanese

electronics giant, clearly reflects what Sony's core competencies are: audio and

camera functionality.



Last month, the company launched the premium Android handset on the global

stage, replacing its previous Z series in a bid to find new momentum through the

new X lineup.



It remains to be seen whether the high-end smartphone will bring a potential

rebound to the firm's handset business. But one thing looks to be clear; the

device comes with what Sony fanboys have sought after - a combination of camera,

audio and design.



As Sony Korea CEO Osamu Morimoto said in its launch event last month, the X

Performance comes with a sleek metal back and a five-inch full high-definition

(FHD) display.



Its curved glass edges make the device glimmer in the light, completing its

sophisticated design.



The touch screen is smooth and sensitive enough to enjoy basic messenger

applications and web surfing without any lag. Xperia X Performance is equipped

with the Snapdragon 820 application processor and Andoid 6.0 Operating System

(OS), which is the same as its Samsung and LG counterparts - Galaxy S7 and LG

G5.



Sony distinguishes the device from other premium smartphones by equipping it

with a 23 million megapixel rear camera, allowing users to take more vivid and

clear shots.



The device appears to be the best option for those, who prioritizes bright and

realistic photos. The X Performance allows them to not just take a clear shot of

stationary objects, but moving ones as well through its 'predictive hybrid

autofocus' function.



Sony's other core competency is audio technology with which the company adopted

dual front-facing speakers for the X Performance, generating a more powerful and

vivid sound performance. The device also comes with noise cancelling headsets

with which users can also enjoy its undisturbed, clear audio experiences.



LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





