                              486 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                             March 22, 2016 Tuesday

                                Kolkata Edition



TV Sales Figures Indicate Sony Losing the India Plot



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 628 words





Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



Sony is now at third position in the Indian flat panel television market, ceding

the long-cherished number two slot to South Korean rival LG. The Japanese

electronics giant attributed this development to a change in business strategy ,

which places a greater focus on the premium segment and an eye for value over

volumes.



Industry experts and analysts, however, have begun casting doubts on the Bravia

maker's future growth potential in India given that the digital camera business

has lost steam due to the invasion of smartphones -a business where Sony had a

big presence, but has scaled it down, leaving only televisions as the category

to rely on.



As per market tracker GfK, LG has overtaken Sony in overall flat panel

television sales for the December 2015 to January 2016 period in both value and

volume. By volume share, LG had around 25% as compared to Sony's 18%, and by

value, LG has overtaken Sony by a short margin of around 1%. Samsung is the

market leader with around 27% volume share and 30% value share. Data for

February is yet to be released.



Sony officials said the company, unlike Samsung and LG, does not give GfK sales

data from its exclusive stores, which account for 20% of the company's flat

panel sales. Sony India managing director Kenichiro Hibi said if the sales

contribution from Sony brand shops is included, Sony would definitely be the

number one player by value in flat panel sales. However, Sony was number two in

GfK's data preceding December without including sales from Sony's exclusive

stores.



"Being a premium player, our focus has never been to gain volume share but

retain our value in the market. In alignment



with our strategy , Sony is the absolute number one player in 32-inches and

above segment with the same conditions," Hibi said. Quoting data, he said Sony

is leading . 25,000-plus flat panel TV segment.in the ' Company officials said

Sony lost share in the 22-inch segment where it reduced focus due to

commoditisation of the segment and is instead focusing on the 40-inches plus

segment since consumers are moving to larger screens even in smaller towns.



Sony said it will focus on smart televisions this year and launch internet

functionality even on 32and 40-inch TVs, while doubling the number of television

models manufactured locally .



Earlier this year, Sony offered voluntary retirement to its entire smartphone

team and has decided to shrink the business to only the mid-to-high end segment

in select stores and its own outlets. As per tracker Counterpoint Research,

Sony's share in Indian smartphone dropped to 1% in the October-December quarter

as compared to 3% a year ago.



Counterpoint Research senior analyst Tarun Pathak said Sony has been cutting



down on its portfolio and marketing spend as it was sandwiched between Apple and

Samsung in the flagship segment and a strong competition from Chinese players in

the mid-segment.



"With upcoming launches such as LG G5 and Xiaomi Mi5, it is likely to face more

pressure within Android flagship segment. However, Sony's upcoming model

reinforces its strength in camera capabilities, but the brand needs much more

than that to stand itself from rest of the competition," Pathak said.



The chief of a rival brand said Sony has scope to gain ground in India due to

its brand value. "However, such a strategy on relying on just one product may

hit their revenue growth rate in India, since television sales gets that major

spike only when there are big sporting events which doesn't happen every year,"

he said.



Hibi said while television will still be foremost in contributing to Sony

India's sales which he expects will grow upwards of 10%, the company is building

categories like PlayStation gaming consoles, headphones and personal audio.



LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





