

Chatterbot, WowWee, $50

Having a Fairy Godfather blathering away by your computer might work for kids
doing homework -- since we know all they're doing is chatting with friends
anyway -- but it could wear thin with your cubicle neighbours at the office.
Also in dog/cat and devil/angel versions, the Chatterbots come courtesy of
WowWee, maker of flying and grounded robots. With more than 2,000 keywords,
jokes and different actions in their repertoire, some of it at about the level
of bathroom humour, it plugs into the USB outlet on a computer. It can synch
with your calendar and comment on upcoming events or add batteries and plug into
an MP3 to work as a standalone speaker. Works with PCs or Intel-based Mac
computers. The perfect gift for someone you'd really like to annoy with a steady
stream of wacky banter. www.wowwee.com

iWave Cube, $130

At one cubic foot (.03 cubic metres) and taking up the space of two small
computer speakers, it's a portable microwave so you don't even need to leave
your desk to heat up those nachos. Just what you need after sitting at your
computer for hours -- an excuse not to stand up to heat some food. Don't blame
us for that aching back. Weighing only 5.5 kilograms, it plugs into a standard
outlet and comes with a built-in carrier handle and a view-through door.
www.sharperimage.com

LG Rumour, $75 with a three-year plan with Bell Mobility

With a full QWERTY keyboard, a camera, camcorder and MP3 player, the Rumour is
an all-in-one cellphone. The keyboard slides out, offering access to Facebook
and it comes with Windows Live Messenger pre-installed so you can keep up your
social networking on the go. The Rumour is Bluetooth capable with a four
gigabyte expandable memory port. It's available now through Bell in both white
and black, with SaskTel and Virgin Mobile slated to add it to their lineups
later this year. Check it out at www.ca.lge.com.

Westinghouse Digital 26'' LCD HDTV/DVD Combo Unit, $600

For the cottage, the boat or the dorm room, this is another all-in-one and this
time it's all about entertainment. A trim package houses a high-def television,
with front loading DVD player and multiple HD input connectors including two
HDMI. It delivers 1366-by-768 resolution. At:

www.westinghousedigital.com

gshaw@png.canwest.com

