                              49 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                            February 9, 2016 Tuesday



LG G5: 6 things we are hoping to see that will change the stance of flagship

smartphones



LENGTH: 1627  words





With LG G5 expected to be announced at MWC 2016, let us take a look at the

features that are expected to be present inside the 'soon to be released'

flagship



By Mohammad Omer -



MWC 2016 is where smartphone heavy hitters like LG and Samsung will appear to

showcase their flagship products. During this event, which stretches for less

than a week, we are expecting that LG G5, the South Korean smartphone maker's

upcoming flagship is going to be announced, and in the process, will sport

several new features that will put Samsung and other manufacturers at the tip of

their toes. Here are 6 things that we are hoping to see from the upcoming

device.



*Remember, in this topic, we will be shedding a small amount of light on LG G5's

hardware specifications because with a new generation smartphone, you will

naturally get better internals. Instead, we will be focusing on the software and

other features, like battery, since those contribute extensively to the overall

user experience.*



You guys most likely saw this one coming, but seeing as how G4 and V10 sported

the same capacity, LG G5 will likely raise the bar with a higher capacity. Our

belief is that the capacity is going to be somewhere between 3,500 and 3,700mAh.

Since transitioning from nickel based batteries to lithium ion, there has not

been much change in improving battery life, although we have seen several

advancements in this particular category, we have heard nothing that can

actually be used in commercial products. It is almost as if smartphone

manufacturers themselves do not want such advancements to be present in their

products otherwise their devices will stop being sold (in an already saturated

and highly competitive market).



Chip manufacturers have managed to improve battery life through the production

of smaller lithographic processed SoCs and other components, but it looks like

battery life improvement is the least important component, at least in their

books. Looking at these facts, it appears that LG G5 will not have an improved

battery life in terms of the material used, but we are expecting a larger

capacity as compared to the smartphone's predecessors. In light of the flagship

smartphones that feature non-removable batteries to provide the best possible

build quality, LG is one manufacturer which not only provides a removable

battery, but an expandable storage slot too, which is a terrific combination.



With Samsung experimenting with its curved edge display, we believe that LG G5

will have the same secondary display that was present in the company's V10. This

was a new concept introduced by a manufacturer and while we have seen

dual-display smartphones (those ones include one side of the smartphone running

Android, while the other one is running an E-ink display), having a secondary

display actually adds more depth to your experience. V10 featured a 2.1 inch

display featuring a resolution of 160 x 1040 pixels. We are glad that V10 went

with this approach, because a curved edge display would mean that they would

have been slapped with a lawsuit from its South Korean rival Samsung and the

thickness from one side of the handset would have shrunk, making it quite

difficult to grip the device unless of course you invested in a custom designed

after-market case.



Since this approach is relatively new, it will obviously take a while before app

developers start taking advantage of this secondary display. However, the fact

that this display has an 'always on; mode, LG V10 made it extremely easy for

users to get access to a myriad number of shortcuts ranging from settings, and

other applications. This made things extremely flexible and rather than

repeating three-four steps just to reach an app, LG made a relatively simple way

of accessing a multitude of things. With the secondary display, users will be

able to view what kind of notifications and apps should be present so that they

can immediately be informed of their reminders for the day, or any other event

that is expected to take place at that time.



Another thing that we liked about this display is that it is placed

horizontally, so you never have to tilt your phone in order to check out the

notification (much like what you had to do with Samsung's edge series of

smartphones). However, if there was one change that we would like to make

regarding the material used for the display, it would have to be to start using

Super AMOLED, which not only looks good, but conserves battery life too. Super

AMOLED displays are expensive, so expect an immediate price increase if LG does

manage to use this material.



The strange thing about V10 was that it happened to be one of the most

underrated smartphones of 2015. However, we have to say that LG incorporated

some amazing camera tools inside its second flagship. Both camera modes, which

includes still image capturing and video recording possessed their own custom

controls, giving smartphone camera enthusiasts the best possible treat that they

could ask for (the kind that you see in DSLR cameras) in tweaking out their

images and videos to produce the best possible results. LG has always given

smartphone users their fair share when it comes to the camera sensor and with

its G5, we should expect even more controls to be added. Given below is what we

believe should be added to the camera software:



We are certain that as future updates get released for the smartphone, it will

result in an even better camera experience. As for the front camera sensor, we

expect to see the same controls, along with the same two-lens incorporation that

was present in V10.



Now that we have sorted the software side of things, let us move onto something

that we believe will make the smartphone better from a hardware perspective.



Looking at how both G4 and V10 featured a 16MP rear sensor, we should expect

that LG G5 is going to retain the same amount of megapixels, while improving the

overall sensor. If you read through our Samsung Galaxy S7 specifications and

feature round-up post, we mentioned that the company might reduce the number of

megapixels from 16MP to 12.3MP and that is not a bad trade-off by any means.

Less amount of megapixels actually means that more light will be able to enter

the sensor per pixel, resulting in a champ of a smartphone camera in low and

high-light conditions. Smartphone cameras have always suffered in low-light

environments but with recent technological advancements, this suffering will be

a thing of the past.



Another variable which is responsible for light entering the sensor is the

aperture. Smartphone cameras have fixed apertures and it appears that LG G5 is

going to possess a 16MP rear camera sensor with an aperture of F/1.7. This is

the same aperture value that is expected to be present inside Galaxy S7 and it

is definitely going to be the first smartphone camera to have such a wide

aperture. EIS (electronic image stabilization) and OIS (optical image

stabilization) is both expected to be present inside G5, along with a laser

autofocus that will have a lightning fast tracking ability in focusing on the

subject that you intend on capturing.



As for the front sensors, we could see the aperture widen up to F/2.0, but since

your primary shooting will be carried out with the rear camera, there is not a

whole lot of improvements that LG can cram inside those two sensors present at

the front end.



Lots of security experts and smartphone enthusiasts state that if you want to

best possible security and experience, go for a Nexus. While that is true, other

manufacturers have started to focus more on security and performance, but when

they place their own UI on top of Android, it gives rise to several things; like

bloatware, or in other words, the addition of unnecessary applications that chew

up system resources and add up to the internal storage like there's no tomorrow.



LG has improved its UI quite a bit, but if they tone down the amount of

pre-installed applications present in its G5, as well as provide an option that

will allow you to remove those apps without the need to root the smartphone, it

will definitely be a welcome feature and perhaps increase its chances to sell

well. We know that LG G5 is going to be running an updated version of Android

Marshmallow, giving rise to better performance and features that were already a

part of the operating system update. Let us see what kind of changes are going

to be added to the software so we can update you accordingly.



Since LG G5 will definitely feature Qualcomm's Snapdragons 820, it will have the

following connectivity features included:



We already debriefed on how the 802.11ad Wi-Fi is going to be revolutionary

standard that is going to eclipse 802.11ac and we should also expect a Bluetooth

4.2 chip to be a part of the hardware.



During MWC 2016, when LG G5 will have its features showcased, a lot of the focus

will be present on how the camera of the smartphone performs. We believe that if

you are in the market and looking for a handset that will outshine the

competition in every way possible, then we have complete that G5 will be able to

do that without breaking a sweat. However, bear in mind that with so many

features, it will obviously come with a very hefty price tag. For the unlocked

model, you should keep around $800-$900 present in your wallet.



Tell us what you believe will be present in the smartphone. We will wait for

your comments.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/54/145509546374.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/36/145509546387.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/88/145509546457.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/36/145509546537.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/80/145509546549.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/31/145509546611.jpg







http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/43/145509546625.png







LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





