

Get ready for a wireless, 3-D, mind-controlled future. The gadgets of tomorrow
were unveiled last week at the annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las
Vegas - the world's biggest technology convention.

CES is where technology trends are set, and the developments we can look forward
to in 2009 have become clear: out will go tangled audio and video cables, in
will come high-speed, highdefinition wireless link-ups between your computer,
Blu-ray player and home cinema system.

Televisions will be able to turn themselves off automatically when they sense
nobody is watching them, and will shrink to anorexic proportions, while their
displays bust out into three dimensions. This sets the scene for yet another
format war, as rival standards for 3-D films and games tussle for supremacy.

Everything that needs electricity will be either solar-powered or dynamopowered,
will have a solid-state memory and will look ever so slightly like an Apple
iPhone. Of course, touchscreens are going to be everywhere - cameras, PCs and
mobile phones.

The first mind-controlled gadgets made their appearance this year, and you don't
have to be clairvoyant to predict that they will be the must-have toys of 2009..

LG-GD910 Touch Watch Phone Eurn/a uk.lge.com

We didn't ever think a Dick Tracy-style watch-phone would become a reality, but
LG has answered our sci-fi prayers. Its Touch Watch is both a watch and a
mobile, with a 1in touch-sensitive screen, a built-in camera and a 3G data
connection for video calling (the screen is too small to be much use for
browsing). A microphone and speaker let you use it (by your mouth) for calls,
and two hours' talk time is claimed between recharges. Not much larger than a
regular watch, it looks modish.

Minoru 3D webcam Eur50, www.minoru3d.com

Videoconferencing is cheaper than flying, and now you can virtually teleport
yourself into someone else's office, or zoom into your living room to talk to
your family. This webcam has twin cameras to capture a stereoscopic image, which
gives the illusion of depth and allows you to make video calls in three
dimensions. Viewers will need to wear 3-D spectacles, and the Minoru comes with
five pairs. It works with common Voip (internet phone) services such as Skype,
Windows Live Messenger and AOL Instant Messenger. The 3-D effect can be
headache-inducing, however, so it's good to know you can turn it off at the
touch of a button and use the Minoru as a conventional 2-D webcam.

Sony Walkman X Series Video MP3 Player Eur220-Eur290 sonystyle.co.uk This is
Sony's answer to the iPod Touch, and it is more pocketable than Apple's model,
although the screen, at 3in, is half an inch smaller. What's more, it uses an
OLED (Organic LED) screen, which is pin-sharp and bright and uses less energy
than a regular LCD screen. It's also touch-sensitive, though buttons on the top
let you adjust the track or volume while the player is in your pocket. Sound
quality is particularly strong, and noise-cancelling is built in. It comes in
16GB and 32GB capacities and has wi-fi, so you can browse the web and even watch
YouTube videos on the go. There's often talk about the iPod being dethroned, and
this player looks like the first really serious contender.

Garmin Approach G5 Eurn/a www.garmin.com This GPS device has details of
thousands of golf courses, its 3in touchscreen showing your exact location on
each. By showing the distance to the flag, and pointing out hazards en route, it
can improve your game and keep you out of trouble. It's waterproof, weighs less
than 7oz and includes a digital scorecard. The G5 stores details of only
American golf courses, but British ones will soon be added..

Vuzix Wrap 920 Eurn/a www.vuzix.com These video glasses let you watch TV or
films from portable media players or mobile phones. They're like watching
widescreen television, and yet you can simultaneously peer through them at the
real world. What make these specs even more exciting are two accessories: one
that transforms the image to 3-D, and another that uses tiny motion sensors to
alter the view, depending on where your head is pointing. They combine to let
you experience virtual worlds such as Second Life or World of Warcraft in a
disturbing semblance of reality..

Asus Eee Keyboard Eurn/a www.asus.com We're used to all-in-one computers such as
the Apple iMac that squeeze their components into a slender LCD screen. Now Asus
has gone one step further, fitting an entire PC into just a keyboard. The Eee
Keyboard has a built-in 5in touchscreen (of course) for browsing websites and
changing settings, and a solid-state memory for weight-saving and robustness,
and it uses Intel's popular, low-power Atom processor. The Eee Keyboard can also
be linked to your flatscreen television via either a normal HDMI
(high-definition multimedia interface) cable or the latest wireless HDMI
connection, letting you watch digital movies, play games or surf the web without
leaving the sofa. There are still a few months to wait, though, as Asus doesn't
plan to launch the keyboard until September..

Mattel Mindflex $80 (Eur55) www.mattel.com Mindflex claims to be the world's
first mind-controlled toy and is made by Mattel, home of Barbie. To play, you
put on the "brain-scanning headset" and concentrate to activate a fan that
guides a foam ball through a series of hoops. You must concentrate hard to try
to generate powerful theta waves - a type of brain wave that can be associated
with meditation. The more powerful your waves, the harder the fan blows. The
experience is both fun and spooky: focusing on the tiny ball and watching it
rise without your direct intervention gives you the sense of conducting a Jedi
mind trick. The Mindflex will be available in the US first, in the autumn, with
the UK following soon after.

