                              506 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               The Times (London)



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



Virtual reality headset a big eye-opener at mobile show



BYLINE: Nic Fildes



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 34



LENGTH: 907 words





Mark Zuckerberg may have made an impromptu appearance at the Mobile World

Congress in Barcelona yesterday, but the star of the show was virtual reality.



All eyes were on Samsung's new Gear virtual reality headsets as the South Korean

company handed out 5,000 of them to people to watch its press conference via the

3D technology.



The nuts and bolts of Samsung's presentation, and that of its rival LG, were new

smartphones with improved cameras. It used the industry jamboree on the shores

of the Mediterranean to launch the flatscreen Galaxy S7 and the curved-screen

Galaxy S7 edge, both models featuring cameras that can take better pictures

under low-light conditions.



However, the world's No 1 smartphone maker also demonstrated its first

360-degree camera, the Gear 360, in Barcelona. The camera takes allaround photos

and videos that can be uploaded to Facebook and YouTube, or viewed as immersive

experiences on its virtual reality Gear VR headsets, which went on sale in

November.



"User-generated 360-degree photos and films are going to see rapid growth in

2016," Ben Wood, the chief of research at CCS Insight, said. "Numerous

360-degree cameras are being launched and users will want to get access to this

content.



"Although it can be viewed on a standard smartphone or PC screen, the most

impactful way of looking at this content is with a VR headset. This is

undoubtedly going to drive sales of these products."



In a surprise appearance at the Samsung press conference, which had hundreds of

delegates rushing to the stage to take photos and videos on smartphones, Mr

Zuckerberg announced a partnership between Facebook and the South Korean company

to promote the use of virtual reality on the social network.



"We want to make Facebook the best video platform for virtual reality, and

Samsung is the only company in the world that can provide a good experience in

terms of virtual reality," he said. The billionaire Facebook co-founder added

that VR headsets would "change the way you live, work and communicate".



Facebook paid $2 billion for Oculus Rift, the pioneer in modern virtual reality

technology, two years ago and will launch its first consumer devices this year

at a cost of $699 (£494). Samsung, meanwhile, will give away its headset with

some pre-orders of its new smartphone.



Price remains an issue for the products, as was evident with Vive, HTC's new VR

headset, which was priced at $799. Including the computer and graphics card

needed to support the Vive, the headset could cost $1,500.



LG also revealed a new design for virtual reality that was more akin to

traditional glasses. Yet, like Samsung, the glasses work only with a specific

handset made by the company. In this case, it works with the LG G5, which is one

of the first "modular" smartphones to hit the mainstream.



It will enable users to replace components such as the battery to create a

handset that suits their needs.



Berenberg analysts said that 2016 probably would be the year of virtual reality,

with LG, Samsung, Huawei, HTC and Facebook all pushing the concept and set to

launch products. The bank noted comments from Mr Zuckerberg that Facebook was

working on a social version of the technology that could take it beyond its

assumed destination, the gaming market.



Make 5G a social network, says Zuckerberg



Behind the story



The founder of Facebook has lambasted the mobile phone industry over its

obsession with the so-called internet of things, telling the world's largest

smartphone conference that 5G networks should be about connecting people, not

OBJECTs (Nic Fildes writes).



Mark Zuckerberg told the Mobile World Congress that there would still be three

billion people with no internet access by 2020, but the debate around 5G

networks, the next generation of mobile technology, has been focused on

connecting machines rather than expanding into untapped markets. "One thing that

I've heard that I find personally disappointing is that 4G is about connecting

people and 5G is about connecting things," he said.



He called on mobile phone companies to focus on boosting bandwidth and

connecting the half of the world that does not yet have internet access, rather

than Just "making a lot of money by doubling down and building better networks

for rich people".



Facebook is working on PROJECTs to get internet access to remote areas, such as

the Amazon rainforest, including the development of a giant solar-powered

lightweight drone, called ProJect Aquila, that can beam down bandwidth via

laser. Mr Zuckerberg dismissed as "cynical arguments" that its push into

emerging markets was designed to boost its own business. "Most people think

companies don't care about anything but making money," he said.



Despite his pleas about 5G needing to connect the world, the billionaire

emphasised the potential of virtual reality technology to be "the killer app for

5G". Virtual reality - immersive 360-degree video viewed via giant goggles

attached to a smartphone - consumes a huge amount of network power, but will

gain popularity, according to Mr Zuckerberg, who said that VR would represent

the future of social media. He intends to film his daughter's first steps using

VR, for example.



Some countries are already planning 5G networks, including South Korea and

Australia, but Britain is unlikely to get such an upgrade until 2020, at the

earliest. Vittorio Colao, chief executive of Vodafone, said the investment in

the new network technology would be "massive".



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Samsung's new Gear virtual reality headset was a firm favourite on the

opening day of the Moble World Congress, where 5,000 visitors had a chance to

try one outBLOOMBERG/GETTY IMAGES



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: TIM





                    Copyright 2016 Times Newspapers Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





