                              50 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                     The Sunday Independent (South Africa)



                                 June 19, 2016

                                   E1 Edition



LG G5 is quirky, bold and beautiful



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 959 words





YOU have to hand it to LG. The South Korean company has not been afraid to take

bold design decisions with its smartphones.



The LG G2 was the first phone I encountered with a power and volume button

assembly on the back of the device, a placement now emulated by others, most

notably Huawei, which places its fingerprint scanner there. And who could forget

the LG G Flex, that wacky phablet sporting a banana-shaped curve?



The G5 continues this tradition for quirkiness. At first glance it's an

attractive, if unremarkable smartphone - a metal body with a fingerprint scanner

on the back, 5.3-inch quad HD screen and running Android 6.0.1 (Marshmallow).



But then it goes all Transformers on you.



Unlike any other phone, the bottom of the G5 slides off to expose an expansion

port and the battery. This modular design gives G5 owners the ability to slot in

a variety of aftermarket modules to deliver the smartphone equivalent of

superpowers.



Need more juice? Slide in the battery module and, bam! You've got enough to go

all day and all night. If you're a photography buff, the photo module delivers a

beefier battery and a palm-fitting grip with a dedicated shutter button and zoom

wheel.



LG calls these modules "friends" and I got to meet some of them in April when

LG's Eric Woo was in town to show them off.



Apart from the camera and battery modules, there was a virtual reality (VR)

headset and a 360Âº camera you could use to create content to view and share in

VR.



My impressions were generally pretty positive, although I did feel they were a

tad rough around the edges in their implementation.



For example, the VR headset plugs into the phone through a cord, so it is

refreshingly lightweight compared with Samsung's GearVR, into which you slot

your phone to use. But the VR experience, at least in my brief session on the

day, was not great.



The virtual roller-coaster ride I tried out would, I'm sure, have been quite

spectacular, were it not for the fact that, out of the bottom of the headset, I

could see the real world, which rather ruined the effect.



The Hi-Fi Plus module, a partnership with audio specialists Bang & Olufsen, was

more impressive. The stylish and compact B&O headphones fitted comfortably and

the music sample I listened to sounded pretty darn good.



The camera looks intriguing and I'd be keen to compare it with Samsung's version

when they become available later in the year.



Bear in mind that these "friends" are optional extras and not all of them are

available yet.



The good news is that at R11â[#x20ac]¯799, the LG G5 is slightly cheaper than

heavyweight competitors like the iPhone 6S and Samsung S7 (both

R12â[#x20ac]¯999) and BlackBerry Priv (R13â[#x20ac]¯â[#x20ac]¯999). So you'll

have a bit of spare cash to buy your G5 a little friend of its own.



But how does the G5 stack up as a smartphone without its friends to back it up?

I recently got to spend a few weeks with a friendless review unit and the short

answer is "pretty darn well".



It looks great, with the screen curving subtly to meet the aluminium body - the

G5 is LG's first metal-bodied flagship smartphone.



I was concerned that the slide-out battery might start to loosen up with use,

but in the month or so I had the G5, it remained locked in tight without a hint

of movement or rattle. The rounded edges make it really easy to hold and to slip

in and out of a pocket.



One thing that detracted from the otherwise excellent build quality was the

slight - but noticeable to the touch - lip running around the phone where the

back joins the sides. A minor niggle, but not something you expect in premium

device.



Performance-wise, the LG G5 has enough processing punch to take on any of the

present flagships, from Samsung and HTC to Huawei and Apple.



The top-end Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor combined with 4GB of RAM made for

effortless multitasking and glitch-free mobile gaming.



Battery life was acceptable if unremarkable, with the G5 getting me through a

full working day with moderate to heavy use.



Power users or road warriors would probably want to invest in a spare battery

module. The ability to swop power cells quickly is something that sets the G5

apart from its high-end competitors and is a big drawcard in my books.



There's also a microSD card slot, so you'll be able to beef up the 32GB of

storage by up to 200GB.



The rear-mounted fingerprint scanner-power button is quick and responsive, if

not quite as lightning fast as that on Huawei's P9.



Another big plus in the G5's favour is its innovative dual rear camera

configuration. If you read last week's column, you'll recall that the Huawei P9

has a similar set-up.



The G5's is different in that instead of one being black and white, LG has

kitted out the G5 with one regular 16-megapixel camera and one 8-megapixel

wide-angle camera.



It makes for a powerful combo. On its own, the standard camera is on par with

the best available.



The wide-angle lens lets you pull off some neat tricks unavailable to owners of

other phones, including squeezing much more into a picture than you could using

a standard lens. This is particularly useful if you're taking pictures of large

groups of people or towering landmarks like mountains and skyscrapers.



Semi-pro features in the camera app, like manual controls and RAW support, will

appeal to more serious photographers and, coupled with the after-market photo

module, would make for an ideal back-up snapper for situations where a bulky

DSLR camera would be impractical.



At the other end of the photography spectrum, selfie fans haven't been left out,

with the 8-megapixel front-facing camera up there with the best of them.



If you're in the market for a premium smartphone with a difference, be sure to

check out the LG G5 before you make a decision.



l Follow Alan Cooper on Twitter â[#x20ac]¨@alanqcooper.



LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SI





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





