

Sony Xperia XZ which comes with 23MP rear camera and will cost more than Rs
50,000. Here's our first impression.

The Indian smartphone market has seen quite a few launches recently with camera
being the major focus point. The latest to join the list of premium smartphones
with a focus on camera is the Sony Xperia XZ which has a 23MP rear camera with
triple image sensing technology and 5-axis stabilization for shooting steady
videos. It has a 13MP camera on the front.

Sony says this 5-axis stabilization is the first in any smartphone. Other
specifications of Xperia XZ include Snapdragon 820 processor, Android
Marshmallow, 3GB RAM, 2,900 mAh battery, IP68 rating. We spent a little more
than a day with Xperia XZ clicking pictures and testing the device. Here's our
first impression of the phone.

Design and Display

Sony Xperia X series has a standard rectangular design, and Xperia XZ is no
different. It has a sturdy built and does not feel too heavy. Power, volume and
camera buttons are on the right with SIM slot placed at the left. The camera
lens with image sensor and flash is placed neatly on the left side.

Sony has introduced a new Loop design which is supposed to make it easier for
users to hold the smartphone, and I had no issues there. In terms of design, it
has a metal back and uniform platinum colour both at the front and the back.

I quite liked the display on Sony Xperia XZ. It is sharp and vivid with great
viewing angles in bright sunlight. It comes with a 5.2-inch full HD display,
which produces good colours and is comfortable to look at. The power button in
Xperia XZ doubles up as a fingerprint scanner, which I found really quick.

Processor, battery and memory

Sony Xperia XZ comes with Snapdragon 820 processor and 3GB RAM and 64GB internal
memory (expandable up to 200GB). As far as basic things like opening multiple
apps and watching videos go, I didn't encounter lags there so far. However, the
device heats up pretty quickly; especially within 15 minutes of using the camera
and shooting 4K videos. Sony is planning to fix that with an update, but we're
not sure how fast will it be rolled out.

My initial experience with the battery hasn't been very good. Just within 1 hour
of using the camera on Xperia XZ, the battery levels fell down from 50 per cent
to 30 per cent. This is when I didn't put a SIM on the device and wasn't using
WiFi or making calls on it. But we'll have more on that in our review soon.
Also, this one comes with a USB Type-C slot for charging so make sure you always
have a Type-C cable around.

Camera

Now, let us come to the highlight of Xperia XZ - camera. The smartphone is
capable of clicking some stunning shots in bright outdoors. The pictures come
out to be sharp and colour reproduction in most cases was accurate. The
low-light performance is decent as well. However, I had a hard time focusing on
objects especially in low-light settings, which tends to make pictures look
blurry at times. Zooming in really affects the picture quality for worse.

But my bigger here is the heating issue which generally starts after using 15-20
minutes of using the camera. Plus, Sony's technology makes apps (including
camera) that consume a lot of battery shut down when the device reaches a
certain temperature level to avoid damage to the smartphone. The camera app also
shuts down when your phone's juice comes down to 15 per cent.

The 5-axis video stabilization technology is new and I tried my hands on it,
trying to shoot videos from a shaky boat. And I was quite impressed with its
performance. It has always been hard for me to keep my hands steady while
shooting, but this technology does minimise shakes to a great extent.

OS

Sony Xperia XZ comes with Android Marshmallow OS, which comes with permissions,
battery doze and other features. However, Sony promises Xperia XZ will get
Android Nougat update in a month or so.

Conclusion

Sony Xperia XZ comes across as a pretty good device in the premium segment, but
the competition is tough if you consider the LG G5 or Samsung Galaxy S7 edge.
While Sony Xperia XZ is priced at Rs 51,990; LG G5 and Samsung Galaxy S7 edge
come at Rs 52,990 and Rs 50,900 respectively. Then there's iPhone 7, iPhone 7
Plus which is launching in the market soon. Sony's smartphone has a lot to offer
on the camera, but winning in the premium segment won't be easy.

Disclaimer: The correspondent is in Udaipur at the invite of Sony India, which
is paying for travel and accommodation.

