                              511 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                           The Cairns Eye (Australia)



                             May 14, 2016 Saturday

                               CairnsEye Edition



Smart package



BYLINE: words // Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson and Rod Chester



SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 49



LENGTH: 405  words





These phones come packed with some stylish features 1. 10 HTC HTC is on the

comeback trail and its candidate for top smartphone is devilishly attractive.

The HTC 10 is the slickest phone the company has produced to date, with a solid

metal body featuring striking chamfered edges, a tiny border around its 5.2-inch

screen, and an accurate fingerprint scanner. Its Android software has been pared

back to a speedy minimum, its front and bottom speakers produce surprising

volume, and its Ultrapixel camera is back, though this time the larger pixel

sensor is paired with a healthy 12-megapixel resolution. Its camera isn't the

fastest to focus, and the phone lacks water-resistance, but it's a worthy

comeback that deserves attention.



$1099 / harveynorman.com.au 2. F1 OPPO The price of the Oppo F1 defines it as a

budget Android phone but its features exceed expectations. This phone offers an

8-megapixel front-facing camera and 13-megapixel rear camera with fast autofocus

plus a few processing extras, including a built-in animated GIF creator and a

mode that combines four pictures into a sharp, 50-megapixel photo, if you're

able to keep the phone still enough. The F1 also boasts a five-inch touchscreen,

dual SIM card slots and 16GB storage expandable to 128GB.



$299 / oppomobile.com.au 3. G5 LG The concept is ingenious: A modular phone you

can pull apart and put back together with better parts. And it works. Press a

button and you can remove its battery and install camera controls or a Bang &

Olufsen sound module. Plus, the Android smartphone is zippy, and features a

two-camera system, one with a 135-degree wide-angle lens. The problem is its

execution - a glass seam at the top of its 5.3-inch screen catches and light can

be seen through a crack at its base.



$1099 / lg.com.au 4. PRIV BLACKBERRY BlackBerry's comeback phone has two things

going for it. First is a unique design. Its 5.4-inch touchscreen slides up to

reveal a four-line keyboard for quick email responses. It's also touch-sensitive

and its shortcuts (like sweeping a finger up to add a suggested word) are useful

timesavers. Its second plus is Google Android. This BlackBerry not only uses

Google's software but makes it extra secure with its own patches, and lets users

restrict app permissions. Its keyboard is not as well designed as the Bold of

old, and its 18-megapixel camera lags, but this comeback kid is worth

consideration.$995 / optus.com.au



LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine



JOURNAL-CODE: Cairns Eye





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





