                              518 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)



                            August 26, 2004 Thursday

                                 First Edition



For your eyes only;

THE MAC MAN



BYLINE: GARRY BARKER



SECTION: GREEN GUIDE; Livewire; Pg. 11



LENGTH: 777 words





An Apple model on the way leads to plenty of speculation.



FORGET the rumours, the smoke, the mirrors and the grubby notes slid under the

door at midnight. This time we have certainty - well, almost.



For possibly the first time in Apple's secretive history, we know that a new

model is on the way and will appear in September.



Some details have been leaked but is it not amazing how good Apple's security

always is? We think we know, but in fact we're guessing.



Fairly obviously, the new iMacs will have G5 processors, probably the 1.6GHz and

1.8GHz chips, doubtless because although Tiger, the next build of Mac OS X, will

run on a G3 or a G4, it may need a G5 to release its full potential.



Having thus stepped to the border of rumourland, please take my hand while we

venture deeper into the forest of speculation about what the new machines will

look like and what they will do.



First, the spies say there will be two screen sizes: 17-inch and 20-inch, but no

15-inch.



There may be a slight price rise, but the feeling is that Apple will be able to

hold the line (a couple of hosannas for our 71.7-cent dollar and hope that it

keeps breathing that way).



Nick de Plume, editor at Think Secret (www.thinksecret.com), who has a fairly

reliable bug in the better restrooms on the Apple campus, says the new iMac will

not retain the swing arm of the present models, but will be just as eye-catching

and impressive.



His bet is that it will continue as an all-in-one design but with the logic

board, slot-loading SuperDrive and other components housed at the back of the

screen.



This could mean that it will look a bit like a tablet computer sitting in a

dock. Apple recently won a patent in Britain for a one-inch thin, tablet-style

design, although there is no suggestion that such a device is any closer to the

drawing board than a designer's concept.



The keyboard and mouse are thought to be standard on wires, rather than

Bluetooth wireless, although that technology will doubtless be available as it

is now.



Some reports suggest that the basic iMac model will be a stripped-down

"education" machine with a 17-inch flat screen. Would that mean the demise of

the eMac, the only surviving Mac with a cathode ray tube?



This machine might come with a read-only CD drive. Apparently some US schools

have told Apple they do not like CD burners in classroom machines because of

copyright piracy problems. This would not, of course, preclude the use of

external USB 2.0 burners or optioning-up to an internal.



Think Secret suggests the entry-level consumer iMac will have the 17-inch

screen, a 1.6 GHz Power PC G5 processor, a Combo optical drive, 80GB Serial ATA

hard drive, nVidia GeForce FX 5200 Ultra graphics processor with 64MB of DDR

video memory, 256MB of SDRAM and a 56k modem.



There will be two 20-inch models, each with 1.8GHz processors, SuperDrives, 80GB

hard drives and 256MB of memory as standard, expandable to 2GB.



Bundled software will be similar to what is available now, including the latest

iLife '04 suite.



Where the swing-arm iMac had external Harmon Kardon digital speakers, the new

ones will have their stereo speakers built into the enclosure, thus cleaning up

the desk footprint a bit.



Further rumours suggest that, like the current G5 towers, the new iMacs will

have optical digital output ports supporting 5.1 digital surround sound, but

without Dolby, since Apple does not currently licence that technology.



The release date is set for August 31 at the Apple Expo in Paris, where Apple

executive Phil Schiller will deliver the keynote speech as boss Steve Jobs has

undergone surgery for cancer.



If you have any queries about Macs, contact Garry Barker at

gbarker@theage.com.au



MAC FILE



Owners of 15-inch PowerBooks bought this year should check the model number of

their batteries. They may need to be replaced.



Apple last week announced a recall of a series of batteries, some of which have

overheated. The hot cells were manufactured by LG Chem, of South Korea, during

the last week of December 2003 and fitted to PowerBooks shipped around the

world.



The recalled batteries have the model number A1045 and serial numbers that begin

with HQ404, HQ405, HQ406, HQ407, and HQ408. Other serial numbers in the A1045

range are not affected.



To find the number, unclip and lift out the battery to read the label on the

underside. If you have a suspect battery, remove it from the computer and

contact Apple. You can continue to use the computer on mains power.



If you have a suspect battery, go to

depot.info.apple.com/batteryexchange/index.html. Or go to the Apple Australia

website (www.apple.com.au) and follow the links, or call Apple Australia's

support desk on 133 622.



LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION BY FRANK MAIORANA



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





