                              521 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The National



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Sony Xperia X: new range revealed amid attempt to stay relevant in contested

smartphone market



BYLINE: John Everington



LENGTH: 555  words





John Everington



BARCELONA // Sony has rebooted its high-end smartphone product suite with the

launch of the Xperia X range, as it battles challenges from the likes of Samsung

and LG.



The X range, unveiled yesterday on the first day of the Mob ile World Congress

(MWC) in Barcelona, marks the most significant overhaul of Sony's premium

handset design since the launch of the Xperia Z range three years ago.



The new range consists of the X, X Performance (the latter containing a faster

Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor) and XA. All sport 12.7-centimetre curved

screen designs.



The X and X Performance have 1080p displays, with the more mid-range XA packing

a modest 720p display.



The X and X Performance come with 23-megapixel rear- facing cameras, with what

Sony describes as Predictive Hybrid Autofocus, a focusing system that predicts a

subject's motion, promising less blurry images.



Sony claims that the new devices will be able to run for two days on a single

battery charge.



The three devices, available in white, black, "lime gold" and rose gold, are to

be commer cially available in the summer.



Sony did not share details regarding pricing.



The launch of three high-end devices at MWC highlights Sony's commitment to the

premium device market, following last year's comparatively subdued launch of the

mid-range Xperia M4 Aqua and the Xperia Z4 Android tablet.



The company said last year that it was abandoning the lower-end smartphone

market, dominated by Chinese manufacturers such as Huawei and Xiaomi, in an

effort to boost profit margins. The strategy appears to have been successful

thus far. Sony last month announced a 15 per cent year-on-year drop in quarterly

mobile revenues, but operating income for the division increased by 40.2 per

cent.



"This significant increase was primarily due to an improvement in product mix

reflecting a shift to high value-added models, as well as reductions in costs

including marketing, research and development and other selling, general and

administrative expenses," the company said in its results statement.



The retreat from the value smartphone segment led to Sony's market share in the

Middle East and Africa falling to just 1.6 per cent at the end of 2015, compared

with 2.4 per cent a year earlier, according to figures from the industry

analysts IDC.



The company faces a challenge to retain the loyalty of customers tempted by

high-profile new devices such as the LG G5 and Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge, both

unveiled in Barcelona on Sunday afternoon.



"The Sony brand is still a prestige brand that has a lot of value, but their

market share stands under 2 per cent across the Middle East and Africa," said

Nab ila Popal, research manager for IDC in Dubai.



"It is hard to see them getting out of that box. The big question is not whether

they can significantly increase their market share but whether they can hold on

to what they have now as the market becomes ever more competitive."



In addition to the Xperia X range, Sony also unveiled the Xperia Ear, a

voice-controlled earpiece that responds to verbal commands, together with the

RM-X7BT, which enables wireless music streaming and uses Sony's voice technology

to activate smartphone functions while driving.



Both products will be commercially available from this summer, with no details

avail able about pricing.



jeverington@thenational.ae



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 818





                     Copyright 2016 Abu Dhabi Media Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





