                              522 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                              March 7, 2016 Monday



Galaxy trade-in program receives mixed reactions



BYLINE: By Lee Min-hyung



LENGTH: 426 words





Samsung Electronics is pushing ahead with its own smartphone upgrade program in

a move to offset the lukewarm reception for its Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, which

many feel came with 'no surprises.'



The company plans to launch a so-called 'Galaxy Club' trade-in program in Korea

this week. The service will operate globally.



The plan is part of efforts to increase customer loyalty. Samsung's main rival

Apple has been running a similar campaign 'iPhone upgrade program' since last

year.



Galaxy Club users can buy the new devices on a two-year installment plan, and

get a new Galaxy series next year without paying the remaining installments.



Insiders have expressed mixed reactions over Samsung's plan.



'The Galaxy series has relatively lower residual value, compared to iPhones,'

said a telecom industry source. 'This will put more pressure on Samsung unless

the company charges enough to customers who join the club.'



Samsung Electronics has yet to unveil details about how it will run the program

here.



A company official said, 'We will soon unveil our specific plan for the Galaxy

Club, but nothing has been confirmed as to when it will take place.'



Expectations are that the company will announce its plan ahead of the two

devices' official launch here on Friday. Samsung is expected to unveil its

marketing strategy for the new trade-in program during the event.



There is a possibility that Samsung will team up with the nation's major mobile

carriers - SK Telecom, KT and LG Uplus - to attract more customers.



The three carriers remained cautious about revealing details for their

partnership with Samsung, saying they would adopt a wait-and-see approach

because Korean customers were relatively unfamiliar with such a trade-in

program.



Another industry source said the key would be how Samsung offered enticing

options for the program. Apple charges each iPhone upgrade program user $32.41.



'Galaxy Club's success will be determined by the monthly price for using the

service,' the source said. 'Given the relatively weak residual value, Samsung

may have to bear more of the burden to differentiate the program from Apple's.'



But he said the company may gain an upper hand through the program, because it

would come before the official launch of LG Electronics flagship smartphone G5.

The device was a sensation at this year's Mobile World Congress (MWC) in

Barcelona, for adopting modular type slots that can be replaced with other

camera or audio systems.



'Galaxy Club may help Samsung drive its sales if it receives favorable responses

from customers,' the source said.



LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





