                              526 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Mercury News (California)



                             August 19, 2016 Friday



Android innovations abound



BYLINE: By , @bayareanewsgroup.com



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 985 words





NEW YORK -- It's getting rarer for phone launches to generate excitement these

days -- especially in the Android world, where all models use the same

underlying Google software. Every year, phones get routine refreshes such as

faster processors, better cameras and longer battery life.



But Android phone makers haven't given up trying to stand out. Samsung, for

instance, hopes to encourage upgrades by giving its new Galaxy Note 7 phone an

eye scanner for identification and related security features. Other

manufacturers are looking beyond the phone entirely, pinning their hopes on

innovative accessories. Motorola offers mix-and-match modules that let you

upgrade your phone on the fly, while Alcatel is focused on adding virtual

reality features, including a headset.



JUST LOOK ... FOR SECURITY



Fingerprint scanners are now standard in high-end phones, following their big

debut in the 2013 iPhone 5S. In the Note 7, Samsung takes the notion of such

"biometric" security a step further, adding an iris scanner that detects

patterns in your eyes to confirm your identity.



The feature is easy to set up, and the iris detection works well -- as long as

you're not in direct sunlight or wearing glasses (much less sunglasses). Samsung

even warns that contact lenses might mess things up, although the scanner worked

fine when I wore them. To unlock the phone, you need to turn on the screen and

swipe; then you just stare at the screen. The fingerprint scanner works even

with the screen off and glasses on, making it the far better choice unless your

fingers are wet.



Many Android phones offer a face-detection feature for unlocking phones, but

that's all it does. With the Note 7, the iris or fingerprint can also unlock a

secure folder where you can stash sensitive photos, documents and email accounts

you might want to keep away from friends who borrow your phone to look at baby

pictures.



It's a good concept, although in practice it can feel like you're using two

separate phones. When browsing photos in the "secure" gallery, all your other

photos are invisible. You need to go back out to the "unsecure" gallery to view

those. And there's no way to move text messaging to the secure folder.



Beyond that, the Note 7 has a more resilient screen, more storage and more ways

to use the stylus -- for instance, you can translate a phrase just by holding

the pen over a word. Samsung also brings water resistance and its excellent

Galaxy S7 camera to the jumbo Note 7, while offering easier access to camera

settings using swipes.



Nothing is radically new, but the improvements are great if you're already

looking to upgrade. The Note 7 comes out Friday and will cost $850 to $880 in

the U.S., depending on the carrier. It's about $100 more than what last year's

Note cost at launch, but all models now have a screen that curves over the sides

of the phone, something previously reserved for a more expensive "Edge" version.



BUILD YOUR OWN PHONE



Motorola is the latest manufacturer to embrace a new concept called modular

design. With it, customers can customize their phones on the fly by swapping out

components to get, say, a bigger battery or more powerful speakers. Another

replaceable module can turn the phone into a wall projector for presentations.

This takes the idea of personalization way beyond choosing the phone's color or

storage.



LG introduced an earlier modular design with its G5 phone in April, although

that phone forces you to shut it down every time you replace a module. Motorola

lets you replace modules without missing a Snapchat. Modules attach to the phone

using powerful magnets, yet they snap on and off easily, like Lego blocks.



Of course, many phone cases and other accessories offer similar functionality,

but they aren't as fun as what the company calls Moto Mods.



For now, you can only use these modules with the Moto Z ($625) and Moto Z Force

($720) phones, which are currently available only through Verizon in the U.S.

under the Droid brand. And these modules will cost you: a spare battery is $60

to $90, the speaker is $80 and the projector is a whopping $300. You could shell

out more than $1,200 if you also opt for a designer phone back made of fabric,

wood or leather.



The concept is pretty radical as Android innovations go, but there's a

chicken-and-egg problem. Third-party developers need to know there are customers

out there before they'll commit the time and money to building imaginative

modules. A module with a larger camera lens for better zooming, for instance,

would be awesome. But there are no crowds demanding that feature -- at least not

yet.



LG faces the same problem with its G5 modules. For now, it lets you swap

batteries and attach a camera grip with physical buttons to take shots and

control video recording.



ANOTHER WORLD



Alcatel's approach to innovation is to not sell you a phone at all. Instead, it

wants to offer you a virtual reality setup for $400. You get a mid-range Android

phone, the Idol 4S, along with a VR headset, JBL headphones and an Incipio

protective case for the phone. Alcatel doesn't sell the 4S separately, but based

on the $280 price of last year's Idol 3, you're paying roughly $100 for the

accessories.



Alcatel's headset is a step up from Google Cardboard, a $15 contraption that's

not meant to be comfortable -- it's made of cardboard, after all. But it lacks

the head-tracking capabilities of Samsung's $100 Gear VR, which on Friday is

getting a wider field of view and a black interior for more immersive viewing.



The Idol 4S comes with several VR apps already installed, including Littlstar

for watching VR videos and Fyuse for stitching together 360-degree photos,

panorama-style.



Unfortunately, Alcatel's innovation might feel obsolete in just a few months,

when Google releases its Daydream system for headsets and phones. Daydream is

designed for higher-end phones than the Idol 4S, so Alcatel's VR system won't be

compatible.



LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





