

Exports contracted 11.2 percent in April from a year ago, a steeper plunge than
the previous month. Economists say there seems to be no sign of an immediate
rebound.

According to the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy, the exports totaled
$41 billion in April, which is 11.2 percent less than the previous year. After
falling 19 percent in January - the biggest plunge in six years and five months
- the decline in exports narrowed to 12 percent in February and 8.1 percent in
March.

The ministry pointed out that negative factors such as the sluggish global
economy, low oil prices and falling prices continued, while the number of
working days - 1.5 days fewer than in April last year, also led to the bigger
fall.

China's shift in growth policy to its domestic market is also hitting Korea's
exporters. Exports to China, Korea's biggest trading partner, dipped 18.4
percent in April.

Exports of mobile communication devices increased 3.2 percent, thanks to the
launch of new smartphones such as Samsung Electronics' Galaxy S7 and LG
Electronics' G5. Semiconductors, meanwhile, dipped 11.5 percent as prices
continued falling due to oversupply.

Exports of automobiles fell 18.3 percent due to an economic recession in
emerging countries. Oil products and petrochemicals also suffered a double-digit
fall due to low oil prices.

Imports plunged 14.9 percent from a year ago, totaling $32.2 billion. As a
result, the country saw an $8.8 billion surplus in trade, marking the 51st
consecutive month.

'Conditions for exports aren't favorable in May either, due to the continued
global economic slowdown, low oil prices, holidays in early May and risks in the
shipbuilding sector,' the ministry said.

It added that the government should strengthen monitoring of exports because
downward risks were increasing, with international organizations turning
pessimistic about the world economy and trade.

While Korea's traditional export items are struggling, newly emerging items
continued to grow. Exports of organic light-emitting diodes increased 26.4
percent, and cosmetics grew 34.4 percent.

'To lessen risks arising from Korea's huge dependence on China's economy, there
should be aggressive efforts to open up new markets, such as ASEAN countries or
those in the Middle East,' said Jo Gyu-rim, a researcher at Hyundai Research
Institute.

'Southeast Asian countries are rising as new global production countries instead
of China,' he added.

Economists point to falling exports as the biggest stumbling block for the
Korean economy.

'Even though the economic indices are partly improving, we can't say the economy
is recovering,' the LG Economic Research Institute noted in a report. 'Due to
the sluggish global economy and contraction in Korea's major exporting
industries, exports, which determine the direction of the economy, aren't likely
to improve. They will continue to contract.'

While low oil prices helped businesses improve their profitability and
households expand consumption on better purchasing power, such benefits will
fade, according to the institute.

'As corporate profitability falls and demand for labor and improved wages slows
due to sluggish exports, the domestic economy will lose vigor toward the latter
half of the year,' the institute added.

