

A quest to find out what constitutes one; and the answer is as expected - It is
hardly perfect!!!

Every "techie" who has "non-techie" friends gets asked this simple but highly
loaded question - What phone would you recommend? Unfortunately, life is never
black and white and especially so in today's smartphone ecosystem. Will there
ever be one perfect android smartphone to rule them all? And, we are not even
talking Microsoft or Apple here!

I am sure readers would have understood my predicament by now. I get asked this
question several times over and I end up coming with some gibberish in response.
Ironically, what I presumed to be worthless turned out to be worthwhile for my
friends, who often came back and thanked me for my 'insight.'

And so it was, I sat down one evening, after downing a couple of single malts,
to decipher what goes into a 'perfect smartphone'. Okay! Maybe, that was the
single malt speaking. For, if I had the answer to that I'd have probably
approached a VC by now and gotten into start-up mode. So, I will rephrase that
sentence and state that I will attempt to decipher what goes into making a
'perfect smartphone'.

Display

Smartphones have made leaps and bounds in this department since their initial
entry into our lives. These are the most common acronyms we notice when going
through the spec sheet of smartphones these days. OLED / AMOLED, IPS LCD, HD,
FULL HD and 4k. What are these and which of them should we opt for?

[Image Credit: Hexus]

Displays by Type: OLED / AMOLED vs. IPS LCD

     ·    OLED is a new technology for thin, efficient and bright displays.
          There are two types of OLEDs: Passive-Matrix (PMOLED) and
          Active-Matrix (AMOLED). OLEDs are made from organic light-emitting
          materials, and do not require any backlight and filtering systems that
          are used in LCDs. in AMOLED, individual pixels are lit separately (aka
          active matrix) on top of a thin film transistor (TFT) array that
          passes electricity through organic compounds (aka OLED).
     ·    Colors are typically brighter with AMOLED, and blacks are darker
          because portions of the screen can be effectively turned off. This
          also leads to a theoretical improvement in battery life, but that
          depends on exactly how you're using the screen (if all the pixels are
          lit all the time, the inverse can be true with AMOLED being more
          power-hungry).
     ·    Super AMOLED is a new form of AMOLED and is better because it
          integrates touch sensors in the display itself, removing the need for
          an extra layer and often allowing for an overall thinner device.
     ·    In-Plane Switching Liquid Crystal Display (IPS LCD): In essence, uses
          polarized light which is then run through a color filter. Horizontal
          and vertical filters on either side of the liquid crystals control the
          brightness and whether or not each pixel is on or off. All the pixels
          are backlit to some extent while the device is on, however, even the
          black ones. This means contrast and blackness can suffer (if you're
          watching a movie set in deep space, for example). On the upside,
          pixels can give the impression of being packed more closely together,
          aiding sharpness and clarity (something Apple is very keen on). IPS
          LCD is often spoken of as offering more natural colors; AMOLED screens
          can sometimes look a little over-saturated. Viewing angles often
          aren't quite as good on IPS LCD as they are on AMOLED.


Displays by Resolution: 720p / 1080p / 4k

     ·    720p (also known as HD) is a HDTV signal format with 720 horizontal
          lines and an aspect ratio of 16:9. 720p format typically has a
          resolution of 1280 x 720. The number 720 stands for the 720 horizontal
          scan lines of image display resolution (also known as 720 pixels of
          vertical resolution), while the letter p stands for progressive scan
          (i.e. non-interlaced).
     ·    1080p (also known as Full HD) is a HDTV signal format with 1080
          horizontal and an aspect ratio of 16:9. 1080p typically has a
          resolution of 1920x1080
     ·    The name "4K resolution" refers to a horizontal resolution of
          approximately 4,000 pixels. The use of width to characterize the
          overall resolution marks a switch from previous television standards
          such as 720p and 1080p, which categorize media according to its
          vertical dimension. Using that same convention, 4K UHD would translate
          to 2160p.


In my opinion, the perfect display would be a 1080p AMOLED display.

Storage

     ·    RAM: Android Operating systems are known for their multitasking
          abilities. For these abilities to work for you I would like my
          smartphone to have at least 4GB of RAM.
     ·    ROM: Considering the "App"etite for most people these days I would
          like my smartphone to have at least 32GB of onboard storage aka ROM.
     ·    Expandable: Not all of us live in places with easy access to cloud
          storage. That is why I think the perfect smartphone MUST have
          expandable storage. Ideally, up to 200GB.


Camera

When was the last time anyone packed a point and shoot camera for their trip?
Smartphone manufacturers today are tying their very best to phase out point and
shoot cameras, some of them even trying the audacious feat of trying to replace
a DSLR.

Smartphone cameras have come a real long way in the past year. From packing the
megapixels to increasing the number of lens element groups to introducing
optical image stabilization to introducing laser auto focus to changing the type
of flash and finally the type of post processing these smartphones do before
delivering the image output to you.

[Image Credit: Tiki-Toki]

Let's take a look at a few of these "features"

     ·    The Megapixels: This is one of those overhyped features. Unless you
          are going to be printing large hoardings you do not need anything more
          than 8 Mega Pixels. I would have liked to see HTC's UltraPixel do much
          better because "in theory" it had the right intention. Most OEMs these
          days make cameras with a very high mega pixel count. Today's range is
          from 16MP to 23MP.
     ·    Optical Image Stabilization: An optical image stabilizer, often
          abbreviated OIS, IS, or OS, is a mechanism used in a camera that
          stabilizes the recorded image by varying the optical path to the
          sensor. This technology is implemented in the lens itself. The key
          element of all optical stabilization systems is that they stabilize
          the image projected on the sensor before the sensor converts the image
          into digital information.
     ·    Laser Auto Focus: There is a small laser transmitter located on the
          back of the handset near the camera sensor. The first step involves
          firing out a short laser light burst, which is then reflected back off
          whatever you happen to be pointing the camera at. This light then
          travels back towards the sensor, where the software calculates the
          time it takes for the light to leave and return, resulting in a very
          accurate measurement of how far away the target object is.
     ·    The biggest benefits to laser assisted focus come from increased speed
          and accuracy when focusing, especially at short distances where the
          beam's bounce back is more predictable. Consistent performance in
          darkened environments is also a big benefit, especially when compared
          with contrast-based focus. However, lasers are not necessarily
          reliable in every environment.


In my opinion, the 2 top camera phone lenses out there are the LG G4 & Samsung
Galaxy S7 . I would also like to see Sony do a better job with its f2.0 23 MP
lens

Audio

     ·    Most smartphone manufacturers give equal importance to audio as they
          do video. In my opinion, there are two way of looking at smartphone
          audio, a) how the audio sounds via the headphones b) how the audio
          sounds from the speakers.
     ·    OEMs like HTC and Sony give a lot of importance to the placement of
          their speaker grills while OEMs like LG & Samsung go for a big bang
          approach. HTC is famous for it legendary "Boom Sound" speakers. These
          are really great but how often do you really listen to songs from a
          smartphone's speaker?
     ·    LG's G5 has introduced an interesting "add-on" module for audiophiles.
          Working with Bang & Olufsen, they have introduced a DAC module for
          enhancing sound quality for those audiophiles out there.
          Interestingly, this module can act as a stand-alone Digital to Analog
          Converter. Like playing high quality audio from a computer, tablet or
          other devices. And of course through the LG G5.


Battery

I am sure we have all had that moment when we run helter-skelter in search of a
power outlet or a friend with a power bank. While smartphones and even smart
wearables are growing ever more advanced, they are still limited by power. The
battery has not advanced in decades. While chips and operating systems are
becoming more efficient to save power we are still only looking at a day or less
of use on a smartphone before having to recharge. We have seen a plethora of
battery discoveries coming out of universities all over the world.

A new fuel cell has been developed, which could mean phones only need to charge
once a week. Scientists at Pohang University of Science and Technology in South
Korea have, for the first time, combined porous stainless steel with thin-film
electrolyte and electrodes of minimal heat capacity. The result is a battery
that is more durable and longer lasting than lithium-ion.

Scientists at MIT, working with Samsung, have discovered solid-state batteries
that are better than current lithium-ion efforts. These batteries should be
safer, last longer and offer more power. Current lithium-ion batteries rely on
an electrolyte liquid to transport charged particles between the two electrodes.
It is this liquid that can be flammable and which degrades the battery, limiting
life. According to the MIT report, these new batteries could be charged for
hundreds of thousands of cycles before degrading. They could also provide a 20
to 30 per cent improvement in power density, meaning that much more charge for
whatever they are powering.

I would like to have a removable battery that lasts me a couple of days with
average to high usage

Have I missed anything? Will we ever have that perfect smartphone? What phone
would you recommend to you friends the next time they ask you? Do let me know
...

