                              532 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          Sunday Times (South Africa)



                              June 19, 2016 Sunday

                             Business Times Edition



The era of the DIY phone is here - if you can afford it ...



BYLINE: Arthur Goldstuck



SECTION: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 586  words





The era of the DIY phone is here - if you can afford it ... Sign Post



AFTER almost three years of silence from Google after it first announced a

project to develop modular phones, the concept of the build-it-yourself phone

has formally arrived on the market. It hasn't come, however, from Google's

Project Ara, the search giant's code name for a concept that would allow users

to build a low-cost smartphone from a wide range of modules.



And these are anything but low-cost options. First out of the starting blocks

was LG, which launched its G5 modular phone at the Mobile World Congress in

February this year. The bottom of the phone slides down, allowing the battery to

be interchanged with various modules that form part of a range called Friends.

These range from camera to speakers to storage add-ons.



Last week, at Lenovo's Tech World in San Francisco, the Chinese PC giant upped

the ante with a new family of products from the Motorola brand it had bought

from Google in 2013. Ironically, Google had first run Project Ara within the

Motorola Mobility division before it ran out of handset-hardware ideas and sold

Motorola to Lenovo.



Introducing the Moto Z and Moto Z Force phones, with a range of add-ons called

Moto Mods, Lenovo CEO Yuanqing Yang boldly declared: "We will show you something

that will change the industry and your life ... This is a game-changing

product."



Actor Ashton Kutcher, who played Steve Jobs in the 2013 movie Jobs, provided the

appropriate buzz for the launch, walking on to the stage to snap one of the Mods

onto the phone the CEO was holding up.



Diverging slightly from LG's Friends, the initial range of Mods include

speakers, battery pack and a snap-on projector.



The latter, called the Insta-Share Projector, is probably the most revolutionary

example of the Mods. Like the Sony Xperia projector unveiled earlier this year,

it projects an interactive screen onto any surface, and detects hand and finger

gestures to activate functions.



The Xperia device is a stand-alone projector, while the Insta-Share's options

range from a virtual keyboard for the phone, to a 70-inch display that allows

video content from the phone to be beamed onto a wall. This means it can turn

the phone into a computer for productivity or a video projector for

entertainment.



The fundamental difference between the Insta-Share and equivalent products is

that it can fit in a pocket along with the phone.



"This changes the way you use a smartphone," said Yang. "Your phone can

transform into whatever you want it to be."



The Mods are compatible with the Android operating system and, when attached,

automatically call up context-relevant interfaces on the phone. The Moto Z

phones have metal backs, while the Mods have small but powerful magnetic dots

that allow them to attach quickly and without fuss to the phones.



Lenovo believes the add-on module concept will result in users holding on to

their phones for longer, as they can add the functionality they want.



However, the Mods will be backward and forward compatible, as the magnetic

snap-on format will not change.



The main drawback is the expected cost of the Mods: $300 (about R4600) for the

Insta-Share, down to $90 for the battery pack. As third-party developers come up

with new Mods, however, prices should come down. They would need to, if Yang's

parting words are to ring true: "These are the building blocks of our future."



oGoldstuck is the founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of

Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @art2gee



LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





