                              537 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)



                            October 10, 2014 Friday



LG Gulf's drive for more success



LENGTH: 1196 words





LG Gulf's top official determined to take brand to even greater heights



For D.Y. Kim, life's good -- fitting given that those two words form a motto of

the company which he serves and leads.



"I can say I have no free time, but I'm a happy guy and I try to be

optimistic... there's no stress," he says, while telling how at home, he belongs

to his 11-year-old son.



But then he turns serious: "At the office, I belong to my office."



And to the consumers he serves as well.



Kim, the president of LG Electronics Gulf, to this day still carries a pocket

diary to list down his contacts and appointments -- somewhat ironic given what

industry he is in. He also kept harping how things have changed through the

decades -- from the time he was born in a countryside with no electricity to the

tech-crazed world we are enjoying today.



"We have to balance things," he points out. "Too much influence from and

reliance on technology could mess up your life... but in business, you need it."



Kim sat down with Khaleej Times for an exclusive interview and let loose his

brand of jolliness in discussing several things, from his thoughts on Dubai to

why LG is a "small" firm -- and even somewhat complementing their biggest rival.



There are a lot of LG products in South Korea that are not yet here in the

Middle East. What's taking too long to launch them here?



It used to be long, but nowadays no. For example, mobile phones; each country

has its own technological system and products need to adapt to the quality of

the system. We need to have a country adaptation process. It usually took two

months [to launch our smartphones here], but starting with the LG G3, we reduced

it to two weeks and from now on, it will an almost-simultaneous launch. For

other products like home appliances -- these handle electricity -- there are a

lot of safety issues in each country. Other companies do this [delaying

launches], not only LG, because getting approval from authorities in different

countries takes time.



How good has business been for LG in the past year in Dubai and the UAE?



We are growing and I can confirm that our products have a very good acceptance

and image with consumers. It has improved a lot; the speed of acceptance from

our customers is accelerating. We've been a market leader here for many years;

in terms of OLED TVs, LG is the only company that can develop, produce and sell

these. Our competitors are working on it but they don't have the technology.

This year I'm expecting much better than last year. And in 2015, thanks to

mobiles and other products, we will be very good.



You mentioned LG is a "small" company. What exactly did you mean by that?



We are... in the mobile phone segment in the UAE. But in others we are not

small; we are No.1 -- definitely No.1 -- in home appliances, we are close to

No.1 in televisions, but surely -- very soon -- in due time in Dubai LG TVs will

be No.1. However, when it comes to mobiles, we were small because we may not

have had the right products before, but beginning with the LG G2, we are now

competing. We see that we will be a major player next year. We are investing

more and more in marketing and people; the mobile team is the biggest team in

the company. Without products, we cannot compete. But now that we have the

products, we're more than ready. We also have our core solutions in-house. Think

about this: what are the core components of a mobile product? Display, camera

and battery, plus CPU; display, we have [our subsidiary] LG Display. Camera, we

have LG Innotek. And battery, we have LG Chem. Why was LG able to make the LG G

Flex [phablet]? Because we have the in-house solutions, something others do not

have. So I'm 100 per cent sure we will be big.



In your own words, how tech-savvy are Koreans?



Very tech-savvy. Take the students, for example; they are very informed and

well-aware of the technologies and trends, and this is also the same for the

rest of the Korean society. And another good thing is that there are big giants

who can supply those products to them like LG and Samsung. If people are ready

for new things, why not?



The other thing is government policy. South Korea is very small, and its

location is surrounded by four economic giants -- Japan, China, Russia and,

although a bit far off, the United States. We don't have natural resources; what

can we do? So we need technology. Our government, together with many companies,

invests a lot in IT infrastructure, most especially in fibre-optics and

networking. So once a new technology is introduced -- even if it is a

world-first technology -- it can be tested and applied easily. Also take

Internet; South Korea has been on LTE, and you can download a two-gigabyte movie

in only four seconds.



And as it may go for LG and Samsung, we have a small market -- Korea only has a

population of about 50 million -- but we work hard, we fight with each other, we

compete with each other in real-time.



How far is Dubai from where South Korea is in terms of technology, connectivity

and similar things?



About two or three years. But mainly, it depends on whether consumers are ready

and faster adaptation. For example, are ready to pay more -- reasonably more --

for faster Internet? People in South Korea are willing to pay and it brings out

the best in those competing in that space -- better services and faster speeds.



You already have the best technologies incorporated into your flagship products.

How can you exceed this with the next iteration?



That's a very good question -- and a bad question as well, because it's very

hard to answer. In most companies, they have many development teams, many

marketing teams, many consumer care teams. In our company, we do

"multi-generation planning". There is already a "G5" team, and most probably a

"G6" team as well. We are selling the G3 right now, but there is a team already

developing the next. And yet another team is waiting and doing something for the

next. In most cases, we plan ahead three years. Many ideas are there to make the

products. Why do we have 20,000 engineers for our mobile division? Do we really

need 20,000? We need it for our future business; LG is always preparing for the

future.



On the LG "G4"-- or whatever you're going to call it -- when would it be

launched?



Sometime in the first half of next year. I can say that's a very short wait from

today.



And as our chat winded down, the discussion shifted to wearable technology. Kim

confirmed that the LG G Watch would be launched here in the UAE by the end of

the year.



"The best thing is that [consumers in South Korea] love the design of the G

Watch. It's a real watch; you cannot see the difference once it's in watch

mode," he said.



So Kim was asked what other wearable technology does he think can be made, and

his answer was quite interesting.



"A smart jacket."



Kim claims that there are already prototypes of a so-called "smart jacket", one

complete with a display that could be used to enjoy a movie and even be used as

a computer - with no worries of getting wrinkles on it. And he also has no

worries this coming into fruition, given the rapid pace of innovation and

development.



"You cannot imagine it, right? In five years it can be a reality."



-- alvin@khaleejtimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 44





   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.

                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)

                              All Rights Reserved





