                              53 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The National



                              May 30, 2016 Monday



LG G5 review: Superb display and camera but falls short elsewhere



BYLINE: John Everington



LENGTH: 564  words





John Everington



LG wowed the crowds at this year's Mobile World Congress in February with the

G5, the first modular smartphone with swappable accessories. Even without those

accessories (LG promises us we shall be able to test them shortly), it's a

compelling device with a great display and brilliant cameras, despite falling

short in one or two areas.



Like HTC, LG has overhauled the tried and trusty designs of its former

flagships, the G5 coming encased in a smooth aluminium body. It's undoubtedly a

well-crafted premium device, although the colour coating gives it a slightly

plastic feel that puts it below the Samsung Galaxy S7 and H TC 10.



LG has cut the size of the G5's IPS LCD Quad HD screen to 5.3 inches from the

G4's 5.5 inches, but has wisely left the close-to-flawless display of its

predecessor otherwise unchanged. The G5's naturalistic colour palette and smooth

rendering are up there with the best smartphones on the market, with the (now

quite dated) Mad Max: Fury Road trailer looking better on the G5 than on

virtually any device I've tested over the past year.



Camera-wise, the G5 goes for quantity and quality, offering both a 16MP standard

rear camera and an 8MP wide angle snapper on the back as well. It's a very

welcome feature, the wide-angle lens proving very handy for group photos and

panoramas. And while the LG's main 16MP camera has argu ably been eclipsed by

that of the Galaxy S7, it still takes bright and detailed images that are close

to best in class.



Like the G4 before it, the G5's main Achilles heel is its comparatively small

2,800 mAh battery, which struggled to last an entire day of moderate use. While

the ability to swap out the battery is nice on paper, most of us would trade

that for a battery that offered a few more hours of juice.



It launched in the UAE in mid-April and retails for Dh2,499, the same price as

the Galaxy S7, but Dh100 more than the HTC 10. It falls a little short in terms

of design and battery life, but its superb display and its excellent rear

cameras make it highly recommended.



Q&A



So what is a 'modular smartphone' then?



It's a smartphone that you fit different modules on to. You simply press a

button on the bottom left-hand side of the G5, then ease off the bottom of the

phone and plug in a new module, or as LG calls them, "Friends". This also allows

you to easily swap out a dead battery for a new one, although why you'd want to

do that is anyone's guess.



According to Facebook, I have more than 500 "Friends". How many does LG have?



Not quite that many at the mom ent, although LG will be hoping that third-party

developers will get creative with the concept. Two plug-in Friends were launched

alongside the G5. They are "Hi-fi Plus with B&O Play" that offers superior audio

playback, as well as the "Cam Plus" that offers a better camera grip and better

controls.



Sounds interesting. What are they like?



LG says it will send them over soon, so will let you know in due course.



Speaking of cameras, I'm far more interested in taking pictures of myself than

others.



In that case the 8MP selfie camera won't let you down. Having said that, there's

no wide-angle selfie cam (like there was on the LG V10), so you might not be

able to get your entire big head into the shot.



There's no need to stoop that low. Finally ...



It comes in silver, Titan, gold, and, you'll be relieved to hear, pink.



jeverington@thenational.ae



LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 818





                     Copyright 2016 Abu Dhabi Media Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





