

While many of the big phone manufacturers have already released flagship devices
such as Samsung's S7 and LG's G5, HTC decided to wait till all if their hype
drowned. After a few teasers from HTC (and a few leaks) we finally have the
official announcement on the HTC 10. I got to play with it, and here is what I
think about it.

The first thing that struck me while using the HTC 10 was the build quality of
the device. When I saw the phone I thought, "Great, another phone that will slip
out of my hands soon", but I was surprised when the phone felt secure in my
hand. Additionally, the power button and the volume rockers on the sides have a
strong finish to it, which adds to the overall grip. The phone is thin but feels
quite heavy. HTC claims that the HTC 10 is immensely durable, which we'll test
when we review it.

The front of the phone is surprisingly empty. The new design takes away the
whole concept of a speaker grille bar and HTC branding, which is replaced by an
amazing Quad HD 5.2 inch screen, and one home button which also acts as a
fingerprint reader. There are no other physical buttons on the phone, which
seems to be the new design principle of the company.

Gallery

Gallery

Gallery


HTC decided to go with a rebooted Android OS for the HTC 10, making it look a
lot like stock Android, especially with its new Freestyle layout, and various
other features you see in a stock Android device. This led to an overall smooth
and simple usage. HTC is once again betting on a camera with Ultrapixel
technology- this time with 12 million of them, powered by laser autofocus to
give you the best photos, at the fastest speeds. Oh and did I mention that it
seamlessly connects to Google Photos instead of the HTC gallery?

Sound quality was also good on the HTC 10. This is easily not one of the devices
you would want to crank the volume up to the maximum, because above 80 is more
than enough, thanks to its dual speakers. In addition to that, the headphones
you get packed in the box also allows you to customize how you want to listen,
and create the right audio profile for you.

In terms of accessories, the Dot view cover is back for the HTC 10, however with
a small upgrade. The Dot view, is now called the Ice view, and instead of dots
on the cover, it gives you a full fledged High resolution display. This display
is so good, that you can even use your camera with it. HTC also launched the
world's first USB Type C headphones as well. These headphones give superior
sound quality, while also delivering noise cancellation.

This is just a first hand opinion of the HTC 10. Make sure you come back right
here for the complete review and the spec breakdown as well. The phone is priced
at AED 2399.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/22/146053199032.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/26/146053199292.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/93/146053199490.jpg



