                              544 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                      November 4, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST



Lenovo Wants You To Design Its Next MotoMod



BYLINE: Chandrakant 'CK' Isi



LENGTH: 244  words





The company has partnered with Indigogo to fund innovative ideas.



LG has given up on its modular accessories meant for its flagship smartphone G5.

However, Motorola is still trying hard to make its MotoMods work. In a latest

initiative, the Lenovo's subsidiary is encouraging fans to submit the ideas for

MotoMods. If your idea is really interesting, there is a good chance that it

will be financed through Indiegogo.



Finalists will be selected by our judging panel of industry leaders. You will

receive Moto Z and an MDK for free from Motorola. The lucky winners will also

receive a trip to Chicago to meet with Moto Mods executive development team.

This will be an important step in bringing your idea to life. Apart from this,

the company will also be hosting a Moto Mods hackathons in the U.S. The first

hackathon will be in New York in December. Those who successfully creates a Moto

Mods will also get an opportunity to participate in the Indiegogo campaign. For

more information and to register, visit modthefuture.com. If your idea is great

and somehow doesn't land up on Indiegogo, you might get funding from Lenovo

Capital, which has set aside up to $1 million. To be eligible for this, you need

to have a working prototype though.



If you too have a great idea for Moto Mods, head over to this link and share it

with Lenovo. So far, Motorola has unveiled Moto Mods that turn your phone into a

camera, a movie projector, a speaker, and an extra battery pack.



LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





