                              551 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             June 4, 2016 Saturday



Xiaomi may be working on Apple iPhone SE rival



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 334 words





The jury is still be out on the success of Apple iPhone SE globally, but the

small-inch iPhone seems to have surely inflenced other smartphone makers. There

have been speculations that Samsung is working on an iPhone SE rival, and now

latest rumours suggest that Xiaomi too is developing a smaller-sized smartphone,

tipped to be called Xiaomi Mini. Although the Chinese tech firm has not yet

officially revealed about the device, a leaked image alleged to be of Xiaomi

Mini has surfaced online.The leaked image, which was spotted by Phandroid

website, also hints at the device's specifications.



The smartphone is said to feature a 4.3-inch display with HD (720x1280 pixels)

resolution and runs on Quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor, which is

mostly used by the companies for their flagship devices like the LG G5, Samsung

Galaxy S7 Edge and more. Xiaomi Mi 5 too is powered by Snapdragon 820

processor.The rumoured Xiaomi Mini is said to house a 13MP rear camera and a

fingerprint sensor at the front (just below the display), which appears to be

similar to the one seen in the company's Mi 5 smartphone. Some of the other

specifications include 3GB RAM and 32GB of inbuilt storage. As for the price,

the Xiaomi Mini is expected to come at CNY 1800 (Rs 18,400 approximately). There

is no word as to when Xiaomi will be launching the smartphone.Xiaomi recently

launched its widely-speculated Mi Band 2. Priced at CNY 149 (Rs 1500

approximately), the wearable device available will go on sale in China June 7

onwards. The company has not yet revealed when the band will be launched in

India and at what price.The company also recently sealed a deal to buy 1500

patents from software giant Microsoft Corp. The deal not only features patent

cross-licensing but also requires Xiaomi to sell its upcoming handsets and

tablets with Microsoft-branded software including the Office and Skype. The two

companies, however, did not disclose the financial terms of the deal.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





