

Manx Telecom was represented by a strong team at the Mobile World Congress - the
biggest annual expo for mobile communications technology.

The event, which attracts around 100,000 visitors and more than 2,000
exhibitors, took place over four days in Barcelona.

Representing Manx Telecom were chief executive officer Gary Lamb; Kevin Paige,
director of customer service and chief technology officer; and Simon Taylor,
global solutions business development manager.

David Smith, Manx Telecom marketing director, said: Primarily, attending MWC is
about networking opportunities and raising Manx Telecom's profile at what is the
biggest annual expo for the mobile telecoms sector, and increasingly for the
entire telecommunications sector.

Secondly, it's also an ideal opportunity to catch-up with all of the major
handset suppliers, many of which hold back on announcing new smartphones so that
they can reveal them to the world at MWC.

Thirdly, our team met representatives from other telecoms operators, established
new contacts, shared information, and discussed industry best practice.

MWC is important for all telcos, but it's becoming even more important for Manx
Telecom as the UK and international dimension of our business expands.

We're moving more and more into the sphere of internet of things'' technology
which essentially involves using smartphones and other mobile devices not just
for personal communications, but also for machine to machine communications.

This has a wide range of applications, including controlling heating, fridges
and other domestic appliances at home, pay as you drive motor insurance, health
monitoring, and many other potential uses.

We're heavily involved in this technology, and MWC is an ideal forum within
which to strengthen existing contacts, and build new ones with potential
partners in the UK and internationally.'

MWC is the event where most leading manufacturers announce their latest
smartphones and tablets, and reveal prototype examples of future technologies
and products.

This year's big announcements included Samsung's eagerly awaited launch of its
Galaxy S7 flagship smartphone; Sony's Xperia X and XA  smartphones and an
innovative range of Xperia Ear, Xperia Eye, Xperia Projector and Xperia Agent
devices; and LG's G5 smartphone and LG 360 VR Headset.

Another big talking point at the Congress was 5G, the next generation of mobile
network technology.

All of the major mobile network infrastructure suppliers are beginning to lay
out their thoughts and ideas about 5G - but it's a technology which is still
very much in its development stage, with experts predicting that the world's
first 5G networks won't be launched until 2019 at the earliest.

5G could deliver speeds of up to 3Gigabits per second, and offer many other
advantages in the sphere of  internet of things'' technology.

Check out Manx Telecom's Facebook page for video blogs which give reviews of
some of the latest smartphones launched at MWC this year.

The GSMA Mobile World Congress was held in Barcelona last week

