                              562 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Samsung unveils Galaxy S7, taps deeper into VR '



LENGTH: 620 words





Samsung Electronics Co. officially introduced new flagship smartphones on Sunday

(Spain time), along with a virtual reality (VR) device, in an effort to tap

deeper into the segment as the next growth engine for the mobile business.



During Samsung Electronics' "Unpacked" event held ahead of the Mobile World

Congress that runs in Barcelona this week, the company unveiled two smartphones:

the Galaxy S7 and its sister Galaxy S7 Edge.



The two Galaxies come with metal cases, while the curved lines of the Galaxy S7

Edge make it easier to hold. The Galaxy boasts a 5.1-inch display, while that of

the quirky sister stands at 5.5 inches.



During the showcase event, Samsung also introduced the Gear 360, the company's

first camera made exclusively for virtual reality (VR) content, in line with its

bid to take the lead in creating the segment's ecosystem.



The round Gear 360 allows users to take videos through two lenses that cover 180

degrees. It links to not only the Galaxy S7 series but previous high-end

smartphones released since the Galaxy S6 as well.



The photos taken via the Gear 360 can be shared using Google Inc.'s Street View

and other social network services through an application.



LG Electronics Inc., meanwhile, also showcased its own VR camera, as well as a

VR headset that connects with smartphones through a cable.



Mark Zuckerberg, co-founder of the social network service Facebook, also

attended the showcase event, adding the company aims to forge deeper ties with

Samsung, allowing more users to share 360-degree video content online.



The Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, meanwhile, will come in four colors: black, gold,

white and silver.



Samsung said it has adopted what it calls a "dual pixel sensor" for the cameras

of the two models for the first time in the industry, which will enhance the

quality of photos to the level of high-end cameras. The technology allows users

to take vivid photos even in dark conditions.



The camera also took a step further than the Galaxy S6 series, as users are now

allowed to take not only photos but videos as well.



In terms of battery, the Galaxy S7 boasts a capacity of 3,000 mAh, up 18 percent

from the predecessor. That of the Galaxy S7 Edge jumped 38 percent to 3,600 mAh,

the company said. They can all be charged wirelessly.



While Samsung Electronics maintained the built-in battery system for the two

smartphones, it allowed users to expand the data capacity by up to 200 gigabytes

through micro secure digital cards, a feature that had disappeared for Galaxy S6

models and been missed by Samsung fans.



Also as shown in teaser advertisements, the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge boasts

what it calls IP68-level water-and-dust resistance, allowing smartphones to

still function after being completely submerged in water, even with USB slots

open, for up to 30 minutes.



The Galaxy S7 series also come with an "Always On Display," as shown on LG

Electronics Inc.'s flagship G5, which displays core information, such as battery

status continuously.



The new devices reflect Samsung's bid to tap deeper into the mobile gaming

industry. A user set up an interruption-free mode that optimizes the phone for

playing games, while making it easier to take snapshots of the screen.



The Galaxy S7 series also aims to further promote the company's mobile payment

platform, Samsung Pay, around the globe, with the service scheduled to reach

more countries this year.



Samsung Pay supports magnetic secure transmission technology that works on

traditional credit card machines. Like rivals Apple Pay and Android Pay, it also

supports near field communication technology that requires a separate

transaction device.



Sales of the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge will begin around mid-March, Samsung added.



(Yonhap)



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





