

SMARTPHONES

Introduced in 2009, Qi (pronounced "chee") was the first wireless standard for
mobile phones. As a result, the list of Qi-compatible phones include top
flagship models from the major handset makers.

Samsung's flagship smartphones and phablets from the past two years natively
support wireless charging. They work with both Qi and PMA wireless standards.

Until last year, Google's Nexus phones also supported the Qi standard, while the
BlackBerry Classic and Passport work with either standard, depending on the
model.

However, a number of smartphone makers have dropped the feature from their
latest flagship models. The LG G5 and the HTC 10 both lack wireless charging.

WIRELESS CHARGERS

Most handset makers sell official wireless chargers for their smartphones.
Samsung has a Qi-based Fast Wireless Charger that is said to charge faster than
the original Samsung wireless charger.

In my experience, this Fast Wireless Charger lives up to its claim. It took
around 2hr 23min to replenish a Samsung Galaxy S7 edge from zero to full charge.
By comparison, the original Samsung wireless charger took around 3hr 40min.

Another variant, the Samsung Active Fast Wireless Charger, stands upright at an
angle, which lets you see and use your phone while it is being charged, unlike
the typical wireless chargers where the phone lies flat on the charging pad.

At online marketplaces such as Qoo10 and Lazada, you can find plenty of
third-party wireless chargers from brands such as Anker and Choetech for under
$50.

OTHER WIRELESS CHARGING ACCESSORIES

If your smartphone does not have the feature built in, you can add it with a
wireless charging case, cover or even a battery pack.

For instance, Mophie recently launched the juice pack wireless ($139 for the
iPhone 6S/6 and $179 for the iPhone 6S Plus/6 Plus). This battery case, which
comes with a wireless charger, has a 1,560mAh battery that adds more than 50 per
cent battery life to the iPhone.

The company has a similar battery pack for the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge.

Vincent Chang

