                              573 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           August 24, 2016 Wednesday



Huawei P9 review: Big aspirations, but falls short



BYLINE: Hitesh Raj Bhagat



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 695 words





Huawei P9



Price: Rs 39,990



Rating: 3.5/5



In a space measured in millimetres, there's not a lot you can fit in. Smartphone

cameras have hit a wall with the kind of quality they can deliver. One approach

is to have two cameras and somehow combine their capabilities to produce a

better, final image. This has been done before: by Huawei (Honor 6 Plus), by the

short-lived Qiku (Q Terra), by HTC (in the One M8 etc), by Xolo, LG G5 and more.



Sometimes, the approach is to use one camera for depth sensing while the other

captures light. Sometimes, the approach is to combine their capabilities. This

brand new flagship from uses a combination of the two approaches. One sensor

captures colour information while the other captures in monochrome.



Data from both is combined to create a higher quality image. Since there are two

sensors, there is double the light available to create an image. At the same

time, you can capture images in a mode that gives you amazing depth of field -

plus refocus the images later and adjust the aperture (and depth of field).



The highlight of the P9 is obviously the camera. This is the first phone camera

that Leica has lent its name to, so it's kind of a big deal. Note that the

cameras have been 'certified' by Leica and not manufactured by them.



Huawei has gone to great lengths to deliver a good camera experience. The app

starts fast and you'll be greeted with more modes than you can shake a shutter

button at: monochrome, beauty, HDR, beauty video, panorama, night, light

painting, time-lapse, slo-mo, watermark and document scan. Swipe up on the

screen to get manual mode where you can adjust metering modes, ISO, shutter

speed, exposure value, autofocus and white balance.



And yes, you can also shoot in RAW, if you want to edit like a pro later. Other

settings include eight different live filters, object tracking, smile shutter,

grid, audio control (say cheese to take a photo), burst shooting, image

adjustment (individual adjustment of saturation, contrast and brightness). The

list goes on - you get the picture!



Leave the camera on auto and it will give you stunning results in most

conditions. Aperture shooting mode can give you a shallow depth, but go

overboard with the setting and the edges of your subject won't be sharp anymore.

Monochrome images are particularly amazing.



In its current form, the P9 is powered by Huawei's own HiSilicon chip - it

offers almost the same levels of performance you would expect from a flagship

class processor like the Snapdragon 820. The square fingerprint scanner on the

back panel falls right where your index finger rests - it's one of the fastest

around and can also wake the phone up from standby. The screen may be only 1080p

but at a screen size of 5.2-inch, pixel density is 423ppi which is really sharp.

It's also got great colour, contrast and saturation.



The rest of the device is nice, albeit somewhat conventional. If you're spending

Rs 40k on a smartphone, certain things are a given: premium-feel, unibody

design, fast fingerprint scanner, high quality screen and flagship level

performance to name a few.



However, we feel this device should have had optical image stabilisation, more

RAM (4GB), IR emitter and the ability to record 4k video. It should have had

better battery life and support for fast charging. It will struggle to last a

full day for heavy users - and it's roughly 8.5 hours of screen-on time while

playing video.



The P9 is not easy to recommend - especially with the likes of the Rs 23k Mi5,

Rs 23k LeMax 2 and the Rs 28k OnePlus 3. To add more fuel into the fire, the

Galaxy S7 and iPhone 6S are priced in the vicinity too. Huawei needs to drop the

price on the P9 fast - till that time, it remains a good phone on paper with

very interesting camera capabilities but one that is not enough value for money.



Pros: Leica certified dual camera system, excellent performance, stellar build

quality and design, ultrafast fingerprint sensor



Cons: 1080p LCD & lack of optical image stabilisation not befitting this price

class, records max 1080p video, priced way too close to popular flagships like

iPhone 6S, Galaxy S7, no fast charging



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





