                              576 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                              May 31, 2016 Tuesday

                               Australian Edition



Modular smartphones a road to nowhere



BYLINE: Krishan Sharma mobiles



SECTION: AUSTRALIANIT; Pg. 28



LENGTH: 735  words





The smartphone market just isn't as exciting as it once was. The likes of iPhone

6S and Samsung Galaxy S7 might have better cameras, faster processors and more

beautiful displays, but none of them fundamentally change the way we use our

smartphones. Most of the major players are banking on modular phones to be the

next big thing and while the idea of buying a core phone that you upgrade

forever has merit, modular phones in their current state are doomed to fail.



Smartphones today arrive fully formed. You might be able to choose between

different storage capacities and colours but once you take it out of the box the

only thing that really changes from that point on is the underlying software.



The idea with modular is that you buy a base phone that you then assemble from a

number of self-contained components to form a complete phone, allowing you to

add things like a better camera, more storage or better audio.



It's not a new idea - start-ups have been kicking around the concept on

Kickstarter for years. Dutch company Fairphone was the first truly modular phone

to market, but has only shipped 60,000 units since its release -almost three

years ago. The recently released G5 from LG was the first flagship from a major

manufacturer to use the modular concept.



However, it's not a completely modular smartphone as you can only swap out the

bottom section of the phone with a few "friends" that give it additional

functionality. Motorola's next flagship, the Moto Z, is also adopting a modular

design, with what appears to be attachable back plates that add functionality

like a Pico projector and a camera grip with zoom lens.



But it's Google's Project Ara that holds the biggest promise. After a year of

radio silence the tech giant gave us a fresh look at Ara last week and Google

seems to have scaled back its modular -vision. Previously, Ara was pitched as a

handset that you could use to swap out virtually every major component -

display, CPU, RAM and GPU - but now these are going to be baked in.



Google plans to ship Ara with six modules so you can swap in extra hardware

functions that range from the obvious - bigger speakers, extended batteries and

an extra display on the back to provide notification information - to the

not-so-obvious like a glucose meter for health-related applications. It's also

partnering up with fashion brands to make some "fashion" plates that can be used

to customise the look and feel of the phone.



Google is eyeing an app store-like business model for the hardware where all

modules made by third parties will need to be approved by Google before going on

sale. It's unclear how much of a cut Google will be taking. Both Google and

Apple take a 30 per cent cut of every app sold in their respective stores so

it's possible that Ara could take a similar cut with hardware.



This is the first phone that Google is making completely in-house, unlike its

Nexus phones manufactured by hardware partners. The module licensing and store

front are also run through Google. It's ripe with potential but can Google

convince consumers (and hardware makers) Ara is something that they would want?



Unfortunately, Google's promise of Ara being the only phone you'll ever need is

a flawed one. Ara's core components are not upgradeable, which means the phone

will quickly become obsolete. What if you want to upgrade your display to take

advantage of mobile VR or your screen breaks? Well you'll need a new phone.



Also, given Google's current policy on providing Android software updates is two

years, it's hard to imagine it will invest in the development resources

necessary to provide major software updates to an older model of Ara especially

after the inevitable second version is released.



Price is also a real issue. Admittedly, we still don't know how much Ara and its

supporting modules will cost but if history is any indication, it won't come

cheap. Filling up a few of Ara's slots with modules could conceivably cost you

the price of a new premium-tier phone and it's hard to see the value

there.Finally, Google's track record of making its own hardware commercially

successful is virtually non-existent. Google TV failed miserably, Android TV is

a work in progress and the Nexus phones haven't been a sales hit. Google Glass,

like Ara, was a stunning technological accomplishment but poor marketing and

messaging doomed it to obscurity. Ara could easily go the same way.



LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





