                              585 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                        The Timaru Herald (New Zealand)



                           September 8, 2016 Thursday



Samsung trips trying to pip Apple



SECTION: FEATURES; NATIONAL; Pg. 7



LENGTH: 445 words





In its rush to beat rival products to market, notably Apple's new iPhone,

Samsung Electronics has accelerated new phone launch cycles, but its haste is

raising concerns that it fell short on quality testing.



Since last year, the South Korean firm, the world's largest maker of

smartphones, has brought forward the launch of its Galaxy S and Galaxy Note

series models by roughly a month.



For the June quarter, the strategy helped Samsung to its best profit in more

than two years, but it is also putting strain on its supply chain and its

manufacturing reputation.



On Friday, two weeks after launch, Samsung recalled Galaxy Note 7 smartphones in

10 markets including New Zealand after finding its batteries were prone to

ignite, and halted sales of the device in those markets indefinitely. The recall

looks set to hamstring a revival in Samsung's mobile business just as Apple

gears up to launch its new iPhones this month.



"Samsung might have over- exerted itself trying to pre-empt Apple, since

everybody knows the iPhones launch in September," said Chang Sea-Jin, business

professor at Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and author of

Sony vs. Samsung, a history of the electronics giants.



"It's an unfortunate event; it feels like Samsung rushed a bit, and it's

possible that this led to suppliers also being hurried."



Samsung said it conducts "extensive preparation" for its products and will

release them to the market "only after proper completion of the development

process". The firm said it had identified a problem in the manufacturing process

of a battery supplier it didn't name.



"I am working to straighten out our quality control process," Samsung's mobile

business chief Koh Dong-jin said.



The scale of the unprecedented recall, which some analysts forecast will cost

Samsung nearly US$5 billion in revenue this year, follows a separate

supply-chain management issue that led to disappointing sales of the Galaxy S6

series last year.



Counterpoint analyst Jeff Fieldhack said Samsung stole the thunder from local

rival LG Electronics' launch of the G5 smartphone this year by starting the

sales of the Galaxy S7 smartphones a month earlier and backing them with an

aggressive marketing campaign.



"I believe they were trying to create a similar effect by beating Apple to

market by (about) a month, too," he said.



"Very often, lab times and testing periods are shrunk to expedite approval and

time-to- market of key devices. It is possible all charging scenarios were not

thoroughly tested." Reuters



--------------------



CAPTION:



Since last year, Samsung brought forward the launch of its Galaxy S and Galaxy

Note series models by roughly a month. REUTERS



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





