                              587 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                 Indian Express



                              June 10, 2016 Friday



Lenovo Moto Z, Moto Z Force could be the future of modular smartphones: Here's

why;

Moto Z, Moto Z Force smartphones come with 16 Moto Mods that let it transform

into other devices, like camera portable stereo or battery power house.



BYLINE: Nandagopal Rajan



LENGTH: 272  words





Moto Z, Moto Z Force smartphones come with 16 Moto Mods that let it transform

into other devices, like camera portable stereo or battery power house.



The Moto Z, Moto Z Force smartphones announced at the Lenovo Tech World 2016 in

San Francisco could be the future of modular smartphones and customisation.



The phones are revolutionary as they comes with Moto Mods that snap on to the

phone transforming them into new devices. Lenovo has announced a developer

programme for those who want to create new mods that snap on to these new

smartphones.



The Mods attach to the Moto Z phones using 16 dots on the phone, a bit like

magnets. One the mods latch on to the smartphone they can add new capabilities

like a more powerful camera or stereo, and of course extra battery.



The design could send a jitter down the spine of the LG, which has created the

G5 which now seems like a more crude way of offering a module phone.



The Moto Z smartphones also feature fast charging going up to 50 per cent in 15

minutes. The company claims it has the best camera in a Moto phone so far.



Lenovo-Moto showcased modules like an Insta projector that can beam images of up

to 70 inches. There is also a JBL Sound Boost to improve the sound quality.



IThere is also an additional battery power pack that adds up to 22 hours of

battery life. This again could be a game changer feature given that battery life

is one of the biggest pain points for smartphone users.



Globally, Moto Z will be available in September. US availability is earlier, buy

only on Verizon.



The Lenovo CEO has announced a price of $1 million for developers who make the

best Moto Mod prototypes.



LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





