                              588 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            February 26, 2016 Friday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Mobile World Congress steps into virtual reality



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 394 words





Virtual Reality (VR) was a key theme in the demos and debates at this year's

Mobile World Congress (MWC). The Barcelona trade show even saw the Facebook CEO,

Mark Zuckerberg, make a surprise appearance at Samsung's press conference to

extol the technology's virtues. MWC saw new VR devices on show and brought

industry insight into the future of the tech market's hottest new trend.



There were all manner of virtual reality headsets at this year's MWC, with

advanced models alongside basic VR viewers. The headline-grabbing Samsung Gear

VR, on sale since the end of 2014, for example, is now being bundled as a

freebie with preorders of the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge smartphones placed

before March 10, 2016. The South Korean manufacturer is clearly keen to get VR

out into the mainstream.



Rival South Korean firm LG presented a pair of virtual reality goggles that hook

up to its new G5 flagship smartphone. This has two built-in screens that

simulate the image of a 130-inch TV from two meters away. As yet, there's no

word on its price or release date.



Alcatel, on the other hand, had the original idea of turning the packaging of

its Idol 4 Plus and Idol 4S phones -- presented in the Spanish capital -- into a

VR viewer. In theory, this looks closer to Google's Cardboard VR viewer than an

advanced headset.



Finally, HTC has announced the price and release date for its Vive VR headset.

Developed in partnership with video games studio Valve, it'll be up for preorder

on February 29, 2016, priced $799, with shipping expected to start in April.



Mark Zuckerberg sees the future in VR



The Facebook CEO believes that VR will be about more than just gaming and

entertainment. In fact, it could be set to change the face of social networks

very soon.



Preparations are already underway to optimize Facebook as a platform for the

millions of 360-degree videos that users will want to upload to share immersive

experiences with friends and family across the globe. Facebook's servers are

being brought up to speed to broadcast live, high-quality 360-degree image

streams while using the least bandwidth possible.



Other major tech firms are branching out into the VR too, such as Microsoft with

its ambitious Hololens project. Apple is also rumored to be working on its own

virtual reality system.



Check out the HTC Vive in this promotional video: https://youtu.be/a5Wq3SrRcS8



LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2016 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





