                              590 of 820 DOCUMENTS



              Copyright 2016 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved

                           GlobalData - SWOT Analysis



                                November 2, 2016



                              LG Electronics, Inc.



                        LG Twin Tower, 128, Yeoui-daero

                                  Seoul 07336

                                  South Korea



* * * * * * * * * * SWOT ANALYSIS * * * * * * * * * *

Strengths:



Comprehensive Product Portfolio and Market Presence



   LG offers products for a wide range of applications, which mitigates the risk

of dependence on a particular market. The company offers a comprehensive

portfolio of electronics under four different segments: Home Entertainment,

Mobile Communications, Home Appliance and Air Conditioning and Energy Solution,

Its product portfolio ranges from TVs, refrigerators, washing machines,

dishwashers and air conditioners to CDMA handsets, GSM handsets, netbook PCs and

desktop PC. Comprehensive product portfolio makes the company a one-stop

solution for its client's electronics related needs.



Focus on Research and Development



   LG's focus on R&D activities helps it reduce costs, improve production

processes and provide quality assurance. LG has a company-level R&D organization

covering all the business areas in which it operates. Such operations focus on

basic technology, quality inspection and the improvement of core technologies

and designs to enhance its product quality. The company has R&D centers

worldwide to carry out projects focused on specific business areas, and to

develop product-related applications and technologies. In new business areas

such as home networking, GPS, and mobile A/V, the company is directing its

efforts toward developing convergence products in response to the current trend

of merging different technologies and products. The company is leading the new

market by actively participating in pilot projects to develop new products with

various service providers. Such a strong focus on R&D activities provides LG

with a competitive advantage in generating improved operational performance. New

product and technology innovations also strengthen the company's market position

and provide a source of future revenues.



Global Market Presence



   Extensive coverage of various markets would lead to improved sales, greater

profit margins, economies of scale and global recognition. LG is one of the

global leading technology innovators and provider of consumer electronics,

mobile communications and home appliances. It has a strong brand identity and

operates through 125 subsidiaries across the world. In 2015, the company is

ranked 175th among the Fortune Global 500 corporations worldwide. It is one of

the world's leading producers of flat panel TVs, mobile devices, air

conditioners, washing machines and refrigerators. LG is also the world's leading

contributor in 4G technology standard LTE (Long Term Evolution). Geographically,

the company classifies its operations into eight segments, namely, Korea, North

America, Europe, South America, Middle East and Africa (MEA), Asia, China and

others. In FY2015, North America accounted for 29% of the company's total

revenue, followed by Korea with 25.3%, Asia with 10.4%, Europe with 10.3%, MEA

with 8.3%, South America with 7.6%, China with 5.8%, and others with 3.3%. Such

market presence provides the company economies of scale and diverse means of

revenue stream.

Weaknesses:



Patent Infringement Suits



Involvement in various lawsuits and legal proceedings could not only have an

impact on the company's brand image in the market, but also need significant

commitments on the cost and the management resource front. In June 2016,

ParkerVision GmbH, a subsidiary of ParkerVision, Inc., filed a complaint against

LG Electronics Deutschland GmbH, a German subsidiary of LG, for the infringement

of the German part of European Patent 1 206 831. The complaint was filed in

Munich Regional Court, seeking injunctive relief and damages for infringing

devices being offered, brought to market, used or introduced in Germany. The

accused products include the LG G Flex 2, LG G3 and LG G5. In January 2016, LG

is one of the co-defendants in a lawsuit filed by Unwired Planet, Inc. in the

Dusseldorf District Court in Germany. The court held that that the defendants'

LTE and GSM compliant handsets infringe three Unwired Planet patents. In August

2015, Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology Korea Corp. filed a lawsuit against LG

in Delaware federal court alleging that the company infringed four patents

related to optical disc drives. Toshiba seeks a judgment against LGE USA and LG

International America that the companies directly and indirectly infringed its

patents, and damages including lost profits, in an amount no less than a

reasonable royalty. These matters could have an adverse effect on the company's

growth prospects as they exert additional financial burden on it in terms of

fines, penalties, and legal consultancy fees.



Increasing Cost of Operations



   LG reported an increase in its cost of operations in FY2015. This could

affect the operational efficiency of the company. In FY2015, the company's

operating costs as a percentage of sales increased to 97.8% from 96.9% In

FY2014. As a result, its operating income declined 32.9% to KRW1,225,956 million

in FY2015 from KRW1,827,443 million in FY2014. LG also reported 68.9% decline in

net income to KRW252,971 million in FY2015 as compared to KRW678,509 million in

FY2014. Its operating and net profit margin declined to 2.2% and 0.22% in FY2015

as compared to 3% and 0.67% respectively, in FY2014.

Opportunities:



New Product Launches



   The company's focus on continuously expanding its product portfolio and

improving the current offerings offers it an opportunity to cater to the needs

of a wide range of customers and increase its market share. In May 2016, LG

Introduced active lifestyle camera with live streaming over 4G. The device, LG

Action CAM, also offers remote access functionality via 3G and LTE which will

enable the device to be used as a CCTV camera for home monitoring or as an

automobile dash camera. In February 2016, the company launched its first modular

smartphone, LG G5. In January 2016, the company launched its new LG SIGNATURE

product lineup, which brings together the company's best technology and best

designs under a single name. The initial lineup include 4K HDR-enabled OLED TV,

advanced TWIN Wash washing machine, Door-in-Door refrigerator, hybrid air

purifier, double-oven range and TurboSteam dishwasher.



Rising Demand for Smartphones



   Rising demand for smartphones could improve LG's earning capability and

market share. Smartphones have the highest near-term purchase intent amongst any

portable connected devices. According to in-house research, global mobile

subscriptions are expected to reach 8.99 billion in 2018. The key drivers

include greater product innovation, expanding 4G networks, decreasing prices and

increasing competition among smartphone manufacturers. LG offers a wide range of

smartphones and developing products using latest technologies such as LTE.



Strategic Alliances and Agreements



   LG focuses on advancing its business objectives through strategic alliances

and agreements. In July 2016, the company entered into a memorandum of

understanding with Volkswagen AG to cooperate on the research and development of

a next-generation connected car service platform. Under the agreement, the two

companies will work together to develop Volkswagen's Cross-Over-Platform to

enhance vehicle connectivity and convenience. In March 2016, LG entered into

technological partnership with Bang & Olufsen, the Danish premium consumer

electronics company, to develop premium OLED TVs. The partnership would help the

company to expand the OLED TV category. In February 2016, the company and Intel

entered into an agreement to develop and pilot 5G-based telematics technology,

the next generation of wireless technology for cars. The agreement would enable

LG to build on its leadership position in next generation of 5G telematics

products. In the same month, the company entered into an agreement with premium

audio firm B&O PLAY to offer its smartphone users an enhanced high-quality audio

experience. LG would be the first company to offer Hi-Fi audio features

co-designed by B&O PLAY. In January 2016, the company entered into a global

partnership with Netflix to facilitate the expansion of Netflix's global

on-demand Internet streaming operations beyond the Internet TV network. The

expansion will bring an extensive library of high-quality content, including 4K

HDR-mastered original TV series, to more markets in Asia, the Middle East and

Europe. The partnership would enable LG to strengthen its presence in global

premium TV market.

Threats:



Counterfeit Products



   The company's business may be affected as a result of the huge influx of

counterfeit products in the US. Such a high penetration of counterfeit

merchandise may lower the company's sales and adversely affect its profit

margins. Moreover, as customers mistakenly purchase counterfeit products bearing

fake labels, the low quality of the products affects consumer confidence and

also, damages the brand image of the genuine company. Through low price

offerings, the imitated goods are affecting the sales of the branded products.

As the company deals with several branded products, it is prone to such

challenges that may affect its performance.



Foreign Exchange Risk



   LG operates worldwide and therefore is affected by fluctuations in foreign

exchange rates. The company may incur losses in the future due to fluctuations

in currency transactions, which may affect its results of operations. The

company enters into forward currency contracts to address fluctuations in

currencies. However, there can be no assurance that such hedging activities or

measures will significantly limit the impact of movements in exchange rates on

the results of operation. The company's business and results of operations may

be adversely affected if the company experiences any foreign exchange

fluctuations.



Rapid Technological Changes



   The offerings of the company are characterized by rapid technological

changes, which could affect its business operations. To compete effectively with

its peers, the company should continually introduce new products that exceed the

customers' requirements. The introduction of products using new technologies or

the adoption of new industry standards can make existing products, or products

under development, obsolete or unmarketable. Inability to study the evolving

technological landscape could impact the company's competitive position.

* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *

Business Description                    Corporate Strategy

Company Overview                        Company Statement

Events                                  Financial Ratios

History                                 Key Employees

Key Facts                               Locations and Subsidiaries

Major Products and Services             SWOT Analysis

Top Competitors



 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *



   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its

information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and

expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company

websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of

this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted

in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or

otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts

of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot

be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations

that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith

from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a

position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for

actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be

incorrect.



LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016





