                              596 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           November 3, 2016 Thursday



Moto Z review: The future of modular smartphone is here



BYLINE: Hitesh Raj Bhagat



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 759 words





PRICE: Rs 39,990



HASSELBLAD MOTOMOD: Rs 19,999



INSTASHARE PROJECTOR MOTOMOD: Rs 15,999



SPECIFICATIONS: 5.5-inch amoled (2560 x 1440 pixels), Snapdragon 820 processor,

4GB RAM, 32/64GB storage, 13MP primary camera, 5MP front camera, fingerprint

scanner, microSD slot, 4G, VoLTE, WiFi, GPS, Bluetooth 4.1, USB Type-c, NFC,

Android 6.0, 2,600mAh battery, 136g



+ Nicely implemented snap-on 'Mods', super-thin design feels almost unreal,

excellent performance, beautiful screen.



- Ultra-thin design means a big, protruding camera module and smaller battery.



The ultra-svelte Moto Z may not be the first to offer modular accessories, but

they have the best implementation so far.



We're almost at the end of 2016. Some time ago, we were promised modular

smartphones: devices that we could modify ourselves with snap-fit modules.

Needed more battery life? You could remove the camera module and add a second

battery. Needed better speakers? You could add a module with stereo speakers and

so on. The idea is still in its infancy. LG took on the challenge a while ago

with the G5 -- you could remove a section that housed the battery and add more

functionality (like a camera module with added grip and buttons). It was still a

half-baked effort and we didn't even see the camera module leave alone some of

the others that were promised. It was clear that the concept needed more work

and now its Motorola's turn with the Moto Z and MotoMods.



The camera module by Hasselblad, the InstaShare Mod with built in LED pico

projector and the JBL speaker system. (Image: Flipkart)



To start with, this has to be said: the Moto Z is incredibly thin at 5.19mm. It

feels wafer-thin in the hand and it's a wonder how they managed to pack in

top-spec components and a beautiful screen into this frame. It's so thin that it

can't possibly include a 3.5mm audio out, so it joins others like Apple and

LeEco that have dropped the port in favor of a single port for charging, data

and audio. The real magic is around the



back of the phone, where you'll see a bunch of gold-plated connectors -- this is

where the MotoMods attach -- the pins provide a high-speed data connection and

can also supply power if needed.



Right from the get-go, the Moto Z has a bunch of mods that you can get as

magnetic, snap-on modules. Obviously, these are optional extras but the price is

not as prohibitive as you may think, especially considering the price of the

some of the competing flagships. So what kind of



mods can you get? Well, there's the add on battery for starters. In the

ultra-thin guise, the battery life is compromised, so if you need extra battery,

just snap it on. If you need more style and want to add a more rounded shape,

you can get the style shells (covers) in some lovely designs.



Then they have the three main Mods: the camera module by Hasselblad, the

InstaShare Mod with built in LED pico projector and the JBL speaker system. We

tried the Hasselblad and InstaShare Mods as part of this review. The Hasselblad

name is impressive and so is the design and build quality of this mod. It covers

the stock camera module and gives you a 10x optical zoom, dedicated shutter/zoom

ring and xenon flash. You still need to use the phone screen as a viewfinder

though. Since it replaces the stock camera, you use it as you normally would:

the photos are stored in the gallery and you can share/edit them at will. There

are obvious advantages to the optical zoom and it offers excellent quality when

the conditions are bright. It won't focus very fast though (especially at the

tele end of the zoom) and in very light, you'll be better off using the wider

aperture of the device's own camera.



The InstaShare projector has a tiny lens, 50 lumen light source and a built in

stand that you can use to prop it on a table. It instantly displays what's on

the screen -- you could watch movies, share photos, YouTube et all. In a dark

room, we found that a screen of 60-inches is very doable and plenty sharp. The

projector will automatically correct the keystone depending on the angle of the

phone and it is our favorite mod because of the massive functionality it adds in

a very slim package.



We think the Moto Z is a very impressive achievement and comes in at a great

price too! The phone offers so many advantages that we are willing to forgive

the average battery life in the stock form. Importantly, MotoMods is a platform

and other accessory makers are open to make accessory for these compatible

phones. Hopefully, this is just a start -- a very exciting one at that.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





