                              602 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                             March 7, 2006 Tuesday



Stylish notebook or desktop workhorse?;

Don't crack your head to make a decision - help's here



SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE - SPECIALS



LENGTH: 503  words





BUY A DESKTOP personal computer or a notebook? Many first-time buyers find

themselves in such a dilemma. But making a decision need not be daunting if you

prioritise your needs. Just think of three basic functions: portability,

performance and price.



Here is a guide to help with your final buying decision...



Are you deskbound?



If your work largely revolves around the office or the home, get a desktop PC.



Do you travel often?



A notebook is ideal. Its size usually fits into a brief case or a hand-carry.

Women should con- sider an ultra portable which can easily slip into their

handbag. For instance, the Sony VaioTX17GP weighs only 1.24kg and is about as

thick as a copy of The Straits Times. While on the road, it is essential to have

good security to keep documents and data safe. The latest notebooks come with

many security options. Some like the LG S1 Express Dual notebook features a

Finger Print reader allowing access only to authorised users.



Workspace a premium?



If you're in a studio apartment or if your bedroom has space for only a small

table, then a notebook is an obvious choice. The desktop on the other hand with

its attendant wires, peri- pheral devices like monitor and keyboard, will take

up more space.



Worried about notebook performance?



The latest notebooks today come with Intel's Centrino Duo Core mobile technology

for better performance and longer battery life.



LG, for instance, introduced the Express Dual notebooks - a new series of

multimedia and entertaiment notebooks based on the Intel Centrino Duo Core

mobile technology. A standard notebook should also come with wireless technology

allowing you to surf the Internet wirelessly.



Expandability of desktops



Desktops have a better roadmap for performance and equipment upgrades. It is

easier to plug in a more powerful graphics card or more memory or even a faster

processor. It is also easier to mix and match peripheral devices like a new

wireless keyboard or a larger screen.



For that reason, graphic artists and desktop publishers prefer desktops for

their larger screens and performance.



Got style



Increasingly manufacturers of both PCs and notebooks have up the ante on design

and style. Many desktop PCs come with LCD 19-inch screens which look really nice

on your worktable. If you buy Apple Computer's G5 Macintosh with the 20- or

30-inch cinematic screen for instance, you'll be the envy of colleagues and

friends.



For notebooks, Acer has been sporting a brilliant red notebook. Samsung, Sony

and Toshiba are also well known for their sleek, colourful and stylish

notebooks.



Pricing



Price alone may ultimately be the deciding factor for you. PC prices are on the

down trend. Notebooks, however, are generally more expensive. A standard entry

level desktop PC from Dell now sells for under $1,000 compared to an entry level

Dell notebook which costs around $1,500. -- Adli Yashir, a correspondent and

Internet coordinator with Berita Harian.



Tip: A standard entry level desktop PC retails for under $1,000; a notebook

starts at around $1,500.



LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2006 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





