

Lenovo-owned Motorola recently launched its Moto Z and Moto Z Play smartphones
in the country. Having been launched as part of the flagship 'Z' line-up (along
side the existing X series), the Moto Z duo isn't just about raw hardware
specifications. Their claim to fame is their 'modularity'. Both Moto Z and Moto
Z Play are compatible with hot-swappable 'Moto Mods' (sold separately) that can
be snapped to them, thus transforming them into something more than just
smartphones.

Of these two, the Moto Z is more powerful and hence, pricier. The Moto Z's
'modular' approach can be definitely considered to be a gamble, especially
considering the less-than-stellar market response towards the LG G5 and the
now-shelved Project Ara from Google.

Now, Moto Z definitely appears to be a pretty solid smartphone. But even with a
competent spec-sheet and the whole buzz around modularity, is this a smartphone
that can justify its price tag of Rs 39,999? We spent a couple of days, both
with the Moto Z and its much-touted companion Mods, and here are our findings.

Design and display

With the Moto Z, Motorola seems to have taken the word 'thin' a bit too
seriously. A mere 5.2mm thick, the smartphone has a really impressive design and
a stainless steel frame that looks equally good. Compared to the competition,
the Moto Z is also quite lightweight. The design is a bit 'boxy,' and despite
the large display, the smartphone is comfortable to use with one hand.

The right edge is home to the power button and volume keys, while the SIM tray
is located up top. Don't try to find that 3.5mm jack, as it's not there.
Instead, you'll have to either use USB Type-C headphones or use the adapter that
comes in the box to use your existing earphones. Obviously, this means you won't
be able to charge the Moto Z and listen to music at the same time (Unless, a
'port-splitter' accessory or something like that comes to the market to solve
the problem).

Flip to the back, and you'll see the protruding 13MP rear camera module with
dual LED flash. There's also a 'moto' branding right in the centre. But what's
truly interesting about the Moto Z's rear panel are the magnetic pins at the
bottom. These are used for interfacing the device with the 'Moto Mods,' which
we'll talk about a bit later.

The stainless steel frame can be a bit rough from the back, but turns smooth as
soon as you snap on the style shell. The company is offering one for free with
the Moto Z. It's made of a faux-wood material and feels amazing in the hand. The
'wooden' finish of the shell not only imparts the phone a good grip, but also
adds to the look. However, if you go for a full shell case, chances are quite
high you won't be able to stick the mods and shells to the device.

The recently launched Moto Z is priced at Rs 39,999. (Image: www.motorola.in)

Removing the 3.5mm audio jack has helped Motorola make the Moto Z reportedly the
thinnest smartphone in the world, with the phone being just 5.2mm thick. In our
opinion, it does give the Moto Z a really good in-hand feel.

Let's get to the display side of things. Moto Z has a 5.5-inch Quad HD display
of 1440x2560 pixel resolution. Thanks to Amoled panel, Blacks are darker,
colours are more vivid and sunlight legibility is really nice. The Black pixels
are powered off when not being used, such as when notifications are being
displayed via the 'Moto Display' feature. This is quite helpful in saving
battery life.

The display also has a brightness override mode. Available only with 'Adaptive
brightness' setting enabled, it brings the brightness from 370nits to 506nits.
During our testing, we found the display to be really good in direct sunlight.
Viewing angles and colour reproduction are quite solid.

In a nutshell, Moto Z's 5.5-inch panel is perfect for everything from
high-performance gaming to binging on HD movies.

Performance and camera

Powered by a 2.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor, the Moto Z
comes with 4GB RAM and 64GB internal storage. The phone also accepts microSD
cards of up to 2TB in size.

With a (fairly) latest chipset and ample amount of RAM, the Moto Z doesn't
disappoint when it comes to general performance. During our testing, we used the
smartphone to play everything from Temple Run to Asphalt 8: Airborne and it
handled everything without any hiccups. Also, we didn't come across any (major)
heating issues. The smartphone handles multi-tasking and fast app-switching
quite easily.

Moto Z runs Android 6.0 Marshmallow operating system, made even better with
Motorola's software additions like Moto Voice, Moto Actions and Moto Display.
Like other Moto smartphones, the Z also has features like Attentive Display
(keeps the screen on as long as you are looking at it), Flip for Do Not Disturb
(turning the phone on its face activates Do Not Disturb Mode, Pick up to stop
ringing (pretty self-explanatory) and Swipe to shrink screen (shrinks the screen
content for easier one-handed usage). We found all of these to be really good
for enhancing the overall usage experience.

Having a 5.5-inch display, the Moto Z is a bit big. This can make unlocking the
device using the power button quite cumbersome. But why use the power button
when you can unlock it using just your fingerprint?

That's right. Moto Z comes with a fingerprint sensor which is located below the
display. Interestingly, the sensor can be used to both lock and unlock the
device. In the course of our usage, the fingerprint sensor worked flawlessly.
It's fast and accurate.

A modern smartphone can't quite possibly be considered complete without a
capable camera. For this reason, the Moto Z sports a 13MP rear camera with laser
autofocus, optical image stabilization (OIS) and dual LED flash. There's also a
5MP front-facing unit for selfie lovers.

In our testing, we found the imaging experience on the Moto Z to be quite good.
The camera focuses really quickly and shutter speeds are quite fast. Captured
photos have ample amount of resolved details and are quite sharp. As for the
camera app itself, it's quite clean and easy to use. The app has features like
Auto HDR, the ability to switch between front and rear cameras via a flick of
the wrist, 4K video recording and slow-motion recording. There's also a
Professional mode which, as the name suggests, lets you tweak everything from
ISO levels to white balance as per your liking.

The front camera, too, performed admirably well in our testing. Even low light
selfies turned out to be good, thanks to the front-facing flash.

All this fancy goodness needs a reliable battery backup, right? Motorola Moto Z
comes with a 2,600mAh battery, which we think is a bit underwhelming, especially
on a top-end device. During our testing, the battery lasted about 14 hours on a
single charge. This is definitely not the best backup out there. But Turbo
Charging support does help in making things a little better. It can bring the
battery level from nothing to about 50% in just 30 minutes. Nevertheless, you'll
need to charge the Moto Z more than once a day to keep it going.

Moto Mods

'Moto Mods' are the true differentiating factor which give Moto Z edge over its
competition. These snap on to the back of the smartphone magnetically. The
company has introduced four mods - JBL SoundBoost speaker, Moto Insta-Share
projector, Moto Mod battery pack and Hasselblad True Zoom camera. Of course, the
style shells are also there.

JBL SoundBoost

Lenovo partnered with audio-accessory maker JBL to create the SoundBoost Mod.
Priced at Rs 6,999, it is essentially a stereo loudspeaker with two three-watt
drivers. It amplifies the phone's sound and is designed to work as a Bluetooth
speaker. The SoundBoost has a 1,000mAh battery of its own and comes with a
kickstand as well. This helps in propping the phone in a way that audio is fired
upwards, making the sound output better. During our testing, the SoundBoost mod
performed extremely well. Its sound quality is great and the audio output is
loud enough. If you are a party person, this is one mod you should definitely
get.

Moto Insta-Share Projector

Moto Insta-Share projector is one of the most interesting mods offered for the
Moto Z. Bearing a price tag of Rs 19,999, it's basically a pico-projector that,
when attached to the Moto Z, can beam images and videos up to 70-inch in size on
any surface. The downside is that its resolution is a lowly 480p, which looks
really bad when projected. However, there is a built in loudspeaker in the mod
to make things better.

Moto Mod battery pack

The Moto Mod battery pack adds an extra 2,200mAh of juice to the Moto Z. The
powerbank mod has been made by accessory manufacturer Incipio and is priced at
Rs 6,999. Though we couldn't test it out in detail, Motorola claims it can keep
the smartphone going for long hours.

Hasselblad True Zoom camera

The Hasselblad True Zoom camera is a must-have mod for photography enthusiasts.
Developed in collaboration with Swedish camera manufacturer Hasselblad (known
for making insanely expensive and quality cameras), the True Zoom comes with a
10x optical zoom lens. This means you can zoom on images really close without
losing the quality. The camera's sensor has 12 million pixels and its ISO count
goes up to 3200. There's also built in OIS for better photography. Everything
from shutter speed to F-stop values can be adjusted, so you can get the perfect
shot. What's more, the mod even lets you shoot images in RAW format. The
accompanying Xenon flash ensures bright images even in low-light conditions.

There are numerous shooting modes available, such as panorama, night landscape,
night portrait and sports. There's also a professional mode which lets you
manually adjust all the settings. During our usage, we found the Hasselblad True
Zoom camera mod to be extremely good. The image and video quality is definitely
very impressive. If you want to buy this one, you're going to have to shell out
Rs 19,999.

Verdict

Overall, Motorola Moto Z is a pretty good smartphone. It comes with an
impressive design, a power-packed spec sheet, and the 'Mods' that lend it a
unique appeal. However, it's these mods only that make the Moto Z worth it. And
since you have to buy them separately, we'd say that the Moto Z is certainly not
a smartphone for everyone.

If you want that 'modular' edge and don't mind shelling out extra money, the
Moto Z is definitely a really good smartphone. But if don't care about
modularity and just want a well rounded device, you can go for alternatives such
as the Samsung Galaxy S7 and HTC 10, which are just as good.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

