                              605 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  Daily Mirror



                           September 23, 2016 Friday

                                   Edition 1;

                                Northern Ireland



Plucky 7's no bad Apple;

THE TICKET SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 Games & gadgets With KEVIN LYNCH THE BEAT

SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 ; Gadget of the week



SECTION: THE BEAT;FEATURES; Pg. 7



LENGTH: 814 words





APPLE iPHONE 7 PLUS Price dependent on contract ???? From floppy discs and DVD

drives on computers, to Adobe Flash on phones, Apple has never shied away from

dropping technology it feels has become outmoded. Examples mentioned were

controversial, and, in hindsight, all have proven sound judgments, but none of

those decisions have caused the sort of uproar that's surrounded the firm's move

to ditch 3.5mm headphone sockets from its new iPhone range.



During the unveiling earlier this month, Apple's marketing chief Phil Schiller,

declared the move as "brave", citing the rise in use and improvements of

Bluetooth headphones as a prime factor.



While a fair point - even hardened audiophiles have started to accept wireless

as being the way to go - had Apple talked up some more of the gains of losing

the socket, they might not have perhaps copped so much "if ain't

broke"-flavoured flak.



Primarily a space-saving move, the benefit is most keenly felt on this, the

larger 5.5in-screened premium model, which is able to now house a dual lens

camera. Alongside a regular sensor, a new second telephoto lens allows for true

optical zoom.



It's not the first time we've seen this - the most notable examples being

Huawei's recent P9 and the LG G5. But the execution and results delivered here

place Apple's attempts above the competition.



Clicking the onscreen 2x button in the camera app deftly switches between the

two lenses, bringing you closer to your subject without the noise you'd normally

get with a digital zoom. While the telephoto does deliver ever so slightly

softer images than the regular lens, it's still impressive and a feature I found

myself using for framing regular shots time and time again.



On top of this, there's also the promise of a future update offering a special

portrait mode that makes further use of the doublecamera setup, letting you blur

the background for dramatic shallow depth of field effects you find in DSLR

photography.



Probably the biggest criticism of its predecessor's camera was its low light

performance. While the improved f/1.8 aperture on the regular lens does make for

better nighttime shots, to my eyes it's not as dramatic a leap to put it on a

par with Samsung's S7 Edge.



Dust and water resistance have long been areas where the iPhone has been playing

catch up to rivals, and it's another new feature that the removal of the

headphone jack has helped enable. While some other smartphones currently boast a

better water resistance than the "1m of water for up to 30 minutes" claimed by

the new iPhones, it does at least mean an unexpected plunge into a toilet

cistern doesn't now mean game over for your www.handset.No longer mechanical,

the new Touch ID home button is now a capacitive sensor that gives small,

vibrational feedback rather than a click. It takes a little bit of getting used

to, but eventually feels second nature and also aids the phone's water

resistance. The force feedback engine has also been overhauled throughout, with

little clicks and buzzes registering more noticeably when making menu

selections, resulting in a much more tactile feel.



Despite the internal space saving, the 7 Plus has an almost identical footprint

to its predecessor. The body design also remains very similar, with its large

bezel framing around the top and bottom of the 5.5in screen, ensuring it remains

one of the biggest devices of its type. In turn, it may be a bit dated looking

when compared to the edge-to-edge sleekness of Samsung's most recent flagships

devices.



While it's a surprise to still not see a 4K resolution screen on a flagship

device, there's a very noticeable boost to brightness and a much wider colour

gamut that arguably has more of a positive impact on the overall viewing

experience. Elsewhere, there's a small, but not insignificant improvement in

battery life, with a few extra hours eked out, something I would have been used

to with the 6S Plus.



The extra horsepower of the new A10 Fusion processor was less noticeable with

day-to-day tasks, apart from a palpable, much nippier response from the camera.



For those still wishing to remain wired, a Lightning port to headphone jack

dongle is provided. During testing this didn't seem to have any negative impact

on sound (there have been early reports of the adaptor causing in-line remote

control issues), but I do have reservations about connecting a set of cans this

way. I've never been convinced as to how durable Apple's propriety connector is

for charging - let alone when using a set of headphones.



Make no mistake, the 7 Plus feels much like an iterative update, and had the

otherwise excellent Samsung Galaxy Note 7 not revealed itself as a potentially

explosive device, that would probably - for me - be the more impressive of the

two.



Nevertheless, with a set of sensible new features, this is very much the phone I

would currently recommend above all others.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DMR





                            Copyright 2016 MGN Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





