

NEW DELHI: LG has started rolling out the Android N preview programme for G5
users. The programme is available in Korea on the LG U+ network, and will enable
users to experience Android 7.0 Nougat early. The preview programme will be only
available to 2000 testers, who have applied for it on a first-come, first-served
basis, starting August 16. Users can download the LG OS preview app from Google
Play Store and follow mentioned steps to download the preview release of Android
Nougat through the companion desktop application.

Participants of the preview programme will be able to offer feedback and report
bugs, so that the same can be removed from the final release when it's seeded to
all customers. LG will also announce the stable Nougat rollout for G5 users once
it is ready.For those unaware, LG G5 is the first modular flagship smartphone of
the company. The handset sports an aluminium unibody modular design featuring a
slide-out battery, which can be popped out to attach the LG Cam Plus module (and
a few others) to it. It comes with an additional 1,200mAh battery which adds to
the G5's standard 2,800mAh battery capacity. The module also has physical camera
controls and according to the company, offers better grip and stability while
taking pictures. Physical controls include a digital-zoom dial as well as a
shutter -release button and a video recording button. LG G5 is powered by a
Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor coupled with 4GB LPDDR4 RAM and 32GB UFS ROM,
with support for microSD cards of up to 2TB in size. The modular smartphone has
a 5.3-inch Quad HD IPS Quantum display with a resolution of 1440x2560 pixels.
Recently, Sony also started seeding its Android N beta build for its Xperia X
Performance smartphone. The company is calling it the Xperia Beta Programme, and
it is presently available for users in European countries. Users can try out
Android N on their Xperia X Performance smartphones by downloading the beta
programme app from the Google Play Store.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

