                              617 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)



                           November 3, 2016 Thursday

                             Print & First Editions



Slender chances of being leader of the mod squad;

MODULAR MOBILES



BYLINE: Peter Wells



SECTION: GREEN GUIDE; Livewire; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 575 words





Project Ara, Google's plan for a modular smartphone, generated a lot of interest

in tech circles. Like so many Google ideas, it was abandoned before it ever came

to market. But the modular smartphone lives on, and Motorola is the latest

manufacturer to run with the idea, with the Moto Z line.



The Moto Z, confusingly, comes in two distinct flavours. The Moto Z Play is

cheaper, thicker and doesn't support MotoMods - Moto's name for the snap-on

accessories for the phone. It also has monster battery life, getting over two

full days on a single charge. But there's nothing remarkable about the device

itself, so it's the modular Moto, the Moto Z (without the Play bit), I'll be

referring to for the rest of the article.



The Moto Z prides itself on being the world's thinnest smartphone at just 5.2

millimetres thick. I never thought I'd say this, but it's almost too thin. It

looks like it shouldn't be able to support its 140 millimetre screen. The

company is quick to point out the "aircraft grade" aluminum chassis inside the

phone prevents it from buckling in your pocket. And being that skinny, the phone

has one hell of a camera bump; the camera lens looks comically large on the back

of the device.



Of course, the Moto Z needs to be svelte so it won't look too bulky with a Mod

attached, but the overall effect is that it looks somehow unfinished when it's

naked. So let's look at the four MotoMods available.



Unlike the LG G5 mods, which were mostly pointless and an awful experience to

swap out, the MotoMods simply clip onto the back of the phone with magnets and

feel pretty sturdy in place. They're hot swappable, so you can attach or detach

one, and the phone is smart enough to keep up.



The cheapest and most practical mod is the $119 Incipio battery pack. When

snapped on, the combined thickness of the Moto Z is not that much thicker than a

standard smartphone in a case, and, as a bonus, that camera bump is hidden away.

Moto advertises up to 22 hours of use when the pack is connected.



Probably the best value MotoMod is the JBL Speaker,at $159. It provides great

audio, comparable to most portable Bluetooth speakers, and includes a built-in

battery to keep the phone charged. Still, $99 can get you a UE Roll, which is

better-sounding and compatible with any smartphone.



Spending $399 will get you a Hasselblad-branded camera mod that provides 10x

zoom. This will allow you to focus on your kids from the back of a school hall,

but again, $400 will get you a pretty good point and shoot camera, so it's hard

to recommend this MotoMod over a stand-alone snapper or a zoom lens.



And then there's the Moto branded portable projector. At $429, Moto insists this

is perfect for the "road warrior" who needs to be able to present anywhere. I'm

not convinced. At a maximum 480p, image quality is just OK, and nowhere near as

good as the Sony Portable Projector.



Moto hopes to expand the line of MotoMods available, to create a kind of App

Store for hardware. It's a big ask, building out an ecosystem would be a

challenge for smartphone behemoths such as Apple or Samsung, let alone Moto. The

phone was announced in the US back in June, and there's still only the four Mods

that were available at launch.



The Moto Z and its MotoMods are easily the best incarnation of a modular

smartphone design, but that's a low bar to clear. As excited as I was for the

concept, there's nothing about the MotoMods to convince me this should be my

next smartphone.



LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 The Age Company Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





