                              621 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                      Fraser Coast Chronicle (Queensland)



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



Cutting edge tech



SECTION: Pg. 17



LENGTH: 506  words







HIGHLIGHT: Mobile World Congress is the ultimate gathering of gadget lovers and

creators





IT'S the ultimate gathering of gadget lovers and creators.



Smartphones, tablets, virtual reality headsets, fitness bands, drones,

computer-controlled cars and even an "~airliner' will be on show.



Mobile World Congress begins in Barcelona this week with predictions that as

many as 100,000 could attend over the four-day event.



But it's not just for geeks. Executives from some of the biggest companies in

the world will be networking, along with many hoping to attract investors for

the next big thing.



The line-up of speakers is impressive, including Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg,

Cisco's Chuck Robbins, Ford's Mark Fields, Intel's Brian Krzanich, Ericson's

Hans Vestberg and Dan Schulman from PayPal.



Three-time Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton is also on the guest list,

as is Jonah Peretti, the founder and CEO of mega media disruptor BuzzFeed.



The next standard in cellular networks, 5G, will be one of the hot topics, along

with The Internet of Things - or "~mobile is everything', as the congress theme

states.



The GSMA Innovation City, one of the most popular exhibition spaces at the show,

promises to host numerous cutting-edge interactive demonstrations in industry,

transport, health, home and retail.



Visitors will be invited to check in and board a lifelike airliner and

experience one of four virtual reality interactive journeys using smart phones

and Oculus Rift headsets.



The City also includes an airport, a cafe, a farm, a vineyard and shops, along

with a number of connected cars.



Two of the biggest launches on the eve of MWC will be Samsung's S7 and S7 Edge,

as well as LG's G5.



Samsung's new phones, following the success of the S6, are expected to include

more processing power, a better camera, longer lasting battery, the possible

return of a microSD card and water resistance, and possibly a 4k AMOLED display.



There is also talk Samsung may release a long-anticipated 360-degree camera, the

Gear 360.



It will let users shoot vision and view it with Samsung's VR virtual-reality

headset.



The Gear 360 reportedly includes two 180-degree fisheye lenses.



Nikon has recently announced plans for a 360 action camera to rival the Go Pro.



Elsewhere at MWC, The Drone Zone, sponsored by Intel, will show off the Yuneec

Typhoon H with Intel RealSense Technology inside the Drone Cage.



There's also talk that China's Xiaomi, which will release its Mi5 smartphone,

may unveil a drone, which can be controlled from your wrist by a fitness band.



LG's next phone is expected to feature a 5.3-inch Quad HD display.



Sony is likely to launch an Xperia Z6 tablet, and maybe a new smartwatch,

according to the most recent reports.



Mark Furler will be in Barcelona for Mobile World Congress, covering the launch

of Samsung's Galaxy S7 and other devices and digital trends. His first reports

will appear from Monday on APN ARM websites.



MWC AT A GLANCE



More than 94,000 attendees last year.



2199 exhibitors.



More than 140 speaker sessions.



More than 3800 international press and industry analysts.



20 years of Global Mobile Awards.



10 years in Barcelona.



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: FFC





                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





