                              631 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday



Samsung trips on quality control in rush to pip Apple



LENGTH: 610  words



DATELINE: Seoul





Seoul, Sept. 6 -- In its rush to beat rival products to market, notably Apple's

new iPhone, Samsung Electronics has accelerated new phone launch cycles, but its

haste is raising concerns that it fell short on quality testing.





 Since last year, the South Korean firm, the world's largest maker of

smartphones, has brought forward the launch of its Galaxy S and Galaxy Note

series models by roughly a month.

 For the June quarter, the strategy helped Samsung to its best profit in more

than two years, but it is also putting strain on its supply chain and its

manufacturing reputation.

 On Friday, two weeks after launch, Samsung recalled Galaxy Note 7 smartphones

in 10 markets including South Korea and the United States after finding its

batteries were prone to ignite, and halted sales of the 988,900 won ($891)

device in those markets indefinitely.

 The recall looks set to hamstring a revival in Samsung's mobile business just

as Apple gears up to launch its new iPhones this month.

 "Samsung might have over-exerted itself trying to pre-empt Apple, since

everybody knows the iPhones launch in September," said Chang Sea-Jin, business

professor at Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and author of

"Sony vs. Samsung", a history of the electronics giants.

 "It's an unfortunate event; it feels like Samsung rushed a bit, and it's

possible that this led to suppliers also being hurried."

 Samsung said in a statement to Reuters it conducts "extensive preparation" for

its products and will release them to the market "only after proper completion

of the development process".

 The firm said on Friday it had identified a problem in the manufacturing

process of a battery supplier it didn't name.

 "I am working to straighten out our quality control process," Samsung's mobile

business chief Koh Dong-jin said then.

 The scale of the unprecedented recall, which some analysts forecast will cost

Samsung nearly $5 billion in revenue this year, follows a separate supply-chain

management issue that led to disappointing sales of the Galaxy S6 series last

year.

 Samsung executives said production problems for the curved screens and metal

casings used in the Galaxy S6 edge led to a supply shortage for the device,

leaving the firm unable to capitalise on the critical acclaim the phone

received, sapping earnings momentum.

 GETTING AHEAD

 Counterpoint analyst Jeff Fieldhack said Samsung stole the thunder from local

rival LG Electronics' launch of the G5 smartphone this year by starting the

sales of the Galaxy S7 smartphones a month earlier and backing them with an

aggressive marketing campaign.

 "I believe they were trying to create a similar effect by beating Apple to

market by (about) a month, too," he said.

 "Very often, lab times and testing periods are shrunk to expedite approval and

time-to-market of key devices. It is possible all charging scenarios were not

thoroughly tested."

 Samsung SDI, one of two makers of batteries for the Note 7 - the other has not

been identified - said it had not received notice from Samsung Electronics

regarding its batteries and declined to comment further, including whether its

batteries were found to be faulty. The company declined to comment on a local

media report that it had production difficulties and struggled to meet orders in

time.

 While there are occasional reports of phones catching fire or burning users,

recalls for such problems are rare. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that

batteries in the Galaxy Note 7 can not be removed by the user - a design

decision to make the phones slimmer and waterproof.

 A Samsung executive who declined to be named told Reuters before the recall

announcement



LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution

                              All Rights Reserved





