                              634 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                    February 25, 2016 Thursday 10:43 AM GMT



A cyber catsitter, a PA with AI and an android with feelings - it's the rise of

the machines;

Robot assistants are here to help us with everything from pets to shopping, says

Frankie McCoy



BYLINE: Frankie McCoy



SECTION: LONDON LIFE



LENGTH: 637 words





Robots are taking over the world. Sure, those being shown at this week's Mobile

World Congress in Barcelona appeared to be obeying their human operators - but

it's only a matter of time before the tables turn.



Still, until the inevitable Spielberg-style revolution, we might as well take

advantage. And where better to start than with your own personal assistant to

boss around. Greetings, Sony's Xperia Agent. Granted, this one foot high desktop

cylinder won't run out for skinny caramel macchiatos, but it will fetch you

information: the "eyes" (they even blink) on its spherical, revolving "face"

project news updates, weather and emails onto flat surfaces, and once it's

synced to your mobile phone you can take phone calls through its speaker and

microphone.



For now, the Agent is merely a "concept", with no word on when it will be made

available to the public, but that didn't stop visitors to Barcelona cooing over

the prototype. Because oddly, techsperts seem to find these voice-controlled

speakers (which will eventually enslave the human race) not just useful but

rather sweet. "It's very cute", cooed Hirohito Kondo, Sony's senior manager of

user experience and creative platform, when he introduced the Agent to its

adoring public for the first time at the congress.



Apparently, those terrifying blank slits of eyes and twitchy head rotations (oh

hello, The Exorcist) are just plain adorable to robotheads. Even more so,

presumably, if it can be named like its predecesor, the Amazon Echo - or

"Alexa", as it encourages you to dub it.



Read more



This is what your gym session will look like in 2046



Robots will create UK jobs, not reduce them, says Barclays



Robots are putting Londoners' jobs at risk BUT we'll be better off



Rohan Silva: London can deal with the inevitable rise of the robots



Leading the cutesy-creepy charge is Japanese "emotional" robot Pepper, which

sold out in minutes when it went on sale in Japan last year. Pepper, the

four-foot, blue-eyed white figure with an iPad attached to its midriff can read

human emotions and is "kindly, endearing and surprising" according to developers

Aldebaran Robotics and SoftBank Mobile.



In reality, of course, Pepper is the ultimate Regina George fake friend - it

couldn't give two microchips about you. Similar, then, to the shop assistants

that it may replace. Peppers will be used to staff a SoftBank phone store in

Japan at the end of March, where "workers" will be able to sell you a phone

contract, give directions and make small talk.



Obviously it's not a concept that would work in the UK (how dare you ask about

the weather when there's Plants vs Zombies to be played?) yet the French appear

to have taken le Poivre to their bosom: at three French train stations, robots

are currently welcoming and giving local tips to arrivals. Bet they've got the

lowdown on the best techno nights.



But wait! Have these robot makers addressed modern life's number one concern, ie

whether your cat is sufficiently stimulated? Of course they have, silly: here's

LG's new Rolling Bot, also debuted at MWC. It's basically a giant hamster ball.

OK, it's a bit more than that: controlled with an app (available on your brand

new LG G5 handset, of course), the camera, microphone and speaker housed inside

the ball allow absent pet-owners to follow, speak to and even play with their

pets via the small laser, which can be beamed onto the floor for Tiddles to

chase.



Tiddles, obviously, would way rather be left to watch crap TV, play loud music

and raid the booze cabinet, but tough luck, kitty. There's a robot revolution

afoot, and you're just the first casualty.



@franklymccoy



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2016 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





