

HTC is hoping that this is a comeback year.

Last year's flagship, the One M9, looked like an Android iPhone and suffered
from a poorly reviewed camera that clearly caused the company to reflect on what
it cared about.

For years, HTC was known for premium design, but it felt like others had caught
up with it.

With a few smart moves and one cool new feature, HTC looks to have done enough
with this new flagship to win back some admirers and, in particular, court
audiophiles.

Name: HTC 10 Price: $999 unlocked; 2-year contract: N/A

Operating system: Android 6.0.1.

Screen (size/type): 5.2-inch Super LCD5 touchscreen, 1440 x 2560 resolution with
565 ppi pixel density.

Features: Customizable themes, USB-C charging, Quick Charge 3.0, Personal audio
profiles, support for 24-bit audio, fingerprint scanner.

Camera: 12 megapixels with Optical Image Stabilization, laser autofocus,
dual-LED flash. Front camera: five-megapixel OIS, autofocus.

Weight: 161 grams

Battery: Nonremovable li-ion 3,000 mAh battery

Competition: LG G5, Samsung Galaxy S7, iPhone 6S/6S plus

What's good: It's all-metal design, it has a larger bezel, but feels solid and
comfortable to hold. HTC's first 2K screen looks great. The camera is better in
low light with good controls.

This is a phone that is aimed at audiophiles. It supports 24-bit high-res music
files and upscales lesser audio. It is the first Android to license Apple's
Airplay, so the phone can easily cast to those type of speakers. A new feature
called Personal Audio Profiles can be set up to optimize the sound for any set
of headphones. Freestyle themes are artfully designed wallpaper that have
graphics which can be linked to apps (say goodbye to Android's grid layout). HTC
also worked with Google to cut down on some of their apps, so there's less
bloatware.

What's bad: The company has done a good job of getting rid of bloatware, but
some still remains. I'm not a fan of the company's Blinkfeed news scroll that
comes baked in. USB-C charging means you've got to pay attention to the cable,
until it becomes the true standard. It is expensive, but is priced right where
other Android flagships are.

What's interesting: Apple and HTC fought over infringing each other's patents
before they signed a 10-year licensing agreement in 2012. This phone has a USB-C
charging port and the company is working with audio company JBL to create
headphones that are powered through that connector. Apple has been rumoured to
introduce this feature in the next iPhone, but HTC has beat them to it. In this
case, a regular headphone jack remains.

The bottom line: This is an excellently designed smartphone that covers all the
basics well - excellent design, great screen, good camera and decent battery
life (augmented by quick charging) - and might really be something for
audiophiles to look at.

