                              640 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                       March 8, 2016 Tuesday 10:52 AM GMT



Samsung and Huawei fingerprint scanners can be fooled using an inkjet printer;

Researchers show they can spoof common smartphone fingerprint sensors using an

off-the-shelf and special paper and ink used for printing circuits



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 430 words





Fingerprint sensors used to secure smartphones can be fooled with something as

simple as a inkjet printer, researchers from Michigan State University have

shown.



A Samsung Galaxy S6 and a Huawei Honor 7 were unlocked successfully using a

fingerprint printed using a standard inkjet printer loaded with special ink and

paper by Kai Cao and Anil Jain from the department of computer science and

engineering.



The researchers took scans of several fingers and simply printed them in 2D on

paper using conductive ink - ink which conducts a charge - and special paper

that is typically used for printing electronic circuits and other

charge-carrying systems.



They found they could replicate the process for several different fingers for

several different volunteers taking very little time using common equipment.

Previous spoofing attempts that require the production of a model of the

fingerprint in wood glue or rubber have taken at least 30 minutes to create,

often requiring special equipment and manual manipulation skill.



Cao and Jain said: "This experiment further confirms the urgent need for

anti-spoofing techniques for fingerprint recognition systems, especially for

mobile devices which are being increasingly used for unlocking the phone and for

payment."



The Samsung Galaxy S6 and the Huawei Honor 7 use similar fingerprint scanner

technology to most of those used across devices from Google's Nexus smartphones

to LG's G5. The same technique will likely be able to spoof many other

smartphones.



Some fingerprint scanners have more robust anti-spoofing technology, but even

Apple's Touch ID system, which is regarded as one of the best, was fooled within

days of it being available with the iPhone 5S in September 2013.



The risk for your average user of this happening is very small, given that

anyone attempting to unlock a smartphone using a printed fingerprint first

requires a perfect, high-resolution scan of the fingerprint used to unlock the

phone. But for law enforcement agencies, it could represent a fast and effective

way of unlocking a suspect's smartphone without resorting to backdoors.



Typically smartphone using a fingerprint sensor require the password or pin to

be entered after 48 hours or once the phone has been powered off, but being able

to lift a print, scan it in and print it in a matter of minutes makes 48 hours

look like an ample window of opportunity as long as you don't reset the password

or let the phone turn off.



Samsung and Huawei did not immediately respond to request for comment.





     ·    Samsung 'investigating' claims of fingerprint hack on Galaxy S5





LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





