                              643 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                              QWeekend (Brisbane)



                             June 11, 2016 Saturday

                                QWeekend Edition



APPS DELIVER MORE TO MENU



BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44



LENGTH: 931 words





There are now more than fast-food options available for home delivery via your

smartphone, and the competition is getting fierce



Being too tired to cook dinner is creating a multi-billion-dollar industry, and

Australians are hungry for a piece of the pie. Food delivery apps are

skyrocketing in popularity and number, and they're also upping their

sophistication levels. As well as pizza and fast food in general, more than 130

-cuisines can now be ordered from the new services, and some are offering haute

cuisine previously out of reach to those unwilling to leave home.



A recent study by internet-based market -research firm YouGov found almost half

of all -Australians had ordered food online, and most would do it again. UK

export Deliveroo, which -arrived in Brisbane two months ago, says it is -growing

30 per cent every week, while the leading food delivery app, Menulog, has added

1500 new restaurants to its service over the past 12 months.



Delivery Hero Australia chief executive Clive Thorpe says 600,000 new users have

tried its -service in NSW so far this year, and app-based food deliveries have

changed the way we think about takeaway dinners. "If you go back just five years

ago, the market has completely changed," he says. "Habits have moved from people

who would have a drawer full of menus and flyers in the kitchen that they would

pull out when they wanted to eat.



"We've been able to transfer restaurant menus to the internet and give consumers

a choice of -cuisines in their own suburbs â[#x20ac]¦ and they've got the

convenience of paying online." Thorpe says it's not necessarily laziness

fuelling the trend, as the services are not competing with homemade meals but

takeaway food ordered over the phone. "It's just people's habits changing," he

says. "The phone is still our major competitor." Competition among the new food

delivery players is fierce, however. UK food delivery platform Just Eat bought

Menulog for an unprecedented $855 million in May last year. Rival Delivery Hero

responded by snapping up Melbourne and Sydney-based service Suppertime for an

undisclosed sum in October, which it has since rebranded as Foodora and launched

in Brisbane last month.



Deliveroo chief executive Levi Aron says the company plans to grow beyond

Australia's three biggest capitals to serve the central business districts of

Adelaide, Perth and the Gold Coast. All three firms are fighting for a stake in

the industry, which Restaurant and Catering Australia estimates to be worth

$16.4 billion.



For consumers who prefer to watch MasterChef than be part of it, however, the

new services simply deliver a greater choice. Delivery Hero and Menulog

categorise food options by cuisine, rely on users to rate the food's appeal, and

organise orders for restaurants with their own drivers. A recent app -update

lets Menulog customers reorder their -favourites in two taps. Foodora and

Deliveroo offer fancier fare and provide their own food packaging and delivery

staff for restaurants - often on bicycles - but their delivery areas are much

more limited.



TOP ACCESSORY B&O PLAY A1 $379, BEOPLAY.COM/BEOPLAYA1



There are two good reasons why this Bluetooth speaker hangs from a stylish

leather strap. Firstly, it's incredibly portable and, secondly, it's meant to be

carried like a handbag or fashion accessory. The Danish-designed sound machine

packs a woofer, tweeter and digital signal processing into an aluminium dome

that resembles an old-school radio microphone. Its 2200mAh battery is designed

to provide 24 hours of sound on a single charge, all streamed from a smartphone

or tablet, and it is capable of enough volume to entertain a generously sized

room. It is on the expensive side but you're paying for high audio and build

quality.



TOP GADGET LG STYLUS DAB+ $449, LG.COM.AU



This phone has an entirely new take on mobile music. While others use data

streaming songs, this model is the first to feature a DAB+ digital radio tuner

that delivers crisp audio and more than 50 channels to users' ears. The digital

radio app in this phone is simple to use and convenient, though you have to be

in a capital city and in radio range for it to work (it doesn't like being far

from a window). The phone itself features a 5.7-inch screen, a stylus for

drawing on it, and a reasonable 13-megapixel camera. It's not as fancy as LG's

flagship G5 phone, but one for radio aficionados.



TOP APP NOISLI $2.99, GOOGLE ANDROID/APPLE IOS This app is designed for when you

want to listen to music but cannot afford distraction. Noisli is filled with

ambient noises such as trees rustling, water flowing, wind blowing, and even

background coffee shop sounds that you can play to help tune out the noise of an

open office, or simply focus your mind in a busy house. Users can also combine

the sounds and save each as a profile (reading, working, and meditating, for

example), or set a timer to turn off the white noise after it has sent you to

sleep.



TOP FIVE FOOD DELIVERY APPS MENULOG This Australian-founded food delivery app

boasts more than 7000 food outlets and 130 cuisines.



DELIVERY HERO Menulog's biggest competitor delivers food nationwide and takes

orders via its app or website.



DELIVEROO New to Brisbane, Deliveroo delivers food from a wide variety of

outlets, from the likes of Jamie's Italian to Buffalo Bar, to a limited area

around Brisbane's CBD.



FOODORA Delivers cuisine from "only the best restaurants" to addresses around

Brisbane's CBD. Fewer choices buta wider delivery area than Deliveroo.



UBEREATSThe ride-sharing service now delivers food in Australia, but only in

Melbourne so far.



LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





