                              644 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                            i-Independent Print Ltd



                                August 13, 2016

                                 First Edition



Use your phone for smart snaps;

= TECH INSIDER = Off on holiday? Don't bother packing your camera. As David

Behrens explains, the best new smartphones help you take photos and videos that

outdo most point-and-shoots



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 38



LENGTH: 561 words





Are you happy with your holiday snaps this summer? If not, it may be time to

ditch your point-and-shoot camera and go all-inclusive on your next trip - using

just the lens on your phone.



The smartphone market is where all the investment in improving camera technology

is now taking place. So unless you have invested in a specialist upmarket

camera, you'll often find you can get pictures as good or better from your

handset.



But not any phone will do: specifications vary wildly, and you need to choose

carefully if you're planning to do any heavyduty snapping.



If a handset upgrade is on the cards between now and your next holiday, models

which currently offer the best picture-taking experience include the Samsung

Galaxy S6 Edge, Huawei Nexus 6P and the iPhone 6S.



But an emerging technology is also worth your consideration.



The Huawei P9, developed with the revered German optics firm Leica, is one of

the next-generation phones to use not one, but two cameras - three if you count

the selfie lens on the front. The idea is to mount two lenses on the camera back

- the first a fixed-focus telephoto, the second a normal wide-angle. They shoot

simultaneiweekend ously and combine the images to stunning effect by

manipulating the depth of field - the area of the picture in sharp focus.



The LG G5 uses a similar system and is ideal for shooting stills and video of

fast-moving action. It has been rumoured that the forthcoming iPhone 7 will also

have this technology, and possibly an optical zoom lens, too, though we won't

know for sure until autumn.



The addition of proper zoom lenses in particular will be a gamechanger for

phones, and remains the one area where standalone snapshot cameras still have an

advantage. Optical zooms shift the focal length by altering the ratio of

internal lenses - unlike the digital zooms found on today's phones, which merely

enlarge the image in the frame by blowing up the pixels, thereby losing

definition. Manufacturers have fought shy of optical zooms because they add bulk

to the phone's casing - but once they crack that issue, we'll all want one.



Even at the lower end of the market, today's mainstream handsets have many

advantages over separate cameras, especially when it comes to sharing your

pictures. Apps such as Google Photos can synchronise your new snaps with your

home PC, Facebook page and any other platform you use automatically, with no

need for a USB cable when you get home. Your shots will also be dated and

geotagged, so you can browse them interactively on a map or timeline.



Phones are typically sold on their megapixel count, but these figures alone are

misleading. The size and quality of the image sensor and the ability of the

software to process the pixels are as important, if not more so, and you should

make a point of seeing demonstration footage online or in a shop.



Look out, too, for optical stabilisation, especially if you like shooting video.

This was a feature on high-end camcorders in the 1990s and has now found its way

onto phones such as the iPhone 6S Plus, LG G4 and the Xiaomi Mi 5, all of which

also shoot video in the ultra-high-definition 4K format. Stabilisation reduces

the effect of camera shake when you're not using a tripod, and the higher the

definition, the more important it becomes.



The Huawei P9 has two cameras that shoot simultaneously to manipulate the depth

of field



LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: III





                    Copyright 2016 Independent Print Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





