                              646 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The National



                           September 8, 2016 Thursday



Apple iPhone 7 unveiled: All you need to know



BYLINE: John Everington



LENGTH: 1061  words





John Everington



Apple needed to pull out a winner yesterday with the unveiling of the iPhone 7

and 7 Plus, following two consecutive quarters of falling iPhone sales, and a

resurgent Samsung sweeping all before it with the Galaxy S7 range and the

impressive (albeit occasionally exploding) Note 7.



The first impression from the company's San Francisco launch event is that the

company has done more than enough to keep the Apple faithful happy, especially

with the larger iPhone 7 Plus.



In truth, Tim Cook had most of us tech journalists in the palm of his hand right

from the moment he brought out Nintendo's iconic game producer Shigeru Miyamoto

to announce the launch of Super Mario Run, the legendary plumber's first

appearance on a smartphone, available on iPhones and iPads toward the end of the

year.



But the new 4.9-inch iPhone 7 and 5.5-inch 7 Plus, while not offering a major

design overhaul, boast an impressive range of upgrades across several functions,

including their displays, audio quality, battery life, and, above all, cameras.

And that's before you get to the "bold" move to do away with the traditional

headphone socket.



Design wise, the form factor of the new iPhone 7 range looks pretty similar to

that of the 6 and 6S, with the absence of the white band below the camera lens

on the rear the only apparent difference noticeable from screenshots.



The big change however comes with the new darker "jet black" shade, which comes

in an all-new glossy finish. For those who aren't fussed by such an effect (I

mean, you're going to put in a case anyway), it's also available in a more

standard matte black, along with silver, gold, and, of course, rose gold / pink.



But if the changes in design aren't anything to write home about, Apple is to be

commended for virtually every other change - both small tweaks and bold steps -

that it has brought to the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.



________________________



o iPhone 7 pre-orders in the UAE through du and Etisalat - click here



________________________



Apple has brought in water and dust resistance, following Samsung's lead with

the Galaxy S7 and Note (not to mention Sony's several years ago). The iPhone 7's

speakers are now stereo, and hopefully bring the iPhone in line with the

brilliant audio of the iPad Pro and Macbook.



There's also the Retina HD display that claims to be 25 per cent brighter than

the 6S range, and the upgraded, touch sensitive home button.



Battery life has apparently also been improved, with Apple boasting of up to 40

hours of wireless audio streaming and 14 hours of Wi-Fi browsing for the 7,

rising to 60 and 15 respectively for the 7 Plus.



Such upgrades are welcome, but arguably not particularly game changing in the

overall scheme of things. The same cannot be said however for the upgrades to

the camera and headphone systems.



The iPhone 7's 12MP rear camera has a wider aperture, six-element lens, and a

larger sensor; optical image stabilisation, previously confined the Plus range,

now standard across all models. This all promises to boost camera performance

across the board, especially in low light conditions, although it remains to be

seen whether the impressive images on display in San Francisco can be replicated

on the streets and malls of Abu Dhabi and Dubai.



More significant is the introduction on the iPhone 7 Plus of a second, telephoto

lens (as already seen on the LG G5) with a 2x optical zoom, a relative rarity on

a smartphone, as well as a 10x digital zoom.



Most impressive of all however is Depth, an upcoming feature on the 7 Plus, that

works with both lenses in tandem to offer impressive depth of field control

(allowing for pictures for sharply focussed subjects and blurred backgrounds)

usually only seen on DSLR cameras.



It's a feature that's been tried by a handful of smartphones before, but one

that appears, at first glance, significantly more intuitive and powerful on the

iPhone 7 Plus. It's just a shame that it's not available on its smaller cousin

as well



And so, finally, to the boldest / most controversial change of all, Apple's

decision to ditch the 3.5mm headphone jack. The iPhone 7 isn't the first device

to take this approach - the Oppo R5 did away with it last year - but it's an

unprecedented move for a high-end smartphone.



Apple claims the 3.5mm headphone connector is an old technology, and removing

the jack makes the phone thinner (just 7.1 mm) and frees up space for other

components. And for those who are still using traditional wired headphones,

there's an adaptor in the box for no extra charge.



Despite the inclusion of the adaptor, the lack of traditional headphone

connector is going to put a lot of people off. But the shift towards wireless

headphones has been well underway for some time across a number of price points,

from Samsung's free floating Icon X earbuds to the Bose's superb QC35 headset.



Lest we forget, Apple has mercilessly cut back its connections and drives in the

past, with most of them barely missed a few months later (when did you last use

a DVD in your laptop?). The lack of headphones might be a pain in the

short-term, but you get the feeling in the long term it will become an

increasingly standard move.



Apple will begin taking pre-orders for the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus from September 9,

with the handsets going on sale from September 16 in 28 countries, including the

UAE.



The iPhone 7 will be available from Dh2,599 for the 32GB version (rising to a

massive 256GB), while the 7 Plus is expected to retail from around Dh2,999.



Both will come pre-loaded with iOS 10, Apple's newest operating system, which

offers enhanced voice control following an upgrade to Siri, more advanced

lockscreen options, and more controls for the connected home via Apple HomeKit.



As always, Apple's bold claims for its new handsets need a little real world

testing to be properly assessed. Will the iPhone 7 "Jet Black" finish turn out

to be little more than a fingerprint magnet? Will the camera perform as well as

those of the Samsung Galaxy S7 or LG G5? And will the headphones adaptor make

things unnecessarily fiddly?



At the end of the day, I'm very eager to put the iPhone 7 through its paces. If

its upgraded camera performs as promised, and if even half of Apple's other

boasts are proved correct, the company will once again have produced the premium

smartphone by which all others are judged.



jeverington@thenational.ae



LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 818





                     Copyright 2016 Abu Dhabi Media Company

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





