                              647 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                            i-Independent Print Ltd



                                  May 21, 2016

                                 First Edition



5 top tips for photographing your garden;

You don't need a lot of fancy equipment to capture the beauty of your garden on

camera - all you need is a smartphone. Tech expert Jonathan Morris offers this

advice = SMARTPHONES =



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 41



LENGTH: 595 words





1. A CLOSER LOOK Close up shots nearly always look good, making them easy to

take. Contrary to popular belief, when taking photos of colourful flowers and

greenery you don't need an expensive high-end phone to get top-quality photos

that will look good on screen, printed out or framed. If you're lucky enough to

stand a chance of capturing some action, say of a hungry bee buzzing from flower

to flower, the burst mode function will grab a series of shots in fast

succession. Short of asking the bee to stay still and smile, it's the next best

way to secure the perfect shot.



One feature you might want to enable on your smartphone beforehand is the High

Dynamic Range (HDR) mode. It produces a more balanced image on a bright day,

when you're taking a photo with lots of shadows and sharp contrasts. Try the

Vodafone Smart ultra 6. It has a 13-megapixel autofocus camera that will let you

set everything exactly as you want, thanks to a manual mode.



2. A NEW FOCUS Playing around with the focus or depth-of-field isn't just

something for the pros, and with many smartphones you can experiment with the

focus long after you've retired to the comfort of your sofa.



It's great fun exploring the effects of different focuses as it can totally

transform a photo - from singling out a small detail, to bringing everything

into focus.



You can personalise your photo however you think looks best by changing the

focus, and should you change your mind later - simply go back to the original

photo to make the necessary adjustments.



This is easily done with the Huawei P9 which has the ability to adjust the

background focus, and excels in both simplicity and accuracy.



3. THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD Some smartphones come fully equipped with two cameras -

allowing for a much wider view. This brings a whole new perspective to

photography previously enjoyed only with expensive lenses.



By moving around and experimenting with angles, you can capture a large garden

in its entirety, and a range of hybrid modes allow you to combine images from

both cameras into a single picture.



The LG G5 for instance showcases two totally independent cameras for different

purposes.



One is for normal photos, whilst the second can capture a 135-degree wide angle

view that no other phone can currently match.



4. TIMED TO PERFECTION Why stick to still photos if you're going to share your

pictures online? Social media loves video, and thanks to 4G, your creations can

be uploaded in seconds.



Of course, nobody wants to view hours of footage showing you planting, pruning

and watering, but there is a way to show your work in a fun way - through the

time lapse function.



So just like watching the construction of a new skyscraper in a matter of

minutes, you can show off a whole weekend's work in a 30-second guided tour of

your entire garden. Many phones like the iPhone 6s offer a time lapse function,

and as an extra tip, consider setting the camera up to capture the sky to take

in the clouds as well.



5. VARY THE CONDITIONS There's no need to wait for the sun to appear to take

good photos; instead take advantage of different weathers, with some shots just

after a rain shower, showing beads of water on petals, or capturing cobwebs on a

frosty morning.



Remember to think about the changes in lighting as a day progresses, to make the

movement of shadows work to your advantage. One tip for all cameras is to always

use natural light. Even indoors, seek to make use of whatever natural light you

can find.



Jonathan Morris has been working with Vodafone UK on the best ways to use your

smartphone. vodafone.co.uk



LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: III





                    Copyright 2016 Independent Print Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





