                              648 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                            August 11, 2016 Thursday



Google's "Verify Apps" may protect 90% of Android phones vulnerable to

QuadRooter



BYLINE: dna Web Team



LENGTH: 292  words





The security feature blocks any app with malicious code from installing on the

device.



QuadRooter, a malware that targets four specific vulnerabilities in Android

smartphones, has been the latest and greatest threat to the platform. Thanks to

Qualcomm hardware exploits, with approximately 900 million devices at risk, the

malware is capable of gaining root access to a person's smartphone. However, it

looks like there might be some reprieve after all.



Google has announced that Google Play's "Verify Apps" feature automatically

blocks all apps with a possible QuadRooter exploit from installing. Verify Apps

is avilable on Android devices running version 4.2 Jelly Bean or above, which

Google says is about 90.6 percent of devices that visit its Play Store. What the

security feature does is that scans an app for a malware exploit, and blocks it

from installing if detected. The feature is enabled by default and, the company

claims, is likely to be enough to safeguard your phone for now.



In a statement to Android Central, a Google spokesperson said, "We appreciate

Check Point's research as it helps improve the safety of the broader mobile

ecosystem. Android devices with our most recent security patch level are already

protected against three of these four vulnerabilities. The fourth vulnerability,

CVE-2016-5340, will be addressed in an upcoming Android security bulletin,

though Android partners can take action sooner by referencing the public patch

Qualcomm has provided."



Some devices that might be vulnerable to QuadRooter include the Google Nexus 5X

and Nexus 6P, HTC 10, LG G5, OnePlus 3, Moto X, Galaxy S7, and the BlackBerry

Priv. Even the supposedly secure Blackphone is at risk, experts say.



LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





