                              649 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             May 28, 2016 Saturday



Samsung announces Batman-themed Galaxy S7 Edge Injustice Edition



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 274 words





NEW DELHI: Samsung today announced its Galaxy S7 Edge Injustice Edition

smartphone. The Batman-themed smartphone has been launched to commemorate the

third anniversary of popular mobile game -- Injustice: Gods Among Us. Samsung

has partnered with Warner Bros.



Interactive Entertainment and DC Entertainment for making the special edition

flagship Galaxy phone.The limited edition Galaxy S7 edge Injustice Edition will

be available in early June exclusively in select territories, including China,

Singapore, Korea, Latin America and Russia. Other territories will be announced

soon. Read also: Samsung Galaxy S7 vs Galaxy S6: 10 new features Developed from

the ground up by award-winning NetherRealm Studios, 'Injustice: Gods Among Us'

mobile game has great graphics and offers a unique fighting and gameplay

experience. It features collectible card mechanics and engages players in 3-on-3

tag team combat that features many of DC's iconic characters.The Galaxy S7 Edge

Injustice Edition package includes a sleek deep black Galaxy S7 Edge,

accentuated by gold detailing and Batman insignia on the back panel. The package

also includes a Gear VR (in select territories), along with in-game credit for

Injustice: Gods Among Us and Oculus VR content vouchers. Read also: LG G5 vs

Samsung Galaxy S7 vs Apple iPhone 6S Hardware specifications of the Samsung

Galaxy S7 edge include Exynos 8890 64-bit octa-core (2.3GHz quad-core + 1.6GHz

quad-core) processor with with 4GB LPDDR4 RAM, 12MP dual pixel f/1.7rear camera

with smart OIS, 5MP selfie shooter, 4G support (LTE Cat 9) and fast charging,

among other features.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





