                              64 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                              July 8, 2016 Friday



LG Electronics gripped by G5 failure



LENGTH: 501 words





[THE INVESTOR] LG Electronics, once considered a smartphone powerhouse along

with Samsung Electronics and Apple, may feel like tumbling down a steep hill due

to the disappointing performance of its flagship mobile business in recent

years.



After the sluggish sales of the G4 in 2015, the tech company had to eat humble

pie once again with its latest high-end smartphone G5 when the latest marquee

device lost its steam rather fast.



LG Electronics' mobile business chief Cho Ju-no



Unveiled in March 31 with much fanfare, the G5 topped smartphone sales in Korea

during the first week of April. Sales on the day of its launch reached 15,000

units -- three times that of its predecessor.



But things turned sour just a month later: daily sales nosedived to 3,000 units

in May, and the phone slipped to the fourth place in terms of smartphone sales

in the following weeks, according to market research firm Atlas Research &

Consulting.



Supply shortage was cited as the main reason for the sales drop, but the

fundamental problem ran deeper, according to market watchers.



"Compared to Samsung's smartphone, the G5 lacks a premium image and looks rather

like a toy, which is a huge turn-off for consumers," said a source from the

telecom sector on the condition of anonymity.



The G5, the first modular phone in the world, is far from complete.



The phone's modular devices including a camera-equipped rolling bot and a drone

controller, have not even hit the shelves yet, while some users complain about

the stability of the phone's external modules.



The lack of appealing features and a premium image has placed the G5 in an

uphill battle against even the outdated iPhones and Samsung's mid-range handsets

such as the Galaxy A and J lineups.



The G5 was ranked 10th in terms of sales while Samsung's mid-range smartphones

Galaxy J7 and K5 took sixth and eight places, respectively, in the fourth week

of June, according to Atlas Research & Consulting.



Newcomers in the market including Pantech's mid-range Sky IM-100 are also posing

a threat to LG.



To help rejuvenate its mobile communications business, LG recently set up a new

position called the "program management officer," under LG's mobile business

chief Cho Ju-no. The company also merged several sales and marketing divisions

to improve efficiency.



The restructuring is aimed at putting more focus on developing high-end

smartphone products, including the G and V smartphone lineups, the company said.



Despite such efforts, it would be hard for LG to turn things around in a short

time, according to market watchers.



"Annual sales of the G5 will stand at around 5.5 million , and LG's mobile

business will post around 400 billion won (US$344 million)of operating loss this

year," said Go Jung-woo, an analyst from NH Investment & Securities.



Cho Jin-ho, an analyst from Mirae Asset, said LG's mobile business will likely

continue to suffer an operating loss before the launch of the high-end

smartphones, G Flex 3 and V20, in the fourth quarter this year."



By Kim Young-won (



LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





