                              652 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                    Trak.in



                      March 31, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Xiaomi Mi 5 India Launch Today. Here's All You Need to Know About It!



BYLINE: Anand Karwa



LENGTH: 721  words





Xiaomi's latest flagship phone- Mi 5 is getting launched in India today. If you

have been dying to buy a high-end value-for-money phone offering the best

possible hardware at a competitive price, then you shouldn't look any further

than Xiaomi Mi 5.



The phone is priced at Rs. 21,000 and packs some very interesting features like

a super-fast fingerprint scanner integrated into the home key, USB type C port,

IR blaster, 16 MP rear camera along with 4-axis OIS and PD-AF, and a large 3000

mAh battery.



Xiaomi Mi 5 Hardware Specifications



* Chipset: Snapdragon 820



* CPU: 2.15 GHz dual-core + 1.6 GHz dual-core



* GPU: Adreno 530



* RAM: 3GB / 4 GB



* OS: Android Marshmallow 6.0



* Display: 5.15 inch, IPS FHD Display



* Camera: Primary- 16 MP PD-AF with dual-tone dual-LED Flash, 4-axis OIS;

Secondary- 4 MP



* Memory: Internal- 32/64 GB; External- None.



* Battery: 3000 mAh Li-Po (non-removable)



* Connectivity: Dual SIM, GPS with A-GPS and GLONASS, 4G, NFC, IR Port, Type C

USB with USB Host, fingerprint, Bluetooth 4.2, EDGE, HSPA, WiFi with hotspot and

WiFi Direct



Performance & Aesthetics



Xiaomi Mi 5 packs the latest Snapdragon 820 SoC at the lowest price at this

point of time. The phone also supports either 3 GB or 4GB of RAM in its various

models. The Snapdragon 820 is a quad-core chip, but it is one of the fastest

chip that is found in the latest generation of flagship phones. To give you a

perspective about its performance let me tell you that even the Samsung Galaxy

S7 and LG G5 pack the same chip. The phone is also equipped with fast internal

memory i.e. UFS 2.0.



With this hardware you will never miss out on any of your hardware performance

need. The phone will literally do anything without even breaking a sweat.



Xiaomi Mi 5 is one of the most gorgeous phone that we have seen in a while. The

phone has curved sides and boasts Gorilla Glass 4 at the front as well as the

back giving the phone a premium look and feel.



The phone has very-thin bezels and has a metal frame protecting the display

along the sides. This metal frame not only adds to the looks of the phone but

also improves its usability by providing a better grip against that slippery

rear glass panel.



Mi 5 tips the scale at 129 grams, making it one of the lightest Android flagship

in the recent times.



Memory & Camera



Xiaomi has done away with the need to enable support for external memory via

micro SD cards and Mi 5 is no exception. However, the phone comes with 3 storage

options like 32 / 64 / 128 GB storage options. As already mentioned, the

internal memory (UFS 2.0) is very fast for all the operations that you might be

doing on your phone.



This is the same kind of memory that is found on the Galaxy S7 variants starting

from Rs. 48,900.



Xiaomi Mi 5 packs a 16 MP rear shooter supporting f/2.0 aperture and supports

phase-detection AF too for almost real-time focussing. The phone is also the

first of its kind to sport a 4-axis OIS which when coupled with its dual-tone

dual-LED flash can take some really amazing low-light photos.



On the front we have 4 MP ultra-pixel camera capable of taking selfies with good

amount of details.



Display & Battery Life



The phone packs a 5.15 inch IPS full-HD display protected by Gorilla Glass 4.

You might have wished for a 2K display, but trust me, the display is really good

and you'll love it.



The phone runs on Android Marshmallow out-of-the-box and is powered by a 3000

mAh Li-Po battery which is not user accessible. Xiaomi's unibody design leaves

no room for a removable battery setup but who cares about it when you get an

excellent battery backup?



The phone can easily last for more a day's of usage and also supports Qualcomm's

Quick Charge 3.0. Xiaomi claims that Mi 5 can be charged from 0-83% in 30 mins

flat. This is really impressive and means that even if drain the battery with

heavy gaming and have a party to attend to after your office, then all you need

to do is charge it for couple of minutes and you'll be good to go the evening.



Should You Buy It?



Priced at Rs. 21,000, the Xiaomi Mi 5 is the one of the greatest phones that you

can buy at this price tag. The phone's hardware is also pretty much worth every

rupee that you spend on it. The only feature that you would miss is the lack of

support for FM Radio, but that's the only compromise that you will have to make

if plan to go for the Mi 5.



LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





               Copyright 2016 Trak.in, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





