

Saying it wants to "bring the excitement back to mobile phones", LG has
radically redesigned its flagship phone.

It has announced the G5 will have an unusual modular design that will allow
add-ons such as camera grips, high-resolution audio players and even drone
controllers to slot into the phone.

With the new design, the end of the phone pops off. It also allows for a
replaceable battery, despite the phone's unibody metal frame. Unibody designs
have prevented the most popular smartphones, Apple's iPhone 6s and Samsung's
Galaxy S6, from having replaceable batteries, much to the chagrin of many users.

At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, LG said it had also built a new
ecosystem around the G5, which would work with so-called "Friend" devices such
as rolling robots with Wi-Fi cameras, virtual reality headsets, 360-degree
cameras and action cams that sent live feeds back to the phone.

All could be achieved with a simple three-step set-up.

The modular design and the "Friends" system are part of LG's move to match
Apple's ecosystem of add-on devices. They are credited with helping Apple
maintain its lead in the smartphone business.

LG mobile phone spokesman Frank Lee showed off a modular camera add-on, the CAM
Plus, that users could snap onto the G5 after removing the end of the phone. The
add-on provides the G5 with a grip, shutter and zoom buttons, as well as extra
battery life, making it more like a digital camera that can be used one-handed.

He also revealed the high-definition audio attachment, the Hi-Fi Plus with B&O
Play. It slots into the phone to improve the sound quality. The attachment,
which has been developed by Bang & Olufsen, supports audio tracks with 32-bit,
384-kilohertz audio that some people have found sounds better than ordinary
audio tracks.

On top of those ecosystem-related enhancements, LG has announced more standard
G5 enhancements. It uses USB-C cables and has an improved, wider-angle camera
and a screen that partly keeps running even when the phone is asleep, allowing
users to see the clock at all times. It also has a new processor and graphics
engine that probably are better for virtual reality.

The G5, which will run Android 6.0, will come with a 5.3-inch, quad HD (2560 x
1440 pixel) screen. Pricing and availability for Australia have yet to be
confirmed.

