                              661 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                        May 7, 2016 Saturday 5:07 PM GMT



Scientists warn of 'global sleep crisis' from data collected on smartphone app;



The data has been analysed by experts writing in the journal Science Advances,

who used the app Entrain



BYLINE: By John Shammas



SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS



LENGTH: 292 words





A "global sleep crisis" is being triggered by the social pressures of modern

living, a new study based around a smartphone app has claimed.



Scientists from the University of Michigan have been tracking the sleep patterns

of people from around the world in a huge study.



They have been analysing data based on the age and gender of people, alongside

their exposure to natural light where they slept.



Sleeping patterns across 100 countries were analysed.



The study reads: "The effects of society on sleep remain largely unquantified.



Have your say in the comments section below



"We find that social pressures weaken and/or conceal biological drives in the

evening, leading individuals to delay their bedtime and shorten their sleep."



Read more: Watch Elon Musk's SpaceX land reusable rocket on floating barge for

the second time



People who suffer from a lack of sleep tend to not get a good night's rest

because of the time they go to bed, the study found.



However researchers believe that age is the main factor in deciding how good a

night's sleep someone can get.



Read more: Google's mesmerising virtual reality art app Tilt Brush lets you step

inside your own paintings



More than 6,000 people aged from 15 and up used the app Entrain to send

scientists their sleeping data.



The app was developed by the University of Michigan, and tries to help users

figure out what time their body thinks it is now.



Read more: Best smartphone camera 2016: LG G5 vs Samsung S7 vs HTC 10



Researchers found that those who have under slept will suffer reduced cognitive

abilities throughout the day.



The study concludes: "Impaired sleep presents an immediate and pressing threat

to human health."



The terrifying genetic disease that will keep these Aussie siblings awake...

until they die



LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





