

OnePlus has been a unique company in many ways. It was among the first to decide
that its single mission would be to offer a smartphone that can take on the
flagship devices, but at much lower price points. It has been very successful in
this endeavour with the OnePlus One, maybe a bit less so with the OnePlus 2.
Now, it's time for its third marquee device, the OnePlus 3. Though ideally a
one-device-a-year company, OnePlus had to buckle to market pressures and offer a
mid-range OnePlus X last year. However, it seems the company has realised that
its strength lies in offering a phone that pushes the limits for its price point
and has the bigger brands second guessing themselves. Can the OnePlus 3 do this,
again?

The OnePlus 3 is sure stylish. In fact, it can easily pass off as an HTC
flagship, which I think has been the pinnacle of smartphone design. The metallic
body of the phone offers sort of assurance a plastic body never can. It is also
one of the thinner devices I have used recently.

What is good?

If you are the sort who likes to flaunt a phone, then the OnePlus 3 could be a
really good option. It is stylish, but without being flashy. It is metallic, but
without being blingy. This is a phone that understands the value of being
subtle. And despite the resemblance to some other devices, it is also unique in
more ways than one. That camera module, the notifications toggle, or just the
curved edges there is a lot you will love about this phone. The Full HD (480
dpi) display of the OnePlus 3 will keep you more than happy. The screen can be
bright enough to work well even under the harsh Delhi sun.

I haven't experienced any stalls or stutters. I have done most things a regular
user would from multi-tab browsing to multitasking and the OnePlus 3 has been
able to handle all of that well. There is a hint of heat at times, especially
when you are working online, but the phone has not heated up. The 6 GB RAM on
the phone also comes in handy when you are playing heavy duty games.

For me, the best feature of this phone has to be its camera. OnePlus has always
excelled with its cameras, and the third edition takes it to a whole new level.
The kind of detail available on this phone is incredible and puts it right there
next to the Samsung Galaxy S6 edge or the LG G5. But given that this phone will
cost half of its competitors, I am inclined to say this is the best Android
camera around. The phone offers a lot of controls in the manual mode and for
those who like to play with settings, especially shutter speeds and ISOs, it
opens up a whole new world of possibilities.

The OnePlus 3 runs Oxygen OS version 3, which is pretty much stock Android.
There are enough tweaks here and there that improve the user experience
significantly. For instance, the physical notifications toggle that lets you
filter only important messages is a great feature for those who are inundated by
mails and notifications through the day.

What is not that good?

I don't want to go around nitpicking and will tell you that in the time I have
had the phone, I noticed no big issues. However, I want to make this statement
with a caveat. The OnePlus 2 was a great phone till a software update made it
lose whatever was helping it keep the thermal footprint of the Qualcomm
Snapdragon 810. And the issues with overheating and the results drop in battery
life started creeping in only after a month or so.

The 6 GB RAM is a great feature to flaunt on the box of a phone, but there is
hardly any use for it at the moment. Thank God, you are not really paying a
premium for the extra RAM at the moment.

Verdict

The OnePlus 3, at the moment, appears to be a serious flagship killer as the
brand has always intended its smartphones to be. It has at least one feature
which even top flagships haven't offered users at the moment; that is 6 GB RAM.
Plus, in my books, it offers the best Android camera, comparable with the
Samsung Galaxy S7 edge. I would buy the phone just for its camera.

* Estimated street price: Rs 27,999

