                              667 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                            November 18, 2013 Monday



Sound Advice: Reports of plasma TV's death have been greatly exaggerated



BYLINE: By Don Lindich McClatchy-Tribune News Service



SECTION: PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY; News; Business



LENGTH: 503 words





Q Any updates on the situation with Panasonic plasmas?



-- A.B., Cranberry Township, Pa.



A Panasonic has formally announced they are ceasing production of plasma TVs,

but the reports of plasma's death have been greatly exaggerated. At the time of

Panasonic's announcement, Korean manufacturers LG and Samsung both made formal

statements of support for plasma, stating they would continue to develop plasma

TV and both will have new models for 2014. Thank you, LG and Samsung!



Since the Panasonic news started circulating I have received a deluge of email

about plasma, Panasonic and what to buy. It is too bad interest was not this

high before, when it might have made a difference! I will write more about this

in my next column, then I am going to put the topic aside for a while.



Q My receiver does not have a phono input. Can I connect my record player to

another input like CD or AUX?



-- C.M., St. Louis, Mo.



A If your turntable has a built-in phono preamp you can use an ordinary input.

Just be sure your turntable is set to "Line" not "Phono." If your turntable does

not have a phono preamp you can get one for as little as $20. The Behringer

PP400 is a good one for occasional listening.



Q I work for an automobile dealership and we are considering a mirrorless camera

for use in our business. The most important function will be video recording. I

worked in the television broadcast industry as a reporter and editor and I am

used to extremely high-quality video. The camera must also have a separate

microphone input so we can use camera-mounted and wireless microphones. Still

capabilities are very important, but secondary to the video functionality and

quality.



You have written about the Panasonic and Olympus Micro Four Thirds camera in the

past. Which do you think is the best fit for us, and do you recommend a specific

model?



-- M.Z., Binghamton, N.Y.



A If the best video is what you are after, get a Panasonic.



Both Olympus and Panasonic are quite candid (no pun intended) about the

capabilities of their Micro Four Thirds cameras. Olympus is traditionally a

still photography company and has stated that their goal is to make the best

possible cameras for still photography, while retaining very good video

capabilities. Panasonic markets their cameras as hybrids with the tagline, "Now

every photographer can also be a videographer." I've tested the Lumix DMC-G6 the

past few months and the video quality is extraordinary. I take the memory card

from the camera, put it in my TV's SD card slot and I am treated to video that

looks like it was recorded by a television station. It is $648 with kit lens.



If you want cost-is-no-object, the Lumix DMC-GH3 ($998, camera body only) has

unique video processing that is so good the camera is used in professional

filmmaking. Those of you who do not need an external mic input can get a Lumix

DMC-G5 with kit lens for $498 on Amazon, reduced from $699. Get one now while

you can!



Contact Don Lindich atwww.soundadviceblog.com and use the "submit question" link

on that site.



LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





