                              669 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette



                            November 17, 2013 Sunday

                                TWO STAR EDITION



PLASMA TVS ARE HERE TO STAY



BYLINE: Don Lindich



SECTION: BUSINESS; SOUND ADVICE; Pg. C-3



LENGTH: 512 words





Question: Any updates on the situation with Panasonic plasmas?



ANDREW B., Cranberry



Answer: Panasonic has formally announced the company is ceasing production of

plasma TVs, but the reports of plasma's death have been greatly exaggerated. At

the time of Panasonic's announcement, Korean manufacturers LG and Samsung both

made formal statements of support for plasma, stating they would continue to

develop plasma TV and both will have new models for 2014. Thank you, LG and

Samsung!



Since the Panasonic news started circulating, I have received a deluge of email

about plasma, Panasonic and what to buy. It is too bad interest was not this

high before, when it may have made a difference. I will write more about this in

my next column, then I am going to put the topic aside for a while.



*



Question: My receiver does not have a phono input. Can I connect my record

player to another input like CD or AUX?



CINDY MCCLOSKEY, St. Louis, Mo.



Answer: If your turntable has a built-in phono preamp, you can use an ordinary

input. Just be sure your turntable is set to "Line" not "Phono." If your

turntable does not have a phono preamp, you can get one for as little as $20.

The Behringer PP400 is a good one for occasional listening.



*



Question: I work for an automobile dealership and we are considering a

mirrorless camera for use in our business. The most important function will be

video recording. I worked in the television broadcast industry as a reporter and

editor, and I am used to extremely high quality video. The camera must also have

a separate microphone input so we can use camera-mounted and wireless

microphones. Still capabilities are very important, but secondary to the video

functionality and quality.



You have written about the Panasonic and Olympus Micro Four Thirds camera in the

past. Which do you think is the best fit for us, and do you recommend a specific

model?



MELINDA ZOSH, Binghamton, N.Y.



Answer: If the best video is what you are after, get a Panasonic.



Both Olympus and Panasonic are quite candid (no pun intended) about the

capabilities of their Micro Four Thirds cameras. Olympus is traditionally a

still photography company and has stated that its goal is to make the best

possible cameras for still photography, while retaining very good video

capabilities.



Panasonic markets its cameras as hybrids with the tagline. "Now every

photographer can also be a videographer." I've tested the Lumix DMC-G6 the past

few months and the video quality is extraordinary. I take the memory card from

the camera, put it in my TV's SD card slot and I am treated to video that looks

like it was recorded by a television station. It is $648 with kit lens.



If you want cost-no-object, the Lumix DMC-GH3 ($998, camera body only) has

unique video processing that is so good the camera is used in professional

filmmaking. Those of you who do not need an external mic input can get a Lumix

DMC-G5 with kit lens for $399 on Amazon, reduced from $699.



I mentioned this deal a few weeks ago and they sold out, but they are back in

stock at the sale price. Get one now while you can!



LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



NOTES: Read product reviews by Don Lindich at soundadviceblog.com./



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.





