                              679 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                             The Nation (Thailand)



                             April 7, 2016 Thursday



Qualcomm releases latest mobile processorSnapdragon 820 aims to offer users

immersive, intuitive, connected experience with four times faster 4G speed



BYLINE: The Nation



LENGTH: 477 words





JIRAPAN BOONNOON



THE NATION



Singapore



The latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 mobile processor has been launched in the

region as a new flagship system for 4G handsets, and is initially coming bundled

up with premium devices from six brands.



Jim Cathey, Qualcomm Technologies president for Asia-Pacific and India, said

Snapdragon 820 offers users a more immersive, intuitive and connected

experience, allowing them to consume more data, more video, more music and 3D

surround sound.



The processor features X12 LTE, which supports up to 600 Mbps download and 150

Mbps upload, allowing users to take advantage of dense network deployments. The

LTE heterogeneous network helps boost the phone's capacity and improves user

experience by offering premium Internet speeds that can offer twice as much 4G

data stream, even in weak signal conditions.



The new chipset comes with Qualcomm Quick Charge 3.0 technology that charges

phones from zero to 80 per cent in about 35 minutes or up to four times faster

than other platforms. Plus it provides fast and efficient noise-reduction,

real-time face recognition and detection, as well as support for 64-bit virtual

addressing that allows for shared virtual memory and efficient co-processing

with a 64-bit CPU. It is also the first comprehensive ultrasonic- based

fingerprint biometric solution for mobiles.



The processor is currently featured in premium and flagship devices from six

brands, including HP Elite X3, Xiaomi Mi5, LeEco Le Max Pro, Samsung S7 and

Galaxy S7 Edge, which are available in US and Europe, LG G5, Sony Xperia X

Performance and Vivo Xplay 5S, which can be bought in Thailand.



There are more than 100 products and designs currently being developed.



Suwit Pruckwattananon, Qualcomm International's country manager for Thailand and

Myanmar, said the firm was mainly focusing on the mid- and high-end market in

Thailand.



Qualcomm has shipped some 940 million chipsets worldwide so far, with more 250

million being sold in the first quarter of this year.



However, US-based research firm Gartner reported that global smart-phone sales

will, for the first time, exhibit single-digit growth this y ear. Global smart

phone sales are estimated to reach 1.5 billion units in 2016, showing a

7-per-cent growth from 2015. The total mobile-phone market is forecast to reach

1.9 billion units this year.



Though smart-phone sales will continue to grow in emerging markets, it will be

slow. Gartner predicts that 150 million users will delay smart-phone upgrades in

emerging Asia-Pacific markets through to 2019, or at least until functionality

and price combination of a low-cost smart phone becomes more desirable.



Countries such as India will, however, show new mobile-phone user growth. Sales

of smart phones in India are on pace to reach 29 per cent this year and will

continue to exhibit double-digit growth in the next two years.



LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





