                              682 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)



                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday



Awkward kid Samsung scores solid A with S7



BYLINE: Geoffrey A Fowler



SECTION: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 836 words





Great low-light camera, virtual reality efforts make for premium phone

 By

 SAMSUNG is that slightly awkward boy who's been studying very hard in school.

The Galaxy S7  which arrived in stores last week  is his first solid A.





  Yep  Samsung just moved to the head of the smartphone class.

  Would you be disappointed by buying a different phone? Probably not. There are

lots of phones that score nearly as high  many for hundreds less than the Galaxy

S7 can cost without a contract. Some might be sexier or eke out a little more

battery life.

  But after years of producing B+ phones  Samsung's now the one I'd want to

captain my mathlete squad.

  The Galaxy S7 and larger S7 Edge have a camera that beat the iPhone 6s Plus in

every low-light situation I've tested.

  Its screen is a stunner  packing in more than three times as many pixels as

the iPhone 6s.

  And its blazing fast processor is well suited for the new world of virtual

reality.

  Samsung earns extra credit for calling out some of the baloney that makes

smartphones annoying and costly.

  Instead of gouging you for built-in storage  the Galaxy S7 lets you add your

own.

  And if it takes a swan dive into the toilet  it'll live to tell the tale

thanks to the addition of water resistance.

  My concern: Samsung may have aced this year's test - but only by memorising

last year's study guide. That underwater trick? Samsung is just bringing back a

feature from the S5.

  There's no versatile USB Type-C port or pressure-sensitive screen like Apple's

3D Touch. There's nothing surprising like the two cameras LG put on the back of

its new G5.

  You can't even expect fresh Android updates: Samsung takes months to deliver

the capabilities that Google introduces each year.

  You will get a free (and impressive) Gear VR headset when you buy a Galaxy S7

but the phone itself doesn't point towards the future.

  The Galaxy S7 is everything you want in a smartphone - but nothing you didn't

know you wanted. I felt that way from the moment I first held the Galaxy S7.

  The Galaxy S7 has rounded edges that make its 5.1-inch screen feel slightly

smaller than last year's S6  and is almost as slender as the iPhone 6s with a

4.7-inch screen.

 The more expensive Galaxy S7 Edge has a 5.5-inch screen with curved glass that

slopes down on both sides. Call it phablet lite: The Edge is slimmer and lighter

than a 5.5-inch iPhone 6s Plus.

  The curved part of the screen also comes with its own controls  which you can

use to access apps  people or news with one swipe.

  It's clear Samsung was brutal in its self-assessment of past Galaxy design

failings. Many of us turned up our noses at the Galaxy S4 and S5's plasticky

finish and clumsy design.

  This year's model carries over the Apple-esque glass and metal makeover from

the Galaxy S6  and smooths down edges even further.

  The camera bulge that marred the backside of the Galaxy S6 has been tailored

down to just a hair.

  Samsung's design reckoning includes reviving a few actually useful features it

had killed off too soon.

  I tripled my Galaxy S7's 32GB built-in storage by adding a 64GB MicroSD card.



  Shame on Apple (and  previously  Samsung) for charging hugely to up storage to

64GB.

  And I'm also glad Samsung brought back water resistance - up to 1.5m of water

for 30 minutes - without requiring a special USB plug.

  The Galaxy S7's camera is what wowed me most. The reason we take blurry shots

of city lights and people in dim restaurants is that phones' tiny sensors have a

hard time seeing in the dark.

  The Galaxy S7's new 12-megapixel camera is lower resolution than the Galaxy

S6's camera but that's a worthy trade-off because each pixel can now capture 95%

more light.

  We choose sides in the Android vs Apple divide based on how well all our stuff

plays together - and how difficult it would be to switch. But cluttered

confusing software is no longer Samsung's achilles heel.

  The Galaxy S7's version of the powerful Android 6.0 Marshmallow is the

cleanest Android version I've seen Samsung offer.

  There's now just one Web browser (Chrome)  and Samsung also kept many aspects

of Google's elegant design.

 The Galaxy S7's most mediocre quality is its battery. In my lab stress test

which cycles through a series of websites at uniform screen brightness  the

Galaxy S7 lasted more than seven hours  about 40 minutes short of the iPhone 6s.



 At eight hours  the Galaxy S7 Edge only slightly underperformed the iPhone 6s

Plus.

 The Galaxy S7 refined features that matter to become the best smartphone you

can buy. That's a giant feat.

 But a question haunts Samsung: in a world with lots of great smartphones  what

justifies the price premium?

  Samsung got out in front of the virtual reality race with the Gear VR. The

Galaxy S7 should have given us a bigger dose of the future  too. - Wall Street

Journal

 lFowler is a personal technology columnist

 CLASS CAPTAIN: The features of Samsung's new S7, like its megapixeled camera

and 'build-your-own' storage, push it to the top of the smartphone class



LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch





                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





