                              683 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          Sunday Times (South Africa)



                            February 28, 2016 Sunday

                             Business Times Edition



Secret of Samsung's success: get up early and play with lots of friends



BYLINE: Arthur Goldstuck



SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL



LENGTH: 585  words





Secret of Samsung's success: get up early and play with lots of friends



THE world's premier launch pad for mobile technologies, the annual Mobile World

Congress in Barcelona, has in recent years almost been defined by new releases

from global smartphone leader Samsung. Few would claim, however, that Samsung

set the market alight this week with its latest products.



The new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge handsets are sleeker, more powerful versions of

last year's S6 editions, but the audience at the launch was underwhelmed. Oddly,

this hardly mattered - because Samsung then pulled a spectacular rabbit out of

the hat.



The party trick started when Samsung attached a Gear virtual reality headset to

every seat in the auditorium. The devices use the technology of the biggest name

in virtual reality hardware, Oculus Rift, which startled fans last year when it

sold out to Facebook.



Audience members were invited to don the headsets to view the latest immersive

content. While they were shut off from the real world, Facebook founder Mark

Zuckerberg made his way on stage, appearing seemingly by magic once the headsets

had been removed. Zuckerberg's appearance - during which he explained that

virtual reality could become the dominant tool for social networking - said as

much about Facebook as it did about Samsung.



The message was that, with virtual reality being this year's hottest trend,

Samsung was determined to steal the thunder from everyone else in the market.

So, even as rival Korean manufacturer LG earned trophy rights for the most

innovative smartphone of the congress with its new G5, Samsung was already

staking its claim to leadership of the next big hype.



And Samsung's coup highlighted a fundamental difference between it and a brand

like Apple, which is obsessive about design and user experience. As a result,

Apple ignores the competition - until it finds itself losing market share. Think

iPhone 5 with a 4-inch screen while the world was moving to 5-inch.



"We study our opposition intensively," said Andre de Meyer, director of business

operations for Samsung Africa, during an event in Monaco the week before the

Barcelona congress began on February 22. Speaking at the Samsung Africa Forum, a

showcase of the full range of Samsung products, De Meyer gave several reasons as

to why Samsung tended to lead its markets. "We are very aware of two fundamental

things: market demand and market requirement, which obviously ties in with what

the consumer wants. Our point of departure is comfort of innovation: that means

we shouldn't be cutting edge for the sake of being cutting edge, but should make

friendly use of our solutions and products as comfortable as possible."



Crucially, because Samsung operates in a wide range of categories, it has to be

aware of eight or nine competitors in every one of its technology and appliance

segments.



"The difference is that no one else can provide the entire consumer electronics

spectrum. But we will have competitors in every category, so we need to be wide

awake. We have to get up early to learn what they are doing in operational

execution, distribution networks, price points and go-to-market messages. It's

also important for us to work alongside our partners, and not just supply

solutions or product ranges."



The mere appearance of the Facebook founder on a Barcelona stage seemed to prove

more than one of those statements.



oGoldstuck is the founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of

Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @art2gee



LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





