                              685 of 820 DOCUMENTS



                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)



                    November 18, 2000 Saturday FINAL EDITION



Robb Glazier and family learning to live again



BYLINE: Greg Douglas



SOURCE: Special to the Sun



SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. G5 Greg Douglas



LENGTH: 587 words





SCENE & HEARD: Former channel 13 Sports Page television anchor Robb Glazier does

not have any feeling in his right arm or hand, he travels to his daily speech

therapy classes by scooter and yet he is still one of the most upbeat people you

will ever meet. Glazier suffered a stroke just over a year ago. He was 57,

working in Ottawa at Radio 1200. Robb spent last Christmas at Ottawa Civic

Hospital while his family - wife Sandy, son Michael and daughter Karen -

commuted for visits from Winnipeg. His courageous 85-year-old mom, Edna, did

likewise from her home in Kerrisdale. Today Robb is back with Sandy and the kids

in Winnipeg, piecing their lives back together. More than 150 friends recently

threw a party in Robb's honour to raise money for the children's education. It

hasn't been a smooth road for the veteran broadcaster who once called hockey and

soccer play-by-play in the Vancouver and Seattle markets. Open-heart surgery 20

years ago failed to restrain him and he's determined this latest setback won't,

either. He vows he'll be back in the swing of things by next summer.



Go for it, Robb!



HERE 'N' THERE: Maybe Paul Carson was holding one hand behind his back with his

fingers crossed when he signed a confidentiality agreement concerning the sale

of 1040 Radio. Carson is listed as president of Grand Slam Radio, the group

determined to introduce Vancouver to its first-ever all-sports station.Each time

I've tried to pin Carson down he's had some flack call back to point out the

confidentiality agreement restricts Carson from offering any comment. Poor Paul.

He must think these agreements apply to only certain areas of the country. While

he clams up locally, Carson talks openly to the likes of William Houston at the

Globe and Mail about potential programming formats, his stance of the need or

non-need for play-by-play properties and what listeners might expect to hear on

a 24-hour basis. If the CRTC approves the sale of 1040 Radio at meetings

beginning Monday at the Hilton Hotel in Metrotown, the station could be

broadcasting all sports by January. The money man behind the 1040 takeover is

venture capitalist Dave Stadnyk, new owner of soccer's Whitecaps and Breakers.

Stadnyk has been in negotiations with CHUM in Toronto about linking up a

national all-sports network that would include Vancouver, Winnipeg, Ottawa,

Toronto and Montreal. To add to the intrigue, Corus Entertainment, a network of

49 stations in Canada, is making major moves in all-sports programming, as well.

Corus owns the Vancouver duopoly of CKNW/CFMI and CKLG/CFOX and is looking at '

LG as a potential sports affiliate in the West.



SHORT HOPS: Every team in the NHL will be represented in one form or another for

tonight's sold-out Paul Shmyr dinner at the Royal Towers. The collection of

autographed game-worn jerseys under one roof up for auction will be unmatched,

including those of Bob Nystrom and Clark Gillies from the New York Islanders

Stanley Cup reign. Canucks assistant coach Jack McIlhargey handed over $2,600 in

$ 100 bills from the players and coaching staff; former great Stan Mikita mailed

a personal donation and note; the Edmonton Oilers organization sent a cheque for

$5,000. Shmyr is battling throat cancer and his wife Diane as well as brothers

Peter and John are raising funds to get Paul the treatment he needs through the

Staton Island University Hospital.



Greg Douglas can be heard on JRfm 93.7 and 600 AM Monday through Friday. Contact

him at drsport@telus.net



LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2000



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



TYPE: Sports; Column



               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of

                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.

                              All Rights Reserved





