                              686 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                              The Pioneer (India)



                             August 15, 2016 Monday



Talk of the town



LENGTH: 473 words



DATELINE: India





India, Aug. 15 -- It's time for smart shirts, smarter memory and smartest phones



Smart Shirts



Wearables refers to a category of consumer electronics which you can wear. This

takes a whole new meaning with the Arrow Smart Shirt introduced by Arvind

Lifestyle Brands.The Smart Shirt features a NFC chip which can store info like

your business card, LinkedIn profile and you can share it with anyone with just

a tap on the cuff. In order to program the shirt, you would need to download the

free Arrow app from the Google Play store and provide the relevant information

in the app post which the information is ready to be shared via NFC. You can

also chose to launch your favorite app or play your favorite music track with

just a tap.



Although the smart shirt is not entirely smart as it claims to be, it is

certainly a cool concept and would be interesting to see how fashion industry

embraces technology. The shirt is available for Rs.2999 across Arrow outlets,

nnnow.com and amazon.in



Upcoming Launches



If you are in the market for a new smartphone, you already have plenty of choice

but it is only going to get better this month with several brands gearing up to

launch new models in the next few days. Huawei is all set to launch its flagship

camera smartphone P9 which features a dual-lens camera module developed in

partnership with Leica. Asus is gearing up to launch its ZenFone 3 series of

smartphones which include the Zenfone 3, Zenfone 3 Ultra and Zenfone 3 Deluxe.

Gionee is planning to launch a selfie focused smartphone under its S-series

lineup. Samsung has introduced the Galaxy Note7 equipped with an Iris scanner

last week in India and is expected to hit the market on September 2nd. Coolpad

has introduced the Mega 2.5D yet another selfie focused smartphone and will be

available for August 24th. The launch of the iPhone 7 and new Nexus devices is

also around the corner. It is always a good news for the consumer to have a

plethora of choices and price cuts on older devices.



Small in size grand in space



This is a memory card which is only as big as your sim card but can store 256GB

of data. The card works with select smartphones like the Samsung Galaxy S7, LG

G5, action cameras like a the GoPro or just as a regular memory card which can

be used on a DSLR camera with the convertor it ships with.



The high capacity card is Ideal for capturing 4K video content, full HD video

recording and even for storing high resolution pictures. In simple terms you can

store over 30,000 songs in this tiny chip. The card is resistant to water,

temperature, x-ray and magnetic fields.Priced at Rs.10899 the memory card is

available on Flipkart.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with

respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor

at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





