                              687 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Smartphone sales plunge as Aussies await new iPhones



BYLINE: Paul Smith



SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 23



LENGTH: 735 words





Australians bought 1 million fewer smartphones last year than in 2014, as higher

prices, market saturation and an off year for Apple's iPhone saw Google's

Android operating system retain its local dominance.



The annual Australian Smartphone and Wearables Devices Market Study from

research firm Telsyte also found sales of smart watches - led by the Apple Watch

- remained sluggish, but the adoption of fitness-related wearable technology was

taking off.



In smartphone circles, odd years are always slower, particularly from Apple's

perspective, which tends to launch minor upgrades of 'S' models of existing

phones, rather than new models. This was the case in 2015 when it launched the

iPhone 6S in September; despite this, Apple remained the best-selling handset

maker, followed by Samsung.



Telsyte managing director Foad Fadaghi said there was a huge gap between the top

two smartphone brands locally and the third place, which last year,

surprisingly, was Huawei, largely due to the Nexus 6P that it makes for Google.



Telsyte found local smartphone sales declined 11 per cent last year, with 7.9

million units sold, in comparison with 8.9 million in 2014.



Sales in 2015 were hampered by the falling Australian dollar, which forced up

the prices of premium handsets at a time when local telecommunications providers

were also reducing subsidies for handsets. Lower-cost operators such as Oppo

have also entered the market with competitive devices, giving phone buyers

reason to reconsider the need to buy top-of-the-range phones.



However, with Apple due to hold an event on March 21 - in which it is expected

to unveil a smaller screen option for the iPhone - and an iPhone 7 due to arrive

later this year, Telsyte is tipping sales to increase this year by 6 per cent to

8.4 million.



It will certainly be a year of more intense competition with Samsung's Galaxy S7

phones already unveiled to rave reviews ahead of Apple's new offering. "The

Samsung Galaxy 7 phones will be well received by existing Samsung users as it

improves on the previous model and re-introduces key features such as

upgradeable memory, however it is priced significantly higher than the average

Android phone," Mr Fadaghi said.



"For Apple, there is a large base of users on older, smaller-form factor devices

such as the iPhone 5S or earlier, which the company will need to address in the

next 12 months or it risks losing them, as devices come close to end of life. It

might be impossible for Apple to regain bragging rights given the rise of

Android, however it retains a strong existing user base, with high repeat

purchase intentions - still higher than other brands."



Telsyte's statistics for 2015 showed that while iPhones remain by far the most

popular individual handset, Google's Android operating system is used on so many

different brands it is comfortably the most commonly used operating system.

Apple sold 3.43 million iPhones in Australia in 2015, in comparison with a

combined total of 4.0 million Android-based phones sold.



The battle between the operating systems is little changed from a year earlier.

Android has 50.6 per cent of the market, Apple's iOS has 43.4 per cent, while

Microsoft's Windows is disappointingly flat at 5.3 per cent, despite the

emergence of the Windows 10 operating system.



Mr Fadaghi said pre-orders for Samsung's Galaxy S7 phones were already looking

promising, and its strategy of pairing its phone with a virtual reality headset

looked like paying dividends. He said smart accessories are starting to

influence purchase decisions, including smart watches and VR units, with more

bundling expected to be a feature of devices sold in coming years.



At Mobile World Congress in February, as well as Samsung, Alcatel announced that

its Idol 4 phone would come encased in a VR headset, HTC announced pricing and

availability for a new headset called the HTC Vive and LG announced a VR headset

known as the LG 360 VR, which will be a companion device for its new G5 flagship

phone.



Telsyte earlier predicted that 110,000 VR units, including devices such as

Google Cardboard, Sony PlayStation VR and Facebook's Oculus Rift, will be sold

in 2016. "VR will help drive the sale of premium handsets, particularly Samsung,

as consumers look to upgrade to use VR features," Mr Fadaghi said. "However,

getting consumers to pay for mobile VR as an accessory might be a bit harder

than bundling it with a new handset."



LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Apple is due to launch its iPhone7 to follow the iPhone 6S.

PHOTO: BLOOMBERG



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





