

This award winner phone is a let down because of its most unique aspect, add-on
modules

Pros:

Powerful and smooth, Good 16MP/8MP dual camera with wide angle mode, Interesting
concept for modules - when they become available Cons:

Ecosystem of add-ons not readily available, Unexciting interface, Split view
gone, Expensive, specially with any add-ons, Dull design

For a couple of years there's been talk of whether phones should be modular. You
have the same basic size and shape but you can always carry bits to add to the
functions and features.

At the Mobile World Congress this year, LG excited me no end by being the first
to come up with this concept in real life and bring it to market. It even got
awarded the best phone at the show. It all sounded good -- on paper.

To see the LG G5 in real life though has a few instant disappointments. First:
these extra modules are not available for reviewers to see. I suspected they
weren't available for customers to see either and called up a few LG stores who
could only offer a battery and charging cradle. They did say a camera module
could be made available on order.

But LG has advertised and positioned the phone as something you are to "play"
with because of the many "Friends" it has. They envisaged a whole ecosystem of
add-on modules that snap into the phone when you release and slide out the
bottom separatable segment.

There are Friends to add battery booster, B&O hi-if DAC, camera grip with
controls, VR gear, and 360-degree camera. But can you even find out what these
add to the Rs 54,000 the G5 costs? Not really.

This is a problem not just LG but all devices dabbling with modular design will
have to solve if they want to really sell. Easy availability, pricing that
doesn't add hugely to the cost of the phone, and easy use. The practical
problems of carrying, keeping track of and changing modules has to be factored
into the use of the smartphone.

But there's no denying that the G5 is fast and smooth. It works with the
Snapdragon 820 processor and 4GB RAM so it isn't surprising. It runs Android
Marshmallow but

LG's interface is deeply unexciting and just has no character. On this iteration
they've unnecessarily removed with the app drawer and use on-screen navigation
buttons that are most difficult to get used to -- even if that is part of
Android.

I tried the G5's fingerprint sensor on the back of the phone. I had to forget it
because it wouldn't get past accepting my fingerprint even after repeated tries
with more than one finger.

If there's one thing exciting about the G5 it's the 16MP camera though if you're
paying that much why wouldn't you just consider the Galaxy S7 and the iPhone 6s
which have both been through enough to tests and reviews from experts.

The G5's is a good camera and you'll get realistic colour reproduction with
detail in good light. The same isn't true of photos in low light. The camera has
a wide angle mode with which you can take some excellent and interesting shots
and yes, I do wish we had that on other flagships. But would it be a reason for
me to pick up the G5 seeing that I'm a confirmed photo enthusiast? Nope. I see
the G5 as not fulfilling its promise in many ways, starting with that ecosystem
of Friends it's touting so much.

Press a button to release the bottom segment b if the G5. Then, let another
module come along for the ride for extra functions

On top of that, the design of this phone isn't stellar making the device look
and feel inexpensive -- which it certainly isn't.

There's a beautifully curved glass on the 5.3-inch screen, but from the back, it
looks and feels plasticky and ordinary. It has a slide-out removable 2800mAh
battery with Quick Charge 3.0.

Lila Ray is a corporate consultant who likes her gadgets almost as much as she
likes her shoes. You can write to her at raylila@outlook.com

