                              693 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                             June 23, 2016 Thursday



ET review: Sony Xperia X is a good phone but having a bad price



BYLINE: Karan Bajaj



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 734 words





We are used to seeing the Xperia Z series as the premium flagship from Sony.

This year, they have introduced the new X series of devices - two of them,

Xperia XA and Xperia X, have been launched in India. To be clear, the Xperia X

will be the company's new flagship for India.



Talking about design, it's not too different from the Xperia Z series - and this

is a good thing. It has rounded edges and a 7.9mm unibody metal design. On the

right is a power button that doubles up as a fingerprint scanner along with

volume key and a dedicated camera shutter button. On the left is the hybrid SlM

slot under a flap.



The front is covered in 2.5D curved glass for added style. An odd thing is an

NFC sticker that comes pre-installed on the top left of the phone -presumably to

tell you where the NFC antenna as - thankfully it can be just peeled off. Since

it has a 5-inch display, the phone feels balanced in terms of size and weight.



(Image: Sonymobile.com)



Our biggest complaint with the phone is that Sony has done away with water and

dust resistance on the X series - a feature we loved on the Xperia Z series and

something that set them apart - regardless of the specs. Sony has come a long

way in terms of smartphone display quality. At one point (particularly the first

generation Xperia Z), screen quality was one of the biggest cons on the

flagships. Now, the display is amongst the best when it comes to LCD panels.



The full HD screen on the Xperia X is superb - it has slim bezels, excellent

brightness and high contrast thanks to the X-reality display engine combined

with Triluminos display technology. In a headto-head comparison, the screen

stands neck and neck with any competitors in the same price range - barring the

super amoled displays on the Samsung phones that is.



Those 2k amoled smartphone screens are the best the world has ever seen. Camera

has always been one of the strong points on Xperia phones. With the Xperia X,

you get a 23MP sensor with f2.0 and a predictive hybrid autofocus system that

Sony says is developed in collaboration with their Alpha range of camera

engineers.



However, there is no optical image stabilisation. To its credit, the camera does

focus in an instant and has a fast shutter speed but the image quality is not

the best in class. Photos taken in daylight have sharp details, vibrant colours,

and low noise, but indoors noise starts to become visible. Low light images

suffer the worst due to lack of OIS and result in noisy images - something at

which competitors like the Samsung S7, LG G5, HTC M10 and even the much cheaper

OnePlus 3 is much better at.



(Image: Sonymobile.com)



The front 13MP camera will suit selfie lovers as it is one of the best front

cameras we have seen - good details, natural colours and low visible noise in

daylight as well as indoors. Another impressive feature on the Xperia X is its

launch to capture speed - from a locked screen you can press and hold the camera

shutter key for few seconds to instantly capture a photo. This feature is great

for capturing those split second moments.



Xperia X is amongst the first few phones from Sony to ship with Android 6.0.

While the interface is zippy and works great for day-to-day usage, we found the

preloaded bloatware apps a turn-off. There is no option to uninstall these apps:

you can only disable them, which means they sit there, eating up your internal

storage space. Hardware is another issue - you expect a flagship to come with

top-of-the-line specifications.



However, the Xperia X runs on a Snapdragon 650 processor with 3GB RAM and 32GB

storage - this is exactly the same as the Xiaomi Redmi Note 3 which sells for

`11,999. That being said, there was no issue with the performance of the phone -

games and apps ran without any issue, but we did see some sluggishness when we

tried hardware intensive games. Battery life is 9 am to 5pm on a full charge as

expected.



The trouble with the Xperia X is the asking price. Its trying to play ball with

flagships from Samsung, HTC, LG and Apple, but doesn't give you the feature set

or the hardware to match that high price. Unless you are a die-hard Sony fan,

there is nothing that makes the Xperia X a better choice over the Samsung Galaxy

S7. With the S7, you get a better display, superior cameras and more powerful

hardware. If the Sony was priced at about Rs 20k, we would say it was worth the

price.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





