                              699 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                 Ottawa Citizen



                           November 12, 2011 Saturday

                                 Final Edition



New and improved; From automatic cabinets to high-tech faucets, funky finds are

set to go mainstream



BYLINE: Patrick Langston, Ottawa Citizen



SECTION: HOMES; Pg. G5



LENGTH: 609  words





We're not yet at the stage where you say "Cook!" and your kitchen automatically

whips up a chicken dinner, but there are some cool innovations gaining traction

or coming down the pipe. Here's a sampling:



OPEN SESAME



The Blum Servo-Drive motorized system opens and closes drawers with just a light

touch - ideal when your hands are full or mucky from food preparation. The

system, available through Astro Design Centre, Deslaurier Custom Cabinets and

elsewhere, is hardwired. It runs around $300 per drawer installed. Blum also has

a motorized touch system for cabinet doors that lift rather than swing open.



CLOSE SESAME



A refrigerator that doesn't look like one, thanks to a cabinet door-like

covering? Old hat. Downsview Kitchens and Fine Custom Cabinetry in Mississauga

(downsviewkitchens. com) is among those offering a sliding door that conceals an

oven, adding to a kitchen's sleek appearance. Doors from Downsview and elsewhere

are available in glass, wood or other materials. Expect to pay $1,000 to $2,000

and remember that when it slides open, the door will cover some other part of

your cabinetry.



WATER, WATER, EVERYWHERE



Aquabrass kitchen faucets feature an LED light built into the handle that

changes colour depending on the temperature of the water. It beats sticking your

hand under the tap to see if it's scalding hot. The faucet is $1,995 at Westend

Bath and Kitchen in Ottawa. Gessi manufactures a faucet with the light built

into the dispenser, so the water itself glows from blue to red. Run by a tiny

turbine, it uses no electricity. Find it for around $1,800 at Astro Design

Centre. Upcoming in faucets: Dornbracht's Elio Water Dispenser supplies

near-boiling water (93 C) for coffee, tea and cleanup needs. The suggested

retail price is $988 and it'll be available in the new year.



APPLIANCES



Neat stuff includes LG's Smart Refrigerator released in the United States

earlier this year. It ramps up its cooling power when electricity rates are low,

and cuts back during peak-rate times. Forget to close the door and you'll get a

message on the refrigerator's display panel. Future models will send a message

to your smartphone or tablet. You can also check remotely on the fridge contents

or operating temperature. The appliance isn't yet available here, but watch for

it.



DOWN BELOW



When it comes to kitchen flooring, ceramic tile and some hardwood are still the

standard bearers, according to Friedemann Weinhardt of Design First Interiors.

He says hardwood, long thought of as a non-starter in a high-traffic,

dropped-object area like a kitchen, works well if coated with a good-quality

Varathane.



Jimmy Georgitsos of Astro Design Centre is taken with Cerdomus porcelain tiles

that resemble wood. He saw them at the Cersaie trade show in Bologna, Italy,

this year, and hopes to stock them next year. "They've got the beauty of wood

and the durability of porcelain."



LIGHT UP YOUR LIFE



Thin LED strip lights are appearing inside kitchen cabinets, pantries and pretty

much anywhere else you need temporary light. These LEDs are long-lasting (up to

50,000 hours), unobtrusive and a blessing when rummaging through that messy

bottom cabinet for a Tupperware lid. Available at Torbram Electric in Ottawa,

they are about $150 for a three-metre length, which can be cut into shorter

strips.



You'll also need a transformer, connectors and on/off pressure switches for each

door, adding about $225 to outfit three doors. The system can be either

hardwired or plugged into an outlet.



LED light bulbs - now dimmable and with a softer glow - are tumbling in price.

Costing as little as $25 at Home Depot and elsewhere, they're suitable for

kitchen pot lights.



LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: / LED strip lights are versatile.;;  Just a touch opens and closes

drawers, thanks to a motorized system.;



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





Copyright 2011 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.



                              All Rights Reserved





