

The modular smartphones will be available for online pre-bookings exclusively on
Flipkart and select retail outlets from the 21st to the 30th of May

LG Electronics India Limited (LG) has officially announced the pre bookings for
its highly anticipated, world's first modular smartphone LG G5, which will be
open from May 21, 2016. The flagship smartphone will be available for
pre-booking at mobile stores, at LG brand shops and online exclusively at
Flipkart. Customers can pre-booktheir LG G5 from May 21, 2016 to May 30, 2016.
Pre-booking orders also include a promotional offer of a free LG Cam Plus along
with the phone.

The G5 comes with a brand new design; a sleek, metal unibody featuring a
slide-out Battery tray and a Modular Type design that enhances the overall
smartphone experience by providing true convergence whereby the smartphone
transforms into being smartphone plus camcorder or smartphone plus Hi-Fi music
amplifier etc.

The LG G5 is equipped with the powerful yet energy-efficient Qualcomm Snapdragon
820 processor, which offers advanced features such as 64-bit performance,
Qualcomm Adreno 530 graphics and lower-power Qualcomm Hexagon DSP as well as
Qualcomm Spectra 14-bit dual image signal processors (ISPs) designed to deliver
high resolution DSLR-quality images and additional power savings. The Snapdragon
820 processor also has an integrated X12 LTE modem that supports Category 12
download speeds of up to 600 Mbps and LTE Category 13 uplink speeds of up to 150
Mbps.

Amit Gujral, Marketing Head - Mobiles, LG India said, "The wait for the most
anticipated smartphone, in fact the first ever modular phone of 2016 to arrive
in India is now over. Customers can now pre-book the LG G5 and we hope more and
more people will take advantage of this opportunity. The G5 is our most
innovative smartphone till date and consumers would surely be awestruck on the
most innovative modular concept of LG G5. We are very excited to bring LG G5 to
India."

Anil Goteti, VP - Business, Flipkart said, "We are happy to partner with LG to
host the pre-bookings of LG G5. Backed by new-age technology and unique add-ons,
this new device will offer customers an enhanced user experience. We are
confident that the G5 will be well received by the customers."

Sunil Lalvani, Vice President and President of Qualcomm India, said, "Qualcomm
Technologies is very pleased to work with LG on their latest flagship device,
the LG G5, featuring the Snapdragon 820 processor with Qualcomm TruSignal
Multi-Antenna Boost technology, enabling a superior and reliable connected
experience. LG and Qualcomm

Technologies have worked together for many years with the shared goal of
enabling new and exciting user experiences for consumers. We look forward to
seeing the LG G5 launch in India."

