                              700 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                       April 15, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST



Fall in love with new HTC 10



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 827  words





New HTC 10 seems to reignite consumers' love affair with smartphones.

Class-leading design and quality form to be an integral part of the HTC 10. The

HTC 10 once again shows a design that is similar to last few high-end models

from HTC.



At the center, the phone is bit thick, but at the edge it is just 3mm. the

result is a curvature that comfortably fits in the hand. The phone screen has a

single sheet of 2.5D Gorilla Glass, which curves slightly at its edge for a more

comfortable grip.



The home button includes a fingerprint scanner, which as per HTC's claim is the

fastest with a 0.2 second scan time. The phone has a beautiful 5.2 inch Super

LCD Screen with Quad HD resolution. The company's signature BoomSound speaker

grilles are not present this time in HTC 10, considered to be a big departure.



The HTC 10's audio system known as HTC BoomSound Hi-Fi edition has reworked

entirely. No longer, it provides stereo sound. Both speakers still include their

own powered amplifiers. The HTC 10 is the first Android phone ever to officially

support AirPlay.



Clarity is the USP of the BoomSound experience. The headphone jack is on top

edge of the handset. A microSD slot is present on the left edge of the phone. It

supports expandable memory up to 2TB in addition to 32 GB or 64 GB of internal

storage.



The HTC's rear camera has a 12-megapixel sensor with a sapphire crystal cover, a

6-element lens and optical image stabilization. Still photo quality and video

quality are quite impressive. Colors are vivid and true, lines are sharp and

low-light performance has been improved.



HTC's 5-megapixel camera having an f/1.8 lens is impressive. Android 6.0

Marshmallow powers the handset and is covered with the latest version of HTC

Sense. The New HTC 10 is available for pre-order on HTC's website for $699, or

$599 if you are a former HTC customer.



A report published in the ZDNet said, "The cameras are better than anything

we've seen on HTC devices before, but Android manufacturers have stepped up to

the plate and many offer amazing camera experiences. The HTC cameras (front and

rear) may satisfy most users, but the Samsung Galaxy S7/S7 Edge and LG G5 appear

to provide better results more consistently at this time in full auto mode."



I could not believe what I was hearing from the HTC 10 when I plugged in the

inexpensive HTC Active earphones. I heard drums, guitar, and other elements of

music that I forgot were there and was taken back to the days of my youth with

classic rock tunes blasting in my ears. The HTC 10 brings an amp that provides

more than twice the power of a conventional headphone amp, along with 24-bit

audio support. I also tested out the HTC Hi-Res audio earphones that are an

optional accessory in the US, included in the package in some other countries,

and while they are good earphones they are quite heavy on the bass.



"The Nexus 5X and HTC 10 have a few things in common, starting with their

physical dimensions, which are almost identical, although the metal-bodied HTC

10 weighs in at 25 grams heavier. They both have a 5.2-inch display and both use

the LCD technology, but sport different resolutions. They both use a Qualcomm

Snapdragon processor, but totally different models. Each device has a 32GB model

available, but only the HTC 10 is expandable. The Nexus 5X and HTC 10 use a

similar sized main and front-facing camera (FFC), but use completely different

technology to process photos. Both devices have a non-removable battery, but

only the HTC 10 offers Quick Charge 3.0. The Nexus 5X and HTC 10 both sport a

fingerprint sensor to unlock the device and to authorize mobile payments,"

according to a news report published by Androidheadlines.



The Nexus 5X and HTC 10 have the usual suspects - WiFi, Bluetooth v4.2, GPS,

NFC, a reversible Type-C port for charging and data transfer, as well as a

fingerprint sensor for unlocking the device and authorizing mobile payments with

Android Pay.



In a report published by the Arstechnica, "HTC is clawing back, though. The HTC

Vive-a VR headset it made in conjunction with Valve-leapfrogged Oculus to be the

best and most complete VR package out there. For the past year or two, the

company has been searching for alternative revenue streams away from the

smartphone market. And while the Vive is still an early adopter product, it's a

big bright spot in the company's line up."



The theme of "addition by subtraction" continues in the rest of the phone. With

the HTC 10, HTC seems intent on stripping its designs of the last four years

down to the bare necessities, righting the wrongs of the previous version. The

One M9 had a weird ridge that ran along the perimeter of the phone, almost like

the front and back of the phone were two halves of a shell that didn't fit

together. This is fixed in the 10, which looks smooth and uniform. The One M9

had a metal body but used a glossy coating that took away from the premium feel

of the metal. The HTC 10 feels more like bare aluminum.



LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





