                              701 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Star (South Africa)



                             May 21, 2016 Saturday

                                   E1 Edition



letters



SECTION: Pg. 17



LENGTH: 371 words





Thanks for keeping our beloved service providers on their toes. I always read

your Orchids & Onions with a dose of glee and a grin. Not that de facto

monopolies like MultiChoice give a flying flirt about their customers, but I

thought you'd be interested to read (and shake your head in disbelief at) this

exchange - and give them a smelly Onion or two.



I recently contacted MultiChoice with this query: "Why is DStv skipping random

episodes in the reruns of Special Victims Unit, series 15, in the coming weeks?

The only scheduled episodes are 3, 5, 6, 10, 11,7. Why not broadcast all

episodes in sequence?"



After an immediate automated response promising a real one within 24 hours, all

MultiChoice came up with three days later was: "Thank you for contacting us.

Apologies for the delayed response. We would like to escalate your enquiry. We

require (you) to supply dates, season and episode for feedback and

channel/platform. We're eager to interact with you and help resolve your

issue..."



Not the slightest effort was made to read the question, never mind look up the

answers. Of course, that would be far too difficult and confusing. Maybe some

Onions will hit a couple of sore spots.



Chris



(Full name and address supplied)



My nomination for a large bunch of Onions - peeled and eaten raw - are the

Philistines of DStv who control the flighting of ads. I refer to the historic

match between Leicester City and Everton, the culmination of a fairy-tale season

that saw the Foxes lifting the English Premier League title.



There was a swift switch to a Specsavers ad within a split-second of Italian

tenor Andrea Bocelli's performance. After the flighting of the ads, they did a

flashback to the end of Bocelli's singing! Clearly, they had no "sense and

appreciation of the occasion".



Bruce Buss



I received this e-mail from Vodacom on May 10 that may be of interest... "With

Mother's Day coming up on Sunday, May 8, it's the perfect time to spoil your mom

or yourself with Vodacom Rewards. Choose from a bouquet of flowers from Net

Florist or Nu Metro movie tickets at reduced rates. Plus, look out for the

Mother's Day specials on smartphones like the recently released LG G5."



They missed by a mile, so they deserve an Onion.



Steve Ward



LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SS





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





