                              702 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                              QWeekend (Brisbane)



                            October 1, 2016 Saturday

                                QWeekend Edition



CAMERAS ARE GOING IN ALL DIRECTIONS



BYLINE: Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42



LENGTH: 426 words





Nikon and Samsung are just two of the big names set to release 360-degree

cameras this year



Evolving camera technology is coming at us from all angles. Fuelled by a growing

fascination with virtual -reality, cameras are letting users put themselves and

everything around them into the picture. And these 360-degree cameras have just

received their biggest endorsement yet, with Nikon becoming the first

traditional camera maker to join the trend.



Users may have to decide whether to stick with photos they can print out later,

or photos for sharing online and viewing in a headset when investing in one of

the new image-makers.



The next-generation cameras -got their latest boost at Photokina, the -biennial

photo and video trade fair in Cologne, Germany, when Nikon -focused entirely on

its new range of action cameras. Top of the range is the KeyMission 360, its

first 360--degree camera, equipped with a lens on either side of its squat,

square body and, unlike others of its ilk, ready to capture 4K video. The camera

is also waterproof to 30m, shockproof to 2m, dustproof, and weatherproof to

-10C.



But one of its most impressive -features won't be seen, but merely -appreciated.

The camera uses software to stitch together footage from lenses on opposite

sides of its body to create photos that encompass everything around it. The

resulting photos can be viewed inside virtual reality headsets, in an

accompanying app, or on websites that support it, which now include Facebook and

YouTube.



Pre-sales of the $900 KeyMission 360 will begin in Australia next Wednesday,

with the first shipments due on October 23.



Nikon is not alone in delivering virtual-reality-ready cameras. The second

camera from 360fly, a 4K camera shaped like a prismatic golf ball, recently

received a raft of software updates. The advanced unit will be able to record

video when triggered by motion or sound, and will allow users to edit videos,

guiding viewers around the scene and transforming it into a standard 16:9 format

for viewing on a TV. Videos captured from the 360fly 4K camera can also be

shared instantly to Facebook under the changes.Other 360-degree cameras have a

more mobile focus. LG released its $399 360 Cam as an accessory to its G5

smartphone earlier this year and Samsung's $499 Gear 360 camera, also

ball-shaped, features two 180--degree lenses to capture footage that it sends to

a phone for viewing and sharing. Other 360-degree cameras available in Australia

include the $400 X360 Dual VR Camera from Melbourne company Kaiser Baas, and

Ricoh's $299 Theta m15.



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail





                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





