

Many of the world's most important smartphone manufacturers descended upon
Barcelona this week for the Mobile World Congress - and seemed to want to talk
about anything but smartphones.

Despite next year marking 10 years since the iPhone was introduced by Apple -
notably and traditionally absent from the conference - most companies seem to
have given up even discussing their new smartphones.

Samsung, which traditionally opens the convention and then sets its tone, spent
most of its time talking about virtual reality.

The actual phone part was over fairly quickly. Samsung's new flagship Galaxy S7
(inset) looks almost exactly the same as its predecessor, adds waterproofing and
some slightly faster components, and was met with a bit of a shrug.

Samsung could then get down to what it really seemed to be excited about: the
Gear kit that turns the phone into a virtual reality headset, and a new camera
that lets people make 360-degree, ready-for-VR videos.

That camera, referred to as the Gear 360, lets people create home videos and
snap pictures ready for the much-promised, if slow to arrive, virtual reality
future. Its press conference wasn't even headlined by its own staff but rather
by Mark Zuckerberg, who spoke about the work that Facebook is doing in creating
virtual reality worlds.

HTC is usually a fixture of the conference, but didn't even bring any new phones
this year. Instead, it spent its time showing off its Vive headset, meant for
gamers and scheduled for release later this year.

And some of the most exciting technology was more motor than mobile - cars are
making their way into the conference with more urgency than ever. Ford, for
instance, showed off its new Sync technology, which turns the car's display into
a computer and updates itself over your house's wi-fi.

If that doesn't feel futuristic enough, Sony appears to be taking a cue from
science fiction dystopias for its new products. It launched a new personal
assistant that sits in its user's ear and talks to its owner.

Where the phones were the focus of discussion, the handsets were still a little
unusual.

LG launched its G5, which has a modular design that lets its owners add new
parts depending on what they need. If you need an extra battery or an upgrade
for betterquality music, for instance, you can simply get it stuck on to the
phone rather than upgrading the whole thing.

And Xiaomi - which has been called the Apple of China, as it has closely
mimicked the original's growth and some of its designs - launched a new phone
that comes in a ceramic body.

But it didn't seem to matter much. Whether they're strapped to your face or
stuck in your car, mobiles are now so mobile that a tiny glass slab with all of
the world's knowledge inside it seems a little boring.

Samsung's Gear kit turns its new flagship Galaxy S7 Edge smartphone into a
virtual reality headset

