                              707 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                       June 10, 2016 Friday 10:59 AM GMT



Lenovo launches smartphone that senses spaces with 'Terminator vision';

Chinese company builds spacially aware smartphone using Google-derived Project

Tango technology along with new super-skinny, modular flagship



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 478 words





Chinese electronics manufacturer Lenovo has become the first to put Google's

Project Tango spatial awareness technology into a smartphone.



Its PHAB2 Pro range of phones all have cameras, sensors and software capable of

motion tracking, depth perception and area sensing, which means it can learn and

produce a 3D map of the inside of a building or space.



The technology will enable advanced augmented reality systems that can recognise

objects in the world around the user and overlay information in real time, a

feature often called "Terminator vision", after the1984 film.



Johnny Lee, engineering director at Google said: "Tango enables our devices to

sense physical motion and space and, as a result, has the power to change how we

interact with our surroundings. We believe that devices with positional tracking

functionality will be pervasive and are happy that the PHAB2 Pro will introduce

these new capabilities, making your phone even more useful."



The Tango-infused 6.4in PHAB2 Pro will be available starting in September along

costing from $499.



Lenovo also brought out a new flagship modular smartphone, the Moto Z, which

replaces the Motorola Moto X as the top of the manufacturer's line, after the

Chinese firm bought Motorola from Google two years ago.



The Moto Z, which comes in two versions including one with Motorola's

shatterproof screen, have a modular design which allows users to magnetically

attach additional so-called Mods to the back of the phones. These include a pico

projector for displaying images on a wall, an extra battery pack and a set of

stereo speakers.



Both smartphones also lack a headphones port, relying solely on USB-C port. The

Moto Z has a 5.5in quad HD AMOLED screen, Qualcomm's top-of-the-range Snapdragon

820 processor, 4GB of RAM, 32GB of storage with a microSD card slot and a

13-megapixel camera, all squeezed into a 5.2mm thick frame. The camera protrudes

from the back, however.



The 7mm-thick Moto Z Force has similar specifications, but has Lenovo's Moto

ShatterShield screen protection, as used in the unbreakable screen of the Moto X

Force, a larger battery and a 21-megapixel camera.



Both smartphones are expected to be available in September.



Lenovo is not the only one pursuing a modular smartphone design. LG's G5 has a

slot in the bottom for adding accessories that clip in and form part of the

phone, while Google's Project Ara aims to make almost every part of the phone a

clip-in module.



The benefit of the Moto Z's magnetic system, which has pins on the back onto

which the modules attach, is that the phone does not need to be turned off to

have a new module attached. But whether consumers will buy into the concept of

modules - available at an extra cost - remains to be seen.





     ·    Project Tango: Google is building it, but will they come?

     ·    Motorola Moto X Force review: great phone with a screen you simply

          can't break





LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





