                              70 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                     The Sunday Independent (South Africa)



                                 April 10, 2016

                                   E1 Edition



Should you get the LG G5 smartphone?



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 476 words





LG's G5 hit the shelves on Friday, bringing the company's latest efforts to

stand out from the smartphone pack against mega-competitors such as Apple and

Samsung. LG's tactic with the new phone is to offer top-of-the-line specs in a

(slightly cheaper) phone than its premium competitors. The G5 also boasts an

unusual and experimental look - a modular design that lets you pull the whole

bottom of the phone off to accommodate a new battery or other accessories.



STANDOUT FEATURE: The LG G5 has a removable battery, which makes it pretty

unique among the flagship smartphones on offer right now. In fact, it's not just

the battery that's removable, but actually the whole bottom of the phone - sort

of a first step to a truly modular smartphone that lets you swop out parts of

the stock phone for other hardware features you may want. For example, LG has

already announced a speaker attachment it made in partnership with audio company

B&O Play. The promise of more accessories down the line makes it an intriguing

option.



Pros: The LG G5 ticks the right boxes - a big 5.3-inch display, strong software

performance and a good camera. Along with the removable battery, LG has also

offered an SD card slot to augment the 32GB of storage that come standard with

the device. It also has an (optional) always-on display that can keep you

up-to-date without pulling too much power from your battery.



In terms of general performance, the device's Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 processor

makes the whole phone pretty snappy. As a camera, the LG G5 also stands out from

the pack by sporting two cameras - one with a wide-angle lens that lets you take

shots with much more breadth to them. It's a little gimmicky, but undeniably

fun. Overall, it's a strong phone with a lot of promise to become something more

interesting if LG's stab at modularity takes off.



Cons: It's sort of a strange phone. There's no other way to describe it. It's

not necessarily a bad thing, but shoppers should know that LG is taking its own

design cues here. It's fingerprint sensor/power button is located on the back of

the phone - there are no buttons at all on the front of this device. All

navigation is done through the software. It feels quite boxy, perhaps due to the

removable slot at the bottom, which makes it a tad less comfortable to hold than

its curvier competitors. Still, its sturdy metal body also has a very light,

almost plastic feel to it.



Battery life was a little lacking as well, not quite making it through a whole

day of testing - though having the extra battery to swop in is a plus. The

display is also a little less vibrant than either Samsung's Galaxy S7 Edge or

the iPhone 6S Plus, but not significantly less clear. And if you're looking

specifically at Android phones, it's worth noting that this is not waterproof,

unlike Samsung's latest models. - The Washington Post



LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SI





                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)

                              All Rights Reserved





