

'I want to capture the whole scene.'

Mark Zuckerberg Virtual reality next big venture Hannah Francis N o matter where
you turned your head at the epic Mobile World Congress in Barcelona this week,
there seemed to be somebody lolling theirs around in a virtual reality headset.

Samsung had a pop-up VR theatre smack bang in the middle of town at Placa de
Catalunya - right opposite the Apple store.

Members of the public could wait to board a virtual roller coaster ride as the
seats rocked from side to side to give a fully immersive experience.

For a conference that has traditionally been about mobile networks and phones,
virtual reality had stolen the show.

It's phones of course - those indispensable objects we carry in our pockets
every day - that will deliver virtual reality technology to the masses, pushing
it beyond the realms of technology enthusiasts and gamers.

Phones, and social media too, according to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg.

Facebook, which owns virtual reality company Oculus, is ramping up its
investment in the technology - and its interest in bring VR to its network.

Zuckerberg says VR will be "the most social platform", and that its uptake will
be driven by consumers themselves as they swap still selfies for immersive
video.

"I think about my baby daughter and the way I want to remember her when she
takes her first steps," Zuckerberg told a rapt audience during a Samsung press
event.

"I want to capture the whole scene ...That way, even if my parents and my family
aren't there to experience it in person, they can feel like they're right there
with us," he said.

The 360 degree video viewing - which can be experienced on a normal screen by
clicking and dragging video around in its frame, or as a fully immersive
experience through a VR headset - has been available on Facebook since last
year, as it has on YouTube.

With social platforms now backing the trend, the tools to create, share and view
VR content will increasingly be in the hands of consumers in coming months.

VR headsets and 360 degree cameras are quickly becoming must-have accessories
for new release mobiles.

Samsung unveiled its Gear 360 camera, which captures both video and stills.

Footage can be both stitched together and shared to social platforms right from
a smartphone app.

Samsung is also giving away its Gear VR headsets for free with every pre-order
of its new Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge phones, available in coming weeks.

LG, meanwhile, unveiled its 360 VR goggles and camera - alongside a slew of
other accessories - to go with its latest G5 phone. Sony has a 360 degree camera
as well.

And the packaging of Alcatel's Idol 4s phone - also unveiled at the Congress -
doubles as a VR viewer.

There are dozens more 360-degree cameras aimed at consumers that are coming on
to market.

"One day soon all of us are going to have the power to broadcast live so all of
our friends and family can experience it like they're right there with us,"
Zuckerberg said.

Forrester Research analyst Julie Ask believes Zuckerberg's vision of where VR
will take social media is compelling, describing the combination as "the killer
app".

Hardware manufacturers like Samsung, meanwhile, may increasingly need to rely on
these types of partnerships to sell their devices, she said.

Other analysts are much more sceptical that the VR fad will take off in a big
way.

They point to a lack of compelling content continuing to be a barrier - at least
in the short term. But while user-generated VR may be in its infancy, at the
other end of the scale professionally produced VR content is ramping up too.

Nokia had its new OZO 360 video camera on display in Barcelona. It will retail
for a cool $US60,000 ($83,000).

The OZO 360 sports eight lenses and microphones for high- definition video and
surround sound capture.

What's new with this technology is the OZO can stream what it captures live to
audiences, opening up the potential for broadcasting live entertainment such as
sporting matches, concerts and other events in high definition virtual reality.

The author travelled to Barcelona courtesy of Samsung Australia.

