                              713 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                       May 21, 2016 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



Google's ATAP to soon launch its Project Ara phone first for developers then for

consumers



BYLINE: John DiPietro



LENGTH: 839  words





Google's Advanced Technology and Projects (ATAP) group has recently offered more

details on its Project Ara modular phone. The group said it will release its

first ever smartphone for developers this fall. This edition will have Android

running in it along with its 5.3-inch screen. On the other hand, the consumer

edition will be out there in 2017.



Those who want to get a close virtual look of the device can go to ATAP's

dedicated Ara website and can also fill out a form revealing their choice of

phone to be developed. The Project Ara was first introduced at I/O 2014 and

since it has come a long way. At Google, there are more than 30 people who are

using Ara phones as their primary device.



Google is also planning to introduce another division for Ara inside Google.

This would be done in order to give the project a designation of a real business

that is a serious initiative at the company. The Ara technology now has received

a frame. The phone technology is integrated into the frame that would look as it

has CPU, battery and display. The parts will not be swappable at least with

first versions.



Ara has got six modular slots and each part is generic and one can put any

module in any slot. The slots are interconnected via an advanced 'unipro'

network. An engineer was recently presenting Ara on stage. The person inserted

camera and took a photo. One can remove a module by going to settings app and

select the module for removal or say, "Okay Google, eject the camera," which

audience found impressive. There is a button at the side of the phone, through

which one can overview all of the modules.



According to a story published on the topic by USA Today, "The news follow two

years of delays since Google showcased a Project Ara prototype at its I/O

developer conference in 2014. The idea behind a phone made of removable modules

is intriguing and potentially disruptive, while at the same time fraught with

challenges. The way Google explains it, you can slide any Ara module into any of

its (up to) half-dozen slot and it just works. Ara's frame houses the chips,

antenna, sensors, battery and other key smartphone components."



The plug-and-play modules, built by Google's phone partners (Samsung, Toshiba,

Sony and others) are likely to include different types of cameras or displays,

microphones, loudspeakers, music players, projectors, breathalyzer, extra

batteries, thermometer, who knows what? Google says you can eject them easily,

even in some cases with an "OK Google" command. Meanwhile, the slots on your

phone potentially become valuable pieces of real estate for accessory makers.



"After a year, Project Ara didn't have much to show for all its talk of the

future, but it certainly inspired the smartphone old guard to run with the idea.

This year's LG G5 adopted the modular phone principle with a removable "magic

slot," and the upcoming Moto X and iPhone 7 are rumored to have some kind of

modular features. Because guess what, accessories sell," according to a recent

Gizmodo report.



"Over the last year or so, the team also worked to standardize the modules, so

that developers could actually start to build them. The key bit was redesigning

the connectors on the back. Each one has to support constant connecting and

reconnecting, charge things when they get plugged in, and, you know, not break

or fall off. They created a proprietary port, but one that uses an open

standard, UniPro. The phone has six, and each one can push up to 11.9 gigabits

of data per second, in both directions. Ara chief Richard Woolridge spits out

crazy edit-video-while-you-computer-vision use cases, but says the spec boils

down to this: It can handle anything. And it only consumes a third as much power

as USB 3."



A report published in Wired News informed, "It's the how, not the what, that was

problematic. Today, Rafa Camargo, Ara's technical project lead, wants to show me

what he's made. He picks the black phone up from the white table in front of

him, flips it over, and taps the power button. It turns on. Next, he picks up a

camera module from the table, pops it into the phone, opens the camera app, and

quickly takes a crisp photo." "There's your camera, live."



Hang on. You caught that, right? It works! After years of failed demos, public

sputters, and worrisome silence, Ara works. About 30 people within ATAP are

using Ara as their primary phone.



Camargo actually has the luxury of worrying about things like aesthetics, rather

than whether it'll turn on. "Please pay no attention to how it looks," he tells

me, flipping the blocky smartphone over in his hands, "because it's a

prototype." It's not a concept, not an idea, not a YouTube video. It's a

prototype. Developer kits for Ara will be shipping later this year, and a

consumer version is coming in 2017. "We have now built all the key components of

the platform," Camargo says. Ara is no longer an experimental part of ATAP: It

just became its own division within Google. Now it's time to find out if there's

room left for another smartphone revolution.



LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2016 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





