

Mobile World Congress attendees use Samsung Gear VR headsets at the event held
annually Barcelona, Spain. Samsung brought out Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to
talk about how the social networking company will use virtual reality.

At the Mobile World Congress event, smartphones are typically the stars of the
show. But not this year.

At this year's show, virtual reality took center stage.

For its press conference at MWC, which is held every year in Barcelona, Spain,
Samsung provided all attendees with one of its Gear VR headsets with which to
view the event in virtual reality. It also brought out Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO
of Facebook, whose Oculus unit helped develop the Gear VR, to talk about the
efforts the giant social networking company is making in virtual reality.

Meanwhile, HTC announced a price and shipping date for the Vive, its rival to
the Rift, Oculus' upcoming VR headset. And attendees got to hear about new VR
viewers and cameras that can shoot videos intended for viewing in VR headsets.

Zuckerberg, in his Samsung talk, summed up the zeitgeist and Facebook's interest
in it.

"Pretty soon we're going to live in a world where everyone has the power to
share and experience whole scenes as if you're just there, right there in
person," Zuckerberg said, according to a report in USA Today. "Imagine being
able to sit in front of a campfire and hang out with friends anytime you want.
Or being able to watch a movie in a private theater with your friends anytime
you want."

He continued: "All these things are going to be possible. And that's why
Facebook is investing so much early on in virtual reality. So we can hope to
deliver these types of social experiences."

Zuckerberg announced that Facebook has developed a new way to stream 360-degree
videos. These are videos that allow users wearing a VR headset to see moving
images wherever they turn.

The new technology involves keeping track of what a viewer is actually looking
at in a video. The technology will stream only that portion of the video in high
resolution, instead of the entire circular scene. The result, according to
Facebook, is that it can offer those scenes users are watching in ultra-sharp
resolution and it can get them to start playing faster than before. The new
method also uses a fourth of the bandwidth previously needed, Facebook said.

The company plans to roll the technology out to Gear VR headsets "in the next
few weeks," Facebook said.

Facebook is also working on a way to use VR for communication. The company has
created a Social VR team to explore ways in which users of VR headsets could
share virtual experiences.

"We've already helped people connect in a wide variety of ways on mobile devices
- ranging from Facebook and Instagram to Messenger and WhatsApp - and now we
want to apply that same approach to the new medium of VR," the company said in a
press announcement.

But Facebook was only one of many companies talking VR at the MWC. Indeed,
perhaps the biggest virtual reality announcement at the show belonged to one of
the rivals of Facebook's Oculus - HTC. That company has been working with video
game maker Valve on the Vive, a widely anticipated alternative to Rift. HTC
showed off the final version of Vive and announced when it will be available and
how much it will cost.

HTC will charge $799 for Vive, and the device will be in stores in early April.

That price is $200 more than Oculus is charging for the Rift. Like the Rift, the
Vive will ship with two games. But HTC will also throw in two handheld
controllers specifically designed to be used with the handset and that allow
users to "see" their hands in some games.

By contrast, Oculus Rift will include only one Xbox One controller. Users who
want a virtual controller similar to those that will come with the Vive will
have to wait until later in the year, and they'll likely have to pay extra for
them.

In both cases, though, the price of the headset understates the actual cost of
the VR experience. To run Rift, users will need a PC that costs around $1,000 or
more. To power the Vive, users will potentially need a PC that's even more
expensive.

HTC, Samsung and Oculus aren't the only players in VR, as MWC made clear. LG
unveiled a lightweight headset called the 360 VR - price and release date to be
announced later - that will be powered by its new G5 smartphone. And Alcatel
announced its own simple viewer that will accompany its new Idol 4S smartphone.

To ensure that users have something to watch on their new headsets, LG and
Samsung both unveiled camera systems that will record 360-degree videos. Both
devices include two cameras facing in opposite directions that record video
through fish eye lenses.

