                              716 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



Zuckerberg says virtual reality can be 'most social' of platforms



BYLINE: Edward C. Baig, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B



LENGTH: 432 words





Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg made a surprise appearance at Samsung's Mobile

World Congress press conference Sunday to talk up progress in virtual reality

and to promote VR in the future as "the most social platform."



Facebook, of course, paid some $2 billion in 2014 to buy Oculus, which has been

working with Samsung on its Gear VR consumer headsets. In fact, Zuckerberg

appeared on stage during the MWC event just after audience members took off the

Gear VR headsets they had donned to experience virtual reality during Samsung's

presentation.



Zuckerberg  delivered a keynote address to MWC attendees Monday,  addressing

Internet.org and Facebook's struggles to bring affordable Internet to poor

places around the world, which has met opposition because of net neutrality

concerns.



But Zuckerberg was all about VR during his brief appearance on the Samsung

stage.



"Pretty soon we're going to live in a world where everyone has the power to

share and experience whole scenes as if you're just there, right there in

person," Zuckerberg says. " And that's why Facebook is investing so much early

on in virtual reality. So we can hope to deliver these types of social

experiences."



Facebook also said Sunday it had formed a team to create social interactions in

virtual reality. The team will work with Oculus and others at Facebook. It also

said it was bringing its streaming technology for 360 video to Samsung Gear VR

in coming weeks.



Facebook has been selling Gear VR for $99, though for now it will be bundled for

free to folks who preorder the company's latest flagship phones  unveiled here,

the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge. According to Zuckerberg, millions of people

will get their hands on Gear VR this year.



To deal with the challenges in delivering social VR, Facebook recently created

new teams to build the next generation of social apps in VR. Hundreds of new

titles are coming to the Oculus store this year, Zuckerberg says, including

Minecraft.



"We're excited to be focused on building this next important computing platform

that has the potential to be changing our lives and to be doing it with zest."



Virtual reality is getting a lot of focus at Mobile World Congress. HTC, in

partnership with Valve, announced it will begin taking preorders on the consumer

version of HTC Vive on Feb. 29; the price is $799 for now.



Samsung and Korean rival LG announced new 360 cameras, and the latter is

bringing its own VR headset to work with its new G5 phone.



And Chinese-owned Alcatel will ship its new Idol 4S smartphones in a plastic box

that doubles as Google Cardboard compatible VR viewer.



LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





