                              71 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



LG Electronics unwraps first G5 modular smartphone



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 273 words





LG took the wraps off its Flagship Android smartphone LG G5 today at its Play

Begins event in Barcelona. With the LG G5 the company has changed its design

strategy and innovated on the phone with a modular slot to take on the Samsung

Galaxy S7 that will be announced later today.



Weighing 159 gram, It has a 5.3-inch IPS display with a resolution of 2560 x

1440 pixels. In terms of specifications, it comes with Snapdragon 820 processor,

4GB RAM, 32GB storage and a 2,800mAh battery. Other features include microSD

slot for expansion, 4G, WiFi, Bluetooth, NFC, USB Type-C and Fingerprint

scanner.



LG has also improved upon the camera with a dual cameras setup - one standard

16MP sensor land a wide angle 8MP sensor. The cameras can be used together for

improved results or individually depending on your requirements. Front camera is

a 8MP shooter for Selfie enthusiasts.



LG G5 comes out of box with Android 6.0 operating system with a revamped

interface. LG has added an always on display for quick access to notifications

without unlocking the phone. Another new feature called Friend manager lets you

control the LG G5 accessories ecosystem from the phone remotely.



The phone has an all metal design but with a modular slot that can be used for

add-on modules. LG announced two companion modules along with the phone - One is

called Cam Plus and it adds a extension grip for camera with hardware shutter

and control buttons along with extra battery. Other is called HiFi plus and it's

a add-on audio player for improved sound output.



Details regarding price and availability have not been announced so far.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





