

The Possibility of Dropping the 3.5mm Port

There's a lot of discussion around this topic for a couple of reasons: it's
rumoured that Apple will be the first to drop the ubiquitous 3.5mm audio jack
from its phones this year. And it's kind of touching a nerve because this is
something that been around since the early days of the cellphone. It's universal
(almost), found on many different devices (phones, tablets, laptops, desktops,
TVs, voice recorders, gaming consoles), cheap to produce and include, earphones
using this port can be had very cheap and many people already have their
favourite earphones/headphones that they use with all of their devices.

Contrary on what you may think, there are a couple of good reasons to drop this
aging standard. If you've ever seen the innards of a modern smartphone, you'll
know what we mean. With devices getting thinner, lighter and more powerful,
miniaturisation is key! Every component inside the phone is purpose built, as
small as possible and tolerances are down to fractions of a millimetre. In the
middle of all this wizardry sits this comparatively giant black casing - the
3.5mm jack. It actually prevents screen bezels from becoming smaller, eats up
space that could have been used up by battery and prevents the phone from
getting thinner. In addition, earphones could go digital, using connectors like
Lightning, micro USB and USB type C instead.

USB Type C - Is It Really Universal?

You've heard it before: "the reversible USB type C is the future" and "soon, all
phones will switch to USB C ports". The reality is a bit different and USB type
C has a long way to go before achieving the scale that micro USB has. The main
reason for this is that cables are being produced in mass numbers without any
proper adherence to standards set by the USB-IF (implementers forum - the
governing body that describes the standards).

Improper cables and flimsy adapters that convert micro USB to USB type C can end
up damaging your device's ports permanently or worse, damaging the internal
components like main boards. This also means that you should not be using USB
type C cables/adapters that came with one device with something else. In the
meantime, if you really want to be safe, you can head to USB.org where they have
a list of certified USB type C cables

The Differences Between Fast Chargers

Many power users struggle with battery life on their devices. Until battery
technology catches up with our requirements, an easy workaround is fast
charging. Fast charging is not just a marketing term - it actually works and is
a technology developed by Qualcomm. Marketing by various companies splits it up
into different names like quick charge, rapid charge, turbo charge and more. In
reality, they're all basically the same thing: a combination of four things -
better quality batteries, advanced charging circuitry in the device, smart power
adapters that output higher voltages and cables/ports that are capable of
handing these increased loads.

Specifications and charging times have been getting better over time, which is
why you see different claims by manufacturers. Quick Charge 3.0 is the latest
spec and it is four times faster than conventional charging, twice as fast as
Quick Charge 1.0 and 38% faster as compared to Quick Charge 2.0. This is
available on select devices right now and Qualcomm has a list up on their
website with phones that support 3.0 (Xiaomi Mi 5, LG G5, HTC One A9, LeEco Le
Max Pro etc) and a list of compatible chargers you can use.

If you are interested in the specs and how it works - read on! Look at the tiny
text on any wall charger you have: it will have an output rating in volts and
amperes (this could be 5 volts - 1 amp, or 5 volts - 2 amp and so on). You can
multiply these two to get the output p owe r i n watts. Quick Charge adapters
will have multiple outputs at 9 volts and 12 volts - they switch between outputs
intelligently. The technology first scales up the power to the battery until it
reaches saturation point (typically 70 to 80% of capacity) and then scales it
down till it reaches 100%. This is why the claims always state things like
"reaches 0 to 70% charge in 35 minutes". The remaining 30% will take far longer
but a 70% charge is a lot too.

Dual Cameras in Phones

One of the main issue with camera modules on smartphones is that they have to be
really tiny. This means they have tiny lens elements and small sensors - which
means that camera performance will not match up to the quality offered by even a
point and shoot camera. However, the scales can tilt in the favour of
smartphones with dual camera setups.

In a dual camera setup, the additional lenssensor can work on capturing depth,
additional light or even improve colours and sharpness. Technically, instead of
increasing sensor size, they're just increasing the number of sensors, which is
more easily doable in a slim device. A number of manufacturers including Huawei,
Qiku, Xolo and HTC have already launched devices with dual cameras that deliver
good results. In the near future, we might see some dual camera setups that
actually provide for some sort of optical zoom without needing any moving lens
elements.

Touchscreens for Full Car Control

Touch interfaces are easy and intuitive. However, when it comes to cars, most
stick to buttons and dials while touchscreens stay in high-end cars. Cars with
touchscreens usually have them for infotainment and navigation rather than for
control of car features. Going forward, drive-by-wire systems will become the
norm in cars. This means, there will be no physical linkages and this makes it
easy to have touch control. You'll be able to view and set tyre pressure,
climate control, fuel economy and so on in the same window. Considering that
Tesla has already managed to integrate a 15-inch touchscreen into their upcoming
$35,000 car and remove all dials and buttons from the dashboard, this is a trend
that could catch on.

Android Cameras

The open nature of Android means that it can be modified to suit any device. We
have seen Android in home appliances, car entertainment units, media players and
televisions. However, when it comes to cameras, there hasn't been much work done
on integration of Android (apart from a couple of attempts by Samsung and one by
Nikon).

There are multiple advantages of using Android in standalone cameras: instant
image transfers over WiFi, quick sharing over Bluetooth and on social media, app
support plus on-screen editing of images. With standalone camera sales declining
and improvements in Android in terms of features and stability over the last few
years, we really want camera manufacturers to step up their game.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

