

Huawei, the Chinese ICT player, which had revenues of over $60 billion in 2015,
is betting big on a connected world with investments in Internet of Things (IoT)
and 5G telecom services. At the annual Huawei Analyst Summit (HAS) 2016, held in
Shenzhen, China, the most common consensus was to better connect the world.

Huawei, a privately-owned company, has grown several folds since its inception.
If you are reading this article on a wireless connection, there is a fair chance
of router/modem being developed by Huawei. If you are on a cellular network,
there is a very high possibility of the network being powered by Huawei's
equipment. Inspite of a significant presence in enterprise segment, this Chinese
firm's own brand exposure is highly limited. It now wants to change that
completely.

Huawei started HAS 2016 on a high note. The company revealed its Global
Connectivity Index 2016 and laid out its plans for building a better connected
world. Huawei says Global Connectivity Index gained 5% and for the first time,
telcos managed to achieve gigabit speed on a 4G connection.

But Huawei's real ambition is to connect people to things and things to things.
William Xu, Huawei's executive director of the Board, said, "At Huawei, we want
to shake hands with the world and harness energy over a cup of coffee." He later
openly made an announcement asking global companies to join hands to build a
better connected world.

While the buzz is around a better connected world, it's important to understand
how Huawei aims to accomplish that. For Huawei, the better connected world is
the one where gigabit Internet speeds reach everyone and every household has an
IoT ecosystem. Put simply, the talk is around ecosystem and not just limited to
devices.

Huawei's future is not just restricted to IoT and connectivity. During his
keynote speech, Huawei's rotating CEO Eric Xu said, "VR is easily perceivable
and telcos are better positioned to provide video services." Huawei is very
clear on its stance: the next growth segments are definitely VR and IoT but
their need is gigabit internet-which only Huawei can offer at the moment via
different telcos. The company is betting big on digitisation and total
cloudification in order to make sure that telcos are able to better manage their
services once they deploy gigabit internet speeds.

Huawei says it will fully cloudify it's network/operator devices this year.
Though digitisation is not new to telecom operators, the company wants apps and
services to move to the cloud. It claims there is a need for connecting
enterprise IT to external customers and partners.

Huawei sees voice services as a key driver for telcos but believes the
experience isn't compelling yet and voice over LTE or voice over broadband is
seen as the solution. Interestingly Reliance Jio, which is set to launch its 4G
services sometime soon, is pitching the very VoLTE service as its USP. While we
are yet to see good 4G services in India, Huawei has already started 5G field
tests with NTT Docomo.

Huawei says 5G will arrive five years from now and standards will be framed in
2020. While that may be a distant vision, the company is working to better 4.5G
services. LTE Advanced (or 4.5G), a concept proposed in 2014 will evolve over
the next years and will help mitigate users to the eventual era of 5G. In
addition, the company believes that smartphones with 1 Gbps chipset will launch
next year. For record, Samsung Galaxy S7 and LG G5 already support upto 600
Mbps.

The Chinese ICT firm is also bullish on the future of IoT. It is building an
ecosystem rather than a product. Huawei's IoT ecosystem evolves around its own
Lite OS powered by narrow band networks and complemented by connectivity
management platform. It sees deployment of IoT in the field of smart metering
for electricity, water or agriculture.

The best use case yet for an IoT ecosystem is a smart parking app which allots
parking space to a vehicle from within a mobile app and easily enables for
charging parking fees. There is already wide deployment of such parking systems
across China and US and Huawei sees more adoption for such a system in other
countries sooner than later.

The writer was in Shenzhen at the invitation of Huawei

