

If Chairman Mao Zedong, in the giant portrait that dominates Tiananmen, the Gate
of Heavenly Peace, were just able to sneak a little glance to his left, he could
almost see the turning that takes you to Tiandi Yijia.

The stylish restaurant, which combines minimalist designs with a discreet hint
of wealth, reflects some of the changes in China in a similar way to the sleek
automobiles that are successors to the clunky Hongqi stretch limos that were
symbols of power in the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution.

In those days, ordinary people considered themselves lucky if they had a Flying
Pigeon bicycle. Now, they crowd the road in cars or hop into a taxi. While few
of the drivers speak English, they are happy to carry foreigners with addresses
written in Chinese and they don't expect tips.

Tiandi -- the name means Heaven and Earth -- is a few minutes' walk from the
Forbidden City, and it's a good option if you are sightseeing, especially as
it's no tourist venue. Most of the customers are Chinese and the waitresses
aren't fluent in English. It occupies a beautiful courtyard house, where
spotlights may pick out ancient paintings or modern tableware.

The food is as modern and eclectic as the look, by the designer Yu Qing Shan.
There are dishes from Beijing, Shanghai and Guangdong, with fresh flavours and
lighter sauces than you might expect in north China. Judging by the limousines
outside and the 14 discreet private rooms, it's a place for plutocrats.

In the main dining room of Yellow Parasols, about 50 yellow parasols crowd the
ceiling and there is a grand central table surrounded by a little lake of its
own. Putting aside the indignity of dining alone in China, I sat close to a
couple where the man spent most of the evening on the phone.

The menu features the usual luxury Chinese options such as abalone and bird's
nest, but it's the attention to detail in simple dishes such as Jiaozi (pork
dumplings) that is impressive. These are delicately flavoured and nicely
presented for a Beijing staple. More exotically, a starter of goose liver has
plenty of flavour and finesse. The cold meat is served atop a bed of crunchy
beans sprinkled with sake. This costs 68 yuan ($9.73), which is expensive for
China yet would be a steal back in Europe.

Each dish is prepared and presented with care: The sauces are not as heavy as
you might expect, yet there is no loss of authenticity. Indeed, the lightness of
the cooking brings out the flavours. This is some of the best food I have tried
in Beijing. The only part of the formula I'd want to change is the lighting,
which lacks warmth.

If Tiandi came as a very pleasant surprise, the popular Lan Club was a crashing
disappointment. This Philippe

Starck-designed bar-restaurant "celebrates Chinese and Western cuisine and pairs
it masterfully with wines from around the world." If I may translate that: You
pay through the nose for everyday wines and indifferent food. I should have been
suspicious when I spotted mission statements from no fewer than three chefs on
the menu.

They'd have been amusing to quote, only a surly supervisor first told me I
couldn't have a copy of the menu and then told me to stop making notes from it.

At Fatty Meat, luckily, I did manage to make a note of one dish. Sauteed
Australian beef with black peppers came with two onion rings and a sauce that
might have been at home in the Cafe de Coral fast-food chain in Hong Kong. The
meat was fatty and lukewarm and there wasn't much of it. The cost? It was 680
yuan. When I heard this, I asked if they hadn't added a zero by mistake. A cod
dish was so dried out and overcooked, it was barely recognizable as fish. The
bill for three came to more than 3,000 yuan, or $429.

For all that, Lan can be a fun place to go drinking, as I found a couple of
nights later when I visited with a couple of dot-com entrepreneurs I had run
into in my hotel bar. The designs are beyond fabulous, especially the washrooms,
where the cubicles are luxuriously furnished, each the size of my living room.

We ended that night at Mix, a hip-hop club in the grounds of the Workers'
Stadium, and Vics, a dance club next door. Both were loud, crowded and a lot of
fun. Beijing's nightlife is hopping.

Tiandi, Chang Pu He Garden, 140 Nan Chi Ze Street, Beijing. Tel.
+86-10-8511-5556 or +86-10-8511-5557. Lan Club, 4/F LG Twin Towers, 12B
Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing. Tel. +86-10-5109-6012 .

