                              737 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                            February 22, 2016 Monday



All eyes on virtual reality at Mobile World Congress



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 805 words





At the Mobile World Congress event, smartphones are typically the stars of the

show. But not this year.



At this yearcs show, virtual reality seems to be taking center stage.



For its press conference at MWC, which is held every year in Barcelona, Samsung

provided all attendees with one of its Gear VR headsets with which to view the

event in virtual reality. It also brought out Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO of

Facebook, whose Oculus unit helped develop the Gear VR, to talk about the

efforts the giant social networking company is making in virtual reality.



Meanwhile,cHTC announced a price and shipping date for the Vive, its rival to

the Rift, Oculusc upcoming VR headset. And attendees got to hear about new VR

viewers and camerascthat can shootcvideos intended for viewing in VR headsets.



Zuckerberg, in his Samsung talk, summed up the zeitgeist and Facebookcs interest

in it.



cPretty soon wecre going to live in a world where everyone has the power to

share and experience whole scenes as if youcre just there, right there in

person,c Zuckerberg said, according to a report in USA Today. cImagine being

able to sit in front of a campfire and hang out with friends anytime you want.

Or being able to watch a movie in a private theater with your friends anytime

you want.c



He continued: cAll these things are going to be possible. And thatcs why

Facebook is investing so much early on in virtual reality. So we can hope to

deliver these types of social experiences.c



Zuckerberg announced that Facebookchas developed a new way to stream 360-degree

videos. These are videos that allow users wearing a VR headset to see moving

images wherever they turn.



The new technology involvesckeeping track of what a viewer is actually looking

at in a video. The technology will stream only that portion of the video in high

resolution, instead of the entireccircular scene. The result, according to

Facebook , is that it can offer those scenes users are watching in ultra-sharp

resolution and it can get them to start playing faster than before. The new

method also uses a fourth of the bandwidth previously needed, Facebook said.



The company plans to roll the technology out to Gear VR headsets cin the next

few weeks,c Facebook said.



Facebook is also working a way to use VR for communication. The company has

created a Social VR team to explore ways in which users of VR headsets could

share virtual experiences.



cWecve already helped people connect in a wide variety of ways on mobile devices

ranging from Facebook and Instagram to Messenger and WhatsApp   and now we want

to apply that same approach to the new medium of VR,c the company said in a

press announcement.



But Facebook was only one of many companies talking VR at the MWC. Indeed,

perhaps the biggest virtual reality announcement at the show belonged to one of

the rivals of Facebookcs Oculus   HTC. That company has been working with video

game makercValvecon the Vive, a widely anticipated alternativecto Rift. On

Sunday, HTC finally showed off the final version of Vive and announced when it

will be available and how much it will cost.



HTC will charge $799 for Vive, and the device will be in storescin early April.

Pre-orders start on February 29.



That price is $200 more than Oculus is charging for the Rift. Like the Rift, the

Vive will ship with two games. But HTC will also throw in two handheld

controllers specifically designed to be used with the handset and that allow

users to cseec their hands in some games.



By contrast, Oculus Rift will includeconly one Xbox One controller when it

starts shipping in March . Users who want a virtual controller similar to those

that will come with the Vive will have to wait until later in the year , and

theycll likely have to pay extra for them.



In both cases, though, the price of the headset understates the actual cost of

the VR experience. To run Rift, users will need a PC that costs around $1,000 or

more. To power the Vive, users will potentially need a PC thatcs even more

expensive .



HTC, Samsung and Oculus arenct the only players in VR, as MWC made clear.

LGcunveiled a lightweight headset called the 360 VR   price and release date to

be announced later   that will be powered by its new G5 smartphone. And Alcatel

announced its own simple viewer that will accompany its new Idol 4S smartphone.



And to ensure that users have something to watch on their new headsets, LG and

Samsung both unveiled camera systems that will record 360-degree videos. Both

devicescinclude two cameras facing in opposite directions that record video

through fish eye lenses.



Photo:cA woman reacts as she views virtual reality through a Samsung Gear VR

headset at the Mobile World Congress conference incBarcelona, Spain, on Monday.

(AP Photo/Emilio Morenatti)



The post All eyes on virtual reality at Mobile World Congress appeared first on

SiliconBeat .



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





