                              745 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                             The Gazette (Montreal)



                          November 16, 2005 Wednesday

                                 Final Edition



Which TV should I buy?: Plasma, LCD, projection high-definition TVs or the bulky

but reliable old cathode-ray-tube model? New technologies have made the choices

overwhelming, but in the end, consumers have to trust their eyes and know their

budgets



BYLINE: STEVE MAKRIS, CanWest News Service



SECTION: HOME ELECTRONICS; Pg. G5



LENGTH: 1129  words





Buying a television today can be a real challenge, not least for consumers

planning to buy a big-screen TV.



With the number of brands growing to include computer companies like HP and

Dell, consumers sometimes find themselves bewildered by the gauntlet of

big-screen TVs in stores.



Where do you start and who do you trust when investing in your next TV?



First, decide what kind of TV you want. According to the Electro Federation

Consumer Electronics Marketers of Canada, flat panel plasma, LCD and projection

high definition TVs (HDTV) will account for about 25 per cent of TV units sold

this year.



"It's a unique time to buy an HDTV now," said Eric Stockner, senior TV

merchandise manager for Future Shop Canada. "The 40-inch HDTV is the

battleground where plasma, LCD and projection TVs are competitively priced

against each other."



You may not need a high definition TV; simply replacing a worn-out CRT (cathode

ray tube) set may be enough. But if you are ready to jump into the world of

HDTV, do your homework. Read magazines or check online sites from manufacturers,

and read reviews. Spend time with a salesperson who is knowledgeable about the

products.



And be prepared for the salesperson's first question: Where do you want to watch

TV in your house?



Unlike old tube TVs that work anywhere, today's high-tech TVs use three

different technologies that produce sharper and clearer pictures but show

differently.



Plasma TVs



A mere 10 centimetres thick, these are best in average-lighted rooms and, like

tube TVs, look great from any angle. They also show older analogue channels

best. Prices and models start at $2,000 for lesser-known 40-inch brands to

$5,000 for name brands and upwards of $16,000 for an LG 60-inch model with

built-in PVR (personal video recorder.) New 40-inch HDTV ED (enhanced

definition) models for about $2,500 are gaining popularity among people who

simply want better TV, and DVD-quality picture.



LCD (liquid crystal display) panel TVs



These are just as thin as plasma screens, are crisper, and feature punchy

colours for brighter rooms. They use technology similar to laptop screens and

show digital sources like video games and connected computers with heightened

clarity. Despite the hype, their advertised "view from any angle" feature is not

as good as plasma. LCD TVs start at laptop size for less than $800 and go up to

45-inch models for $5,000.



LCD and DLP (digital light processing) projection models



Characterized by a deeper base tapering to the thickness of plasma TVs at the

top, they are suitable for darker rooms and have narrower viewing angles. They

are not as sharp as flat panels and are best viewed from a distance - ideally,

from a sofa across the room. Like plasma, they start at 40 inches; 60-inch

models cost about the same as 40-inch plasma and LCD flat panels.



Two older technologies with HDTV features provide added choice to budget-minded

shoppers.



New tube-based CRT HDTVs, like Samsung's 30-inch widescreen TX-R3079, go for

about $1,200; Sony's 27-inch FD Trinitron WEGA HD Ready TV sells for around

$900. TV purists maintain analogue CRT technology is still the best TV

available, but screens are limited in size.



And despite industry death threats, HDTV-ready projection TVs using older

analogue technology, also under $2,000, attract "big picture" fans with smaller

wallets, even though the HDTV quality is lower.



Which of these is the best TV?



"Trust your eyes," says William Zadnik, a custom systems designer with

Edmonton-based Audio Ark. "After all the hype, it's about what looks best to

you."



True, but most stores don't play the best HD signal on every TV on display and

are unlikely to re-arrange 60 kilogram models for customers to compare side by

side.



Samsung's Techspot (www.sam



sung.ca/techspot) features a nifty live comparison of all three TV technologies

in all Brick Warehouse stores.



Judging HDTVs is subjective, so it helps when test-viewing TVs in the store to

watch shows you are familiar with. Do it in evening hours when most widescreen

HDTV shows are on, or on weekends for similar quality sporting events. Compare

how clearly grass blades show on sports fields.



Don't be fooled by daytime shows, many of which appear to be digital but are

actually regular analogue quality "bumped up" to look like HD. Or looped demo

videos from manufacturers.



Gamers and computer users should try their devices on new TVs before they buy,

as some big screens limit computer options. HP's new plasmas and LCDs for

example, feature additional PC input controls, not surprisingly coming from a

computer company.



Samsung offers a 24-inch 242MP HDTV LCD that doubles as a computer monitor, but

at an unmatched 1900 computer pixel resolution compared with the top 1280 pixels

other TVs go to.



DVD players, if properly used, can demonstrate just how good an HDTV is.

Especially in dark shadow scenes.



For that you need to have a progressive-capable DVD player connected via

component (red, blue and green) cables or DVI (digital video interface, now

being replaced by newer, smaller HDMI connectors, the absence of which indicates

an older HDTV or DVD player).



Throw in the recent Batman Begins DVD and go to Scene 2 where the protagonist

enters a dark candle-lit scene; check for smoothness of colour on the dimly lit

walls. Poor screens with lower contrast ratio break the walls into chunks of

solid colours.



Then there's the little stuff. Like the remote control's layout, or whether you

can quickly plug in accessories like digital cameras from convenient front

connections. Does the base swivel, and is it easy to get to the back panel?



New high definition TVs are either "HDTV-ready" - requiring an external tuner

box supplied by cable and satellite providers - or "HDTV" with built-in tuners

that can receive free HD from off-the-air stations in Toronto, Windsor, Ont. and

Vancouver by simply hooking up an antenna.



If you live anywhere else in Canada, you don't need to worry about a tuner,

although a plain analogue tuner can be handy for non-HD viewing.



Be aware that initial HDTV costs can be deceiving.



LCD and DLP projection TVs are cheaper but require a $600 bulb replacement every

7,000 hours compared with the 60,000-hour lifespan of plasma and LCD flat

panels.



Choosing cheaper third-tier TVs over brand names is not as risky as one may

think. Much of the TV, like the glass screen, comes from the same manufacturer

but warranties may be shorter with fewer TV features. What makes brand TVs like

Sony's Bravia series 40-inch KDL-V40XBR1 ($4,499) pricier is the picture engine

and newer proprietary picture-enhancing technologies. Brand names like LG, for

example, offer a two-year warranty for its TVs compared with the one-year

industry standard.



You still get what you pay for but it's all in the eye when it comes to TV.



LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:

Photo: STEVE MAKRIS, CANWEST NEWS SERVICE; Salesperson Abdulahi Mahamad shows

off Samsung's TechSpot display, available at all Brick Warehouse stores, which

demonstrates the differences between plasma, LCD and DLP projection HDTV

televisions.



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications

                                     Corp.

                              All Rights Reserved





