                              751 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday



$50,000 worth of prizes to be won;

Choose your favourite gadgets from last year and you may be rewarded in Digital

Life's annual awards.



BYLINE: Seow Tein Hee



SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Specials; DL Awards 2013



LENGTH: 1890 words





Stand a chance to win prizes worth more than $50,000 when you vote for your

favourite gadgets and games in The Straits Times Digital Life Readers' Choice

Awards 2013 at Straitstimes.com/STI/DLAwards2013.



The DL team has shortlisted the finalists across 24 categories but it is you,

the DL reader, who will decide which gadgets and games will emerge victorious.

Be rewarded for your votes and stand a chance to win these great prizes:



First prize (worth $10,187)



Samsung 55" ES8000 Series 8 Smart 3D Full HD LED TV and Samsung HT-E6750 Home

Theatre System



Second prize (worth $4,699)



LG 55" Cinema 3D Smart TV 55LM8600



Third prize (worth $2,399)



Fujifilm X100 camera



Fourth prize (worth $1,588)



Focal Bird 2.1 sound system



Fifth prize (worth $1,248)



Olympus Pen E-PL3 DZK camera with 14-42mm II R and 40-150mm R lenses



Sixth prize (worth $1,099)



Lenovo IdeaPad U310 Ultrabook



Seventh prize (worth $1,078)



Convergent DIY desktop system (Thermaltake Commander MS-III + Corsair DDR3 RAM

4GB x 2 + AMD A10 with Asus F2-A85-M Pro + Force Series GT 90GB SSD + Antec 620

water cooler + Antec HCG520 PSU + Philips 23" LCD monitor)



Eighth prize (worth $868)



HTC One X+



Ninth prize (worth $699)



Sennheiser PXC 360 BT



Tenth prize (worth $699)



Canon PowerShot G15



There are over 100 prizes to be won. Visit the DL Awards 2013 voting site for

the full list of prizes.



Multiple votes are allowed but each voter will be eligible for only one prize in

the final lucky draw held on Feb 20. Winners will be announced on the Digital

Life Facebook page by the end of next month and notified via their e-mail

address.



So start clicking and may your favourite gadgets be the winners at the DL Awards

2013.



MOST VOTES TO DATE



Best Smartphones



Best Overall Smartphone



Apple iPhone 5



It is a close fight between Apple's latest iPhone and the Samsung juggernaut,

the Samsung Galaxy Note II LTE. But the votes speak for themselves: The iOS

device with a 4-inch display and powered by a dual-core processor is taking the

lead as the favourite smartphone.



The other nominees



HTC One X

Nokia Lumia 920

Samsung Galaxy Note II LTE

Samsung Galaxy S III



Best Android Smartphone



Samsung Galaxy S III



Samsung had a good run with its Galaxy S II, so it is no surprise to see the

third Galaxy S smartphone taking the lead in the Readers' Choice.



Readers were most likely won over by its generous 4.8-inch display, powerful

quad-core processor and intelligent features.



The other nominees



Asus PadFone 2

HTC One X

LG Optimus 4X HD

Samsung Galaxy Note II LTE



Best LTE Smartphone



Samsung Galaxy Note II LTE



Leading the pack of relatively new LTE smartphones is the Samsung Galaxy Note II

LTE. Features, such as a massive 5.5-inch Super Amoled display and a powerful

3,100mAh battery to withstand the power drain from constant data downloads, have

proven to be popular with the voters.



The other nominees



HTC One XL

Nokia Lumia 920

Samsung Galaxy S III LTE

HTC Windows Phone 8X by HTC



Best Tablets



Best Tablet [Above nine inches]



Apple iPad (4th generation)



Apple's strong ecosystem, plus a high-resolution display on its fourth

generation iPad, which has an improved Apple A6X dual-core processor, are just

some of the reasons why the Apple tablet is leading the race in the Readers'

Choice.



The other nominees



Asus Transformer Pad TF300

Asus VivoTab RT

Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1

Sony Xperia Tablet S



Best Tablet [Below nine inches]



Apple iPad mini



Apple's decision to go with a smaller 7.9-inch display in the iPad mini is

proving to be a success, seeing how the smaller Apple tablet is now taking the

lead for tablets under nine inches. Apple fans have definitely shown their

approval for the lighter Apple device which is easy to handle.



The other nominees



Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7

Samsung Galaxy Tab 8.9 LTE

Sony Tablet P



Best Android Tablet



Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1



The supply of Android tablets has been healthy but only one tablet stands out.

The Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1's unique multi-tasking feature, plus the intuitive

S Pen that captures, crops and sends e-mail in a single step, has made it the

definitive Android tablet.



The other nominees



Asus Transformer Pad TF300

Google Nexus 7

Motorola Xoom 2

Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1



Best Laptops



Best thin & light laptop



Asus Zenbook Touch



During the inaugural DL Awards last year, the Asus Zenbook proved to be the most

popular thin and light laptop. Once again, the Asus Zenbook Touch takes the lead

with improvements such as a vivid full high-definition touchscreen and wider

viewing angles from its in-plane switching panel display.



The other nominees



Samsung Series 9 (13.3 inches)

HP Spectre XT

Acer Aspire S7

Dell XPS 13



Best Gaming Laptop



Razer Blade (2012)



True to its gaming reputation, the newly improved Razer Blade, with an updated

Intel Core i7 processor and Nvidia GeForce GTX 660M graphics processor, is a

powerful beast that comes with customisable Switchblade keys to suit the needs

of the professional gamer.



The other nominees



Lenovo IdeaPad Y580

Toshiba Qosmio X870

Dell Alienware M17X

Aftershock Titan



Best Hybrid Laptop



Dell XPS 12 Ultrabook



Swivelling its way to the top spot is the Dell XPS 12 Ultrabook. The convertible

laptop comes with a screen that can be flipped away from you, thus transforming

it into a tablet form factor. Other than a wide-angle high-definition in-plane

switching display, the unit is also well-protected against knocks by its carbon

fibre body.



The other nominees



HP Envy x2

Samsung Ativ Smart PC Pro

Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13

Sony Vaio Duo 11



Best Business Laptop



Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon



The carbon fibre body is just one of the many strengths of the Lenovo ThinkPad

X1 Carbon. Its 14-inch display offers a high resolution of 1,600 x 900 pixels

and has a slew of features that are designed for business users who need a

portable laptop on-the-go.



The other nominees



Dell Latitude 6430u

Toshiba Portege Z930

HP EliteBook Folio 9470m Ultrabook

Fujitsu Lifebook U772



Best Mainstream Laptop



HP Pavilion dv6



The refreshed HP Pavilion dv6 gets an updated third-generation Intel Core

processor, with a more powerful Nvidia GT 650M graphics for heavy multimedia

usage. Its matte display, along with a Blu-ray combo drive, are offered at a

mid-range price that makes it affordable and adequate for daily use.



The other nominees



Acer Aspire Timeline Ultra M5

Dell XPS 14 Ultrabook

Samsung Series 5 14" Ultra

Sony Vaio T



Best Compact Prosumer



Canon PowerShot S110



Weighing less than 200g, the Canon PowerShot S110 is definitely a compact

camera. But it is not stingy with features, with a 5x optical zoom built into

it. It also comes with Wi-Fi capabilities and a touchscreen display to up the

ante against its competitors.



The other nominees



Fujifilm XF1

Olympus Stylus XZ-2

Samsung Smart Camera EX2F

Sony Cyber-shot DSC-RX100



Best Cameras



Best Mirrorless



Canon EOS M



Though Canon is a relatively new player in the mirrorless camera market, its EOS

M has been the talk of the town. Its slim 33mm profile and the ability to use

Canon's catalogue of DSLR lenses make it a hot favourite among photography

lovers.



The other nominees



Fujifilm X-E1

Olympus OM-D E-M5

Panasonic Lumix DMC-G5

Sony Alpha Nex-6



Best DSLR [APS-C]



Canon EOS 650D



Canon introduced a touchscreen display to its DSLR line-up for the first time

with the EOS 650D. Movies are recorded with stereo sound, delivering a true

cinematic experience, while its autofocus continues even when the camera shifts

from photo to movie mode.



The other nominees



Nikon D3200

Pentax K-30

Pentax K-5 II

Sony Alpha SLT-A57



Best DSLR [full-frame]



Canon EOS 5D Mark III



Equipped with a 22.3-megapixel full-frame Canon CMOS sensor and Canon's latest

DIGIC 5+ Image Processor, the EOS 5D Mark III is a popular choice among

photography buffs for another reason: Its sturdy, magnesium ally chassis, which

protects it from rain and dust, makes it suitable for the great outdoors and all

forms of heavy-duty handling.



The other nominees



Canon EOS-1D X

Nikon D4

Nikon D600

Sony Alpha SLT-A99



Best Compact Mainstream



Canon Digital Ixus 510 HS



Fitting a 12x optical zoom in this 20mm thick compact camera is no easy feat.

That is why the Canon Digital Ixus 510 HS, equipped with a touchscreen that

occupies the camera's rear, and a 10.1-megapixel CMOS sensor, has garnered a

substantial number of votes to date.



The other nominees



Fujifilm FinePix F800EXR

Nikon Coolpix S9300

Olympus Tough TG-1

Sony Cyber-shot DSC-TX66



Best Audio



Best Headphones



Sennheiser HD 700



Sennheiser's strong audio legacy has been reaffirmed by its lead in the best

headphones category. The premium Sennheiser HD 700 creates a wonderful sound

stage through its warm accurate tones and serves all serious audiophiles who

want the best in audio reproduction well.



The other nominees



V-moda Crossfade LP2

Klipsch Mode M40

Monster Diesel Vektr

Parrot Zik



Best Earphones



Klipsch Image S4i (II)



Delivering rich music with crystal clear vocals, the Klipsch Image S4i (II) is

designed for comfort with its firm yet easy-to-fit earbuds. Packing these

earphones is easy with the help of its flat, tangle-free cables.



The other nominees



Logitech UE900

Monster iSport

Shure SE215 Special Edition

Sol Republic Amps HD



Best Games



Best Overall Game



Halo 4



Master Chief's triumphant return is mirrored by the lead taken by Halo 4 in the

best overall game category. The work done by the new development team 343

Industries has been duly recognised by Halo fans, who enjoyed countless hours

blasting enemies with Master Chief.



The other nominees



Assassin's Creed III

Mass Effect 3

XCom: Enemy Unknown

Diablo III



Best Shooter



Halo 4



With its lead in the best overall game, it is no surprise to see Halo 4 taking

the top spot once more in the Best Shooter category. Its gameplay longevity

through downloadable episodic content and a well-written plot are clearly the

reasons for its lead in the categories.



The other nominees



Borderlands 2

Call Of Duty: Black Ops II

Far Cry 3

Natural Selection 2



Best Action Adventure



Assassin's Creed III



Taking a more action-oriented route proved to be a good move for Assassin's

Creed III. The action-adventure game retains the same suspense and drama you

expect from the stealth-action franchise, mixed with the right amount of killing

that makes it worthy of the franchise name.



The other nominees



Sleeping Dogs

Lego Batman 2 DC Super Heroes

Hitman: Absolution

XCom: Enemy Unknown



Best RPG



Diablo III



Gamers, who spent countless nights advancing their characters through dungeons,

gathering awesome loot and challenging themselves at higher difficulty levels,

have given the thumbs up to the long-awaited role-playing game from Blizzard.



The other nominees



Guild Wars 2

Mass Effect 3

Torchlight II

Final Fantasy XIII-2



Best Racing/Sports



Fifa 13



Fifa 13's enhanced gameplay takes a player's weight, height and point of

collision into consideration, making the game much more realistic for football

fanatics. Each player's face and his club jersey gets reproduced with superb

clarity and accuracy, adding to the realism for football fans.



The other nominees



F1 2012

Forza Horizon

NBA 2K13

Need For Speed: Most Wanted



Special Award



Best Innovative Product



Xbox SmartGlass



This companion app is more than a secondary screen for the Xbox console. It also

allows you to access your movies, music and games with a few taps on the app.

The app, which is supported on iOS, Android and Windows Phone platforms, is a

must-have for all Xbox console owners.



The other nominees



Lytro

Samsung Galaxy Camera

TactSlider Tornado

Wonderbook: Book Of Spells



LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





