                              752 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            Mail on Sunday (London)



                             January 1, 2006 Sunday



TECH OUT CHECK IN, TURN ON...;

Bloody Mary on draught Optical scan Doorkeysand rooms that remember your nameas

Rob Waugh reveals, they a reall realities in today's sci-fi hotels



BYLINE: ROB WAUGH



SECTION: N&D; Pg. 34



LENGTH: 1464 words





You know how it is after a long, exhausting flight, you and your partner have

finally stepped into the calm of a hotel foyer.



You want everything to be already in place, arranged exactly as you like it and

in this modern age, is that too much to ask?



As it happens, in this particular establishment, your arrival couldn't be more

serene. For starters, there's no queue snaking out from the check-in counter.



Rather, you're greeted by a 'virtual' concierge on a video touchscreen, who

tells you that your room is ready and that you won't need a key. Simply showing

the unique iris pattern in your eye to a scanner on the door is enough to let

you in, but keep everyone else out.



Inside, the stereo is already playing your favourite Miles Davis album, the air

conditioning is set just how you like it and the fridge is full of your

favourite Krug champagne.



Pick up the touchscreen room controller and you can access everything from the

light setting to the room's curtains or talk to the virtual concierge.



Whatever you wish to drink, from coffee to cocktails, can be dispensed at one

touch via the virtual barman a screen with an udderlike assembly at the bottom

linked to a remote bar, which mixes any drink you can think of. Flick a switch

and you can download a film to your flatscreen TV and start watching right away.



The hotel already knows when you prefer to have breakfast on weekdays, how you

like your eggs and what fruit you require in the bowl by your bed. If you

wanted, you wouldn't have to talk faceto-face with another human for weeks.



But this isn't the hotel of the future.



The technology for this kind of service is either already installed in selected

five-star establishments or its arrival is imminent. Hotels are no longer

prepared to settle for a few beige PCs in the business centre technology is as

much a part of the luxury experience as multilingual concierges, crisp sheets

and excessive use of marble in the foyer.



'In the past, hotels have been hightouch, rather than hi-tech,' says Douglas

Rice, CEO of Hotel Technology Next Generation, which brings technology companies

together with hotel chains a crossover now estimated to be worth Pounds 14

billion a year.



'But that's changing, thanks to the electronics revolution. Customers are now

looking at hotel rooms and thinking that they already have these things in their

home. Over the next few years, technology is going to become an essential part

of customer service.' At New York's Mandarin Oriental, each of the 248 rooms

contains more than Pounds 25,000-worth of electronics but it's not the Samsung

plasma screens, PCs, iPod docks, or Xbox 360s that put it ahead of the

competition. The hotel's multimillion-pound 'converged network' uses

technologies that few businesses on Earth have adopted.



'When we put a new network into the hotel, we knew we needed something that did

more than just make the telephones ring,' says Eric Cruz, the hotel's IT

director. 'The next generation of luxury technology is going to be personal and

the whole hotel works together to achieve that. This sort of equipment is going

to be standard in all Mandarin Oriental hotels from next year.' The 'converged'

network carries everything from phone calls and emails to the electronic

controls for the air conditioning and remembers everything from your taste in

Seventies rock to what you ordered for breakfast on Wednesday.



And as it remembers, it predicts what you might want next, and acts on it.



Even if you stay for one week, you'll notice the service becoming subtly more

personal as the system learns your tastes.



Most new hotels are installing networks at least as hi-tech as this. In the

Emirates Palace in Abu Dhabi, the entire hotel is covered by a wireless network

you could even control your room's curtains from the end of the hotel's own

beach, if you so desired.



Other boutique hotels are showcasing even more advanced technologies.



'Eyeball scanning security is used at Heathrow Airport and at Microsoft's

headquarters but we're the first hotel with it,' says James Horsman, managing

director of Boston's Nine Zero Hotel. 'People love it if you have your arms

full, you can lean over and stare at a lens and the door unlocks without you

having to fiddle about for your key.'



The iris-secured suite at Nine Zero has been used by Pink, Missy Elliott and

Christina Aguilera, and remains popular with high-profile clients for the

unbeatable security it offers.



'These days, it's no longer just business travellers who want the very latest

technology in their rooms our leisure guests want as much,' says Luke Mellors,

IT director of London's Dorchester Hotel, which offers plasma screens, a Bose

Lifestyle 28 surround-sound audio system and a PC in every room.



'When people pay for five-star, they're not just forking out for luxuries, it's

the level of service,' says Mellors.



'That's why we came up with e-butlers butlers who're there to help with anything

technological, from using the hotel internet connection to getting their iPods

to link to our PCs. We now have four on call from 8am until midnight and they're

so popular we've had regular guests calling our e-butlers while they're staying

at other hotels.' Technology butlers are now standard at several top US hotel

chains. At Santa Monica's Viceroy Hotel, tech butlers also turn their hands to

helping guests with problems in videogames on the Xboxes provided in every room

or the free PlayStation Portables by the pool.



But even these flesh-and-blood techno-helpers could soon be outdated.



The automated bartender from new company Ontap4u is a row of metal pipes

attached to a PC screen, which can dispense everything from hot cappuccino to

ready-shaken cocktails in response to a tap on its touchscreen.



For hotels, it could spell an end to drinking the minibar dry with barstyle

fluid lines leading direct to rooms, staff don't even need to leave the kitchen

to restock the fridge.



Even in the restaurant, menus could soon be made of touch-sensitive screens,

allowing diners to place orders instantly, and virtual concierge kiosks could

put guests in two-way video contact with staff at the touch of a button.



'People talk about the hotel room of tomorrow but we can create it today,' says

Matt Muta, director of Microsoft's Hospitality Industry Unit, which works with

Ontap4u. 'The interest in these technologies from hoteliers has been

unbelievable.' Microsoft now deals directly with dozens of hotel chains around

the world as part of the Hotel Technology Next Generation group.



'Microsoft spends Pounds 4 billion a year on research,' says Muta. 'So it's

natural hotel chains come to us. And we get to show off cutting-edge technology

in a luxury environment. Part of our goal is that guests will go home and think,

"I want one of those in my house."'



TOP TECHNO HOTELS



SEMIRAMIS, ATHENS



Doubles from Pounds 121



Hi-tech trick The Do Not Disturb sign is replaced by a scrolling LED, which can

display almost any message you fancy.



Other extras Internet flatscreen TV, cordless headphones and

remotecontrolledcurtains.



semiramisathens.com



YOTEL, LONDON



Due to open this year



Hi-tech trick A Japanese style capsule hotel that will offer a 'techno wall'

with a flatscreen TV and hundreds of downloadable movies and music albums.



Other extrasSurround speakers, wi-fi internet.



yotel.co.uk



MANDARIN EMIRATES PALACE, ABU DHABI



Suites from Pounds 1,550



Hi-tech trick The hotel is covered by a wi-fi internet network, which allows you

to use your room's portable control panel to order drinks or download a film to

your suite's TV, even when you're on the beach.



Other extras Each room has two plasma screens.



emiratespalace.com



ORIENTAL NEW YORK



Suites from Pounds 1,000



Hi-tech trick Your room stores your preferences for heating, lighting and wakeup

calls, as well as your phone contacts book. These can be reactivated if you

revisit the hotel.



Other extras High-definition LCD televisions, videos and games on demand via the

internet, highspeed internet access, Xbox 360s, iPod connector.



mandarinoriental.com



NINE ZERO, BOSTON



Cloud Nine suite from Pounds 2,300



Hi-tech trick Guests staying in the Cloud Nine suite are presented with the

option of swapping their key for an LG Electronics' iris-recognition security

system, which requires you to simply stare into a scanner to unlock the room's

door.



Other extrasHigh-speed internet, flatscreen TV, films/games on demand.



ninezero.com



TRIBECA GRAND, NEW YORK



Suites from Pounds 211



Hi-tech trick The iStudio rooms offer guests a mini movie studio built around a

top-of-therange-Apple G5 Powermac and you can book a Director's Cut package,

where you are given a Sony DVD Handycam for the day to record, then edit, your

impressions of New York.



Other extrasiSight video cameras, iPod, Bose SoundDock for iPod, wireless

keyboard and mouse.



tribecagrand.com



LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: LEFT: THE LG IRIS-RECOGNITION SCANNER. RIGHT: ONTAP4U'S AUTOMATED

BARTENDER



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers





                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





