                              779 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday



Winning form;

Many arguments and heated discussions later, the DL team presents this year's

champions



SECTION: DIGITAL LIFE; Specials; DL Awards 2013



LENGTH: 4136 words





How do you argue with 300,000 votes? As the online votes for the Digital Life

Awards 2013 Readers' Choice rolled in, the team sat down to decide on the

Editor's Choice for all 24categories. But even then, we know that the list is

not absolute.



After all, how do you convince someone with small hands that the Samsung Galaxy

Note II LTE is the best phone of 2012, or convince someone with a collection of

Nikon cameras to buy a Canon camera'



As for the Readers' Choice category, rather than explain why and how DL readers

picked a winner, we thought it would be better to show the portion of votes each

Readers' Choice winner accumulated in each category.



As expected, some products scored multiple accolades from the team and from

consumers, cementing the idea that sometimes, a good product can be easily

identified.



SMARTPHONES



Editor's Choice



Samsung Galaxy Note II LTE



Big is definitely better but size is not the only thing that gave the Samsung

Galaxy Note II LTE a distinct advantage in this year's DLAwards - this

smartphone boasts so many other admirable qualities.



The Android device's massive 5.5-inch display is a sight to behold and its Super

Amoled display is a pleasure to view. Its high screen resolution of 720 x 1,280

pixels presents a sharp and detailed viewing experience.



It has a powerful quad-core processor, working in tandem with the latest Google

Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system to present a buttery smooth user

experience.



The Samsung smartphone supports the dual-band LTE networks here, and despite the

constant network switching, it is still a power-saving device.



Its most remarkable feat is the high mileage from its 3,100mAh battery. To date,

no other smartphone is able to match its running time of 514 minutes under

Digital Life's intensive battery test.



Its S Pen stylus is not just a digital pen for note-taking and doodling. With

the aid of Samsung's AirView function, you can hover the S Pen over the screen

and see a preview of your images and e-mail messages.



This intelligent phone also alerts you to missed calls and messages with its

Smart Alert feature, while the Smart Stay function automatically puts the phone

to sleep when its front-facing camera does not detect a face.



All these and many more software features have made it the undisputed winner of

the Editor's Choice in the Best Overall, Best Android and Best LTE Smartphone

categories.



Reader's choice



BEST OVERALL SMARTPHONE



Apple iPhone 5: 45.9% of total votes



Other finalists





o HTC One X

o Nokia Lumia 920

o Samsung Galaxy S III

   BEST ANDROID SMARTPHONE



Samsung Galaxy S III: 48.6% of total votes



Other finalists





o Asus PadFone 2

o HTC One X

o LG Optimus 4X HD

   BEST LTE SMARTPHONE



Samsung Galaxy Note II LTE: 52.7% of total votes



Other finalists





o Samsung Galaxy S III LTE

o HTC One XL

o Nokia Lumia 920

o Windows Phone 8X by HTC



TABLETS



BEST TABLET [ ABOVE NINE INCHES ]



Editor's Choice



Apple iPad (4th generation)



In the tablet segment, Apple has set the bar so high, the competition is nowhere

in sight.



This has allowed it to maintain certain elements and still come out on top. For

example, the new iPad retains the previous iPad's display resolution, of an

insanely fine and detailed 2,048 x 1,536 pixels, dubbed the Retina display.



In the latest iteration, the focus is on the new Apple A6X dual-core processor,

which boasts a quad-core graphics processor.



LTE support was added to the new iPad in the later part of the year, along with

the new reversible Lightning connector port that eliminates the need to plug the

cable in the right orientation.



Plus, its wide collection of apps on the Apple App Store is another advantage

that tipped the scales for the Apple tablet to win the Editor's Choice.



Reader's choice



Apple iPad (4th generation): 56.1% of total votes



Other finalists





o Asus Transformer Pad TF300

o Asus VivoTab RT

o Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1

o Sony Xperia Tablet S



Editor's Choice



Google Nexus 7



Google and Asus hit the right notes with their Nexus 7 tablet. Hardware-wise,

the Asus-made tablet is loaded with Nvidia's Tegra 3 quad-core processor, which

complements Google's latest Android 4.2 Jelly Bean operating system to deliver a

fluid and smooth user interface.



Multitasking is handled perfectly with its 1GB of RAM, so running apps in the

background is not an issue.



Tablets with a compact form factor are not rare, but finding one that has the

right weight and size is the challenge. This is the beauty of the Nexus 7: its

well-balanced weight of 340g and comfortable 7-inch display make it a perfect

e-book reader.



Its display is complemented by a sharp screen resolution of 1,280 x 800 pixels

that delivers crystal-clear images and videos.



More importantly, this tablet is the first to receive the latest Android updates

from Google.



The prospect of receiving new software features to fiddle with - while fellow

Android tablet users have to wait for a few more months to receive the update -

is the strongest advantage it has over the other Android tablets in the market.



Reader's choice



BEST TABLET [ BELOW NINE INCHES ]



Apple iPad mini: 52.3% of total votes



Other finalists





o Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7

o Samsung Galaxy Tab 8.9 LTE

o Sony Tablet P



BEST ANDROID TABLET



Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1: 52.7% of total votes



Other finalists





o Asus Transformer Pad TF300

o Motorola Xoom 2

o Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1



LAPTOPS



BEST THIN & LIGHT LAPTOP



Editor's choice



Acer Aspire S7



The Acer Aspire S7 stands out from the crowd with several design innovations.



Its patented dual-torque hinge stiffens automatically when the lid is lifted and

bent backwards around an angle of 100degrees. This means it will not tilt

backwards easily when you tap on the screen - unlike the touchscreen display of

other laptops.



The touchscreen has the next generation of Corning Gorilla Glass to prevent your

fingernails from scratching it. It also has a full high-definition 1,920 x

1,080-pixel display for you to enjoy your movies.



Despite the addition of a touchscreen display, which normally increases the

weight for light laptops to around 1.8kg, Acer has managed to maintain a slim

and light built of only 1.3kg.



All these features packed into a cool and clean chassis make it an easy pick for

the DL team.



Reader's choice



Asus Zenbook Touch UX31A: 33.1% of total votes



Other finalists





o Samsung Series 9 (13.3-inch)

o HP Spectre XT

o Dell XPS 13



BEST GAMING LAPTOP



Editor's choice



Aftershock Titan



While the other gaming laptops may have 3-D displays or sport a svelte stealth

chassis, local brand Aftershock gives gamers the most important thing they crave

when sniping aliens or waging war on monsters: raw power.



With fully customisable parts under the hood in the Titan, users can even opt

for dual Nvidia GTX 680M or dual AMD 7970M graphics cards in the laptop, which

is no mean feat, given that not even the established brands are offering such

options.



In addition, you can customise everything to suit your budget and needs - from

the solid-state drive's brand to the thermal compound paste used for the

processor's heatsink.



This mean machine sets a record score of 24,289 points for the 3DMark06 graphics

benchmark test - the highest ever achieved in a laptop test by DL.



In short, the Aftershock Titan gives you the best value for money and thus wins

our vote.



Reader's choice



Razer Blade (2012): 44.6% of total votes



Other finalists





o Dell Alienware M17X

o Lenovo IdeaPad Y580

o Toshiba Qosmio X870



BEST HYBRID LAPTOP



Editor's choice



Dell XPS 12 Ultrabook



Unlike many hybrid laptops that consist merely of a tablet and a keyboard dock,

the XPS 12 looks like a regular ultrabook but has a touchscreen that can be

swivelled within an aluminium frame to switch between laptop and tablet modes.



So you can just flip the screen 180 degrees and it becomes a great machine for

making presentations or showing off your vacation pictures. Close the lid and it

becomes a tablet. Swivel the lid back to use as a normal laptop.



Instead of the usual brushed aluminium laptop lid, Dell uses the more rugged

carbon fibre to prevent scratches on the lid from the constant screen

swivelling.



In addition, the 12.5-inch screen is at a full high-definition 1,920 x 1,080

pixel resolution, with IPS panel technology for wider viewing angles.



As the most eye-catching hybrid laptop with its impressive features, the Dell

XPS 12 Ultrabook won the hearts of the DL team and users alike.



Reader's choice



Dell XPS 12 Ultrabook: 30.5% of total votes



Other finalists





o Samsung Ativ Smart PC Pro

o HP Envy x2

o Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13

o Sony Vaio Duo 11



BEST BUSINESS LAPTOP



Editor's choice



Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon



While all the finalists are great business laptops, the X1 Carbon shines with

greater brilliance, despite it coming in the usual ThinkPad black.



It represents what an ideal business laptop should be: highly portable with a

gorgeous 14-inch screen and packed with a plethora of IT-friendly features.



Made of carbon fibre, the tough and lightweight material used in Formula 1 cars,

the X1 Carbon weighs a mere 1.36kg. At only 1.89cm at its thickest, the X1

Carbon fits into your bag easily.



Unlike the usual 1,366 x 768 pixel display of many business laptops, X1 Carbon's

1,400x 900 pixel matte screen is anti-reflective and displays sharp images.



Yet, it still has business features, such as a fingerprint sensor. Loaded with

Intel vPro technology, it allows administrators to manage and secure the laptop

remotely.



All these factors combine to make the X1Carbon the unanimous winner in this

category. DL readers agreed with us too.



Reader's choice



Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon: 42.6% of total votes



Other finalists





o HP EliteBook Folio 9470m Ultrabook

o Dell Latitude 6430U

o Fujitsu Lifebook U772

o Toshiba Portege Z930



BEST MAINSTREAM LAPTOP



Editor's choice



Samsung Series 5 14" Ultra



It is a sign that ultrabooks are becoming mainstream when three out of the five

finalists here are Ultrabooks.



The DL team was impressed that Samsung somehow managed to squeeze a 14-inch

screen into a chassis that normally houses a 13.3-inch screen, giving you more

screen real estate without making the laptop body bigger.



Plus, this screen is matte and anti-reflective, which is easy on the eyes of

busy professionals.



Furthermore, though the Series 5 14" Ultra comes equipped with a DVD burner

drive, it weighs in at a modest 1.8kg, even while many other ultrabooks have

shed their optical drives to lose weight.



It may not be the most powerful machine here, but the Series 5 eventually stood

out with its balance of power, weight and innovation.



Reader's choice



HP Pavilion dv6: 37.1% of total votes



Other finalists





o Sony Vaio T

o Dell XPS 14 Ultrabook

o Acer Aspire Timeline Ultra M5



CAMERAS



BEST COMPACT PROSUMER



Editor's choice



Sony Cyber-shot DSC-RX100



Sony likes to push the envelope in design and excels in making things smaller.

The RX100 is a fine example.



First, a large sensor is used. The 1-inch type sensor is at least 2.5times that

of the average prosumer compact.



Sony has outdone itself - and become the envy of others - by making the RX100

one of the smallest prosumer compacts on the market despite the big sensor.



To boost the already high image quality made possible by its sensor, Sony added

a 3.6xzoom Carl Zeiss T* lens that starts at a fast f1.8.



Then, to top it off, an extremely sharp 3-inch LCD with 1,229,000dots is added

as the display.



This is a solid camera that delivers great performance with superb image

quality, and is an obvious winner in its class.



One last detail that will endear this camera to the consumer is its lens cap.



Most prosumer compacts have a separate lens cap that needs to be manually

removed. No such nuisance with the RX100 - its lens cap is built in.



Reader's choice



Canon PowerShot S110: 39% of total votes



Other finalists





o Olympus Stylus XZ-2

o Samsung Smart Camera EX2F

o Fujifilm XF1



BEST MIRRORLESS



Editor's choice



Fujifilm X-E1



The first thing that will catch your eye is its retro styling. Part of

Fujifilm's premium X series of cameras, the X-E1 looks somewhat like a vintage

rangefinder.



But its charm goes much deeper. Its sensor is an APS-sized one like that used in

most DSLR models. This gives it an immediate advantage in the amount of detail

and colours captured over the many mirrorless models on the market.



The sensor is a Fujifilm's X-Trans one, a new-generation design that outguns

even some DSLR cameras in the degree of detail that can be recorded.



Unlike other mirrorless camera makers which target the mass market of compact

camera upgraders, Fujifilm sets its sights on advanced photographers.



You can tell from the lenses that are rolled out for this series. They are not

the cheap and cheerful zoom variety that offer more convenience than quality.

Most of the lenses in this Fujifilm series have no zoom but deliver higher

picture quality and low-light performance instead.



For its retro charm, suite of quality lenses and high image quality, the X-E1 is

our choice of top mirrorless camera.



Reader's choice



Canon EOS M: 40% of total votes



Other finalists





o Olympus OM-D E-M5

o Sony Alpha Nex-6

o Panasonic Lumix DMC-G5



BEST DSLR [ APS-C ]



Editor's choice



Nikon D3200



Camera makers have a difficult balancing act with budget DSLR models: The price

needs to be attractively low, yet there must be enough features to lure buyers -

but not so many that attention is drawn away from higher-end models.



The D3200 hits all the right notes, starting with its high resolution. This

24.2-megapixel snapper stands as No.3 in pixel count among all Nikon DSLR

cameras. The top two are full-frame models which cost several times more.



Unlike many similar junior DSLR models where the grip is a tad small, the D3200

has a full and comfortable grip.



Beginners have a Guide mode which offers built-in tutorials on shooting

techniques and how to make the best use of the camera.



Seasoned users can dispense with this and use the more conventional modes, such

as aperture or shutter priority.



Videographers will appreciate the dedicated movie button which allows movie

recording to start with just one press of the button.



The clincher is the price. The D3200 is the only one in this present company

that comes in at less than $1,000, complete with a standard kit lens.



Reader's choice



Canon EOS 650D: 51% of total votes



Other finalists





o Sony Alpha SLT-A57

o Pentax K-5 II

o Pentax K-30



BEST DSLR [ FULL-FRAME ]



Editor's choice



Canon EOS 5D Mark III



The only nominee in this year's camera category to grab both Readers' Choice and

Editor's Choice, this Canon's winning formula is a combination of performance

and an ability to withstand rough handling.



This is a responsive camera that is geared for speed - powering up and shutting

down are instantaneous.



Autofocus is also swift with 61focus points to ensure that you can quickly lock

focus on what you see in the bright viewfinder.



Its predecessor, the Mark II, became a darling of videographers because of its

superb image quality. This 22.3-megapixel camera boasts the same prowess and

doubles as a top-notch camcorder with even greater low-light sensitivity.



The weather-resistant Mark III, with its super-strong magnesium alloy chassis,

is built like a tank. It is designed for field work and tough environments. The

full-frame DSLR camera can take all the knocks, rain and dust that is thrown at

it.



Reader's choice



Canon EOS 5D Mark III: 47% of total votes



Other finalists





o Canon EOS-1D X

o Nikon D600

o Nikon D4

o Sony Alpha SLT-A99



BEST COMPACT MAINSTREAM



Editor's choice



Olympus Tough TG-1



In the ability to take rough handling, the TG-1 beats every camera in the

present company of mainstream compacts.



This rugged camera will work up to 12m underwater and even at minus 10 deg C. It

can shrug off a 2m drop and even a crushing 100kg weight on it. It was the top

model in its genre last year.



Yet this Jason Statham - the lead actor in many tough-guy movies - of a compact

camera can still fit easily into your back pocket.



In addition to these impressive attributes, the TG-1 also delivers good quality

photos. Colours are outstanding and it works quite well in low-light situations.



The secret is its fine 4x zoom lens which starts at a very fast f2. Not only

does this lens beat every tough camera in this department, it can take on many

other compact cameras as well.



Tough on the outside and a fine compact camera to boot: that is why the TG-1

wins our vote.



Reader's choice



Canon Digital Ixus 510 HS: 44% of total votes



Other finalists





o Nikon Coolpix S9300

o Sony Cyber-shot DSC-TX66

o Fujifilm FinePix F800EXR



AUDIO



BEST HEADPHONES



Editor's choice



Klipsch Mode M40



This pair of headphones is not as loud in design as many of its peers are.

Instead, it sports a more timeless and classy look.



Meant to last, the headphones come with a leather carry case for protection and

easy portability.



It can be used as a standard pair of headphones, as its low impedance circuitry

makes pleasing sonic performance possible even with a phone as a media player.

There is no need for an amplifier to drive these headphones.



The M40 sounds good especially with most pop tunes and acoustic tracks.



Add a single AAA battery and it becomes an active noise-cancelling pair of cans

that can significantly cut the drone of an aircraft. Perfect for some peace on

long haul flights.



It is stingy in energy use as a single alkaline battery is enough to work the

noise-cancelling smarts for up to 45 hours. It works fine without a battery as

normal headphones.



The fabric-clad cable is detachable. This Klipsh has one more trick that comes

with a second cable that is provided: The cable with a built-in microphone turns

the headphones into an iPhone hands-free kit.



This pair of multi-talented, easy going, sturdy and classy headphones is our

choice.



Reader's choice



Sennheiser HD700: 46% of total votes



Other finalists





o Monster Diesel Vektr

o Parrot Zik

o V-moda Crossfade LP2



BEST EARPHONES



Editor's choice



Logitech UE900



Instead of one driver or speaker in each earphone, the UE900 has four. Two

handle low frequencies such as those from a pipe organ or bass guitar. One is

for the mid-range, which is important for vocals, and the last one takes care of

high frequencies such as violins.



The result is silky-smooth sound from crystal clear vocals to a full-bodied but

refined bass that does not overwhelm.



These Logitechs cut out ambient noise by offering a close fit instead of using

electronics which may subtly alter the sound. Eight pairs of ear cushions are

provided for you to choose from.



Such a perfect fit will allow for the noise isolation these earphones claim to

do.



Two sets of cables are provided. One for the audiophile, who cares for nothing

but the best sound, and the other has a built-in microphone and controls.



Pair these cables with an iPhone or iPod and you can change tracks and adjust

volume with the controls without touching your iOS device. With an iPhone, you

can answer a call with just one touch of the control.



Reader's choice



Klipsh Image S4i (II): 44% of total votes



Other finalists





o Monster iSport

o Shure SE215 Special Edition

o Sol Republic Amps HD



GAMES



BEST OVERALL GAME



Editor's choice



Diablo III



Diablo III changed the rules of video games. Even after a 12-year wait, Blizzard

Entertainment exceeded expectations and gave players more than just another

hack-and-slash title.



The storyline and new classes were embraced by fans, as each took to

experimenting with their character's upgrades and development.



While the need for a persistent Internet connection for the game to function set

a new precedent, the fact that the game drew more than 10 million players in two

months is testament to its popularity.



Even though the overall quest is short, the allure of the game is the replay

factor, which draws players to continue fighting, to gain better and more

powerful weapons and armour.



The introduction of a real auction allows players to trade almost everything

they acquire in the game, turning virtual assets into real ones.



Reader's choice



Halo 4: 36.8% of total votes



Other finalists





o Assassin's Creed III

o Mass Effect 3

o XCom: Enemy Unknown



BEST SHOOTER



Editor's choice



Halo 4



The Halo name has become synonymous with the Xbox console but, more than just

having a name association, the core Halo series has proven itself to be a worthy

shooter time and time again.



Even with new developer 343Industries taking over the reins from Bungie in this

third outing, Halo 4 manages a good mix of new and old. Fans can still find the

iconic Master Chief surrounded by familiar faces and enemies, and explore the

new storyline and gameplay elements which make the franchise seem as fresh as

when it was first launched 12 years ago.



Reader's choice



Halo 4: 39.5% of total votes



Other finalists





o Call Of Duty: Black Ops II

o Borderlands 2

o Far Cry 3

o Natural Selection 2



BEST ACTION ADVENTURE



Editor's choice



Assassin's Creed III



Part time travel, part suspense and part espionage and action, the Assassin's

Creed franchise reached a juncture where fans were seeing more of the same old

material placed in new packaging.



But Assassin's Creed III rewrites the book on lethal killing, with a change in

setting, a bolder storyline and a brand new character for players to root for.



Gone are the buildings and towns of Europe as players are immediately thrust

into the wild, untamed forests of the Civil War era in America.



Instead of being a trained killer, Conner is a rookie - a welcome change for

players clamouring for something different.



With a more complex economy to manage and a new naval battle system, Assassin's

Creed III successfully merges the stylistic action of the old with the massive

environment and gameplay mechanics of the new, and produces a sandbox game that

is right on target.



Reader's choice



Assassin's Creed III: 49.8% of total votes



Other finalists





o Hitman: Absolution

o Sleeping Dogs

o XCom: Enemy Unknown

o Lego Batman 2 DC Super Heroes



BEST ROLE-PLAYING GAME



Editor's choice



Mass Effect 3



To say that Mass Effect 3 provided a satisfying conclusion to the Mass Effect

saga would be slightly incorrect as negative fan reaction to the ending prompted

developer Bioware to tweak the final act.



But the fervent online reaction showed that the conclusion meant a lot to

players and the game baited players with new gameplay elements and multiplayer

features.



In the end, the battle for the Best RPG award was between Diablo III and Mass

Effect 3. Both were influential titles that were long awaited and possessed

great storylines that drew players in.



But when it came down to nailing what constituted role-playing game elements,

Mass Effect 3 won with its complex storyline, highly intricate upgrade path and

a plethora of playing choices.



Reader's choice



Diablo III: 42.8% of total votes



Other finalists





o Final Fantasy XIII-2

o Guild Wars 2

o Torchlight II



BEST RACING/SPORTS



Editor's choice



NBA 2K13



Both Need For Speed: Most Wanted and Forza Horizon are impressive racing games,

but they lacked breakthrough innovation.



Fifa 13 brought players closer to the field, allowing those holding the

controller to better experience team management and manoeuvrability, but NBA

2K13 scored the most goals with the best basketball simulation game ever made.



Whether you are dribbling with the analog stick, picking out each player's

pre-game rituals or signing endorsement deals, NBA 2K13 focuses on every aspect

of the professional sport, short of placing players in the shoes of the

sportsmen.



Reader's choice



Fifa 13: 39.8% of total votes



Other finalists





o Need For Speed: Most Wanted

o Forza Horizon

o F1 2012



SPECIAL AWARD



MOST INNOVATIVE PRODUCT



Editor's choice



TactSlider Tornado



The Xbox Smartglass allows gamers to control elements of their Xbox 360 game

consoles with their phones and tablets, while the Samsung Galaxy Camera features

the Android operating system in a compact camera.



The Lytro camera won folks over by allowing users to take a shot of a scene and

giving them the option of focusing on any part of the scene using software,

eliminating the problem of poor focus controls.



The Wonderbook: Book Of Spells puts augmented reality in a video game to good

use.



But if you have ever tried playing a video game on a smartphone or tablet, then

you know how invaluable the TactSlider Tornado is.



Instead of sliding your fingers across the screen to use the touchscreen D-pad,

the TactSlider is a small, 20 cent coin-sized plastic piece that acts as a D-pad

controller.



Shifting the small knob at the top will trigger the base to control the

touchscreen, giving players more control over the directions in the game.



Many companies have tried to devise something similar, but the TactSlider

Tornado, designed and made in Singapore, is the most elegant version the team

has seen on the market.



Reader's choice



Xbox Smartglass: 31% of total votes



Other finalists





o Samsung Galaxy Camera

o Lytro

o Wonderbook: Book Of Spells



LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





