
ARTICLE: Problems and Solutions to Corporate Blogging: Model Corporate Blogging
Guidelines

NAME: Benjamin Ostrander *

BIO: Copyright (c) 2007 Journal of High Technology Law and Benjamin Ostrander.
All Rights Reserved. ISSN 1536-7983



   * Associate Managing Editor, Journal of High Technology Law. J.D. Candidate,
Suffolk University Law School, 2007.

 LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:
 ... Finally, the Note proposes a model set of blogging guidelines that balance
an employee's free speech and privacy rights with the interests of the blogger's
company.  ... Legal Issues Related to Blogging and Sample Corporate Blogging
Guidelines As blogs have risen in popularity not everyone has appreciated their
content, particularly employers of blogging employees.  ... For a company to
take full advantage of the benefits employee blogs offer and to avoid their
pitfalls, it is necessary for companies to create employee blogging guidelines.
... Another universal provision in blogging guidelines is one to prevent
employees from speaking ill of or libeling fellow employers or supervisors.  ...
Weed.  ... The goal of insert corporate name 's employee blogging guidelines is
to aid employees in blogging responsibly and in a manner that will bring the
maximum benefit to the employee and to insert corporate name .  ... Section 6:
Defamation Employee bloggers should be aware of the inherent public and private
nature of the Internet and of blogs themselves when blogging about insert
company name or any of its employees.  ... While employees may never have
legally protected speech in blogs, corporate blogging guidelines will function
to provide employees with information about how to blog responsibly and advise
them of what they can and cannot do when blogging publicly.

TEXT:
 [*226]  I. Introduction

   The Internet functions as a vehicle for various modes of personal expression.
This includes the creation of personal websites and posting of photographs as
well as emailing and instant messaging. One of the newest and fastest growing
ways of personal expression on the Internet is the blog.  n1 A blog is the
shortened version of the phrase "web log," which started as a sort of online
diary in the early days of the Internet.  n2 Blogs have become a popular medium
for personal expression on the Internet, but they are not without controversy,
especially in the workplace.  n3

    [*227]  In recent years, there has been an uneasy relationship between
employees who have become bloggers and the companies which employ them.  n4
Companies have fired employee bloggers as a result of posting either negative
comments about their employer or confidential information.  n5 For example,
Delta Airlines fired a flight attendant in October 2004 for posting racy
pictures of herself in her uniform on her blog.  n6 Microsoft fired an employee
for taking and publishing pictures of Microsoft receiving Apple Computer's new
G5 computers.  n7 A graphic designer was fired after posting negative entries in
her blog about her workplace and co-workers.  n8

   Employee blogging in the workplace raises several legal issues for both
employers and employees. Namely, blogs could disclose confidential information,
such as trade secrets, could defame the corporate image, or offend or defame
co-workers and trigger employer liability.  n9 Employee bloggers, on the other
hand, believe their blogs are protected by the First Amendment to free speech
rights or through privacy laws.  n10 The balance between the employee's privacy
interests and constitutional rights and the employer's liability concerns shifts
when the employee blogger is an at-will employee who can be fired at any time
for any reason.  n11

   The first part of this Note provides a brief history of an employee's free
speech and privacy rights. This Note also outlines the history of blogging,
discussing the evolution of blogging. Next, this Note examines blogging
guidelines set forth by several different companies. The Note proposes a
hypothetical situation showing how  [*228]  a company might act when confronting
an employee blogger. Finally, the Note proposes a model set of blogging
guidelines that balance an employee's free speech and privacy rights with the
interests of the blogger's company.

II. Employee Free Speech Rights

   Historically, private sector employees do not have any protected rights to
free speech.  n12 In fact, an employer can fire an at will employee for any
reason at all.  n13 On the other hand, public employees have enjoyed First
Amendment free speech protections since the late 1960s.  n14

A. Public Employees

   The Supreme Court has excluded several forms of speech from First Amendment
protection, including obscenity, libel, and slander.  n15 In Pickering v. Board
of Education, a school board fired a public school teacher for publishing a
critical letter in a local newspaper about the school board's allocation of
financial resources between educational and athletic programs.  n16 To decide
Pickering, the Court used a test that balanced the interest of a public school
teacher, as a citizen, to comment on matters of public concern, with those of
the State, as an employer, to promote an efficient operation.  n17 Because
[*229]  employers are concerned with employee statements on sensitive issues
that can disrupt the work atmosphere, the Pickering Test may be applied to
suppress expression that affects the productivity of the workplace.  n18

   Connick v. Myers defined the Pickering Test more completely.  n19 In Connick,
the Court held that the employee's speech must involve "matters of public
concern" to employ the Pickering balancing test.  n20 The Connick Court ruled
that the First Amendment did not protect speech involving a discrete office
problem.  n21 Once a court determines that an employee's speech is about a
matter of public concern, the Pickering Test is applied and when the agency's
operations are affected by an employee's speech they looked to whether the
employee's speech was protected.  n22

   While public employees have few protected speech rights, federal employees
are protected by the Whistleblower Protection Act.  n23 This act protects
federal employees against reprisals for reporting fraud, waste, and abuse.  n24
Employees are protected against certain consequences for reporting the issue to
the appropriate government  [*230]  agency or to her employer.  n25 Many states
have enacted whistleblower protections for employees who report fraud, waste, or
illegality to the proper authority or law enforcement official.  n26

B. Private Employees

   Private employees have no constitutionally protected free speech rights
because they are typically at will employees who may be fired for any reason.
While this may be disheartening to many employees, statutes have been enacted by
some states to protect against employer retaliation for the exercise of First
Amendment rights.  n27 State statutes typically only protect political speech or
comments about public concerns or interests.  n28 Private employees may also
seek protection  [*231]  under whistleblower statutes by asserting a public
policy exception to an employer's ability to fire employees.  n29

   Federal legislation, the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), contains
provisions that protect private employees' speech.  n30 Section seven of the
NLRA protects those employees who engage in "concerted activities . . . for
mutual aid and protection."  n31 On its face, section seven appears to only
apply to those employees engaged in union activity, but in practice it applies
to all private employees who come together and act in concert with each other.
n32 For speech to be protected under the NLRA, it must be connected to a group
action with other workers or involve the preparation of such action.  n33

   Private employees may also protect their speech rights by seeking damages
through the tort of wrongful discharge.  n34 Under this principle, a fired
employee argues she was discharged under circumstances that are contrary to
established public policy.  n35 The potential problem with this cause of action
is that the courts have interpreted it inconsistently.  n36 In fact, for the
employee to be  [*232]  successful in his or her claim it is often necessary to
point to a statute that specifically outlines the public policy that was abused
by the employer.  n37 Often, an employee may not be protected by the tort of
wrongful discharge unless he or she is already protected by a statute.

III. Employee Privacy Rights

   The conflict between employees and employers regarding individual privacy
rights can be better understood by looking at an employee's privacy rights and
the employer's right to monitor employees' business activities for legitimate
business purposes.  n38 Privacy rights are not explicitly protected by the
Constitution.  n39 Private employees have few privacy rights in the workplace
because their employer does not satisfy state action requirements.  n40 The
Fourth Amendment only protects government employees when the employee had a
subjective and objective expectation of privacy.  n41 Additionally, state law is
inconsistent in its protection of employee privacy. Some states have enacted
statutory protections and others have not.  n42 The problem posed with
protecting ideas and opinions  [*233]  expressed via an employee blog is that
most blogs are posted on the Internet, rather than contained in an office
environment protected by federal and state law, and anyone with access to the
Internet can access them.

IV. History of Blogging

   As part of the Internet's evolution, Internet users increasingly have been
contributing to more of the content found on the Internet. Nowhere has this
user-generated content been more prevalent than with blogs. In 1997, an Internet
user named Jorn Barger coined the term "web log" or, in its shortened version,
"blog."  n43 The creator and editor of the content of the weblog is the
"blogger."  n44 Blogs have been found on the Internet since the late 1990s.  n45
They were first used by Internet user groups, such as computer programmers, to
document their thoughts and progress as they worked individually on the same
project.  n46 Early blogs were technology-oriented or simple personal diaries.
n47 As early as 1993, the National Center for Supercomputing Applications
created and updated one of the earliest blogs, which was a little more than a
page consisting entirely of links to other web pages.  n48 The blog was called
the "What's New Page" and documented what was new on the Internet by linking to
new sites.  n49 Early blogs followed this form of link-driven sites, which
pointed users to sites of interests to the blogger and contained commentary
about the links published by the blogger.  n50

   Blogging did not hit its stride until the first blogging software was
released in the summer of 1999.  n51 A company named Pitas created  [*234]  the
software, and a month later, a company named Pyra Labs released "Blogger" (a
program for creating blogs through a web browser).  n52 With the availability of
web-based programs such as Pitas and Blogger, blogging underwent a period of
explosive growth that continues to this day.  n53 After the release of Blogger,
blogging shifted from the link-based form it started as, to a short-form of
casual journalism.  n54 The shift to free-form blogging coupled with the fact
that it became simple enough for any Internet user to blog propelled blogging's
popularity into the 21<st> century.  n55

   While early blogs focused on topics pertinent to early Internet users and
developers, blogs evolved quickly and now discuss anything a blogger wishes,
such as music, politics, sports, or the blogger's other interests.  n56 Many
companies who maintain corporate blogs for customers to read have recognized
that blogging is a potential business tool.  n57

   Blogs have never been more popular. In fact, blogs have become so popular
that Google created a search engine designed specifically to search blogs.  n58
Blogs continue to evolve with technology. For example, blogs are now created to
view and post pictures, images, and even video, and can be updated by email and
mobile phones.  n59 Apple's iPod(R) has spawned a whole new form blogging by
allowing would-be bloggers to create an audio or video blog and allowing users
to download the audio or video to a personal media player such  [*235]  as the
iPod.  n60 With the advent of the video iPod, video blogging is certain to be
just as popular as audio and text versions.  n61

V. Legal Issues Related to Blogging and Sample Corporate Blogging Guidelines

   As blogs have risen in popularity not everyone has appreciated their content,
particularly employers of blogging employees. There are myriad legal issues an
employee blogger could face from his or her employer. For example, an employee
blogger may be sued for defamation if he writes negative or untrue things about
a co-worker or supervisor or may be subject to copyright or trademark
infringement lawsuits for quoting from articles, using someone else's creative
works, or using their employer's brand name or logo.  n62 Employees could
subject themselves to lawsuits or termination for discussing their company's
trade secrets or upcoming product line before it is announced, thereby depriving
their employers of a competitive advantage.  n63

   Employees are not the only parties faced with legal issues as a result of
employee blogs. From an employer's viewpoint, employee blogs may create problems
between the employer and the Securities  [*236]  Exchange Commission (SEC) if a
blog violates the mandated "quiet period" before an initial public offering
(IPO).  n64 Employee blogs may also cause the United States Patent & Trademark
Office to reject a patent application from a company if the blog described a
product in development more than a year before the company applied for a patent
for the product.  n65

   Blogs have become a major part of today's Internet-driven society. As a
result of this growing popularity, companies are more likely to find employee
blogs and discipline employees for blogging about confidential corporate
information or who speak ill of the company or another employee.  n66 In most
states, employees have no protection from disciplinary action, including
termination, if a supervisor reads an employee blog and is offended by its
contents.  n67 Yet, some states provide statutory protection for employee
bloggers.  n68 These protections take the form of statutes limiting the reasons
for which employees may be fired while the employee is "off-duty" and doing
something not in relation to the employment.  n69

   While there are many reasons for employees and employers to be wary of
employee blogs there are also many reasons for each to embrace blogs for their
potential to benefit businesses. Blogs allow current and potential clients to
connect to a company on a deep  [*237]  personal level.  n70 They allow a
company to promote itself in a unique and personal way and market the company in
a manner that allows a customer or client to get a feel for the corporation's
personality.  n71 Blogs benefit companies by making corporate operations more
transparent, allowing for conversation among the corporation and various
constituencies and customers, and by helping the corporation build community and
develop relationships.  n72

   For a company to take full advantage of the benefits employee blogs offer and
to avoid their pitfalls, it is necessary for companies to create employee
blogging guidelines.  n73 Not only will blogging guidelines protect the
corporation's interest but it will also protect the employee blogger who will
know what he can blog about and will fully understand the ramifications of
violating his or her company's blogging policy.  n74 However, only a small
handful of corporations actually have corporate blogging guidelines. It comes as
no surprise that many of the corporations who have already enacted employee
blogging guidelines are companies in the technological sector, notably Yahoo!,
n75 Feedster,  n76 IBM,  n77 and Sun.  n78 Each of these guidelines include
reasons why the policy was instituted and the goals it intend to achieve.  n79
The reasons range from giving blog  [*238]  readers a clear indication that the
blog contains the blogger's own opinions, not those of the company, to
protecting the company's business interest and giving directions how to
effectively blog about an employee's work.  n80

   Effective employee guidelines must cover several different areas. The first
of these is a disclaimer. The disclaimer is commonly used to alert a blog reader
that the opinions contained in the blog belong solely to the blogger, not the
corporation for which he or she works.  n81 The disclaimer typically takes the
form of text in a prominent location on the blog site that states something
equivalent to "The views expressed on this website/weblog are mine alone and do
not necessarily reflect the views of my employer."  n82 This protects the
employer because the employer will not have to worry about blog readers thinking
that the blog content is sanctioned or approved by the corporation. It protects
employees from getting in hot water with their superiors about the content of a
blog being viewed as speaking on behalf of the corporation.  n83

   Another prominent feature of employer blogging guidelines relates to
confidential or proprietary information.  n84 Those companies whose blogging
guidelines include suggestions not to divulge proprietary  [*239]  information
often point to the company's confidentiality policy.  n85 Similarly, the company
advises a potential employee blogger to ask a supervisor or someone in public
relations if the information may be divulged or if it has been released publicly
yet.  n86 The blogging policies discuss the negative impact that releasing such
confidential or proprietary information could have for the company as well as
possible regulatory violations for divulging private information.  n87

   Oftentimes employer blogging guidelines will caution bloggers about using the
corporate logo or trademark.  n88 It is also common for them to advise bloggers
about copyright laws and the ramifications of using someone else's work.  n89
The company may also advise potential employee bloggers about the legal
consequences of blogging (to the blogger and the employer) that are apropos to
the industry in which the employer is involved.  n90

   Another universal provision in blogging guidelines is one to prevent
employees from speaking ill of or libeling fellow employers or supervisors.  n91
Typically, these guidelines advise employee bloggers to be respectful to fellow
employees because the blog is out in the public eye and readily accessible.  n92
They advise employees to think before they blog, to put things in context, and
to make coherent arguments for their ideas, concerns, and criticisms rather than
simply saying something like, "This product sucks."  n93 While blogs may be
posted without the knowledge of employers or fellow employees, it is easy for an
employer or fellow employee to stumble upon them and see what a blogger has said
about the corporation and other employees.  n94

   Corporate blogging guidelines are not burdensome rules designed to prevent
employees from blogging. Rather, they give the potential  [*240]  employee
blogger advice about the possible consequences of blogging about certain
subjects or people. It is also common for the employee blogging guidelines to
contain tips on how employees can become successful bloggers and attract
visitors to their blog.  n95

   While most of the corporate blogging guidelines have been developed by
corporations in the technology sector many companies in other industries are
creating them as well.  n96 Guidelines typically include suggestions for
creating a successful blog and words of caution to the potential blogger.  n97
They contain information about protecting company secrets and use of the
corporate logo or trademark.  n98 Blogging guidelines also commonly advise
bloggers about both the legal and internal consequences of the blogs.  n99 They
advise employee bloggers to use their heads when posting and to be respectful of
fellow employees and the corporation itself.  n100 Those corporations who have
already developed blogging guidelines realize the immense positive potential the
guidelines have and advise employee bloggers how to create a blog that is
beneficial and fun for the employee to make but also helps the employer advance
its goals of creating better relationships with customers and the public.  n101

Corporate Blogging Hypothetical

   Now that the effects of employee blogs on the blogger, the company, and other
employees are known, I will analyze corporate blogging in a realistic,
hypothetical situation. I propose a hypothetical situation and then examine it
from the standpoint of a corporation and an employee of that corporation when
the  [*241]  corporation has employee blogging guidelines and when the
guidelines are absent.

   Say that Mr. X is an at-will employee at the Power Plant, a Delaware
corporation with its principal place of business in Springfield. The corporation
deals in parts and machinery for running power plants across the globe. The
Power Plant is currently at the forefront in development of environment-friendly
power production machinery and demand for its parts and machines is at an all
time high. Mr. X works as a researcher in the high-pressure research and
development department at the Power Plant. He is currently working on a
top-secret project, Project Wow, a zero-emissions non-nuclear power production
machine that will revolutionize the way electricity is created and will end
reliance on fossil fuels. Mr. X has had a blog for the past year and a half in
which he discusses his family, his hobbies, and his work.

   In recent weeks, Mr. X has suffered immense pressure from his supervisors at
work to meet deadlines for Project Wow. He has worked long days and has had
arguments with his supervisors regarding Project Wow deadlines. Mr. X wants to
share his dream of Project Wow with the world but for obvious reasons, The Power
Plant would prefer if he did not so it can realize the profit from its
investment in Project Wow. During this time, Mr. X makes several postings on his
blog regarding Project Wow. First he mentions his supervisor, Mr. Weed, in one
of his postings. Mr. X makes several derogatory comments about Mr. Weed calling
him an "incompetent bastard who cares more about profits than quality and
safety, just like The Power Plant." In subsequent postings, Mr. X says that "Mr.
Weed has demanded that I (Mr. X) work long hours away from my family because Mr.
Weed is a lonely loser who has no family of his own so he wants to make everyone
else around him miserable." In his blog, Mr. X also espouses his communist
political beliefs while discussing his relationship with The Power Plant.

   Mr. X also begins to discuss the finer details of Project Wow on the pages of
his blog. Mr. X informs his readers what Project Wow will do for power
production, a previously unreleased piece of information. He also provides his
readers with some intricate details about the specific pieces of machinery used
in Project Wow and how he developed those pieces. Three days ago, a journalist
from The Quahog Informant discovered Mr. X's blog and wrote an article about it
that was displayed on the front page of the popular newspaper. Consequently, The
Power Plant's board of directors and corporate managers see Mr. X's blog and the
publicity (both positive  [*242]  and negative) it has generated. Now they must
decide what action to take about the recent developments regarding Mr. X's blog.

   If The Power Plant did not have corporate blogging guidelines they will face
some obvious difficulties in this situation.  n102 One of the most obvious
issues confronting The Power Plant is that some very valuable corporate
information about Project Wow was divulged to the public and The Power Plant's
competitors.  n103 Mr. X's blog and the subsequent popularity surrounding it
have brought attention to Project Wow and The Power Plant's competitors now have
free access to that information. The blog posting may prevent The Power Plant
from recouping the expenses it has spent on research and development if its
rivals are able to create the same technology Mr. X has designed.  n104

   Another problem The Power Plant faces is having its name tarnished and public
opinion turn against it because of Mr. X's communist ranting.  n105 Mr. X's blog
strictly stated that he was employed by The Power Plant and he freely shared his
controversial communist opinions with those who read his blog. To those who read
the blog, Mr. X could be mistaken as a spokesperson for The Power Plant and his
communist statements may be viewed as the official corporate policy of The Power
Plant.  n106 As a result, The Power Plant could face severe public outrage about
the postings on Mr. X's blog and any public statement it makes regarding the
blog may be too little, too late.  n107

   As a result of his comments about his supervisor, Mr. Weed, Mr. X has also
opened himself up to a possible defamation suit.  n108 When he called Mr. Weed
an incompetent, miserable, lonely loser, Mr. X may have defamed Mr. Weed. Mr.
Weed may also have a claim against The Power Plant because Mr. X's blog could be
viewed as sanctioned by and speaking on behalf of The Power Plant. Furthermore,
The Power Plant could bring a defamation suit against Mr. Weed for  [*243]
saying that the company cares more about profits than quality and safety.

   If Mr. X had been working on his blog while at work, he may have been
violating The Power Plant's guidelines for using corporate computers while at
work. Furthermore, The Power Plant would have been paying Mr. X for
non-work-related activity and lost money based on lost productivity.

   If The Power Plant had corporate blogging guidelines, much of the troubles it
is facing could have been avoided, minimized, or even positively capitalized
upon. For example, if The Power Plant had a provision in its employee handbook
regarding employee blogging that required employees who choose to blog to place
a disclaimer in an obvious location on the blog website stating that the
opinions and statements contained in the blog are those of the employee, not The
Power Plant, The Power Plant would be spared at least some negative publicity
from Mr. X's pro-communist comments.  n109 The blogging guidelines put Mr. X on
notice that the violation of the guidelines would result in his termination.

   The defamation issues could have been dealt with in an equally simple manner
in the employee handbook. If The Power Plant had also inserted a statement
warning employees from discussing other employees or supervisors in any sort of
negative light because it is likely that either the employee or a supervisor
will see the statement because it is in such a public place, Mr. X would not
have posted the comment or, at the very least, would know the consequences if it
was seen.  n110 By putting Mr. X on notice of what could happen if his blog is
read, The Power Plant would have provided a powerful deterrent to Mr. X,
preventing him from posting his private thoughts or feelings about his
co-workers and supervisors on such a public space.  n111

   If the Power Plant had created corporate blogging guidelines for its
employees, the trade secrets issue also could have been avoided.  n112 The Power
Plant merely had to remind its employees that its policy governing corporate
secrets applied to corporate blogs, just as it does to sharing trade secrets
with anyone outside the company in any other form.  n113 Again, by placing its
employees on notice about what ramifications their blogging may carry, The Power
Plant could prevent its trade secrets from being divulged.  n114 If The Power
Plant  [*244]  had corporate blogging guidelines governing this sort of
circumstance, it is unlikely that Mr. X would have found it necessary to violate
the company's blogging guidelines.  n115 Without the corporate blogging
guidelines, The Power Plant's only recourse is likely filing suit against Mr.
Weed.

   An important thing to realize about The Power Plant's actions is that it is
possible much good could come from a Power Plant-sanctioned employee blog
written by Mr. X.  n116 By actively promoting employee blogs, The Power Plant
would engender good will from its employees that could go a long way to the
employees blogging favorably about the company.  n117 If an employee violates
the blogging guidelines, The Power Plant still reserves the right to fire the
employee. However, the goal of corporate blogging guidelines is to guide the
employee while he or she blogs so that firing an employee for blogging is the
final and least desirable solution.

VII: Model Corporate Blogging Guidelines

   When a company is creating its own corporate blogging guidelines there are
several provisions that should be included.  n118 While different guidelines may
be appropriate for certain industries they may not be important for others.
However, there are a number of standard guidelines that any company creating
corporate guidelines should keep in mind.  n119 This section will attempt to
provide a model for corporate blogging guidelines.

Section One: Definitions

   Web log, Blog, Blogger, Blogging:

   Web log or Blog: For the purposes of these guidelines, the terms "Web log" or
"Blog" shall mean any website, journal, diary, or other online chronology of
thoughts, ideas, or personal commentary kept by an employee in a personal or
professional capacity.  n120

    [*245]  Blogger: The term Blogger shall apply to any employee who creates,
edits, or otherwise contributes to the content of any blog.  n121

   Blogging: The term Blogging means "to blog" or to create, edit, or other
contribute to the content of any blog.  n122

   Statement: A Statement may encompass anything from writing, links, pictures,
drawings, etc. that appears on a blog as defined above.  n123

Section Two: Guidelines are to Promote Employee Blogging.

   The employee blogging guidelines are designed to promote employee blogging.
n124 No aspect of these guidelines is to be construed as stifling employee
speech or creativity. The goal of [insert corporate name]'s employee blogging
guidelines is to aid employees in blogging responsibly and in a manner that will
bring the maximum benefit to the employee and to [insert corporate name].  n125
[Insert corporate name] would like to remind employees of the public nature of
the Internet and that employee blogs can be accessed by anyone in the world.
n126 Blogging can expose the employee blogger and [insert corporate name] to
serious legal liability if the blog is used inappropriately or if its content or
statements are made in an inappropriate manner.  n127 [Insert corporate name]
wants its employees to know that it views employee blogs as way to benefit not
only the employee, but also [insert corporate name] and requests that the
employee blog responsibly when identifying himself or herself as an employee of
[insert corporate name].  n128

Section Three: Disclaimer

   Any employee who chooses to blog whether anonymously or by using his or her
real name and who identifies himself or herself as an employee of [insert
corporate name] should place a disclaimer in a  [*246]  highly-visible area of
the blog's site stating that the opinions, comments, and views contained in the
blog are those of the individual blogger alone and not those of [insert
corporate name].  n129 [Insert corporate name] suggests employee bloggers use a
disclaimer along the lines of "The views expressed on this website/weblog are
mine alone and do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer."  n130

   Furthermore, use of [insert corporate name]'s logo and registered trademarks
by employee bloggers is prohibited.  n131 Unauthorized use of the logo and
trademarks violates copyright and trademark law.  n132 However, if the blog is
one that is run by the company or if the employee blogger has express
permission, the use of [insert corporate name]'s logos or trademarks is
authorized and encouraged.

Section Four: Protection of Confidential or Proprietary Information and Trade
Secrets.

   An employee blog should not contain any statement regarding [insert corporate
name] trade secrets or other confidential or proprietary information.  n133 Just
as employees are not allowed to discuss private corporate information or trade
secrets with other people in person they may not do so through a blog.  n134 If
employee bloggers have any questions regarding this policy, they may refer to
the [insert corporate name] policy governing the protection of proprietary
information.  n135 If an employee blogger is unsure whether a statement or other
piece of information may be posted on his blog because it is proprietary or a
trade secret, he should ask a supervisor if the information is protected or if
it may be shared.  n136 If an employee is uncertain whether a piece of
information has been made public yet, he should also contact the public
relations department to determine if the information had been released.  n137
[Insert corporate name] is aware of the time-sensitive nature of blogs and,
therefore, has instituted a procedure in which an employee blogger can make a
request to his or her supervisor or the public relations department and will
receive an answer about whether the information may or may not be posted by the
end of the workday. This answer will also include  [*247]  specific reasons why
a statement may not be posted or why parts of it would be inappropriate to post.
n138

Section Five: Copyright Infringement

   The Internet makes it very easy for users to share content between people.
When blogging, it is easy to accidentally copy and paste text or pictures from
another site or another blog into the blog itself. Mistakenly copying text or
pictures without proper attribution or in too great detail may open an employee
blogger to a copyright infringement lawsuit.  n139 To avoid this sort of
trouble, employee bloggers are advised to place links within the blog to the
content which the blog refers to rather than copying the content itself.  n140

   Publications, including internal publications or products, produced by
[insert company name] are also protected by copyright law. Before an employee
blogger posts content contained in company publications or work product he or
she is advised to discuss it with a supervisor first.

Section 6: Defamation

   Employee bloggers should be aware of the inherent public and private nature
of the Internet and of blogs themselves when blogging about [insert company
name] or any of its employees.  n141 It is important for an employee blogger to
be respectful of his or her co-workers and supervisors when blogging.  n142
Being disrespectful of fellow employees may open employee bloggers to defamation
law suits and much unwanted publicity.  n143 It is also possible that comments
made on a blog could open the employee to sanctions through [insert company
name]. Rather than simply saying that he or she does not like something it is
advised that employees come up with and share coherent arguments based on fact
which explain the employee's position.  n144 While [insert company name] or
fellow employees may never see an employee blog, it is easy to stumble upon a
blog and any defamatory statements contained in it.  n145

    [*248]  Conclusion

   Corporate blogging is a hot-button issue in today's society. While blogging
began by simply adding text and links to website, it has quickly evolved to
photo blogs and audio and video podcasting. There are many problems that are
created by employee blogs and the lack of corporate guidelines to govern them.
While not creating a legally-protected right to an employees free speech in
blogging corporate blogging guidelines will protect their interests and the
interests of the corporation. It will also advise employees of what they can and
cannot blog about, cutting down confusion and harm between the employee and the
employer. It is also important to be mindful that employee blogs may be of great
benefit to employers by allowing customers or clients to connect to the
corporation or as a way of announcing minor news from the corporation. While
employees may never have legally protected speech in blogs, corporate blogging
guidelines will function to provide employees with information about how to blog
responsibly and advise them of what they can and cannot do when blogging
publicly.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Labor & Employment LawEmployee PrivacyConstitutional ProtectionsLabor &
Employment LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment at WillDuration of
EmploymentLabor & Employment LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment at WillPublic
Employees

FOOTNOTES:





n1  Terri Gregory et al., We Blog: Publishing Online with Weblogs, 51 TECH.
COMM. 129 (2004) (book review) (weblogs were created in the late 1990s by
computer programmers to document their thoughts on projects and have since been
used by the general public to share ideas and elicit feedback); Leander Kahney,
The Web the Way it Was, WIRED, Feb. 23, 2000, available at
http://www.wired.com/news/culture/0,1284,34006,00.html (blogging is undergoing a
surge in popularity and growing at an unprecedented rate).





n2  Jason Boog, Employment Lawyers Finding Bloggers Mean Business, LEGAL TIMES,
April 11, 2005, at 23; Greg R. Notess, The Blog Realm: News Sources, Searching
with Daypop, and Content Management, 26 ON THE NET 5, 70 (2002).





n3  Ken Schacter, Commentary, Blogs: New possibilities, both good and bad for
business, DAILY RECORD & THE DAILY NEWS PRESS, Dec. 31, 2004 (describing
instances where employees were fired because of the content of their blog
including a flight attendant who posted racy pictures of herself in her Delta
uniform and an employee at Friendster who described the company's efforts to
improve the website's unacceptably slow performance).





n4  See id.





n5  Stephanie Armour, Warning: Your clever little blog could get you fired, USA
TODAY, June 15, 2005 at 1B (explaining how workers have been fired from their
jobs for blogging and giving examples of companies with employee blogging
guidelines); Becky Bowers & Adrian Phillips, Guide to the Blogosphere, ST.
PETERSBURG TIMES, Sept. 5, 2005, at 6D (explaining that bloggers fired for their
blog postings have been "dooced" by employers and describing situation of
blogger fired from a web designer job for controversial postings about her work
and co-workers); Michael Seamark & Peter Allen, An Intimiate Internet Diary and
the Sacking of the Secretary Who Calls Herself La Petite Anglaise, LONDON DAILY
MAIL, July 19, 2006 (secretary fired because her employer believed her blog
brought the company into disrepute).





n6  Schacter, supra note 3.





n7  Schacter, supra note 3.





n8  Bowers, supra note 5, at 6D.





n9  Boog, supra note 2, at 23.





n10  Boog, supra note 2, at 23 (employee bloggers wrongly believe in Internet
anonymity and that their comments should be viewed similarly to those made
"around the water cooler").





n11  Boog, supra note 2, at 23 (at-will employees have no rights and may be
fired at any time for any reason, even an arbitrary one).





n12  Cynthia L. Estlund, Free Speech and Due Process in the Workplace, 71 IND.
L.J. 101, 116 (private sector employees have no constitutional free speech
rights against their employer's decision to fire them).





n13  Payne v. Western & Atlantic R.R., 81 Tenn. 507 (1884) (creating the
employment at-will doctrine); Boog, supra note 2, at 23; Estlund, supra note 12,
at 116 (private employers may fire at-will employees for any reason but this
practice has received criticism, giving private employees some protected speech
rights).





n14  See Pickering v. Bd. of Educ., 391 U.S. 563 (1968). In Pickering, a school
board fired a public school teacher for writing and sending a letter to a local
newspaper that was critical of the way the school board handled past proposals
to raise revenue for schools.  Id. at 564. The Supreme Court held that without
proof of false statements knowingly or recklessly made by the teacher, the
exercise of the teacher's right to speak on issues of public interest is
protected and the teacher was improperly dismissed.  Id. at 574-75. See also
Estlund, supra note 12, at 116 (public employees' free speech rights are
protected by the First Amendment).





n15  Connick v. Myers, 461 U.S. 138, 147 (1983) (obscenity and libel are
unprotected speech because they have little value to society).





n16  Pickering, 391 U.S. at 566. The teacher's letter attacked the school
board's handling of a 1961 bond issue proposal and its later allocation of money
between educational and athletic programs. Id. It also criticized the school
board for attempting to prevent teachers from opposing or criticizing the
proposed bond issue. Id.





n17  Pickering, 391 U.S. at 568-69. The test balances the school board's
interests in their employees' duty of loyalty to their superiors generally
accepted goals of education with the teachers' desire to speak in public.  Id.
at 568. The school board argued that if the teacher must speak out publicly he
or she must do so factually and accurately. Id. The teachers argued that the
test which applies to defamatory statements directed against public officials by
those without an occupational relationship with the official ought to apply.
Id. at 569.





n18  Brown v. Dep't of Transp., 735 F.2d 543, 545, 548 (D.C. Cir. 1984)
(upholding dismissal of air traffic controller for speaking to the media and
encouraging strikers to stay the course during the Professional Air Traffic
Controller's Organization strike due to the statement's potential to cause
controversy); Terry Ann Halbert, The First Amendment in the Workplace: An
Analysis and Call for Reform, 17 SETON HALL L. REV. 42, 52 (1987) (asserting
that only relatively innocuous statements will be afforded protection under
Pickering).





n19  See Connick, 461 U.S. 138. A Louisiana district attorney fired an assistant
district attorney for handing out a questionnaire to the office about office
policies.  Id. at 146-147. The Court held that speech was only protected if it
related to a matter of public concern.  Id. at 146.





n20  Id. at 146-147 (matters of public concern include political, social, or
other community concerns but not private intra-office matters). See also Givhan
v. Western Line Consol. Sch. Dist., 439 U.S. 410 (1979) (holding First Amendment
protections apply when public employees arrange private meetings to communicate
grievances but not if they air their views publicly).





n21  Connick, 461 U.S. at 148-49. In Connick, the plaintiff circulated a
questionnaire about internal office policies such as transfer policies and
office morale.  Id. at 141. The questionnaire also discussed whether employees
felt pressure to work on certain political campaigns, an issue the Court
determined to be tinged with enough public interest to be of public concern and,
therefore, protected.  Id. at 149.





n22  Estlund, supra note 12, at 115.





n23  Whistleblower Protection Act, 5 U.S.C. § 2302 (2006).





n24  Id.





n25  5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8). The relevant portion of The Whistleblower Protection
Act states that employees are protected from employers who:


     [T]ake or fail to take, or threaten to take or fail to take, a
     personnel action with respect to any employee or applicant for
     employment because of-- (A) any disclosure of information by an
     employee or applicant which the employee or applicant reasonably
     believes evidences-- (i) a violation of any law, rule, or regulation,
     or (ii) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of
     authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or
     safety, if such disclosure is not specifically prohibited by law and
     if such information is not specifically required by Executive order to
     be kept secret in the interest of national defense or the conduct of
     foreign affairs; or (B) any disclosure to the Special Counsel, or to
     the Inspector General of an agency or another employee designated by
     the head of the agency to receive such disclosures, of information
     which the employee or applicant reasonably believes evidences-- (i) a
     violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or (ii) gross
     mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a
     substantial and specific danger to public health or safety.







n26  Estlund, supra note 12, at 116 (explaining that an amalgam of state,
federal, and common law doctrines protect certain types of employee speech from
retaliation by employers). See also ARIZ. REV. STAT. § 38-531 (2006); IOWA CODE
§ 70A.28 (2006); N.Y. LABOR LAW § 740 (McKinney 2006); TEX. GOV'T CODE ANN. §
554.001 (Vernon 2006).





n27  See KY. CONST. § 8; OHIO CONST. ART. 1, § 11; MASS. CONST. PT. 1, ART. 16;
CONN. GEN. STAT. ANN. §§ 31-51q (West through 2006 legislation). See also Lewis
v. City of Boston, 321 F.3d 207 (1st Cir. 2003) (stating that proving
retaliation for exercising First Amendment rights, requires that (1) his
expression involve matters of public concern, (2) his interest in commenting on
matters outweighs the city's interests in efficient performance of its public
services, and (3) his protected speech be substantial or motivating factor in
the employer's adverse employment actions); Zilich v. Longo, 34 F.3d 359 (6th
Cir. 1994) (stating retaliation by public officials for exercising First
Amendment rights is a violation of First Amendment); Estlund, supra note 12, at
116; Andrea Obston, Free Speech Has Limits in the Workplace, ALA News, Oct./Nov.
2000, at 20.





n28  Obston, supra note 27, at 20.





n29  See, e.g. Adler v. Am. Standard Corp., 538 F. Supp. 572 (D. Md. 1982)
(employee who threatened to reveal antitrust violations had cause of action when
he was discharged for doing so); Palmeeter v. Int'l Harvester Co., 421 N.E.2d
876 (Ill. 1978) (fired employee had cause of action when employee provided
information for police investigating co-worker's criminal actions); Palmer v.
Brown, 752 P.2d 685 (Kan. 1988) (employee had cause of action when discharged
for refusing to promise not to report superior's fraudulent Medicaid billing
practices).





n30  National Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. §§ 151-69. The Act states in
pertinent part: "[e]mployees shall have the right to self-organization, to form,
join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in other concerted
activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid and
protection." 29 U.S.C. § 157. In fact, the term "concerted activity" includes
speech intended to improve the circumstances of a group of employees, not just
an entire employee population. Halbert, supra note 18, at 53 n. 74.





n31  29 U.S.C. § 157.





n32  See N.L.R.B. v. Wash. Aluminum Co., 370 U.S. 9 (1962) (discharge of seven
non-union workers who walked off job to protest extremely cold workplace
temperatures violated § 7 of the NLRA).





n33  See N.L.R.B. v. Mount Desert Island Hosp., 695 F.2d 634 (1st Cir. 1982)
(concerted action occurred when several employees met to discuss concerns about
work and management was aware of these concerns); Mushroom Transp. Co. v.
N.L.R.B., 330 F.2d 683 (3d Cir. 1964) (discharge of an employee who informed
other employees of their rights under a bargaining agreement was allowed because
it was not concerted action).





n34  See, e.g., Petermann v. Local 396, Int'l Bhd. of Teamsters, 344 P.2d 25
(Cal. Dist. Ct. App. 1959); Harless v. First Nat'l Bank, 246 S.E.2d 270 (W. Va.
1978); Halbert, supra note 18, at 55 n. 95 (citing Kelsay v. Motorola, Inc., 384
N.E.2d 353 (Ill. 1978)).





n35  Halbert, supra note 18, at 55.





n36  Note, Protecting Employees at-will Against Wrongful Discharge: The Public
Policy Exception, 96 HARV. L. REV. 1931, 1949 (1983). Compare O'Sullivan v.
Mallon, 160 N.J. Super. 416, 390 A.2d 149 (Law Div. 1978) (x-ray technician who
was fired for refusing to perform certain medical procedures for which she was
not licensed had a public policy cause of action), with Lampe v. Presbyterian
Medical Center, 41 Colo. App. 465, 590 P.2d 513 (1978) (head nurse who was fired
for refusing to reduce staff in her intensive-care unit to a level that would be
dangerous to patients had no public policy cause of action).





n37  Halbert, supra note 18, at 56.





n38  Webster v. Motorola, Inc., 637 N.E.2d 203 (Mass. 1994); Folmsbee v. Tech
Tool Grinding & Supply, Inc., 630 N.E.2d 586, 589 (Mass. 1994); Bratt v. Int'l
Bus. Mach. Corp., 467 N.E.2d 126 (Mass. 1984); C. Forbes Sargent, III,
Electronic Media and the Workplace: Confidentiality, Privacy, and Other Issues,
BOSTON BAR J., May/June 1997, at 6 (citing Cort v. Bristol-Myers Co., 431 N.E.2d
908 (Mass. 1982)).





n39  Michael L. Rustad & Sandra R. Paulsson, Article, Monitoring Employee Email
and Internet Usage: Avoiding the Omniscient Electronic Sweatshop: Insights From
Europe, 7 U. PA. J. LAB. & EMP. L. 829, 839 n. 38 (2005) (citing MADELEINE
SCHACHTER, INTERNATIONAL AND DECISIONAL PRIVACY 8 (2003) ("Constitutional
privacy law has evolved largely from textual and inferential construction of the
Bill of Rights; in particular, the First, Fourth, Fifth, and Ninth Amendments,
as well as the Fourteenth Amendment.")).





n40  John Araneo, Note, Pandora's (E-mail) Box: E-mail Monitoring in the
Workplace, 14 HOFSTRA L. J. 339 (1996) (exploring the lack of constitutional
protection for individual privacy); Rustad & Paulsson, supra note 39, at 840.





n41  U.S. CONST. AMEND. IV. See Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 361 (1967)
(explaining that the Fourth Amendment protects privacy only when there is a
reasonable subjective and objective expectation of privacy); Rustad & Paulsson,
supra note 39, at 841.





n42  Rustad & Paulsson, supra note 39, at 842-43 (exploring variations in
statutory protections in Alaska, Delaware, New York, and California).





n43  Gregory et al., supra note 1; Kahney, supra note 1 (defining "blog" as a
"regularly updated list of links and commentary on interesting material on the
web" and "weblogging" as a form of Internet publishing); Gail Philbin, Welcome
to their Worlds: Female bloggers build strong presence on the Internet, CHI.
TRIB., July 30, 2003; Craig Taylor, Hello World, The Guardian (London), Feb 22,
2003, available at http://www.guardian.co.uk (discussing how the term blog was
created); Rebecca Blood, Weblogs: A History and Perspective,
http://www.rebeccablood.net/essays/weblog_history.html#content (last visited
Apr. 27, 2007) (explaining the creation of the blog).





n44  Blood, supra note 43 (explaining creation of the blog).





n45  Gregory, supra note 43.





n46  Gregory, supra note 43.





n47  Peter Scher, Blogs Become an Internet Phenomenon, 2 E-COMMERCE L. &
STRATEGY 5, June 2002.





n48  Taylor, supra note 43, at 38.





n49  Taylor, supra note 43, at 38.





n50  Blood, supra note 43.





n51  Taylor, supra note 43, at 38; Blood, supra note 43 (explaining creation of
the blog).





n52  Taylor, supra note 43, at 38.





n53  Kahney, supra note 43 (stating that as of Mar. 9, 2006,
http://www.technorati.com listed 30.1 million blogs on Internet).





n54  Blood, supra note 43 (explaining that with the release of Blogger, blogging
began to take the form of short journal entries about the author's life, ideas,
or opinions rather than lists of links to interesting places on the Internet).





n55  Blood, supra note 43 (explaining how blogging became more popular once
bloggers could put any content on their blogs rather than the traditional
Internet link with short commentary).





n56  Chris Vognar, Rhythm and Blogs: Music Lovers Set Up Sites with Facts,
History and -- Yes -- MP3s, DALLAS MORNING NEWS, Jan. 2, 2005, at 1G; Blood,
supra note 43 (explaining that blogging helps the blogger ascertain her own
interests and that the medium allows the blogger to create a blog about those
interests and share it with anyone on the Internet).





n57  Gregory, supra note 43, at 129; Scher, supra note 47, at 5 (discussing
Macromedia's corporate blog).





n58  Google Blog Search, http://blogsearch.google.com/ (last visited Apr. 28,
2007).





n59  Ken Young, Join the Blogosphere, AUSTRALIAN PC WORLD, Apr. 1, 2004, at 58.





n60  Id.





n61  Tom Heinen, Video Blogs Gaining in Popularity Among the Faithful, MILWAUKEE
J. SENTINEL, Aug. 24, 2005, at A1, available at
http://www.southend.wayne.edu/modules/news/article.php?storyid=1606.





n62  See Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U.S. 323 (1974) (actual malice not
necessary for defamation of private person if negligence is present); New York
Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U.S. 254 (1964) (stating that actual malice needed to
prove defamation against a public figure); RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF TORTS § 559
(1977) (defining "defamation" as a statement that "tends so to harm the
reputation of another as to lower him in the estimation of the community or to
deter third persons from associating or dealing with him"); Mark Brunswick &
Dane Smith, Facing Suit, Anonymous Blogger Lifts His Mask, STAR TRIBUNE
(Minneapolis), Jan. 5, 2006, at 1B (describing lawsuit against blogger for
defamation), available at http://www.startribune.com/587/story/163827.html. See
also Playboy Enterprises, Inc. v. Netscape Comm. Corp., 354 F.3d 1020, 1026 (9th
Cir. 2004) (listing the eight elements to prove interest confusion in trademark
cases); Electronic Frontier Foundation, Blogger's FAQ -- Overview of Legal
Liability Issues, http://www.eff.org/bloggers/lg/faq-overview.php (last visited
Apr. 27, 2007). See generally U.S. CONST. art. I, § 8, cl. 8 (providing Congress
with the power "To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing
for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their
respective Writings and Discoveries"); 17 U.S.C. § 106 (defining the exclusive
rights of copyright holders).





n63  See supra note 62 and accompanying text; Chilling Effects Clearinghouse,
Frequently Asked Questions (and Answers) about Trade Secret,
http://www.chillingeffects.org/tradesecret/faq.cgi (explaining what trade
secrets are, how they may be protected, and what the effects of sharing a trade
secret are) (last visited Apr. 17, 2007).





n64  See Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. § 77e (outlawing the use of any
medium to issue an offer to buy or sell securities unless a registration
statement is in effect for that security); U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Quiet Period, http://www.sec.gov/answers/quiet.htm (last visited
April 29, 2007) (explaining what the "quiet period" is and what type of
information can be released to the public during the period); Posting of Jon
Gavenman to The Mobility Public Relations Blog,
http://www.mobilitypr.com/blog/2007/04/09/sme-sec-publicity-regulations/ (Apr.
9, 2007, 9:35 EST) (describing the "quiet period," hyping the market, and
actions the Securities Act of 1933 prohibits before an IPO). See generally
Raymond Hennessey & Phyllis Plitch, IPO Outlook: SEC's New Rules on 'Quiet
Period' Create Debate -- In Theory, Plan Broadens IPO Process; In Practice, It
Could Be More of Same, WALL ST. J., Dec. 27, 2004, at C3.





n65  See 35 U.S.C. § 102(b).





n66  Alorie Gilbert, FAQ: Blogging on the Job, CNET NEWS, Mar. 8, 2005,
http://news.com.com/2102-1030_3-5597010.html.





n67  Krysten Crawford, Have a Blog, Lose your Job?, CNN/MONEY, Feb. 15, 2005,
http://money.cnn.com/2005/02/14/news/economy/blogging/; Gilbert, supra note 66.





n68  Id. See, e.g., CAL. LAB. CODE § 1101 (West 2007) (protecting employees from
workplace retaliation for political activities); COLO. REV. STAT. § 24-34-402.5
(2006) (it is a discriminatory or unfair employment practice for an employer to
terminate an employee for engaging in any lawful activity outside of work); N.Y.
LAB. LAW § 201 (McKinney 2006) (protecting employees from discrimination because
of legal recreational activities the employee engages in); Employee Privacy
Protection Act, S.B. 381, 2005 Leg. (Mich. 2005).





n69  See supra note 68.





n70  David J. Bilinsky, Legal Business on Marketing: The "Earth-Shattering"
Benefits of Blogs, LAWYERS WEEKLY, Mar. 25, 2005; Ken Schacter, Blogs: New
Possibilities, Both Good & Bad for Businesses, KANSAS CITY DAILY RECORD, Dec.
31, 2004.





n71  See supra note 70.





n72  Wayne Hurlbert, Corporate Blogging Guidelines, WEBPRONEWS, Mar. 24, 2005,
http://www.webpronews.com/news/ebusinessnews/wpn-45-20050324CorporateBloggingGui
delines.html.





n73  David C. Henderson & Matthew Feiner, Commentary, The Internet Lawyer --
Policies Guiding Employee 'Bloggers' a Must, THE DAILY RECORD (Baltimore), Aug.
1, 2005 (corporate blogging guidelines should include sections discussing
disclaimers, protection of proprietary or confidential information, defamation,
copyright infringement, and other legal ramifications of blogging).





n74  Id.





n75  Yahoo!, Yahoo! Personal Blog Guidelines: 1.0, available at
http://Jeremy.zawodny.com/yahoo/yahoo-blog-guidelines.pdf [hereinafter Yahoo!
Guidelines].





n76  Feedster, Corporate Blogging Policy,
http://feedster.blogs.com/corporate/2005/03/corporate_blogg.html (last visited
Apr. 28, 2007) [hereinafter Feedster Guidelines].





n77  IBM, Blogging Guidelines, http://www.ibm.com/blogs/zz/en/guidelines.html
(last visited Mar. 5. 2007) [hereinafter IBM Guidelines].





n78  Sun Microsystems, Sun News -- Sun Blogs,
http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/media/blogs/policy.html (last visited Mar. 5, 2007)
[hereinafter Sun Guidelines].





n79  See Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76 (stating that blogs are a medium of
self-expression and that employees should inform readers the blog is a personal,
not corporate-sanctioned blog); IBM Guidelines, supra note 77 (stating that the
employee blogging guidelines were created to help IBM, its clients, and
constituents learn about IBM's business and social ecosystem and to help IBM and
IBM employees contribute and share what they are doing and learning with the
world); Sun Guidelines, supra note 78 (employee blogs are encouraged as a way
for Sun employees to tell the world about their work); Yahoo! Guidelines, supra
note 75 (employee blogging is an important aspect of shared media and a way of
fostering a thriving online community).





n80  See supra note 79 and accompanying text.





n81  See Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76 (informing employees to prominently
display a disclaimer informing readers that the blog contains the employee's
ideas and beliefs and not Feedster's); IBM Guidelines, supra note 77 (explaining
to employee bloggers that it is important to make it clear that the blog is a
representation of the employee's views and not necessarily those of IBM).





n82  See supra note 81 and accompanying text.





n83  Henderson & Feiner, supra note 73.





n84  Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76 (advising employees to be careful about
divulging confidential company information and to consult Feedster's
confidentiality policy for guidance about what may and may not be disclosed);
Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75 (all information in a blog about Yahoo! is
subject to the Proprietary Information Agreement each employee signs and
advising employees of consequences Yahoo! may suffer if such information is
divulged); IBM Guidelines, supra note 77 (informing IBM employees not to
disclose or use IBM confidential information and to ask permission before
posting someone's photograph or conversation that was meant to be private and
advising employees to consult IBM's Business Conduct Guidelines); Sun
Guidelines, supra note 78 (advising employees that it is okay to have a dialog
and talk about work but that it is not okay to divulge secrets and if there is a
question about whether a piece of information may be posted to ask a
supervisor).





n85  See supra note 84 and accompanying text.





n86  See IBM Guidelines, supra note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78.





n87  See IBM Guidelines, supra note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78.





n88  See supra note 63 and accompanying text; Feedster Guidelines, supra note
76; IBM Guidelines, supra note 77; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n89  See IBM Guidelines, supra note 77 (advising employee bloggers not to quote
articles at length but to link to information).





n90  See Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n91  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n92  See supra note 91 and accompanying text.





n93  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78 (suggesting locations for blogs to be
created and ways to maintain and increase blog readership); Yahoo! Guidelines,
supra note 75.





n94  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n95  IBM Guidelines, supra note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78 (providing
employees with tips on how to start a blog, websites which provide blogging
software and hosting, and tips for blogging so visitors return to the blog);
Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n96  See NewPR Wiki, NewPR Wiki - Resources.BloggingPolicy,
http://www.thenewpr.com/wiki/pmwiki.php?pagename=Resources.BloggingPolicy (last
visited Apr. 28, 2007) (providing a listing of companies that have developed
blogging guidelines and links to those guidelines).





n97  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n98  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n99  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n100  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n101  See generally Feedster Guidelines, supra note 76; IBM Guidelines, supra
note 77; Sun Guidelines, supra note 78; Yahoo! Guidelines, supra note 75.





n102  The difficulties faced by the Power Plant because of its lack of blogging
guidelines include readers of the blog believing Mr. X speaks for the
corporation, the release of confidential or proprietary information, copyright
infringement issues, and defamation. See sources cited supra notes 77, 79, 81,
86.





n103  See Henderson & Feiner, supra note73 (and accompanying text).





n104  See Henderson & Feiner, supra note 73 (and accompanying text). The Power
Plant's foreign patent rights have likely been lost by the posting. At the very
minimum, the Power Plant will have one year from the date of the posting to file
a patent application in the United States. See 35 U.S.C. § 102(b).





n105  See supra note 80 (and accompanying text).





n106  See supra notes 80-82.





n107  See supra note 81.





n108  See supra notes 62 and 91.





n109  See supra notes 79and 81.





n110  See supra notes 90-93.





n111  See supra note 93.





n112  See supra note 81.





n113  See supra note 84.





n114  See supra note 84.





n115  See supra notes 83-84.





n116  See supra notes 70 and 72.





n117  See supra notes 70 and 72.





n118  See supra note 73.





n119  See supra notes 73, 75, 79, 87, 96, and 98.





n120  See supra note 43.





n121  See supra note 43.





n122  See supra note 43.





n123  See supra notes 3 (and accompanying text for examples of instances when
pictures and words have caused trouble for employee bloggers).





n124  See supra notes 70-73.





n125  See supra note 97.





n126  See supra note 91.





n127  See supra notes 62-65.





n128  See supra notes 99-100.





n129  See supra note 79.





n130  See supra note 81.





n131  See supra note 87.





n132  See supra note 88.





n133  See supra note 83.





n134  See supra note 84.





n135  See supra note 84.





n136  See supra note 84.





n137  See supra note 84.





n138  See supra note 84.





n139  See supra note 88.





n140  See supra note 88.





n141  See supra note 91.





n142  See supra note 91.





n143  See supra note 91.





n144  See supra note 91.





n145  See supra note 93.


