                              789 of 820 DOCUMENTS



             Copyright (c) 2010 Marquette Intellectual Property Law

                                     Review

                   Marquette Intellectual Property Law Review



                                  Summer, 2010



                   Marquette Intellectual Property Law Review



                       14 Marq. Intell. Prop. L. Rev. 237



LENGTH: 11553 words



HONORABLE HELEN WILSON NIES MEMORIAL LECTURE: THE THIRTEENTH ANNUAL HONORABLE

HELEN WILSON NIES MEMORIAL LECTURE IN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW+: INNOVATION AND

RECOVERY



+ Audio of the Thirteenth Annual Honorable Helen Wilson Nies Memorial Lecture in

Intellectual Property Law, delivered at Marquette University Law School on

October 21, 2009, is available at

http://law.marquette.edu/cgi-bin/site.pl?2130&pageID=919. This lecture is

delivered each year by a nationally recognized scholar in the field of

intellectual property law. The remarks have been edited to reflect subsequent

developments.



NAME: John F. Duffy*



BIO: * Oswald Symister Colclough Research Professor of Law, George Washington

University Law School.



LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:

 ... The title for my lecture today is "Innovation and Recovery." ... The period

during which recession turns to recovery is thus an optimal time to reconsider

the nature and desirability of innovation, and great insight can be won by

considering the types of innovations sought in time of crisis.  ... Pragmatic

application is absent even from many inventions that have received patents,

including for example, such novelties as the automatic hat tipper (patented in

1896) or the wearable hamster cage (patented 1999).  ... Recession is a time to

assess the standard practices that were yesterday's innovations, and the

assessment is uncompromisingly pragmatic because firms must ask: Are these

current practices, operations or lines of business as efficient as possible?

... Rather, current legal doctrine has bred dissatisfaction because the law has

lost its focus on two traditional values of the patent system: generous

accommodation for the extreme diversity of innovation and uncompromising

pragmatism in building and refining patent law's doctrines.  ... The natural

reaction to restrictions on equivalents analysis has been to add more claims to

patents.  ... The legal issue arose because, as disclosed in their patent, the

Wrights' aircraft design used a rope and pulley system that would automatically

make the necessary rudder correction every time the wings were warped.



TEXT:

 [*237]



   I. Introduction



 I would like to thank Dean Joseph Kearney and Professor Kali Murray, who

invited me to give this lecture, and also the faculty of Marquette Law School

for hosting me these few days.



   I especially appreciate being given the chance to deliver a lecture  [*238]

named in honor of Judge Helen Nies, as I am a great fan of her work in the

patent area. n1 Indeed, a recent article n2 of mine traces the Supreme Court's

reengagement in the patent area to the Court's grant of certiorari in American

Airlines v. Lockwood, n3 in which Judge Nies wrote a marvelous dissenting

opinion at the Court of Appeals. Her dissent reads very much like a thoughtful

and considered brief that was trying to attract Supreme Court review. She

focused on a split in circuit authority on the issue in the case and articulated

with great expertise the reasons why the issue was important. n4 In a subsequent

law review article, Judge Nies explicitly stated her belief that dissents from

Federal Circuit opinions could "provide[] an impetus for Supreme Court review,"

as "judges disputing a point more likely will pique the Court's interest than

lawyers disputing a point." n5 She also defended the value of dissenting

opinions, stating her conviction that "a judge who disagrees with the majority

must make the effort to write a dissent, especially here at the Federal Circuit

where dissents are virtually the sole means by which contradicting positions on

the law are presented fully and without personal bias to the Supreme Court." n6



   Judge Nies's dissent in Lockwood was a signal moment in modern patent law, as

it marked a watershed in the Federal Circuit's relationship to the Supreme

Court. The Court's decision in 1994 to  [*239]  grant certiorari in Lockwood

ushered in a period of renewed interest by the high court on patent law issues.

In the first twelve years after the creation of the Federal Circuit (1982-1994),

the Supreme Court heard only five patent cases, and those cases were only

tangentially related to substantive patent issues. n7 Starting in 1994 and

continuing to the present day, the Supreme Court has considered, on average, at

least one patent law case per term, with the majority of the cases involving

core matters of patent policy. n8



   I have devoted attention to Judge Nies's dissent in Lockwood not merely

because it is appropriate to recall the great jurist after whom this lecture was

named, but also because my lecture today may be viewed as a dissent to some of

the current approaches in modern patent law. Like Judge Nies, I too believe in

the inherent value of dissent. While agreement can be signified with mere

silence, disagreement imposes a responsibility to speak and to write, for only

then can "contradicting positions" be fully and carefully presented.



   The title for my lecture today is "Innovation and Recovery." The lecture is

premised on the undeniable fact that our nation has recently  [*240]  suffered a

recession. We now hope for recovery. n9 Yet despite all the difficulties imposed

by a recession, and despite our strongest desires to have it retreat into

history, a recession also has great value to society. This value goes beyond

mere cliched paraphrases of the famous advice attributed to Nicolo Machiavelli,

"Never waste the opportunities offered by a good crisis." n10 The opportunities

afforded by a recession are not merely the chance to seize power or to achieve

other political objectives. Recession provides the chance to learn and to

change. Most importantly, recession provides a lesson in the fallibility of

human knowledge and in the need for continued improvement.



   Recession is failure. It is a failure of existing ways of doing things.

Regulatory structures fail; businesses fail; and individuals fail to maintain

their productivity and to meet their responsibilities. Precisely because

existing practices have failed, the way out of a recession is the new, the

changed, the innovative. Recovery from recession demands new practices and new

organizations for governments, businesses, and individuals, and those

reorganizations and reemployments are often quite different from what came

before. Recovery thus demands innovation to rebuild society - to rebuild it a

little bit better and, hopefully, a little bit more carefully.



   Innovation is therefore a natural response to a crisis. n11 In good times, it

makes sense to follow worn paths. If current methods are yielding good results,

it makes perfect sense to continue in those ways. Not so in times of crisis. The

innovation necessary for an economic recovery is, to be sure, not just the

innovation that goes on inside a laboratory or a research facility. It can be

bigger and more dramatic - like the reorganization of an entire industry's

business and regulatory practices. It can be smaller and more incremental, as

when a single individual decides to change careers or to open a new business.



    [*241]  Examining the innovation necessary for recovery yields two important

insights into the nature of innovation. First, innovation is wildly diverse; it

spans the full breadth of human activities and human creativity. Second,

innovation - or at least the innovation most ardently sought as the path for

recovery - is intensely practical. My thesis in this lecture is that these two

insights, though derived from our broader experience, are essential in obtaining

recovery for our chief legal mechanism that is designed to foster innovation,

the patent system.



   II. Innovation for Recovery



 Many patented innovations are incremental advances that build on pre-existing

technologies in relatively standard ways. Recognizing this truth does not

denigrate the value of those innovations and certainly does not suggest that

they should be denied patent protection. Even on the forefront of scientific

research, "normal science" usually dominates, with valuable but incremental

additions to existing structures. n12 The most innovative of advances - changes

that are truly "outside the box" in the sense that they reject pre-existing

notions - are rare and episodic. Yet it is precisely those sorts of

transformative changes, both large and small, that are the most necessary to

generate a recovery from economic failure. The crisis of economic failure makes

complete rejection of old ways easier, and the desire for recovery spurs

creation of the boldly new.



   The period during which recession turns to recovery is thus an optimal time

to reconsider the nature and desirability of innovation, and great insight can

be won by considering the types of innovations sought in time of crisis. These

innovations are distinguished by their diversity but unified by their

practicality. These two qualities - diversity and practicality - will provide my

overarching themes.



   A. The Diversity of Innovation



 Recession and recovery remind us of the extreme diversity among innovations.

That diversity spans much more than advances in engines, semi-conductor chips,

chemicals, pharmaceuticals and computer software. Such industrial diversity may

be a common proxy for representing the diversity of innovation, n13 but it

covers only a part of innovation. Innovation extends beyond the research

laboratory; it  [*242]  ranges from the individual home, to the corporate

boardroom, and, yes, even to inside the Beltway. Here, I will consider three

types of innovation that are often neglected in discussions about innovation but

yet are vital parts of the innovation needed for recovery.



   1. Economic Innovation



 First, let us consider the full scope of economic innovation. As I have

suggested, economic failure is an invitation to innovate. Failed businesses

recover through reorganizations of assets. n14 Indeed, modern corporate

bankruptcy law is often not called bankruptcy, but corporate reorganization. n15

That name is accurate precisely because business failure creates the opportunity

to take assets being used in one way, which was unproductive, and put them to a

new and hopefully productive use. n16 Such a common and seemingly trivial change

demands innovation in the sense that at least those specific assets are put to a

use that is new.



   Innovation is present not only in any corporate reorganization, but also in

any individual's search for reemployment. For the unemployed in a recession,

especially the newly unemployed, the job market often seems bleak. Yet the

lesson of a foreboding job market - and it is no doubt a hard lesson on a

personal level - is a lesson in the essential need for innovation. When

traditional career paths are no longer open and promising, job seekers must be

more creative. They must consider new ways to work. They must search for new

opportunities because the old opportunities are diminished or gone altogether.

It is common in our society to admire the innovator and the entrepreneur. Yet

the unemployed share a common bond with innovators. For both, creativity is

essential, but the path is as difficult and fraught with failure as it is

essential.



   Finally, any discussion of economic innovation is incomplete without also

considering those who are not bankrupt or unemployed, but who instead have

assets or capital despite the recession. It might seem at  [*243]  first blush

that these individuals and corporations should shun risk during recessionary

times; they should "play it safe." But this is not so. For those with assets, a

recession is also a challenge, and a challenge to innovate. For the well-off,

recession also brings opportunity. Corporate reorganizations bring the

opportunity to purchase properties at substantial discounts. Unemployment brings

the opportunity to hire previously unavailable talent that is now looking for

new employment, new directions, and new things to do.



   This discussion should make clear the full scope of economic innovation

revealed by the process of recession and recovery. Innovation ranges from the

small - for example, a new shop on one particular corner in Milwaukee, or a new

career path for a single individual - to the large - such as an entirely new

business model, a new product or pioneering technology. Economic innovation

presents a large continuum from the very smallest changes to the very largest

path-breaking developments.



   2. Regulatory Innovation



 Regulatory innovation is a second class of innovation that, though often

overlooked in general discussions on innovation, gains due attention during a

period of recession. By "regulatory innovation," I refer not merely to

governmental regulation but instead to the vast swath of mechanisms by which

public and private institutions organize and regulate human productivity. For

the advocates of governmental ordering - the champions of the Beltway - the

recession is (or at least should be) a challenge to existing assumptions about

governmental regulation because the existing machinery of government may have

failed. So too, for the advocates of private order, recession presents the

possibility that the existing institutional machinery of the private sphere may

have failed.



   The need for recovery, and hope for avoiding calamity in the future, thus

typically prompts calls for public and private regulatory innovation. In

Washington, this innovative impulse may take the form of new legislation or new

administrative initiatives. n17 Change is not, however,  [*244]  limited to the

public sphere. Private firms must also evaluate the causes of failure and seek

worthwhile innovations. The private order must also discover or invent new ways

to make sure that firms seek productivity and profit and not court risk and

disaster.



   3. Governmental Innovation



 The final and highest level of innovation that I will discuss is governmental

innovation. It is now fashionable in Washington to talk about Government 2.0.

n18 The name derives directly from an analogy to the latest internet

innovations, often called web 2.0. n19 The driving theory behind Government 2.0

is that innovative information technologies have the power to transform

government - to create government anew. The movement was recently the subject of

a major conference in Washington, n20 and the new administration is a big fan.

n21 Thus, inside the Beltway, the topic has become as ubiquitous as it is

notorious.



   The current fascination with Government 2.0 should not, however, obscure the

long tradition from which the movement descends. The  [*245]  longing for

improved, innovative government has deep roots in our society. The slogans may

change with each generation, but the underlying aspiration remains to achieve

progress similar to that observed in technologies that have grown out of the

physical sciences. A decade and a half ago, Al Gore championed the "reinvention

of government" n22 - a name adopted from the public management book by David

Osborne and Ted Gaebler that expressly invoked the "breathtaking change" in our

current "information society" as the catalyst for reforming governmental

structures and practices. n23 In an earlier era as well, Justice Brandeis relied

on technological metaphor to defend federalism as a means for providing

"laboratories" in which citizens could "try novel social and economic

experiments." n24 Brandeis was, in turn, following in the tradition of the

Progressive Era, which relied on the vast technological changes in the

nineteenth century to justify the introduction of legal innovations at both the

state and federal levels. n25 Indeed, the intellectual roots of the Progressive

tradition can be traced back to Woodrow Wilson, a prominent academic who later

became influential in politics. Wilson established the intellectual foundation

for the development of an innovative "science of administration" by pointing to

the profound technological and social changes that had occurred since the

framing of the Constitution. n26



    [*246]  In pursuing governmental innovation to change existing

constitutional structures, the Progressives were themselves carrying forward the

more general tradition of innovation that dates back to the time of the framing

of the Constitution. The constitutional framers were facing one of the greatest

crises of our nation, as the very structure of the then-existing government

established under the Articles of Confederation was failing badly. n27 That was

a crisis of much greater magnitude than the economic crisis currently faced by

our nation, n28 and the greater crisis produced monumental innovation. Indeed,

the framers of our Constitution were not shy about telling the world that they

were experimenting. For example, James Madison, in Federalist 39, talked about

the "bold and radical innovations" that he was defending,  [*247]  in arguing

for the adoption of the new constitution. n29 And in Federalist 37, again,

Madison also said that the act of the Constitutional Convention had recommended

so many important changes and innovations that great care was required to

understand them all and to evaluate them. n30



   While the recent economic crisis has not produced - and is not likely to

produce - dramatic constitutional innovation, it has spurred some proposals for

incremental innovation in governmental institutions. For example, the currently

proposed financial reform legislation would authorize the creation of a new

"Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection" that (i) would be part of the Federal

Reserve System (the "Fed"), n31 (ii) would be funded from the Fed's revenues,

n32 (iii) would be capable of receiving delegations of power from the Fed's

Board of Governors, n33 and yet (iv) would be independent from any substantive

oversight by the Fed. n34 Thus, the proposed new Bureau is innovative in that,

while it is statutorily created as a part of another independent agency (the

Fed) and indeed receives its funding from that other agency, it nevertheless

retains a seemingly complete independence even from that agency. The new Bureau

would be an extension of the model of a "doubly independent" agency, which

involves placing an independent agency within a larger, parent independent

agency. That structure was pioneered with the Public Company Accounting

Oversight Board ("PCAOB"), which Congress created as part of the Sarbanes-Oxley

legislation in 2002 and which remains subject to a constitutional  [*248]

challenge now pending before the Supreme Court. n35 Yet the proposed new Bureau

goes beyond even the PCAOB, which is subject to some degree of supervision by

its parent agency, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



   In tracing this continuing tradition of governmental innovations, I do not

mean to suggest that such innovations are desirable. Innovation is well known to

be a highly risky endeavor. Though a few innovations are wildly successful, most

are failures. So too with governmental innovations. While the governmental

structure in the U.S. Constitution has been a tremendously successful

innovation, other attempts to produce innovative governance have not been

enduring. The overarching point, however, is that the creative impulse to

innovate defies narrow categorization. Where social needs are great, as in a

recession, innovation is seen across numerous fields. Thus, the crisis of

recession reveals the full scope of human creativity and innovation.



   B. Pragmatic Innovation



 The second theme concerns innovation and pragmatism. It is common for patent

attorneys and scholars to believe that innovation is directed toward pragmatic

or utilitarian goals. n36 Yet innovation does not necessarily have to be

pragmatic or useful. Pragmatic application is absent even from many inventions

that have received patents, including for example, such novelties as the

automatic hat tipper (patented in 1896) n37 or the wearable hamster cage

(patented 1999). n38 Innovative forms of artwork, dance, music or humor might be

pleasing and socially desirable, but they are distinct from the pragmatic

innovations that solve pressing problems or fulfill practical needs.



    [*249]  Recessions refocus attention on practical concerns. Indeed,

recessions frequently begin with a pragmatic and essential, but often

overlooked, form of innovation: firms lay off some portion of their employees.

Though greater unemployment is not often seen as welcome news, it is a crucial

part of the innovation that leads to recovery. In reducing their workforces,

firms are attempting to continue production while using fewer resources or to

eliminate unproductive activities. Layoffs are thus best seen as an intensely

practical type of process innovation; they are attempts by firms to become more

efficient in their operations.



   The desire for recovery is nothing more nor less than a hope that innovation

and change will improve people's lives and make society better off in measurable

ways. Layoffs, bankruptcies, and other economic failures are the necessary

predicates toward the innovations associated with recovery - new employments,

new businesses, and new successes. Recessions free labor and capital goods from

unproductive activities so that they can be directed toward new and more

productive uses.



   In both recession and recovery, the innovations most ardently sought by

workers, firms and governments are intensely practical. In some respects, this

focus on the practical reinforces my first theme about the diversity of

innovation. In difficult times, individuals and firms look for innovations of

all sorts provided that they will yield useful results. But the point is larger

still. Recession is a time to assess the standard practices that were

yesterday's innovations, and the assessment is uncompromisingly pragmatic

because firms must ask: Are these current practices, operations or lines of

business as efficient as possible? Are they even worth continuing? Recovery

begins when the current inefficiencies have been eliminated, thereby freeing

resources to be employed in new pursuits.



   The intense pragmatism fostered by recession is, I will argue, an approach

that is urgently needed in reevaluating the legal doctrine associated with our

nation's patent system. Just as periodic recessions trigger coldly practical

assessments of economic practices, so too our standard legal practices should

regularly undergo such uncompromising assessments. Now is a good time for one in

the patent field.



[*250]



   III. Recovery and Innovation



 The remainder of my talk will focus on the patent system. For you who are

aficionados of the patent system, here is your part of the lecture.



   The first part of this talk set the stage for an evaluation of the patent

system not only because the patent system is designed to foster the innovation

that can be so crucial to economic recovery and growth, but also because the

patent system itself is now widely viewed as being in crisis. Recent books on

the patent system come under titles such as "Innovation and its Discontents" n39

or "Patent Failure." n40 These books do not praise the current direction of the

patent system, but instead question whether the system needs dramatic reform.

n41



   Dissatisfaction with the status quo in the patent system is not limited to

the pages of academic books and articles. For the better part of the last

decade, Congress has continually been considering major patent reform

legislation. n42 While nothing has yet been enacted, n43 the new  [*251]

administration is promising to do all it can to end that inaction relatively

soon. n44



   Unlike in Congress, patent reform has become a reality at the Supreme Court.

In the last half decade, the Court has also been reevaluating and changing the

status quo in patent law. n45 KSR v. Teleflex, a case I had some involvement in,

n46 overturned a quarter of century of lower court precedent on the standard of

patentability and, by endorsing a more capacious obviousness doctrine, n47 made

it somewhat more difficult to obtain a patent. n48 In Medimmune v. Genentech,

the Supreme Court ruled that more than two decades worth of Federal Circuit case

law had overly restricted the ability of parties to bring declaratory judgment

actions to challenge patents. n49 Similarly,  [*252]  eBay v. MercExchange held

that longstanding Federal Circuit standards for awarding injunctive relief were

improperly slanted toward patentees. n50



   While some of these Supreme Court cases have focused on procedural,

jurisdictional and remedial issues, the cases are united in their rejection of

Federal Circuit rulings held to be overly favorable to patent holders. It would

be wrong, however, to assume that the dissatisfaction with the status quo and

the movement for patent reform are grounded in hostility to patents and the

patent system. Rather, current legal doctrine has bred dissatisfaction because

the law has lost its focus on two traditional values of the patent system:

generous accommodation for the extreme diversity of innovation and

uncompromising pragmatism in building and refining patent law's doctrines. Below

I set forth four examples as illustrations.



   A. Claim Interpretation



 My first example involves a highly technical issue, patent claim

interpretation. A patent claim is a single sentence at the very end of the

patent document that tries to define, with some degree of precision, the scope

of the intellectual property rights encompassed within the patent. n51 Claims

are now commonly called the "metes and bounds" of  [*253]  the property rights

conferred by the patent. n52



   In the last two decades, a theory has arisen that I believe to be quite

pernicious. It was best articulated by a colleague of Judge Nies, Judge Giles

Rich of the Federal Circuit. He said: "the name of the game is the claim." n53

In other words, the whole "game" in patent law (or perhaps more narrowly, patent

infringement law) is the set of words written into the sentence of the patent

document called the claim.



   Though many professors have cited it to emphasize the importance of patent

claims, n54 Judge Rich's catchy slogan is, I believe, dead wrong. The name of

the game in patent law should always be innovation, not some legalistic

construct such as claims. Claims are for lawyers, and lawyers should be the

servants of the innovators, not the masters. Judge Rich's slogan is a perfect

example of how our current patent system has departed from an unswervingly

pragmatic focus on the proper goal of the entire patent system - innovation -

and instead has become overly concerned with legalisms for legalisms sake.



   Returning the law to a more pragmatic focus on encouraging innovation will

require a major theoretical shift in patent law. It is, however, a shift worth

making and actually requires nothing more radical than reviving more traditional

approaches such as that embraced by the Supreme Court in its 1923 decision Eibel

Process Co. v. Minnesota & Ontario Paper Co. n55 In that case, the Court

emphasized that, to determine the proper scope of a patent, courts should "first

look[] into the art to find out what the real merit of the alleged discovery or

invention is." n56 I love that approach. Merit - judged not by  [*254]

legalisms but by the degree of real inventive accomplishment in the art - is, or

at least should be, the name of the game in patent law.



   The Eibel Court's approach is thoroughly pragmatic in that it focuses on the

ultimate goal sought be accomplished in patent law. Eibel instructs courts first

to look to the art, not to the claim, and then to determine the real merit of

the invention. Only after that inquiry is complete can a court construe the

legal limits of the patent rights. In other words, the legal analysis should be

subservient to a pragmatic inquiry into real merit - not, as it so often seems

today, the other way around.



   A corollary of Eibel's approach is that courts should always try to construe

a patent claim to save its validity. n57 The theory behind this canon is

consistent with Eibel's focus on real merit. If an inventor has made a

meritorious contribution, then all of claim interpretation should be directed to

protecting that contribution, with courts doing whatever they can in construing

the ambiguities of the claim to save its validity. In recent years, however, the

Federal Circuit has said that this canon of construction is "a last resort, not

a first principle." n58 While that demotion of one canon of claim construction

may seem to be a minor "down-in-the-weeds" change to patent doctrine, it is a

perfect example of the more fundamental problem: recent patent doctrine is

losing the traditional, pragmatic focus on inventive merit and replacing it with

an unproductive emphasis on legalisms. An excellent and eminently achievable

reform of current patent law - one that would help in patent law's recovery -

would be to restore the traditional emphasis on interpreting patents to save

validity and to capture the merit of the innovation.



    [*255]  Another example of the same problem is the recent hostility of the

lower courts to the doctrine of equivalents. In patent infringement suits, our

country's traditional approach was that, if a claim had some literalistic

problem, courts would permit patentees to rely on the "doctrine of equivalents"

to cover as infringements those things that were equivalent, if not literally

identical, to what was claimed. n59 In other words, the courts applied a

pragmatic rule of forgiveness in interpreting claims. n60 To be sure, the rule

was not perfectly forgiving, but it nonetheless permitted some degree of

forgiveness to account for the realistic difficulties associated with drafting

language to cover the new and nonobvious.



   The most dramatic attempt to restrict the doctrine of equivalents came in the

Federal Circuit's en banc ruling in Festo Corp. v. Shoketsu Kinzoku Kogyo

Kabushiki Co., which purported to make the doctrine of equivalents inapplicable

to all amended claim elements. n61 The Supreme Court's decision in Festo

rejected that "rigid" rule and also warned against the dangers of excessive

"literalism" in patent law. n62 Yet even after the Supreme Court's Festo

decision, the Federal Circuit has continued to constrict the doctrine of

equivalents. n63 Now, more than  [*256]  seven years after the Supreme Court's

decision in Festo, it is common knowledge among patent practitioners and

scholars that the doctrine of equivalents has been effectively eradicated. n64



   The demise of the doctrine of equivalents is a shame, for it is another step

toward the fallacy that the "name of the game" should be what the lawyer writes

in a claim and not what the inventor does in a laboratory. The natural reaction

to restrictions on equivalents analysis has been to add more claims to patents.

n65 If courts will not interpret patents in a reasonably forgiving manner to

protect inventions of real merit - if semantic nuances can cost inventors

effective protection over their inventions - then inventors' lawyers will try to

compensate by drafting more and more claims to cover a wide variety of possible

semantic permutations. n66



   This is not a positive development in patent law. It means more work for

lawyers drafting patent applications, as they will spend time drafting dozens

and perhaps even hundreds of claims per patent application. The abundance of

claims will not, however, increase the certainty of the intellectual property

rights. The chief criticism against the doctrine of equivalents has long been

that the doctrine makes patent infringement analysis somewhat amorphous and

therefore somewhat less predictable. n67 Yet applying the doctrine of

equivalents to a small  [*257]  number of claims may produce more certainty than

applying rigidly literal interpretations to hundreds of claims, which can be the

situation that litigants face today. More importantly, the multiplication of

claims directs attention away from the merits of the underlying invention.



   In sum, the slogan "the name of the game is the claim" is an excellent

illustration of how current patent doctrine has lost its traditional, pragmatic

focus on meritorious invention. The path toward recovery offers a different

slogan: "the name of game is invention."



   B. The Paper Patent Doctrine



 My second example also involves a modern development that has taken the patent

system away from its traditional pragmatism by distancing it from important

business realities. There used to be a doctrine in patent law known as the

"paper patent" doctrine. This neat little doctrine is now an historical remnant.

n68 It has been buried by the courts, mostly in the last half-century. n69 Yet

this doctrine was based on the realistic view that, if an alleged invention has

been merely disclosed in a patent specification but never actually implemented

in the real  [*258]  world, then it remains only a piece of paper. n70 The

courts would look upon that such a patent with some degree of skepticism, almost

as if the invention were half complete. The doctrine did not, however, mean that

courts would never hold paper patents to be valid, but they were more likely to

construe such patents narrowly or, at times, to hold them invalid. n71 In this

respect, the paper patent doctrine could be seen as somewhat anti-patent because

it would create difficulties for some patentees who were trying to enforce such

patents.



   The doctrine had another face too, one that favored patentees. For those who

held more than just a paper patent - for those who had gone out in the real

world and built a business around an invention - the paper patent doctrine was a

great help in sustaining the validity of the patent. If a competitor tried to

invalidate such a patent based on older patents that had never been implemented,

then the paper patent doctrine could be used to discount those older patents and

limit the extent that they would be viewed as potentially invalidating prior

art. n72



    [*259]  One result of the modern demise of the paper patent doctrine has

been the rising controversy concerning what are known as "patent trolls" or, in

less derogatory terms, "non-practicing entities," which are patentees that have

never commercially implemented their technology but that are suing others who

have taken the business risk to implement the technology. n73 A revival of the

paper patent doctrine would be poison to patent trolls, but good news for patent

holders who actually changed things in the real world. The old paper patent

doctrine recognized the enormous business risks firms take in commercializing

new technologies, and it made that risk-taking count for something in the patent

system. That approach was eminently reasonable and pragmatic. True patent reform

would revitalize the doctrine.



   C. Diversity of Innovation and Accommodation of Pioneers



 My last two examples show ways in which current legal doctrine has lost the

traditional ability of patent law to accommodate the extreme diversity of

innovation. In the past, courts used to discuss whether an invention should be

considered a "pioneer" invention or "mere improvement." n74 That distinction was

important to the courts precisely



   because they were trying to discern the real merit of the contribution by

[*260]  the inventor. n75



   While the distinction between pioneering and incremental inventions was

frequently used by the Supreme Court and by lower courts in the nineteenth

century and in the earlier part of the twentieth century, it has all but

disappeared from modern jurisprudence, particularly at the Federal Circuit. n76

This is a real loss because, if the courts do not know what the true merit of

the invention is, they will have great difficulty applying the patent system

fairly. The distinction between pioneering and incremental inventions recognizes

the full breadth of diversity in inventions. Some inventions are larger, more

difficult, and more path-breaking than others.



   A great example of the proper use of the "pioneer" concept comes in Wright v.

Paulhan. n77 The case involved a suit by the Wright Brothers to enforce their

famous patent on a flying machine. The opinion was written by Judge Learned

Hand, one of the greatest judges in the  [*261]  twentieth century and also one

of the greatest patent judges ever. n78 A key issue in the case was whether the

Wright Brothers' patent covered aircraft that were more modern than ones created

and patented by the Wrights.



   The Wrights had discovered and patented an aircraft with a particular type of

system to "balance" the aircraft and thereby to achieve stability in flight.

Under the Wrights' system, an aircraft could be stabilized, in part, by warping

the aircraft's wings - i.e., by "moving the lateral portions [of the wing] into

different angular relations to the normal plane of the [wing]." n79 That

balancing act was not all that needed to be done. The Wrights also realized

that, when an aircraft did this balancing act - i.e., when a portion of the wing

on one side of the aircraft was bent down and a portion of the wing on the other

side of the craft was bent up to rebalance the aircraft dynamically - the

aircraft also needed to make a rudder correction. n80 If the rudder correction

was not made, the aircraft would go into a tailspin and crash. n81 The rudder

correction was an important part of the Wrights' aircraft design and was

essential for maintaining stability in the aircraft.



   The legal issue arose because, as disclosed in their patent, the Wrights'

aircraft design used a rope and pulley system that would automatically make the

necessary rudder correction every time the wings were warped. Thus, under the

Wrights' claimed system, the pilot would concentrate on warping the wings to

balance the aircraft, while the rudder would automatically make the proper

correction. The  [*262]  airplane of the accused infringer lacked such an

automatic system. n82



   The automatic rudder correction system had been eliminated after the Wrights'

work because later airplane developers realized an automatic system was

unnecessary. Pilots could balance the craft and also make appropriate rudder

corrections. In fact, there were some advantages to eliminating the automatic

rudder correction system because the pilot of the aircraft then had more freedom

to control the rudder for other maneuvers. Thus, aircraft designers after the

Wrights simply gave the airplane pilot independent control over both the wings

and the rudder. Pilots knew that if they changed the aerodynamic profile of the

aircraft's wing to rebalance the aircraft, they also had to make the rudder

correction that the Wrights had discovered to be essential for stability.

Learning that technique was part of learning to fly.



   For purposes of patent law, however, the elimination of the automatic rudder

control system raised a very hard question. The patent claim at issue in the

Wrights' suit included as an element a "means" for performing the function of

causing the rudder to move in the proper way to account for the aerodynamic

changes to the wings. n83 Under settled law then (as is true now), such

means-plus-function claims are construed to cover the corresponding structures

disclosed in the patent specification and equivalents. The question on

infringement thus boiled down to whether the structure disclosed by the Wright

Brothers, a rope and pulley system for making rudder corrections automatically,

was equivalent to the system of later aircraft, which required the pilot to make

the necessary rudder adjustments. In short, the question was whether a human

pilot could be viewed as equivalent to a set of ropes and pulleys. n84



   The issue initially seems like one in which the Wrights could never expect to

win. No one would ordinarily think that a set of ropes and pulleys is equivalent

to a human being. If the law reached that conclusion, however, then the Wright

Brothers would have gotten  [*263]  nothing from their patent, because no one

was building airplanes the way they had built their first aircraft. Conversely,

if the human pilot is an equivalent, then the Wrights' patent would cover

essentially the entire aircraft industry. The stakes were enormously high, and

there was no real middle ground.



   Learned Hand concluded that, although it relied on the pilot, the subsequent

rudder correction system was an equivalent. n85 That conclusion is very

difficult to reach as matter of linguistics or logic. Modern doctrine, as

currently applied in the lower courts, might very well reach the opposite

conclusion, which would have left the Wright Brothers with nothing from their

famous patent. Learned Hand was able to reach a conclusion favoring the Wrights

because he took into account the pioneering quality of the Wrights' work. n86

Indeed, the pioneering work of the Wrights serves as the polestar of Hand's

opinion, for he candidly acknowledges that, even with identical claim language,

the result would have been different if the Wrights' contribution had been less

significant. n87



   Modern law would be improved if courts followed Learned Hand's example and

looked more directly and more thoroughly at the merits of the invention in

deciding how to interpret patents. Hand's approach is essential because patented

inventions are so enormously diverse - some are big and some are small. A

reformed patent system would expend more effort trying to figure out which is

which, and those efforts would necessarily have to look beyond on claim language

to the underlying merit of the invention.



   D. Patentable Subject Matter



 My fourth and final example concerns what may be the most important patent case

of the century, Bilski v. Kappos, which involves patentable subject matter. n88

This is a sort of a natural ending point for  [*264]  my lecture because this

case touches upon both pragmatism and the diversity of innovation.



   The issue in the Supreme Court case is whether practical business processes

may be eligible for patenting even if they are not tied to a particular machine

and do not transform matter into a different state or thing. n89 This seemingly

simple question raises many other issues, and there are a variety of different

approaches to analyzing the case. For example, the case can be considered as an

interesting test of the Court's methodology for statutory interpretation. The

relevant statutory text states that "any new and useful process" may be the

subject of a patent, and it also expressly defines "process" to include

"process, art, or method." n90 The government, however, argues that business

processes and methods are nonetheless outside the intended scope of the statute

if they are not tied to a particular machine and do not transform matter to a

different state. n91 The government is essentially trying to impose onto the

statute a gloss not found anywhere in the statutory text, and not recognized by

the courts in two hundred years. The case can thus be viewed as an interesting

test of whether a textualist approach to  [*265]  statutory interpretation will

be applied to the Patent Act.



   Rather than focusing matters of statutory interpretation and other

jurisprudential issues, I want to consider the Bilski case in light of the

themes of this lecture. First, let us consider the theme of diversity in

innovation. One major argument against the modern appearance of business method

patents is that few such patents were issued in the nineteenth and early

twentieth centuries. n92 Yet if the patent system has traditionally been

accommodating of a wide and diverse range of innovations, limiting patentable

subject matter to historical categories of innovation is highly problematic.

Indeed, the approach seems exceptionally bad, for it invites the courts to look

not to the governing text of the statute (which Congress wisely drafted in

sufficiently broad terms to cover a diverse range of innovations), but to

historical examples of things that were patented in the past. Yet today's

innovations are not supposed to fit yesterday's molds. The very best of

innovations break down our preexisting conceptions and pioneer whole new fields.

The patent law should be welcoming of new and diverse forms of innovations.



   My other theme has been the patent system's traditionally pragmatic approach

to the building of legal doctrine. The overarching tradition in the field has

been to favor the innovations that produce practical benefits in the real world.

That approach seems to be in deep tension with the government's hostility to

patenting "methods of organizing human activity that are untethered to

technology." n93 First of all, the government's argument suffers from a

significant degree of incoherence, for technological processes are always about

ways of arranging the productive activities of humans. Indeed, natural processes

have long been held not to be patentable. n94



   More importantly, even if the category of "methods of organizing human

activity" could be defined, the question remains why the patent system should

attempt to target that category of innovations for exclusion. If a new process

is practically useful, n95 if it "would not be disclosed or devised but for the

inducement of a patent," n96 and if it can  [*266]  be defined with sufficient

definiteness and clarity necessary to construct stable property rights, n97 then

it is very difficult to understand the practical case for imposing a categorical

exclusion to bar the process from patent eligibility. A more pragmatic approach

would care less about whether an inventive new process fits into some

preconceived notion of what patentable inventions should look like, and more

about whether the prospect of patenting would produce practical benefits for

society.



   IV. Conclusion



 I would like to conclude by taking a look back to another Learned Hand opinion.

The case is Parke-Davis & Co. v. H. K. Mulford Co., a decision that, while still

controversial today, has nonetheless stood the test of time and now provides a

basic pillar for many biotechnology patents. n98



   The question in Parke-Davis was whether a substance naturally occurring in

the human body can be patented by someone who has succeeded in extracting it

from the body, isolating it, and purifying it. n99 That was a difficult,

cutting-edge legal question, with some significant authority suggesting that

even a purified natural substance should be  [*267]  viewed as identical to the

naturally occurring substance and therefore unpatentable. n100 The substance at

stake was adrenalin, n101 which, of course, naturally occurs in human bodies.

The inventor, Jokichi Takamine, extracted and purified adrenalin, and his patent

claimed this purified product.



   Judge Hand held purified adrenalin to be patentable, n102 but more important

than the result is Hand's reasoning. Consistent with the then-emerging approach

of the legal realists, Judge Hand admonished that "the line between different

substances and degrees of the same substance" - i.e., between the patentable and

the unpatentable - "is to be drawn rather from the common usages of men than

from nice considerations of dialectic." n103 In evaluating the actual "usages" -

the real practicalities of the case - Hand found clarity. "Whatever confusion

the intricacy of the subject-matter causes," Judge Hand explained, "one fact

stands out, which no one ought fairly to forget." n104 He continued:







   Before Takamine's discovery the best experts were trying to get a practicable

form of the active principle. The uses of the gland were so great that it became

a part of the usual therapy in the best form which was accessible. As soon as

Takamine put out his discovery, other uses practically disappeared; by that I do

not mean absolutely, but that the enormous proportion of use now is of

Takamine's products. There has been no successful dispute as to that; hardly

indeed any dispute at all. What use remains is, so far as the evidence shows, of

the old dried glands, which every one concedes to have been dangerous, at least

for intravenous use. All this ought to count greatly for the validity of the

patent,  [*268]  and Takamine has a great start, so to speak, from such facts

... . This is a case where he should be entitled to a lenient construction, for

he has been author of a valuable invention and has succeeded where the most

expert have failed. n105



 Hand's opinion in Parke-Davis is a perfect example of the right approach to

patent law. The opinion focuses on the practical effects and merits of the

invention. Those realities - not "nice considerations of dialectic" - are what

guided Hand in crafting the law. The opinion is rightly famous because it

resolves a seemingly difficult issue of patent law by slicing through

indeterminate, sterile legalisms, focusing on the pragmatics of the case, and

refusing to constrict the diversity of human innovation sought to be encouraged

by our patent system. Our current patent system could use more of that approach,

for it could show us the way out of crisis and toward recovery.



   Thank you.



Legal Topics:



For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:

Copyright LawSubject MatterSemiconductor Chips & Boat HullsGeneral

OverviewPatent LawInequitable ConductGeneral OverviewPatent LawOwnershipGeneral

Overview



FOOTNOTES:









n1.  During her time as an active sitting Federal Judge from 1980-1994, Judge

Nies authored more than 100 opinions on patent related matters. She also wrote a

number of law review articles related to intellectual property matters

including: Secondary Meaning: An Historical Note, 64 Trademark Rep. 247 (1974);

The Federal Circuit: A Court for the Future, 41 Am. U.L. Rev. 571 (1992); and

Dissents at the Federal Circuit and Supreme Court Review, 45 Am. U.L. Rev. 1519

(1996) [hereinafter Nies, Dissents at the Federal Circuit]. I am also a fan of

Judge Nies's choice in law clerks. Her former clerk Craig Nard, now a professor

at Case Western but once a professor here at Marquette (see the faculty profile

for Craig A. Nard at the Case Western Reserve University School of Law,

http://law.case.edu/FacultyResearch/MeetOurFaculty/ FacultyDetail.aspx?id=139

(last visited Dec. 8, 2009)), is a fine scholar and an excellent co-author. See,

e.g., Craig Allen Nard & John F. Duffy, Rethinking Patent Law's Uniformity

Principle, 101 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1619 (2007); Thomas G. Field, Jr., Craig Allen

Nard & John F. Duffy, Dickinson v. Zurko: An Amicus Brief, 4 Marq. Intell. Prop.

L. Rev. 49 (2000).











n2.  John F. Duffy, The Federal Circuit in the Shadow of the Solicitor General,

78 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 518, 523 (2010) [hereinafter Duffy, Federal Circuit].











n3.  See American Airlines v. Lockwood, 515 U.S. 1211 (1995) (order granting

certiorari); 515 U.S. 1182 (1995) (order vacating the Federal Circuit's decision

and remanding the case to the district court).











n4.  In re Lockwood, 50 F.3d 966, 980 (Fed. Cir. 1995) (Nies, J., dissenting

from denial of en banc rehearing).











n5.  Nies, Dissents at the Federal Circuit, supra note 1, at 1520.











n6.  Id. at 1527.











n7.  See Duffy, Federal Circuit, supra note 2, at 522; John F. Duffy, The Festo

Decision and the Return of the Supreme Court to the Bar of Patents, 2002 Sup.

Ct. Rev. 273, 297 (2002).











n8.  See Duffy, Federal Circuit, supra note 2, at 523-24. Ironically, although

Judge Nies's dissent in Lockwood was successful in attracting the Supreme

Court's attention to patent issues, she was ultimately unsuccessful in having

the Court review the issue on which she dissented. The issue in Lockwood

concerned the allocation of power between judge and jury in deciding issues of

patent validity. The patentee Lockwood sued American Airlines for patent

infringement and demanded a jury trial. See Lockwood, 50 F.3d at 968. American

Airlines counterclaimed for a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity. See id.

The district court granted American's motion for summary judgment as to

Lockwood's patent infringement claims. With the issue of patent validity the

only dispute remaining, the district court denied Lockwood's demand for a jury

trial, holding that "the remaining claims are equitable in nature [and] the

plaintiff [Lockwood] is not entitled to a trial by jury as a matter of right."

Id. at 969 (quoting the district court's ruling). After Lockwood obtained a

reversal of the district court's ruling, American Airlines successfully

petitioned for certiorari on the issue whether the right to a jury trial applies

in such circumstances. Lockwood then withdrew his demand for a jury trial. The

issue on which the Court had granted certiorari had thus become moot, and the

Court merely vacated the Federal Circuit's decision and remanded the case to the

district court. See 515 U.S. 1182 (1995). In the fifteen years since Lockwood,

the Supreme Court has never again granted certiorari on any of the important

issues surrounding the jury's role in determining patent validity, though the

Court has had the opportunity to do so. See, e.g., Petition for a Writ of

Certiorari in Medela AG v. Kinetic Concepts, No. 09-198 (filed Aug. 13, 2009),

available at http://www.patentlyo.com/medela_20v._20kinetic_

20petition_20for_20cert_20final.pdf; Medela AG v. Kinetic Concepts, 130 S. Ct.

624 (2009) (order denying certiorari). Hopefully, the Supreme Court will

eventually resolve the split in authority that gave rise to Judge Nies's

dissent.











n9.  See, e.g., Recovery Remains Fragile, Fed Chief Says, N.Y. Times, Dec. 8,

2009, at B7; Neil Irwin & Renae Merle, Economy Limping Back to Strength;

"Slow-Motion Recovery' Fed: Return to Normal May Take 5 or 6 Years, Wash. Post,

Nov. 25, 2009, at A1; Good News From Near and Far Boosts Stocks, Wash. Post,

Dec. 6, 2009, at G5.











n10.  Katharine Q. Seelye, A Different Emanuel for One Church, N.Y. Times, Mar.

17, 2009, available at

http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/03/17/a-different-emanuel-for-one-church

/ (attributing the quote to Machiavelli). This quote became famous in 2008 and

2009 because two of President Obama's advisors employed paraphrases of it. See

id. (quoting Rahm Emanuel and Hillary Clinton as employing slightly different

paraphrases of the original).











n11.  See Timothy Hay, Investors See Crisis Ebbing, Wall St. J., Nov. 11, 2009

(relating the comments of a venture capitalist that invention has not slowed in

spite of the recession).











n12.  1.See Thomas S. Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962).











n13.  See, e.g., Brian Kahin, Patents and Diversity in Innovation, 13 Mich.

Telecomm. Tech. L. Rev. 389, 394 (2007).











n14.  See, e.g., Mark D. Roe, Corporate Reorganization and Bankruptcy 18 (2000)

(noting that under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, a corporate reorganization

allows "the ownership interests in the [company] will be reallocated."); Robert

C. Clark, The Interdisciplinary Study of Legal Evolution, 90 Yale L.J. 1238,

1250-54 (1981) (tracing the development of corporate reorganizations under

bankruptcy laws).











n15.  See, e.g., Lucian Arye Bebchuk, A New Approach to Corporate

Reorganizations, 101 Harv. L. Rev. 775, 775-77 (1988); Douglas G. Baird, The

Uneasy Case for Corporate Reorganizations, 15 J. Legal Studies 127, 138-39

(1986).











n16.  See, e.g., Michael A. Gerber, Business Reorganizations 597-607 (2d ed.

Lexis pub. 2000) (providing a brief overview of a Chapter 11 reorganization plan

procedure).











n17.  See, e.g., S. 3217, 111th Cong., 2nd Sess. (2010) (April 29, 2010

version), available at

http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-in/getdoc.cgi?dbname=111_cong_bills&docid=

f:s3217as.txt.pdf (financial reform legislation proposed by Senator Dodd in

response to the financial crisis); Securities and Exchange Commission,

Amendments to Regulation SHO, 75 Fed. Reg. 11232, 11233 (2010) (announcing

amendments to "short sale" rules and justifying the rules partly on the basis of

recent "market turmoil" including "the subprime mortgage crisis and credit

crisis in 2007"); Securities and Exchange Commission, Concept Release on Equity

Market Structure, 75 Fed. Reg. 3594, 3594 (2010) (announcing "a broad review of

the current equity market structure" with the goal of "determining whether

regulatory initiatives to improve the current equity market structure are

needed").











n18.  See, e.g., John D. Sutter, Cities Embrace Mobile Apps, "Gov 2.0,' Cnn.com,

Dec. 29, 2009, available at

http://www.cnn.com/2009/TECH/12/28/government.web.apps/index.html (discussing

the Government 2.0 movement); Connect with Government, USA.gov, Dec. 22, 2009,

available at http://www.usa.gov/Topics/Multimedia.shtml (providing a directory

of websites allowing the public to access governmental blogs, twitter posting,

YouTube videos, RSS feeds, etc.).











n19.  See, e.g., Social Media and Web 2.0 in Government, WebContent.gov, Sept.

24, 2009, available at http://www.usa.gov/webcontent/technology/other_tech.shtml

(listing the social media and new web content materials available to government

agencies to make their agency's websites more publicly interactive).











n20.  See Gov 2.0 Summit, About Gov 2.0 Summit,

http://www.gov2summit.com/gov2009/public/content/about (last accessed Dec. 9,

2009).











n21.  See, e.g., Danielle Keats Citron, Fulfilling Government 2.0's Promise with

Robust Privacy Protections, 78 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. Arguendo A-101 (2010),

available at http://groups.law.gwu.edu/LR/ArticlePDF/Arguendo_Citron.pdf

(providing examples of the Obama administration's enthusiasm for "Government

2.0"); Charles Homans, The Geekdom of Crowds: The Obama Administration

Experiments with Data-Driven Democracy, Wash. Monthly, July 1, 2009, at 13

(noting how Obama has been a "prominent champion" of Government 2.0); Daniel

Lyons & Daniel Stone, President 2.0, Newsweek, Dec. 1, 2008, at 40; Micah L.

Sifry & Andrew Rasiej, The Rise of Government 2.0, Politico.com, May 7, 2009,

available at http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0509/22185.html; David

Herbert, Poll Gives E-Government Highest Marks Ever, National Journal, Feb. 3,

2009, available at http://www.nationaljournal.com/njonline/

no_20090203_9690.php.











n22.  See, e.g., Fewer Costs, Fewer Offices in Government "Reinvention,' USA

Today, Oct. 14, 1994, at A4; National Archives and Records Administration,

Remarks of Vice President Al Gore, Opening Session of International Rego

Conference, Jan. 14, 1999, available at

http://clinton2.nara.gov/WH/EOP/OVP/speeches/interego.html.







   We are here at this extraordinary international gathering, the very first of

its kind, to talk about a subject that lies at the very heart of economic growth

and productivity - and even basic political legitimacy - for the 21st Century:

reforming and reinventing government so that it is smaller, smarter, and more

responsive to change in this fast-changing Information Age.



 Id.











n23.  See David Osborne & Ted Gaebler, Reinventing Government: How the

Entrepreneurial Spirit Is Transforming The Public Sector 15 (1992) (arguing that

the "bureaucratic institutions developed during the industrial era ...

increasingly fail us" because "we live in an era of breathtaking change" that

has produced "an information society, in which people get access to information

almost as fast as their leaders do").











n24.  New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262, 311 (1932) (Brandeis, J.,

dissenting) ("It is one of the happy incidents of the federal system that a

single courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and

try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the

country.").











n25.  See, e.g., John F. Duffy, The FCC and the Patent System: Progressive

Ideals, Jacksonian Realism, and the Technology of Regulation, 71 U. Colo. L.

Rev. 1071, 1081-84 (2000).











n26.  Woodrow Wilson, The Study of Administration, 2 Pol. Sci. Quar. 197, 200

(1887). To explain "the reason why we are having now what we never had before, a

science of administration," Wilson pointed to "difficulties of governmental

action," which had been "gathering in other centuries" and were "culminating in

our own." Wilson argued that, in earlier times, "the functions of government

were simple, because life itself was simple." Id. at 199. In his prior work,

Woodrow Wilson, Congressional Government: A Study in American Politics (1885),

Wilson also relied on the changes brought by the past hundred years as the basis

for reconsidering constitutional structures. See id. at 53-54 (arguing for a

greater centralization of governmental power than was contemplated when the

Constitution was adopted because "the Constitution was adopted when it was six

days' hard traveling from New York to Boston; when to cross the East River was a

to venture a perilous voyage; when men were thankful for weekly mails; ... when

there were no telegraph lines, and no monster corporations").











n27.  See, e.g., Carol Berkin, A Brilliant Solution: Inventing the American

Constitution 11-22 (2002) (recounting that in the years following the

Declaration of Independence, the United States confronted major difficulties due

to a weak and ineffective federal government that was unable to address rising

economic discontent, to manage the repayment of war time loans, or to resolve

political disputes among the individual states). See also Gordon S. Wood,

Revolutionary Characters: What Made the Founders Different 145-46 (2006). Wood

noted that the "Articles of Confederation ... had not created a real government"

since it vested and reserved many substantive powers to the individual states.

Id. Specifically, the Articles of Confederation lacked the "crucial powers of

commercial regulation and taxation - indeed all final ordinary law making

authority." Id. at 146. See also Joseph J. Ellis, American Creation: Triumphs

and Tragedies at the Founding of the Republic 91 (2007) (relating that George

Washington "had grown convinced that ... the government established under the

Articles of Confederation had proved itself "a rope of sand' and was now

lurching from mere incompetence to complete dissolution."); Sean Wilentz, The

Rise of the American Democracy 31 (2005) (noting that "the national government,

under the loosely knit Articles of Confederation, was so feeble that it had

become nearly impossible to conduct a foreign policy, secure the nation's

defense and complete commercial treaties, let alone settle the leftover debts

from the Revolution").











n28.  See Ellis, supra note 27, at 93 (noting that Madison was concerned that

continued inactivity regarding reforms to the Articles of Confederation would

lead to "anarchy," and the potential for "utter chaos, widespread violence,

possible civil war between or among the states, and the likely intervention of

several European powers eager to exploit the political disarray for their own

imperial purposes" in the fledging nation).











n29.  The Conformity of the Plan to Republican Principles, The Federalist No. 39

(James Madison).











n30.  Concerning the Difficulties of the Convention in Devising a Proper Form of

Government, The Federalist No. 37 (James Madison).







   It is a misfortune, inseparable from human affairs, that public measures are

rarely investigated with that spirit of moderation which is essential to a just

estimate of their real tendency to advance or obstruct the public good; and that

this spirit is more apt to be diminished than promoted, by those occasions which

require an unusual exercise of it. To those who have been led by experience to

attend to this consideration, it could not appear surprising, that the act of

the convention, which recommends so many important changes and innovations,

which may be viewed in so many lights and relations, and which touches the

springs of so many passions and interests, should find or excite dispositions

unfriendly, both on one side and on the other, to a fair discussion and accurate

judgment of its merits.



 Id.











n31.  See S. 3217, supra note 17, § 1011(a).











n32.  See id. § 1017(a).











n33.  See id. § 1012(c)(1).











n34.  See id. § 1012(c)(2), (3) & (4).











n35.  See Free Enter. Fund v. Public Co. Accounting Oversight Bd., cert.

granted, 129 S. Ct. 2378 (No. 08-861) (May 18, 2009).











n36.  See, e.g., Federal Trade Commission, To Promote Innovation: The Proper

Balance of Competition and Patent Law and Policy, Executive Summary, 1 (October

2003), available at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2003/10/innovationrpt.pdf ("Innovation

benefits consumers through the development of new and improved goods, services,

and processes ... . Technological breakthroughs such as automobiles, airplanes,

the personal computer, the Internet, television, telephones, and modern

pharmaceuticals illustrate the power of innovation to increase prosperity and

improve the quality of our lives.").











n37.  See U.S. Patent No. 556,248 (1896) (disclosing a "novel device for

automatically effecting polite salutations by the elevation and rotation of the

hat on the head of the saluting party when said person bows to the person or

person saluted, the actuation of the hat being produced by mechanism therein and

without the use of the hands in any manner").











n38.  See U.S. Patent No. 5,901,666 (1999) (disclosing "pet display clothing"

consisting of a wearable "vest or belt ... with tubular, pet receiving

passageways [that are] are transparent so that a pet moving along the

passageways can be seen by a spectator").











n39.  Adam B. Jaffe & Josh Lerner, Innovation and Its Discontents: How Our

Broken Patent System is Endangering Innovation and Progress, and What to Do

About It (2004).











n40.  James Bessen & Michael J. Meurer, Patent Failure: How Judges, Bureaucrats,

and Lawyers Put Innovators at Risk (2008). Bessen and Meurer's book has inspired

significant scholarship, with an issue of the Journal of Intellectual Property

Law dedicated solely to publishing academic responses to the book's conclusions.

See 16 J. Intell. Prop. L., vol. 1 (2008).











n41.  See Recent Publications, 122 Harv. L. Rev. 835, 836 (2008) (summarizing

"Patent Failure"); Sandra Chartrand, In a Forthcoming Book, Two Professors Make

Suggestions on Reinventing the Patent System, N.Y. Times, Sept. 27, 2004, at C4

(discussing "Innovation and its Discontents").











n42.  Congress has proposed at least eight versions of patent reform in the past

five years. See, e.g., Patent Reform Act of 2009, S. 515, 111th Cong. (Mar. 3,

2009); Patent Reform Act of 2009, S. 610, 111th Cong. (Mar. 17, 2009); Patent

Reform Act of 2009, H.R.1260, 111th Cong. (Mar. 3, 2009); Patent Reform Act of

2008, S. 3600, 110th Cong. (Sept. 25, 2008); Patent Reform Act of 2007, S. 1145,

110th Cong. (Apr. 18, 2007); Patent Reform Act of 2007, H.R. 1908, 110th Cong.

(Apr. 18, 2007); Patent Reform Act of 2006, S. 3818, 109th Cong. (Aug. 3, 2006);

Patent Reform Act of 2005, H.R. 2795, 109th Cong. (June 8, 2005).











n43.  Patent reform was closest to reality in 2007, when the House of

Representatives passed its version of the Patent Reform Act of 2007 (H.R. 1908).

See Lisa Friedman, House Passes Patent Reforms; Bill Supported by Tech Industry,

Daily News (Los Angeles), Sept. 8, 2007, at B1; Tom Ramstack, Firms Call Patent

Reform Bill Too Weak; Say It Increases Incentive to Steal Inventions, Wash.

Times, Sept. 14, 2007, at C9. Despite having S. 525 calendared for debate,

ultimately the Senate was unable to pass their version of patent reform prior to

the conclusion of the 110th session of Congress, leaving proponents of

substantive revisions to the existing Patent Laws to start the process over

again. See Michael J. Schallop, Hedging on the Scope of Patentable Subject

Matter for Business Methods - The Potential Broader Implications of In re

Bilski, Intell. Prop. Today, July 2008, at 36; Methods and Madness; America's

Patent System, The Economist, May 10, 2008.











n44.  See George Best, Stephen B. Maebius, Jeanne M. Gills, Philip G. Kiko &

Jonathan W. Dudas, The Obama Administration Weighs In On Patent Reform

Legislation: Will The Logjam Break?, Mondaq Bus. Briefing, Oct. 14, 2009; Gary

Locke, Opinion: Congress Must Pass Patent Reform, San Jose Mercury News, Oct. 7,

2009.











n45.  See, e.g., Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Elecs., Inc., 128 S. Ct. 2109

(2008); Microsoft Corp. v. AT&T Corp., 550 U.S. 437 (2007); KSR Int'l v.

Teleflex, 550 U.S. 398 (2007); MedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc., 549 U.S. 118,

137 (2007); eBay Inc. v. MercExchange, LLC, 547 U.S. 388 (2006); Merck KGaA v.

Integra Lifesciences I, Ltd., 545 U.S. 193 (2005).











n46.  KSR, 550 U.S. at 404 (listing counsel in the case for petitioner KSR); see

also John F. Duffy, KSR v. Teleflex: Predictable Reform of Patent Substance and

Procedure in the Judiciary, 106 Mich. L. Rev. First Impressions 34, 35-36

(2007), available at

http://www.michiganlawreview.org/firstimpressions/vol106/duffy.pdf (discussing

the author's involvement in KSR).











n47.  The Supreme Court in KSR rejected Federal Circuit precedents, which

required a rigid framework, in favor of "an expansive and flexible approach" in

determining whether an invention was obvious in light of the prior art. KSR, 550

U.S. at 415-18. Previously, the Federal Circuit, had required that a

determination of obviousness based on a combination of existing prior art

references should include a "teaching motivation or suggestion" to combine such

references. See, e.g., Pro-Mold v. Great Lakes Plastics, 75 F.3d 1568, 1573

(Fed. Cir. 1996) ("It is well-established that before a conclusion of

obviousness may be made based on a combination of references, there must have

been a reason, suggestion, or motivation to lead an inventor to combine those

references."); ACS Hosp. Sys., Inc. v. Montefiore Hosp., 732 F.2d 1572, 1577

(Fed. Cir. 1984).











n48.  See, e.g., Leapfrog Enters. v. Fisher-Price, Inc., 485 F.3d 1157 (Fed.

Cir. 2007) (affirming the use of a common sense, flexible approach to find

obviousness); Ball Aerosol & Specialty Container, Inc. v. Limited Brands, Inc.,

555 F.3d 984 (Fed. Cir. 2009) (applying KSR's rationale in affirming the

district court's finding that the patent at issue was an obvious combination of

existing features). See also Joshua D. Sarnoff & Christopher M. Holman, Recent

Developments Affecting the Enforcement, Procurement, and Licensing of Research

Tool Patents, 23 Berkeley Tech. L.J. 1299, 1343-46 (2008) (noting that the

Supreme Court's KSR opinion and the flexible approach for determining

obviousness may make it easier for the USPTO to reject patentability of many

inventions).











n49.  See MedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc., 549 U.S. 118, 132 n.11 (2007)

(rejecting Federal Circuit case law that had required parties challenging

patents in Declaratory Judgment Actions to establish that they had a "reasonable

apprehension of suit"). See also SanDisk Corp. v. STMicroelectronics, Inc., 480

F.3d 1372, 1379 (Fed. Cir. 2007) (acknowledging that the Supreme Court's

decision in MedImmune had rejected the circuit's longstanding rule requiring a

"reasonable apprehension of suit" as a prerequisite to declaratory judgment

jurisdiction); Jervis B. Webb Co. v. Southern Systems, Inc., 742 F.2d 1388, 1398

(Fed. Cir. 1984) (early case articulating the "reasonable apprehension" of suit

as a requirement for declaratory judgment jurisdiction).











n50.  The Court rejected a ""general rule,' unique to patent disputes, "that a

permanent injunction will issue once infringement and validity have been

adjudged.'" 547 U.S. at 394 (disapproving of the analysis in MercExchange, LLC

v. eBay, Inc., 401 F.3d 1323, 1338 (Fed. Cir. 2005)). Instead, "the decision

whether to grant or deny injunctive relief ... must be exercised consistent with

traditional principles of equity, in patent disputes no less than in other cases

governed by such standards." Id. at 394.











n51.  See 35 U.S.C. § 112, P 2 (2006) ("The specification shall conclude with

one or more claims particularly pointing out and distinctly claiming the subject

matter which the applicant regards as his invention."). See also U.S. Patent &

Trademark Office, Manual of Patent Examining Procedure § 608.01(m) (8th ed. rev.

7 2008) ("While there is no set statutory form for claims, the present Office

practice is to insist that each claim must be the object of a sentence.");

Fressola v. Manbeck, 36 U.S.P.Q.2d (BNA) 1211, 1214-15 (D.D.C. 1995) (holding

that the PTO's requirement that claims must be written in one sentence format

was procedural in nature and thus was a limitation that could be imposed by the

PTO). See also Markman v. Westview Instruments, Inc., 517 U.S. 370, 372 (1996)

(recognizing the claim as "the portion of the patent document that defines the

scope of the patentee's rights").











n52.  See, e.g., Corning Glass Works v. Sumitomo Elec. U.S.A., Inc., 868 F.2d

1251, 1257 (Fed. Cir. 1989). The analogy to the "metes and bounds" of a property

deed may be unfortunate because it suggests a degree of precision that is

demonstrably not obtainable in defining the scope of most patents.











n53.  Hon. Giles S. Rich, The Extent of the Protection of and Interpretation of

Claims - American Perspectives, 21 Int'l Rev. Indus. Prop. & Copyright L. 497,

499 (1990).











n54.  See, e.g., F. Scott Kieff, The Case for Registering Patents and the Law

and Economics of Present Patent-Obtaining Rules, 45 B.C. L. Rev. 55, 102 (2003);

Mark A. Lemley, The Changing Meaning of Patent Claim Terms, 104 Mich. L. Rev.

101, 102 (2005); Craig Allen Nard, A Theory of Claim Interpretation, 14 Harv. J.

Law & Tech. 2, 3 (2000); Kristen Osenga, Linguistics and Patent Claim

Construction, 38 Rutgers L.J. 61, 63 (2006).











n55.  261 U.S. 45 (1923).











n56.  Id. at 63. The complete quotation reads:







   In administering the patent law the court first looks into the art to find

what the real merit of the alleged discovery or invention is and whether it has

advanced the art substantially. If it has done so, then the court is liberal in

its construction of the patent to secure to the inventor the reward he deserves.

If what he has done works only a slight step forward and that which he says is a

discovery is on the border line between mere mechanical change and real

invention, then his patent, if sustained, will be given a narrow scope and

infringement will be found only in approximate copies of the new device.



 Id.











n57.  See, e.g., Turrill v. Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, 68

U.S. 491, 510 (1863) (holding that claims "are, if practicable, to be so

interpreted as to uphold and not to destroy the right of the inventor"); Rhine

v. Casio, Inc., 183 F.3d 1342, 1345 (Fed. Cir. 1999) (acknowledging this canon

of claim interpretation).











n58.  See, e.g., MBO Labs., Inc. v. Becton, Dickinson & Co., 474 F.3d 1323, 1332

(Fed. Cir. 2007) ("Validity construction should be used as a last resort, not a

first principle: "we have limited the maxim [that claims are to be construed to

preserve validity] to cases in which the court concludes, after applying all the

available tools of claim construction, that the claim is still ambiguous.'");

Phillips v. AWH Corp., 415 F.3d 1303, 1327 (Fed. Cir. 2005) ("While we have

acknowledged the maxim that claims should be construed to preserve their

validity, we have not applied that principle broadly, and we have certainly not

endorsed a regime in which validity analysis is a regular component of claim

construction.").











n59.  See Winans v. Denmead, 56 U.S. 330, 343 (1854).







   Patentees sometimes add to their claims an express declaration, to the effect

that the claim extends to the thing patented, however its form or proportions

may be varied. But this is unnecessary. The law so interprets the claim without

the addition of these words. The exclusive right to the thing patented is not

secured, if the public are at liberty to make substantial copies of it, varying

its form or proportions.



 Id.; Graver Tank & Mfg. Co. v. Linde Air Prods. Co., 339 U.S. 605, 608-09

(1950) (noting the history and development of the doctrine of equivalents);

Warner-Jenkinson Co. v. Hilton Davis Chem. Co., 520 U.S. 17, 28 (1997) ("The

lengthy history of the doctrine of equivalents strongly supports adherence to

our refusal in Graver Tank to find that the Patent Act conflicts with that

doctrine.").











n60.  See, e.g,, Pennwalt Corp. v. Durand-Wayland, Inc., 833 F.2d 931, 946 (Fed.

Cir. 1987) (remarking that the "equitable doctrine of equivalents ... "has been

consistently applied by [the Supreme Court] and the lower federal courts ...

when the proper circumstances for its application arise.' (citation omitted) ...

. In these more than 130 years of jurisprudence there have indeed arisen

instances of judicial interpretation of claims beyond their literal boundaries,

in the interest of justice. The view that such judicial flexibility should not

exist is contrary to these decades of decisions, and appears to be contrary to

that good judgment which underlies our precedents.").











n61.  234 F.3d 558, 563-64 (Fed. Cir. 2000) (en banc) (setting forth the court's

holding), rev'd, 535 U.S. 722 (2002).











n62.  Festo Corp. v. Shoketsu Kinzoku Kogyo Kabushiki Co., 535 U.S. 722, 738

(2002).











n63.  O2 Micro Int'l Ltd. v. Beyond Innovation Tech. Co., 521 F.3d 1351, 1364-66

(Fed. Cir. 2008) (interpreting the doctrine of prosecution history estoppel

broadly to foreclose application of the doctrine of equivalents); Honeywell

Int'l v. Hamilton Sundstrand Corp., 370 F.3d 1131 (Fed. Cir. 2004) (en banc)

(same); Johnson & Johnston Assocs. v. R.E. Serv. Co., 285 F.3d 1046, 1055 (Fed.

Cir. 2002) (en banc) (holding that the doctrine of equivalents cannot be applied

to cover equivalents that were "disclosed but unclaimed" in the patent).











n64.  See John R. Allison & Mark A. Lemley, The (Unnoticed) Demise of the

Doctrine of Equivalents, 59 Stan. L. Rev. 955, 958 (2007) (empirically

documenting the death of the doctrine of equivalents); Charles W. Adams, The

Doctrine of Equivalents: Becoming a Derelict on the Waters of Patent Law, 84

Neb. L. Rev. 1113 (2006); John R. Thomas, Claim Re-Construction: The Doctrine of

Equivalents in the Post-Markman Era, 9 Lewis & Clark L. Rev. 153, 154 (2005)

(recognizing "the increasing disdain with which the Federal Circuit has viewed

arguments of equivalent infringement").











n65.  See Mark R. Hull, Festo Corp. v. Shoketsu Kinzoku Kogyo Kabushiki Co.: A

Fog Between the Bars, 37 Akron L. Rev. 339, 371-72 (2004) ("As a result [of the

limitations on the doctrine of equivalents], the cost to the patentee will

increase as patent lawyers must consider drafting narrow claims, drafting longer

claims to cover all foreseeable equivalents, and spending more time researching

the technology and fine tuning language.").











n66.  See, e.g., Festo Corp., 234 F.3d at 624 (Rader, J., dissenting) (noting

that the en banc court's new limitation on the doctrine of equivalents "will

substantially increase the cost of obtaining patent protection, and may in fact

become prohibitively high for individual inventors and start-up companies ...

[since it would] require applicants to file in an original application numerous

"narrow' claims."). See also, Glen P. Belvis, An Analysis of the En Banc

Decision in Festo Corp. v. Shoketsu Kinzoku Kogyo Kabushiki Co. and the Doctrine

of Equivalents, 11 Fed. Cir. B.J. 59, 101 (2001) (noting that, as the doctrine

of equivalents is narrowed, patent attorneys would respond by drafting patents

containing "claims of as many different types, styles, and scopes as is

practical.").











n67.  Hilton Davis Chem. Co. v. Warner-Jenkinson Co., 62 F.3d 1512, 1538 (Fed.

Cir. 1995) (Plager, J., dissenting) (arguing that the doctrine of equivalents

would have the effect of disrupting the public disclosure requirement and the

underlying policy doctrines associated with this requirement would all "thrown

into disarray by this unpredictable aspect of current patent litigation"). See

also Martin J. Adelman, The New World of Patents Created by the Court of Appeals

for the Federal Circuit, 20 U. Mich. J.L. Reform 979, 996 (1987) (noting that

the doctrine of equivalents "has the potential to overwhelm the peripheral

claiming system ... [would result in] no way to determine with reliability prior

to suit whether or not one is infringing another's patent."); M. Scott Boone,

Defining and Refining the Doctrine of Equivalents: Notice and Prior Art,

Language and Fraud, 43 IDEA 645, 658 (2003) ("The doctrine of equivalents has

been criticized on several related grounds: the unpredictability caused by the

lack of a precise linguistic framework for the doctrine; the harm that the

doctrine causes the notice function of the claims; the unpredictable results

reached by juries that decide the issue of equivalents.").











n68.  See Michael Abramowicz & John F. Duffy, Intellectual Property for Market

Experimentation, 83 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 337, 401-02 (2008) (noting that "the paper

patent doctrine has fallen out of favor").











n69.  For instance, since the creation of the Federal Circuit in 1982, the term

"paper patent" appears in only two published decisions. See UMC Elec. Co. v.

U.S., 816 F.2d 647, 664-65 (Fed. Cir. 1987); In re Johnson, 747 F.2d 1456, 1461

(Fed. Cir. 1984). In the past thirty years, only seven district court cases

mentioning the paper patent doctrine have been published in the Federal

Supplement Reporter. See Wooster Brush Co. v. Newell Operating Co., 46 F. Supp.

2d 713, 721-22 (N.D. Ohio 1999); Monovis, Inc. v. Aquino, 905 F. Supp. 1205,

1226 (W.D.N.Y. 1994); State Indus., Inc. v. Mor-Flo Indus., Inc., 639 F. Supp.

937, 951 (E.D. Tenn. 1986); Carella v. Starlight Archery, 595 F. Supp. 613, 617

(E.D. Mich. 1984); Johns-Manville Corp. v. Guardian Indus. Corp., 586 F. Supp.

1034, 1068 (E.D. Mich. 1983); Studiengesellschaft Kohle mbH v. Dart Indus.,

Inc., 549 F. Supp. 716, 757 (D. Del. 1982); Wycoff v. Motorola, Inc., 502 F.

Supp. 77, 92 (N.D. Ill. 1980).











n70.  4 Anthony Deller, Deller's Walker on Patents, § 229, at 78 (2d ed. 1965)

(recognizing that "non-use of a patented invention may result in ... the patent

[being] declared a mere "paper" patent and entitled to a narrow

interpretation"); Abramowicz & Duffy, supra note 68, at 401-03 ("Under the

"paper patent' doctrine, U.S. courts have in the past distinguished between

patents that remain merely pieces of paper issued by a government agency and

those that are made into commercial products.").











n71.  Thompson v. Dernell Potato Prods. Co. v. Snelling, 38 F.2d 788, 789 (2d

Cir. 1930) ("The appellant's patent has not been put to commercial use, and

therefore it is not entitled to a construction of any broader scope than it is

clearly required to be given."); Dillon Co. v. Cont'l Supply Co., 98 F.2d 581,

587 (10th Cir. 1938).







   Neither Dillon nor his assignee nor anyone by their consent during those nine

years had used, made or sold a patented device constructed in accordance with

his specification, claims and patent drawings ... . That has been said to render

the patent a mere paper patent, entitled to a narrow interpretation when

thereafter sued on for infringement.



 Id.; Richard Irvin & Co. v. Westinghouse Air Brake Co., 121 F.2d 429, 430 (2d

Cir. 1941) ("The patent has never gone into use; manual pressure retaining

valves are still part of the equipment of the A.B. Brake; and we should not be

warranted in giving the claims any but the most meager range of equivalents.").











n72.  Kings County Raisin v. U.S. Consol., 182 F. 59, 62-63 (9th Cir. 1910).







   The Crosby invention undoubtedly anticipates ... [and] describes the whole

theory of the Pettit patent; but it does not appear ever to have been put to

use, and there is no evidence that any machine was ever constructed under it ...

. It would seem that it was one of those unsuccessful and abandoned inventions

which are held to have no place in the art to which they relate.



 Id.; Wahl Clipper Corp. v. Andis Clipper Co., 66 F.2d 162, 165 (7th Cir. 1933)

("It is more important to study those developments of the art which are bright

with use in the channels of trade than to delve into abandoned scrap heaps and

dust-covered books which tell of hopes unrealized and flashes of genius quite

forgotten."). See also The Paper Patent Rule in the Patent Office, 29 J. Pat.

Off. Socy. 599 (1947).











n73.  See, e.g., David W. Opderbeck, Patent Damages Reform and the Shape of

Patent Law, 89 B.U. L. Rev. 127, 130 (2009) (defining the concept of "a

non-practicing entity, or "patent troll,' [to be a firm] that has no business

model except to collect and license patents"). The term "patent troll" has even

migrated into the mainstream press. See, e.g., Joe Nocera, Tired of Trolls, A

Feisty Chief Fights Back, N.Y. Times, Sept. 16, 2008, at C1 (noting that the

patent troll's typical business model involves "acquiring patents, often from

bankrupt companies - and often overly broad patents that should never have been

issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in the first place ...

[and instead] of using them to build a commercial product, they extract

licensing fees from companies that are making and selling real products.").











n74.  See, e.g., Westinghouse v. Boyden Power Brake Co., 170 U.S. 537, 561

(1898).







   To what liberality of construction these claims are entitled depends to a

certain extent upon the character of the invention, and whether it is what is

termed in ordinary parlance a "pioneer." This word, although used somewhat

loosely, is commonly understood to denote a patent covering a function never

before performed, a wholly novel device, or one of such novelty and importance

as to mark a distinct step in the progress of the art, as distinguished from a

mere improvement or perfection of what had gone before.



 Id.; Doble Eng'g Co. v. Leeds & Northrup Co., 134 F.2d 78, 84 (1st Cir. 1943)

("A patent covering what is called a pioneer invention, that is, one covering a

wholly novel device, or one of such novelty and importance as to mark a long

step forward in the progress of the art to which it appertains, is to be

construed liberally."); Swanson v. Unarco Indus., Inc., 479 F.2d 664, 669 (10th

Cir. 1973) ("[A] pioneer or primary patent ... must be given a broad and liberal

construction which should not be limited to the precise device and

instrumentality shown.").











n75.  See, e.g., Sessions v. Romadka, 145 U.S. 29, 45 (1892) ("In view of the

fact that ... [the patentee] was a pioneer in the art of making a practical

metallic trunk fastener, and invented a principle which has gone into almost

universal use in this country, we think he is entitled to a liberal construction

of his claim."); Cimiotti Unhairing Co. v. Am. Fur Refining Co., 198 U.S. 399,

406 (1905).







   It is well settled that a greater degree of liberality and a wider range of

equivalents are permitted where the patent is of a pioneer character than when

the invention is simply an improvement, may be the last and successful step, in

the art theretofore partially developed by other inventors in the same field.



 Id.; Continental Paper Bag Co. v. Eastern Paper Bag Co., 210 U.S. 405, 415

(1908) (noting that while pioneer patents were to be given wider latitude under

the doctrine of equivalents, the extent to which the inventor contributed to the

relevant art was also a significant factor in determining the scope of

invention); Black, Sivalls & Bryson, Inc. v. Nat'l Tank Co., 445 F.2d 922, 925

(10th Cir. 1971) (holding that "infringement is not a mere matter of words ...

[but rather] the test is whether the accused device and the device covered by

the patent do the same work in substantially the same way to accomplish

substantially the same result ... . A primary or pioneer patent ... is to be

given a broad and liberal construction and, also, a broad and liberal range of

equivalence and it is not to be limited to the precise device and

instrumentality disclosed.").











n76.  The Federal Circuit's view seems to be that courts do not need to consider

the distinction because pioneers can draft broader claims, while incremental

improvers will have to keep their claims narrow to avoid prior art. See

Augustine Med., Inc. v. Gaymar Indus., 181 F.3d 1291, 1301 (Fed. Cir. 1999).







   Pioneers enjoy the benefits of their contribution to the art in the form of

broader claims. Without extensive prior art to confine and cabin their claims,

pioneers acquire broader claims than non-pioneers who must craft narrow claims

to evade the strictures of a crowded art field. Thus, claim scope itself

generally supplies broader exclusive entitlements to the pioneer.



 Id. Once again, this approach tends to emphasize the literal scope of the

claims, and to deemphasize the traditional inquiry into the merits of the

invention.











n77.  Wright Co. v. Paulhan, 177 F. 261 (C.C.S.D.N.Y. 1910) [hereinafter Wright

Co.].











n78.  Id. at 261. See also Kathryn Griffith, Judge Learned Hand and the Role of

the Federal Judiciary 5-13 (1973) (noting Learned Hand's judicial record and

accolades); Hon. Henry F. Friendly, Learned Hand: An Expression from the Second

Circuit, 29 Brooklyn L. Rev. 6 (1962) ("No oracular gifts are required for the

prophecy that when the history of American law in the first half of this century

comes to be written, four Judges will tower above the rest - Holmes, Brandeis,

Cardozo and Learned Hand."); James Oakes, Special Book Section: Personal

Reflections on Learned Hand and the Second Circuit, 47 Stan. L. Rev. 387 (1995).

For evaluations of Learned Hand's prowess as a patent judge, see Marvin Schick,

Learned Hand's Court 166 (1970) (noting that Judge Hand "perhaps had no peer" in

the field of patent law); Gerald Gunther, Learned Hand: The Man and the Judge

138, 306-07 (1994) (noting how Judge Hand's opinions on patent matters "before

long achieved [him] a reputation as one of the nation's great patent judges");

Stephen H. Philbin, Judge Learned Hand and the Law of Patents and Copyrights, 60

Harv. L. Rev. 394 (1947) ("To say that Judge Learned Hand is a great patent,

copyright or common-law judge is simple tautology - his abilities do not vary

with the kind of case before him.").











n79.  Wright Co., 177 F. at 262 (quoting claim 7 from the Wrights' patent, U.S.

Patent No. 821,393 (1906)).











n80.  See id. at 263-64 (describing the automatic rudder correction disclosed in

the patent).











n81.  See id.











n82.  Id. at 262 ("The defendant says that he does not infringe the patent

because he does not use a device which automatically always presents to the wind

that side of the rudder nearer the angle of lesser incidence.").











n83.  Id. at 262 (setting forth claim 7 of the Wrights' patent, which included

as an element a "means whereby said rudder is caused to present to the wind that

side thereof nearest the side of the aeroplane having the smaller angle of

incidence and offering the least resistance to the atmosphere").











n84.  Robert Patrick Merges & John Fitzgerald Duffy, Patent Law and Policy:

Cases and Materials 821, 824-25 (4th ed. LexisNexis 2007).











n85.  Wright Co., 177 F. at 264 (concluding that it was "a fair equivalent to

operate the tiller ropes independently by a mechanism under the direct control

of the aviator").











n86.  Id. at 264, 267 (describing the Wright patent as a "pioneer" patent).











n87.  Id. at 264 (noting that "were the invention an advance over a prior art

which had progressed already to the combination without any automatic movement

of the rudder, then the claim must have been limited to the precise

specifications").











n88.  See Bilski v. Doll, 545 F.3d 943, 951 (2008) (en banc), cert. granted, 129

S. Ct. 2735 (2009). The case was argued as Bilski v. Kappos, No. 08-964, on Nov.

9, 2009. See Journal of the Supreme Court of the United States, Oct. Term 2009,

at 296 (2009), available at

http://www.supremecourt.gov/orders/journal/jnl09.pdf.







   [This] appeal turns on whether Applicants' invention as claimed meets the

requirements set forth in § 101 ... . The statute thus recites four categories

of patent-eligible subject matter: processes, machines, manufactures, and

compositions of matter. It is undisputed that Applicants' claims are not

directed to a machine, manufacture, or composition of matter. Thus, the issue

before us involves what the term "process" in § 101 means, and how to determine

whether a given claim ... is a "new and useful process."



 Id.











n89.  The Federal Circuit's en banc opinion in Bilski stated that a "claimed

process is surely patent-eligible under § 101 if: (1) it is tied to a particular

machine or apparatus, or (2) it transforms a particular article into a different

state or thing." Bilski, 545 F.3d at 954 (citing Gottschalk v. Benson, 409 U.S.

63, 70 (1972) and Diamond v. Diehr, 450 U.S. 175, 192 (1981)). The en banc court

held that processes and methods failing to meet either of those two alternatives

are generally unpatentable. At the Supreme Court, the Petitioners in Bilski are

challenging the en banc court's test, which is generally referred to as the

"machine-or-transformation test." For the questions presented to the Supreme

Court in the case, see http://origin.www.supremecourtus.gov/qp/08-00964qp.pdf.











n90.  35 U.S.C. §§101, 100(b). See also Bilski, 545 F.3d at 951-52.







   As several amici have argued, the term "process" is ordinarily broad in

meaning, at least in general lay usage. In 1952, at the time Congress amended §

101 to include "process," the ordinary meaning of the term was: "[a] procedure

... [a] series of actions, motions, or operations definitely conducing to an

end, whether voluntary or involuntary."



 Id.











n91.  Brief for the Respondent, Bilski v. Kappos, 2009 U.S. S. Ct. Briefs LEXIS

953, at 50 (2008) (No. 08-964). The government's brief also articulates the

class of inventions it views as unpatentable to be "methods of organizing human

activity that are untethered to technology." Id. at 19. It is unclear whether

these different formulations are meant to be separate or identical restrictions

on patentable subject matter.











n92.  Id. at 36-42 (arguing that few "patents directed to the organization of

human activities" issued in past centuries).











n93.  Id. at 9.











n94.  See Diamond v. Chakrabarty, 447 U.S. 303, 309 (1980) (noting that Newton

and Einstein could not have patented natural laws such as gravity and E=mc2).











n95.  See 35 U.S.C. § 101 (requiring that patented inventions be "useful").











n96.  Graham v. John Deere Co., 383 U.S. 1, 11 (1966) (interpreting the

nonobviousness requirement in 35 U.S.C. § 103).











n97.  35 U.S.C. § 112 (requiring the disclosure of an invention "in such full,

clear, concise, and exact terms as to enable any person skilled in the art to

which it pertains, or with which it is most nearly connected, to make and use

the same" and also requiring that patent applicants "particularly pointing out

and distinctly claiming the subject matter which [they] regard[] as [their]

inventions").











n98.  Parke-Davis & Co. v. H. K. Mulford Co., 189 F. 95 (C.C.D.N.Y. 1911),

aff'd, 196 F. 496 (2d Cir. 1912). For sources recognizing the modern importance

of Parke-Davis, see, e.g., Thomas F. Cotter, A Burkean Perspective on Patent

Eligibility, 22 Berkeley Tech L.J. 855, 860 n.14 (2007) (acknowledging that due

to the holding in Parke-Davis, "products of nature that have been isolated and

refined from their naturally-occurring state ... have been viewed as

patentable"); Rebecca S. Eisenberg, Genetics and the Law: Patenting the Human

Genome, 39 Emory L.J. 721, 727 & n.27 (1990) (recognizing Parke-Davis as

providing part of the foundation for the patentability of purified and isolated

DNA sequences); Robert P. Merges & Richard R. Nelson, On the Complex Economics

of Patent Scope, 90 Colum. L. Rev. 839, 903 (1990) (noting that the Parke-Davis

decision affects modern biotechnology, particularly on the patentability of

synthetic versions of naturally occurring substances); John M. Golden,

Biotechnology, Technology Policy, and Patentability: Natural Products and

Invention in the American System, 50 Emory L.J. 101, 105 n.18 (2001) (also

citing Parke-Davis as providing the foundation for patents on purified versions

of naturally occurring organic molecules). The controversial nature of

Parke-Davis is well illustrated by the recent district court decision by Judge

Sweet, Ass'n for Molecular Pathology v. United States PTO, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS

35418 (April 2, 2010), which rejected Learned Hand's reasoning in Parke-Davis

and held unpatentable isolated DNA sequences. See id. at 126-27.











n99.  Parke-Davis, 189 F. at 103 (considering and rejecting the argument that a

patent may not issue on a substance distinguished by its degree of purity).











n100.  See, e.g., Am. Wood Paper Co. v. Fibre Disintegrating Co., 90 U.S. 566,

593-94 (1874).







   There are many things well known and valuable in medicine or in the arts

which may be extracted from divers substances. But the extract is the same, no

matter from what it has been taken. A process to obtain it from a subject from

which it has never been taken may be the creature of invention, but the thing

itself when obtained cannot be called a new manufacture.



 Id.; Ex parte Latimer, 1889 Dec. Com. Pat. 123 (rejecting a claim for the

natural qualities of a pine needle on the basis that the applicant was seeking

to patent the discovery of these properties).











n101.  Parke-Davis & Co., 189 F. at 97.











n102.  Id. at 103 (holding that "even if [the claimed invention] were merely an

extracted product without change, there is no rule that such products are not

patentable").











n103.  Id.











n104.  Id. at 114.











n105.  Id. at 114-15.





