                              79 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                               May 6, 2016 Friday



Just in time for Mother's Day! Buy One LG G5 for Mom and You Can Get a Second

One FREE!



LENGTH: 314  words



DATELINE: New York







 Kansas: Sprint Corporation has issued the following Press release:







   Still looking for that perfect gift for Mom? For a limited time, new and

existing Sprint customers get a monthly service credit equal to the cost of a

second device monthly installment payment when you get two LG G5 phones. That's

right &ndash; a FREE LG G5!











 Beginning today, well-qualified customers adding at least one new line of

service can get the LG G5 for $0 down and just $24 per month for 24 months with

installment billing and their second LG G5 will be FREE for 24 months after a

$24 per month service credit.1 This great deal can apply to an upgrade as long

as the other phone is on a new line of service.











 Plus, until May 12, customers who turn in an eligible smart phone will get an

additional $150 guaranteed buyback2 on trade-in. Don't hesitate on this one!







 The brand new LG G5 flagship smartphone has a modular design and sleek, metal

unibody with a slide out removable battery to easily swap out a used battery for

a fully charged one in seconds. It features a compact 360-angle camera equipped

with two 13 MP wide-angle cameras, 1,200mAh battery and 4GB internal memory.







 Consumers switching to Sprint can take advantage of the biggest wireless offer

in U.S. history &ndash; 50 percent off the price of most Verizon, AT&T and

T-Mobile rate plans.3 Customers who switch get 50 percent off most current rate

plan prices from their current carrier. And, Sprint will cover switching fees up

to $650 per line.4







 Sprint also offers a 30-day satisfaction guarantee &ndash; the industry's best

consumer satisfaction guarantee. If customers aren't completely satisfied within

30 days, they can return their phone and Sprint will refund the cost of the

device and service charges.5







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire





              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





