                               7 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            February 21, 2016 Sunday



LG unveils G5 at MWC '



LENGTH: 414 words





LG Electronics Mobile Communications CEO Cho Juno introduces the G5, the

company's new premium smartphone, at the Sant Jordi Club in Barcelona, Spain,

late Sunday, a day ahead of the beginning of this year's Mobile World Congress

(MWC). LG overhauled the design of its flagship mobile device by adopting a full

metal surface and adding various new features. / Courtesy of LG ElectronicsBy

Kim Yoo-chul



BARCELONA, Spain - LG Electronics unveiled its latest premium G5 smartphone at

Sant Jordi Club, Sunday (Seoul time), a day before the opening of the Mobile

World Congress (MWC), here.



LG pins its hopes for a rebound in its market share on the new flagship

smartphone.



The company adopted a modular design for the model, allowing it to be used with

other devices.



The modular handset features a 'Magic Slot' at the bottom of the phone, allowing

various accessories and hardware add-ons to the phone.



The G5's expandability will help LG gain greater traction in the market, the

company's mobile chief Cho Juno said.



'Physical combination between external hardware devices and the G5 will allow LG

to strengthen the LG-initiated mobile ecosystem,' Cho said during the event

which was packed with more than 500 media and industry officials.



The G5 significantly improved its battery, display and camera functions thanks

to an alliance with LG's three technology affiliates - LG Display, LG Chem and

LG Innotek.



Moreover, it went with a full metal body, a major overhaul for the device

design.



The G5 expanded its removable battery capacity to 2,800 milliampere hours (mAh),

the measure commonly used to describe the energy charge that a battery will hold

and how long a device will run before the battery needs recharging.



With the collaboration of Bang & Olufsen (B&O), the G5 also comes with improved

audio through 'Hi-Fi Plus with B&O PLAY.'



The G5 also has a large 5.3-inch LCD display.



On top of the key features, the G5 comes with Qualcomm's latest Snapdragon 820

chip. LG also released eight LG G5 Friends accessories during its Unpacked

event.



Virtual reality (VR) equipment, cameras and camcorders can be added to the G5.



Cho will hold a press conference on Tuesday for the Korean media, to update the

company's mobile business strategies.



'LG can deliver some solid technological advances that will help it stand apart

from rivals,' said Patrick Moorhead, an analyst at Moor Insights & Strategy.

'Marketing has been a traditional weak spot for LG. It needs to improve its game

this time around.'



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





