                              807 of 820 DOCUMENTS



          Copyright (c) 2005 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems



                   Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems



                                  Spring, 2005



                    14 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 1107



LENGTH: 14103 words



Student Note: "France for The French?" The Europeans? The Caucasians?: The

Latest French Immigration Reform and the Attempts at Justifying its

Disproportionate Impact on Non-White Immigrants



NAME: Monica Nigh Smith*



BIO: * J.D. candidate, The University of Iowa College of Law, May 2005.



LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:

 ... Contrary to preceding political formulae, the scapegoat today is no longer

the key figure of the Jew, the Protestant or the foreigner (although now and

again these representations reappear) but that of the North African immigrant

considered to be the author and bearer of all evils. ...  In order to solve the

problems associated with the approximately 300,000 illegal immigrants in France,

the French government, through Minister Sarkozy, proposed and passed an

immigration restriction program focusing on integration, the right of asylum,

and illegal immigration. ...  The new immigration law was created to strengthen

immigration policies at every stage in the process; from before an individual

takes his or her first steps over the border to the acquisition of a residency

card. ...  The national secretary charged with immigration, Odile Beuillouin,

also commented on the Sarkozy Law, stating that "in effect, the government on

one side, takes up a more dynamic discourse of hospitality and the promotion of

integration of immigrants in our society, which we believe is the right

approach... . However, it is placing suspicion on every foreigner... . The acts

contradict the discourse. ...  The National Front claims that; (1) immigrants

continue to flock to France, (2) immigration and crime are practically

synonymous, (3) immigrants are a major cause of unemployment, and finally, (4)

immigrant workers are a drain on the French economy. ...



TEXT:

 [*1107]



   I. Introduction



Contrary to preceding political formulae, the scapegoat today is no longer the

key figure of the Jew, the Protestant or the foreigner (although now and again

these representations  [*1108]  reappear) but that of the North African

immigrant considered to be the author and bearer of all evils. n1



 In June 2003, France's Interior Minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, proposed a new law

to tighten immigration regulations before the National Assembly and the Senate.

n2 This proposal incorporated minor impositions on the individual, such as a

required recording and filing of fingerprints when a person applies for a visa,

which allows for better monitoring of his or her whereabouts. n3 It also

included the more stringent requirements of extended waiting periods before

individuals can apply for residency cards, and a stipulation on the receipt of

said cards that the individual must be "integrated" into French society. n4 The

proposed law was adopted by the French National Assembly after a declaration of

urgency, and then went on to the Senate. The text was eventually approved by

both houses and passed into law on November 26, 2003. n5



   The justifications given for placing tighter restrictions on immigration are

the need to (1) fight against illegal immigration, (2) assure a better

integration of immigrants into society, and (3) rehabilitate the "double

penalty" n6 system. n7 In reality, concerns about the rising crime rate, n8 high

[*1109]  unemployment, n9 and perceived threats to the cultural hegemony of

France n10 represent the true impetus behind efforts to reform French

immigration law. Many people blame the continuing influx of immigrants into

France, particularly those from the North African Maghreb region consisting of

Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, for these troubles. n11 Is France really trying

to curb immigration in order to reduce crime, lower unemployment, and keep

French culture alive? Or is it merely caving in to the increasing xenophobic

racist ideal, propagated in great part by the extreme right party, the National

Front, which is gaining momentum in France? Regardless of the reasons the

government offers for passing the law, there is concern over whether it fits

within the framework of both European Union (EU) and international law.



   This Note begins by going through the text of the new immigration law, while

reflecting on the effects that implementation will have on those individuals who

seek to make France their home. Next, it focuses on how the new law fits into

the progression of past immigration law, and how past changes in the law tie

into the social and economic conditions prevalent at the times of their

enactment. The third section looks at the public motivations given for the

stricter immigration regulations, and whether the justifications delineated are

valid. In recognition of France's membership in the European Union, the fourth

section focuses on how this immigration law coincides with, or deviates from,

already established EU immigration law. Finally, the new immigration law is

analyzed in terms of international anti-discrimination laws and human rights

doctrines to see whether it meets the standards that France should be living up

to.



[*1110]



   II. The Sarkozy Law



   A. Introduction



 It has only been in relatively recent history that Western Europe has had to

deal with large-scale illegal immigration. In the 1950s through the 1970s,

immigrants were welcomed into Western Europe to provide labor during a time of

rapid economic growth. n12 Since the mid-1970s, this growth has slowed, and now,

instead of being welcomed, immigrants often have no choice but to come into

Western Europe illegally. n13 In order to solve the problems associated with the

approximately 300,000 illegal immigrants in France, n14 the French government,

through Minister Sarkozy, proposed and passed an immigration restriction program

focusing on integration, the right of asylum, and illegal immigration. n15



   Sarkozy proposed the "Law for the Control of Immigration and Stay of

Foreigners in France and Nationality" (the Sarkozy Law) to the National Assembly

on July 30, 2003. n16 After being approved in November 2003, the law came into

force on January 1, 2004. n17 This new law is the latest in a series of changes

to French immigration law that began in the 1980s. n18 While at times the

changes made have been beneficial to immigrants, the recent trend, spearheaded

by the extreme right and exemplified by the Sarkozy Law, is to place severe

restrictions on immigrants. n19



[*1111]



   B. Specific Impacts on Immigrants



   1. Preparation for Arrival



 The new immigration law was created to strengthen immigration policies at every

stage in the process; from before an individual takes his or her first steps

over the border to the acquisition of a residency card. In order to receive

permission to visit France for a period not exceeding three months, the law

reestablishes a system whereby an individual has to present proof of lodging to

the mayor in the town where he or she will be staying. This attestation may be

refused if the proper documents are not furnished, if it is apparent that the

immigrant cannot be received under normal conditions, the information on the

proof of accommodation is inexact, or the proof of accommodation has, after

investigation, been proven to entail a fraud. n20



   In addition, the law requires that every individual who requests a visa to

stay in France have his or her fingerprints and photo taken and recorded into a

centralized database. There are some exceptions to this requirement, including

individuals who come from a European Union Member State or another state that is

party to the European Economic Space Accord. n21 In addition, United States and

Japanese citizens are not subjected to having their fingerprints taken, because

France has designated citizens of these countries as outside of the requirement

of having a visa to enter the country. n22 It becomes apparent that this

requirement seems targeted toward a certain group of immigrants: those that are

most different from the stereotypical Western European - namely, North African

Muslims.



   2. An Overall Increase in Waiting Periods



 While sections of the Sarkozy Law place new affirmative responsibilities on

those who wish to emigrate to, or even merely visit France, they also impose

longer waiting periods for those who are already on French soil. n23 For

instance, under the new law an immigrant must live uninterrupted in France and

in conformance with the laws and rules for five years, an increase from three

years, before receiving his or her residency card. n24 The decision to  [*1112]

provide or refuse said card will be made by taking into consideration the

immigrant's professional activities, the immigrant's condition of integration

into French society, and any facts put forward to demonstrate the immigrant's

intention to firmly establish himself in France. n25 In making the determination

whether an immigrant satisfies the integration specifications, various criteria

will be taken into account, such as:







   Knowledge of the French language, engagement in vocational training, or

participation in local life and associations. It would constitute a major

incentive to follow the contract of welcome and integration, which will be

progressively and generally put into place as of January 1, 2005. The final

stage of integration would be the acquisition of the French nationality. n26





   3. Regulation of International Marriages



 While regulating an individual who seeks residency on his or her own, the

Sarkozy Law also increases the time during which a foreigner who marries a

French citizen has to wait, from one to two years, before they can receive a

residency card. n27 Additionally, the community life of the marriage may not

cease for the two-year period, the spouse with the French nationality must

conserve it, and, if the marriage was celebrated abroad, it must be registered

in France. n28 Moreover, proof that the immigrant has sufficient proficiency in

the French language must be shown. n29 Proponents of the law claim that these

requirements are intended to curb the number of "blank  [*1113]  marriages," or

marriages of convenience. n30 However, this portion of the law has its critics.

The Commission appointed to examine the law and provide recommendations after

its proposal voiced some of the problems it saw:







   The commission is radically opposed to this amendment. Our colleague asks

that we prohibit the marriage of individuals in irregular situations. This is

contrary to the 1993 and 1997 decisions of the Constitutional court regarding

the freedom of marriage, and moreover, it would violate article 12 of the

European Convention on Human Rights. n31



 According to a preliminary draft of the proposed law, an international couple

that wishes to get married abroad must comply with additional obligations. They

have to present themselves personally to the consulate so that the French

national can have a certificate of capacity to marry delivered by diplomatic or

consular agents. n32 Article 37 of this proposed version declared that if there

is a serious indication by which one can presume that the marriage will be

entered into without true consent, the officiating individual must postpone the

marriage. n33 A "serious indication" is demonstrated by such things as the

inability of the foreigner to justify the legality of their stay in France. n34

Fortunately, this particular section of the proposed law was deemed unacceptable

by the Constitutional court, which stated that this was an attack on the freedom

to marry, as the illegality of the stay does not inevitably imply that there is

an absence of consent. n35



    [*1114]  The final condition regarding international marriage is that if a

couple is found to be living in a marriage of convenience, Article 19 declares

the marriage to be a crime punishable by a five-year prison sentence and a

.30,000 fine. n36 Each of these requirements and sanctions subjects

international marriages to surveillance by municipal authorities and, in the

words of one politician, "the immigrant will have an obsession to get around the

laws of our Republic. Fraud will become the rule and honesty the exception... .

This perception of immigration perpetuates the prejudices, the fantasies, and

the phobias of one party's opinion." n37 In that respect, the Sarkozy Law, even

excluding sections which have been deemed improper, creates an atmosphere of

suspicion and furthers the view of the immigrant as the enemy.



   4. Regulation of Family Life



 The reach of the Sarkozy Law also intrudes on the family and negatively impacts

the relationship between children and their parents. A parent whose child is

born in France is not eligible for a residency card until a period of two years

has passed, which is an increase from the previous one year requirement. In

order to receive said card, the parent must exercise parental authority over the

child as well as provide financial contributions to the child's welfare for the

duration of this two-year period. n38 This represents a serious threat to the

stability of the family unit. If parents are unable to financially provide for

their children or exercise their authority over the children, they become unable

to attain a residency card. This could lead to parents not being able to remain

with their children for lack of a residency card, thereby causing a breakup of

the family unit.



    [*1115]  There are also problems with reunification of families in France.

If an individual parent comes to France first, and then wishes for his or her

child to join him or her, the child is only issued a temporary card for the

period of one year. After that time period, the child must show proof of

integration in order for the card to become a more permanent permission to stay.

n39 As one commentator has noted, this initiative only works to "weaken families

and create tragic situations. This instability of parents and spouses will never

facilitate their integration, on the contrary, it will weigh heavily on the

weakest, namely, the female immigrants and their children." n40



   5. Effects on Transporters and Employers



 In addition to affecting immigrants and their families, the Sarkozy Law also

impacts those who transport and employ immigrants. In an attempt to curb the

increasing number of illegal immigrants entering France, the law dictates that

those individuals who assist immigrants in entering the country should be

punished. The fine for transporting a non-EU member lacking proper documentation

rises from a maximum of .1500 to .5000 for each individual brought into France.

n41 As a further deterrent to individuals seeking a better life in France, those

foreigners exercising professional paid activities in France without work

authorization are subject to fines of .3750 and a prohibition from the French

territory, which includes France and the DOM-TOM regions, n42 for three years.

n43



[*1116]



   6. Conditions Upon Discovery



 After discovery, an immigrant is issued an order to return to the border. At

that time, he or she is given two days if notified through an administrative

channel, and seven days if notified via the post office, to appeal the order.

n44 The time for which the immigrant can be held before a decision can be

rendered against him or her increased from forty-eight to seventy-two hours. n45

Article 39 modifies removal procedures regarding illegal immigrants by

increasing the amount of administrative retention time from twelve to thirty-two

days. n46 In addition, detention centers and waiting zones to hold the

immigrants are set up under the watchful eyes of a national commission. n47



   C. Voices of Dissent



 Not everyone agrees with the law that Sarkozy proposed, and many individuals

have made their views known. In legislative sessions, concerns about the speed

at which the law was trying to be passed were voiced, after the law was declared

one of urgency. Serge Blisko, a National Assembly deputy, stated during

discussions that "the plan of action that [Sarkozy is] proposing is so complex

that it will be unintelligible for those who have a primary interest in it, the

immigrants." n48 Not only did Bilsko criticize the complexity of the text, but

he also went on to refute the entire foundation on which the law was to be

based:



    [*1117]



The government has launched a program of integration of immigrants for which

this law fails both the intentions and the objectives. You have spoken to us of

a reform of asylum law ... and a reform of immigration to "restore a calm and

dispassionate approach" to the question. In actuality, it is a war machine that

combines old tricks and dangerous innovations. n49



 On September 30, 2003, the Senate's work included a hearing by Sarkozy

commenting on his proposed immigration law. In this dialogue, he underlined the

importance of the proposed law "by reason of its political and social

resonance." n50 Those present spoke both in favor of the proposed law and

against it. The most controversial issues raised concerning the law dealt with

the fight against blank marriages, the reformation of the proof of accommodation

system, and the increased duration of administrative detention.



   Michel Dreyfus-Schmidt voiced his concerns regarding what the law would do to

the rights of the people, while reminding those present of France's historical

role as a host country. Regarding the installation of a room for immigration

hearings in the waiting zone of Roissy Airport, Dreyfus-Schmidt noted that the

proposal put into question certain essential principles of justice. n51

Christian Cointat questioned Sarkozy, exemplifying his concern about the burden

that restrictions on marriages celebrated abroad would have by requiring the

individuals to present themselves numerous times at a consulate that may be

thousands of kilometers from their domicile. n52



    [*1118]  The national secretary charged with immigration, Odile Beuillouin,

also commented on the Sarkozy Law, stating that "in effect, the government on

one side, takes up a more dynamic discourse of hospitality and the promotion of

integration of immigrants in our society, which we believe is the right

approach... . However, it is placing suspicion on every foreigner... . The acts

contradict the discourse." n53 In recognition of the injustice that the law will

place on foreigners, Beuillouin made the following statement:







   The conducting line for this proposed law is based on the suspicion of fraud.

It is a very dangerous line which ... risks wrongly designating immigration as

the cause of the climate of insecurity or the current economic problems. While

the causes are obviously more complex, the solution will not suddenly appear

with a new immigration law. n54





   III. Deviation from Past Laws



 As the Sarkozy Law changes French immigration policy, it is important to

consider the law in the context of France's immigration history. After World War

II, the influx of foreign labor was necessary for France in order to rebuild the

country. n55 The government encouraged immigration, particularly from North

Africa, by relaxing laws regarding the acquisition of French nationality as an

attempt to assimilate the immigrants into the population. n56  [*1119]  The

estimated need for foreign labor at that time was between three and four million

workers. n57



   After the oil crisis in 1973, the demand for foreign labor decreased, as did

economic growth. n58 Immigration laws were changed to make it harder for an

individual to immigrate to France. n59 In addition, the nationality law was

changed to encourage those foreigners residing in France to choose French

nationality in the hopes of better promoting their integration into society. n60

Even with these amendments, the number of immigrants continued to impact the

economy to the point that, in 1974, the French borders were closed to everyone

except to those individuals seeking asylum, those within the European Community,

and, in certain circumstances, those seeking familial reunification. n61 To go

even further, in 1993, the government instituted a policy of "zero immigration"

and attempted to put a halt to all illegal immigration. n62



   The changes instituted throughout the years began with small requests and

eventually led to the tight restrictions found in the Sarkozy Law. In 1982, the

government began requiring those immigrants who came to France to show certain

documents. These documents included a visa or certificate of lodging, as well as

proof of finances to cover the cost of returning to one's native country. n63 A

required minimum passage of time between the marriage of a foreigner and a

French citizen and the acquisition of the French nationality was instituted in

1984. n64



   Eventually, the government was given greater power in its dealings with

immigrants and creating procedural obstacles. In 1986, an immigration law was

passed that, among other things, introduced an exemption from the requirement to

show the motivation behind refusing a visa. n65 Previously,  [*1120]  proof of a

legitimate reason for refusal of a visa was necessary, but this law obviated

that condition. It also created a mandatory waiting period of one year before a

foreigner who married a French national could acquire French citizenship. n66



   The focus then switched to regulation of illegal immigrants. A reinforcement

of the fight against illegal workers and against the organized entry and

irregular stay of foreigners in France was passed in 1991. n67 This law required

certificates of lodging for immigrants and inflicted more severe penalties

against those employers who hired undeclared workers. n68



   In the early 1990s, the government put into force some of the most

restrictive laws, known as the Pasqua Laws, which dealt with everything from

border control to familial and marital controls. These laws increased

identification checks in the areas surrounding the borders of the Schengen Zone,

implemented restrictive conditions regarding the delivery of lodging

certificates, and anticipated countermeasures to marriages of convenience. n69

To combat marriages of convenience, the delay between a marriage and the ability

to obtain French nationality increased from one to two years. n70 There was also

suppression of the possibility for immigrant parents to request French

nationality for their children born in France, a first step toward undermining

the family unit. n71 The Pasqua Laws mandated a voluntary showing by a child

between the age of sixteen and twenty-one who was born in France of foreign

parents, that he or she wished to become a French citizen. n72 Prior to 1993,

children who were born in France of a parent who was born in a former colony

before its liberation were considered French citizens from birth. After the

passage of the Pasqua Laws, this was no longer the case. n73



   The next changes came in 1997 with the Debre Law, which toughened the terms

of the Pasqua Laws. n74 It made the receipt of a certificate of lodging  [*1121]

more difficult and required the host to notify the authorities upon the

departure of the immigrant. n75 Also, a residency card could be taken away if an

individual was considered to be a "menace to the public order." n76 For the

first time, foreigners who were residing in France illegally for more than

fifteen years could be expelled. n77



   However, a change of heart shown by the 1998 Chevenement Laws softened many

of the above restrictions. Certificates of lodging were done away with and

reunification of families became easier. n78 Obtaining a residency card was

facilitated and new categories of titles under which an individual could stay

were created. n79 Finally in 1998, the Elisabeth Guigou Law reestablished the

right to French citizenship at the age of majority for children born in France

of non-French parents, at the age of thirteen with parental consent, or at age

sixteen provided that the child has lived in France for five years. n80



   When looking at the roller-coaster ride that French immigration law has taken

in the past two decades, questions arise as to what has prompted the current

change. After relaxing the laws merely five years ago, the government has

decided that a stricter hand must once again come into play. While some outside

conditions have changed between 1998 and 2003, they are not sufficient to

warrant the reversion to such limiting laws. The reasons Sarkozy Law supporters

give are based on economic and social justifications expressed by the government

and more pronouncedly by French far right political parties.



   IV. Motivations Behind the Increased Regulations



   A. Economic Justifications?



 In recent history, experts have stated that the far right political party in

France is not a strong political force. n81 Election results, however, have

proven quite the opposite as the French far right has gained increasing

popularity at  [*1122]  every electoral level: municipal, regional, national,

and even on the greater European scale. n82 With this lean towards the right,

the stance against immigrants has become increasingly tough as political

parties, particularly the National Front, go to such extremes as blaming all of

the country's societal evils on immigration. n83 The National Front claims that;

(1) immigrants continue to flock to France, (2) immigration and crime are

practically synonymous, (3) immigrants are a major cause of unemployment, and

finally, (4) immigrant workers are a drain on the French economy. n84



   Proponents of the Sarkozy Law claim it is needed to curb illegal immigration

into the country. n85 Those who push for tighter controls on immigration claim

that illegal immigrants displace lower-skilled citizens, depress wages by

working for less pay, and neutralize other market forces that would cause wages

to rise. n86 However, often immigrants are performing the jobs that native-born

citizens do not want to do, perhaps in areas where there is a shortage of labor.

n87 "Foreign workers lacking legal status normally take jobs which are at the

bottom of the social ladder. These jobs, which typically involve low wages, tend

to be temporary, and where working conditions are harsh, unpleasant, often

unsafe, and fail to comply with labor legislation." n88 In this position, the

employer subjects the immigrant employees to situations where, because they fear

discovery, they will not notify the authorities of abuses. It is in these

circumstances that immigrants will work for less pay, longer hours, and without

benefits. n89



   It is not only the willingness of immigrants to work under less favorable

conditions that worries some people, but also their mere presence causes

economic concerns. "The availability of unskilled legal and illegal immigrants

lowers the pace of structural adjustment and technical progress, adversely

affecting the economy's competitive position in the international market." n90

Despite this argument, "the host country's opportunity cost of  [*1123]  using

foreign labor is often one-tenth of the going domestic wage, due to barriers to

international migration and to trade in goods and services that are highly

intensive in the use of unskilled labor." n91 In a sense, the availability of

cheap labor serves as an incentive to entrepreneurs looking to start new

businesses while reducing their risk, and this works to promote economic growth,

investment, and a competitive market. n92 Looking into the future, illegal

immigrants taking low-level jobs provides an impetus for natives to seek more

rewarding employment, which propels them from the "dead-end jobs," creating a

positive long-term effect. n93



   Anti-immigration supporters also put forth the argument that illegal

immigrants use the country's social welfare programs without contributing to

welfare funds. n94 However, what often goes unsaid is that in most countries,

illegal aliens are excluded from any type of public benefit. n95 Historically, a

large number of the immigrants in France are young males n96 who do not make use

of public services as would a family. The concern may be that immigrants are not

contributing to the social welfare system what they take out. Yet, it has been

shown that even if illegal immigrants do not pay taxes directly, "their

activities generate enough extra income for the natives ... [that it] is

sufficient to cover the cost of public services enjoyed by the illegal aliens."

n97



   The arguments that are being made do not justify a change in the law to

further restrict immigration. From 1999 to 2002, the number of immigrants

dropped steadily; less than 50,000 immigrants entered France in 2001. n98 In

terms of joblessness, immigrants have a 20 percent unemployment rate, while the

national average stands at around 10 percent. n99



[*1124]



   Figure 1: Unemployment n100



   [SEE FIGURE 1 IN ORIGINAL]



   Even though unemployment levels decreased during the 1990s, particularly

after the relaxation of immigration laws in 1998, since 2000 there has been an

incremental rise in the percentage of those who are unemployed, and this is

getting the attention of the French. n101



   Those who claim that restricting the number of immigrants allowed into France

will eliminate unemployment among French citizens do not take into account the

consistent labor shortages that exist in certain fields. n102 For example, "the

shortage of house painters is so acute in France that an industry association

went on a road show through the French countryside earlier this year to try to

persuade young people to join the craft." n103 An article presented at the 2000

Annual Meeting of the Population Association of America found that "advanced

countries are for the first time facing the  [*1125]  problem of falling labour

supply, as new technologies create a demand for skilled labour and as ageing and

affluent lifestyles require servicing by unskilled or lowly skilled workers."

n104



   The belief that immigrants take jobs away from French citizens and affect the

French economy is being promulgated by far right groups such as the French

National Front. n105 National Front Leader Jean-Marie Le Pen's popular saying

that has represented the far right view on immigrants and unemployment is "one

million unemployed is one million immigrants too many," n106 denoting the

sentiment that immigrants are taking over jobs and leaving French citizens

unemployed. However, the doubly high rate of unemployment among immigrants

versus national citizens, as well as an examination of the types of jobs that

many immigrants end up doing, indicates that this is not the case.



   The hardship placed on all immigrants in the employment sector is evidenced

by the fact that in France, more than fifty professions are closed to non-EU

citizens: pharmacists, midwives, architects, airline pilots, funeral home

directors, and anyone who wants to obtain a license to sell tobacco or alcohol,

to name a few. n107 Also, certain corporations do not hire non-EU citizens, such

as Electricite de France, while others such as the French railroad, the SNCF,

hire some foreigners, but do so for less pay and less benefits. n108 By

maintaining these professions and particular businesses as employment for French

nationals/EU citizens alone, the market is purposefully discriminating against

immigrants by not allowing them to compete on a fair level. These barriers are

advantageous to French citizens, not harmful.



   Despite all the negative emphasis placed on immigration, there is actually

evidence that, given the aging population of Europe, immigrant labor will be

needed. With population levels as they stand today, France would "have to embark

upon a larger-scale immigration programme in order to maintain their labour

supply levels." n109 Projections for the year 2050 show an aging population

where it is estimated that more than one out of every three  [*1126]  people

will be over the age of sixty, compared with one in five in 2000. n110 The

International Organization of Migration's Mission Chief in Vienna, Irena

Vojackova-Sollorano, says that there will be room for both the qualified

professionals and the unskilled workers that wish to immigrate. "When you look

at the job openings that are all over Europe, even when we have local

unemployment, there are low-level jobs which are never filled, because nobody

wants to do them, in Europe." n111 Even though the tide seems to pull against

allowing immigration, the French Social and Economic Council warns against

strong restrictions stating, "Taking account of the identified and foreseeable

needs of our economy, open our borders to an economically controlled and

organized immigration." n112



   The inability to work in France is not the only hardship that immigrants

face. They are further disadvantaged within the entirety of the European Union

because the much-proclaimed "free movement of people" does not apply to them.

n113 If a third country national receives a permit to work in Belgium, that

permit may not be valid in the other EU Member States because he is not an EU

citizen. n114 This is despite the agreement that "Member States will foster the

integration of people facing particular difficulties on the labour market, such

as ... immigrants, and ethnic minorities, by developing their employability,

increasing job opportunities and preventing all forms of discrimination against

them." n115



   B. Societal Justifications?



 In addition to being blamed for France's high unemployment rate, immigrants are

also being blamed for the rising crime rate. The National Front has many

supporters in urban areas where idealistic rural imagery and  [*1127]  the hope

for a quiet retirement have been erased by increasing numbers of people living

and being forced to retire in crowded housing complexes. n116 Since the 1970s,

there has been a marked rise in crime in urban areas, which has increased

insecurity among French urbanites. n117 As a matter of fact, crime throughout

France is on the rise--between 1975 and 2000 crime rose 97 percent. n118 Between

1975 and 1998, the number of thefts rose from 1,233,000 to 2,305,000--a nearly

100 percent increase. n119 The number of assaults rose from 87,700 in 1975 to

230,023 in 1998, a nearly four-fold augmentation. n120 Even though overall crime

rates decreased in the mid-to late nineties, crime in France is on the rise

again. n121



[*1128]



   Figure 2: Crime



   [SEE FIGURE 2 IN ORIGINAL]



   The backlash against immigration makes sense given that the issues raised by

the far right prey upon the fact that the numbers of immigrants coming into

France, especially from the Maghreb region of North Africa, create a more

visible immigrant and a better scapegoat for social ills. n122 The general

sentiment is the following:







   The French have never liked immigrants, and for a long time have nourished a

particular hostility toward those who came from the Maghreb... . It isn't the

(economic) "crisis" that has created racism and xenophobia... . Economic

difficulties have simply reactivated latent feelings in French society. n123



 It seems the fear of immigration and the perceived social effects that are

perpetuated by the arrival of those who are non-French, and more generally

non-European, is also linked to a concern over loss of identity. This anxiety is

heightened by the fact that the general population in France has approximately

2.4 children per couple, while immigrants have approximately 3.2 children per

couple. Those immigrants coming from the Maghreb region have approximately 4.5

children per couple. n124 This amplifies the xenophobic  [*1129]  fear among the

native population that immigrants are overtaking their country and culture. n125



   Nationalism is another strong motivating force behind the National Front's

attack on immigration. The party feels that the fact that just about anyone can

become a naturalized French citizen is artificial and a travesty to all that

which those of French blood have worked so hard to maintain. n126 The

culmination of this sentiment has been put forth by the National Front in its

denunciation of immigration:







   There are actually more than 3 million foreigners in France and more than

half of them are from North Africa. Out of 800,000 children that are born each

day, 200,000 are of non-French parents... . These numbers announce danger... .

It is not tolerable that our country's goods be open to good for nothings, to

cretins, to delinquents, to criminals. It is not tolerable that insecurity

reigns in so many neighborhoods or that shopkeepers live with worry, or that

aggression is an everyday occurrence or that it is dangerous for a woman to be

out alone after dark. It is also not tolerable that our social budget and

hospitals are dilapidated to the profit of undesirables. To these growing

perils, only one solution: the strict surveillance on the borders of candidates

for immigration who will have to submit to a triple control - sanitary,

professional and judicial. Only one punishment for the breach of the rules of

hospitality: the immediate expulsion by administrative measures. n127



  [*1130]



   C. The French Voice Against Immigration



 The French people made their sentiments toward the social and economic

conditions heard in the primary presidential election in 2002. The National

Front candidate, Jean-Marie Le Pen, received enough votes to beat out Lionel

Jospin and become one of the two contenders in the final election along with

President Jacques Chirac. n128 Le Pen received the majority vote in thirty-six

departments, n129 and while he came out ahead of Jospin by less than 1 percent,

he was only 3 percent behind Chirac. n130 In the end, to the relief of many,

Chirac won by a landslide 72 percent. Despite this victory, the fact that Le Pen

received a greater majority in the final election than in the preliminary is

often glossed over. n131 It is clear that the extreme right is gaining in

popularity among French citizens and that its immigration program is one of the

reasons.



   The Sarkozy Law is just one way that the xenophobic vision of the far right

is coming to fruition. The law regarding the control of immigration does not

limit itself to controlling the borders, but instead it continues to reinforce

the suspicion surrounding immigrants, while weakening the ability to stay for

those immigrants who are already on French soil. n132 The fact that certain

restrictions exempt EU nationals as well as other developed country nationals

(i.e. United States, Japan) demonstrates that the desire to curb immigration is

pointed toward particular groups; specifically those individuals emigrating from

North Africa, and more generally those coming from elsewhere on the African

continent. n133



   The veiling of these xenophobic tendencies in the shroud of an immigration

law "designed to combat illegal immigration" cannot be justified  [*1131]  under

international antidiscrimination laws. n134 The European Union as a whole has

been working collectively to tighten borders and restrict immigration, but this

does not mean that France was justified in enacting the Sarkozy Law. n135 While

the French felt that "the nightmare" was over when Jacques Chirac was elected

president over the National Front's Le Pen, the passage of this law creates an

atmosphere where another nightmare may begin.



   V. How the Sarkozy Law Conforms to EU Law



 Immigration affects all European countries and the traditional lines between a

sending country and a receiving country are blurring, so that now many countries

are a bit of both. n136 There are nineteen million immigrants in the European

Union and thirteen million of these individuals originated from outside the

European Union. n137 In regards to a common immigration policy, there are

conflicting interests both within the individual states and between the states

as members of the Union. n138 Every state wishes to maintain sovereignty over

their immigration policy, while within each state labor unions, employers, and

non-governmental organizations push in various directions. n139



   The European Union has been collectively pushing for measures designed to

control the flow of immigration across the external borders of the European

Union. In the area of its common foreign and security policy, there has been a

push to "develop proposals to ensure integrated management of Member States'

external frontiers and a joint approach to matters such as asylum and

immigration, as part of their efforts to create an area of freedom, security and

justice." n140 As a member of the European Union, France is working to fight

illegal immigration on a broader European scale by working with the governments

of the G5 (England, France, Germany, Italy, and Spain). n141  [*1132]  Their

goal is to create a security zone along the Mediterranean coasts of France,

Italy, and Spain to act as a buffer against the North African countries of

Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. n142 In addition, EU members are following in the

footsteps of many other migrant-receiving countries in an effort to enhance

border control measures by improving border control along the external frontiers

of prospective EU Member States, increasing surveillance at airports, and

implementing improvements in coastal surveillance. n143



   The restrictions that these moves implement extend beyond the average

immigrant and filter through to those who seek asylum. Many countries have

changed perspectives regarding asylum seekers, claiming that the majority of

them are "economic refugees" and not individuals seeking refuge as a result of

persecution. n144 Under this guise, countries have been tightening the

conditions under which a person can request asylum, while processing

applications and appeals more quickly. n145 "In the majority of the OECD

countries, application for asylum is now restricted to persons that (i) come

from countries that have not signed the UN Convention on Refugees and the UN

Convention on Human Rights, and ... (ii) have not passed through a country that

has signed both conventions." n146 In the European Union, agreements have been

made that determine which member state is responsible for any given asylum

application. An application can only be submitted to one Member State, which

prevents an individual from seeking asylum in more than one country. n147 In

addition, the European Union has put forth the possibility that an application

for asylum may be determined to be "manifestly unfounded" if the applicant is

from a country that poses no acute risk of persecution, or if the individual has

been transited through a third country that may have provided protection. n148



   The actions that France, with the Sarkozy Law, and other EU members are

taking seem inconsistent with general EU policy. In a 1996 Resolution on respect

for human rights, the European Parliament noted the extent to which immigrants

are being repressed and called upon Member States to work  [*1133]  toward a

system which would give immigrants more rights. n149 Creating restrictive

immigration laws that deny immigrants even fundamental human rights, such as the

right to family and the right to marriage, and attempting to bar entry into the

European Union for both immigrants and asylum seekers seems inconsistent with

this stated goal.



   VI. The Sarkozy Law as a Discriminatory Tool Against Immigrants



 France, as a member of the international community, has signed on to, and is

expected to follow, a variety of basic human rights documents that propose

equality in treatment for all people, regardless of race or ethnicity. The

projected consequences of the Sarkozy Law will go against many of the purposes

and objectives of these very tenets. While the law appears to be facially

neutral in that it does not invoke references to any particular group,  [*1134]

it has a disproportionately negative and discriminatory effect on African

immigrants. After having promised to uphold human rights and refrain from

discriminatory practices, the French government essentially turns away from

these obligations when the consequences of the Sarkozy Law come under analysis.



   One of the primary and most fundamental documents of international human

rights law is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which France

adopted in December of 1948. n150 The UDHR recognizes "inherent dignity and ...

equal and inalienable rights [for] all members of the human family." n151 In

declaring such rights, the UDHR puts forth a basic standard of human rights that

applies to all individuals regardless of race, ethnicity, or citizenship status.

n152 While immigrants are not specifically named in the Declaration, it can be

understood that the inclusive language within the preamble and the articles

covers immigrants. The UDHR addresses issues that relate specifically to the

situation of immigrants, such as equal protection before the law, n153 freedom

from "arbitrary arrest, detention or exile," n154 the right to an open and fair

hearing, n155 the right to a nationality, n156 the right to freedom of movement,

n157 and the right to seek asylum in another country. n158 While the UDHR does

not have binding character, as it is merely a declaration and not a treaty

agreement, the trend  [*1135]  as time passes is to ascribe a legally binding

quality to many of the articles since acceptance of the Declaration has been

recurrent and uncontested. n159



   In addition to its role as a member of the international community, as an EU

Member State, France has a responsibility to follow the doctrines and

foundational principles of the European Union. This includes an obligation to

work toward EU resolutions including "condemnation of all forms of racism,

xenophobia ... [and] acts of racist discrimination as regards access to

employment, vocational training, housing, schooling, health and access to social

services." n160 The European Parliament recognizes that discrimination is a

problem n161 and passes resolutions against it in an effort to ameliorate the

situation. Regardless, France has created an immigration law that circumvents

the actual issue of discrimination, and facially appears to fall within the set

guidelines.



   The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental

Freedoms as Amended by Protocol 11 (European Convention) guarantees many rights:

the right to life; n162 freedom from torture, inhuman, or degrading treatment;

n163 the right to liberty and security; n164 the right to respect for private

and family life; n165 the right to marry and found a family; n166 and most

importantly the prohibition of discrimination "on any ground such as sex, race,

colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social

origin, association with a national minority, property, birth or other status."

n167 The only limitation on the European Convention is that it "is based on a

collective guarantee of individual rights ... [and] does not extend  [*1136]

further than formal equality and does not impose any affirmative duties on

signatory Nations." n168



   Taking into consideration the obligations placed on France by the

international community, as well as the conditions placed upon it as a result of

its membership in the European Union, it seems that France is acting against the

stated goals and objectives that it has agreed to uphold. The Sarkozy Law places

into effect a restrictive immigration law that, when looked at in terms of its

consequences on various groups of people, will have a negative effect on

immigrants, especially those from North Africa. Violations of basic human rights

and policies of equality are apparent when the law is applied, even if it is not

clear from the text of the law. While this contravention seems to follow the

norm of what is currently happening within the European Union, this does not

make it a justifiable action under European and international human rights and

antidiscrimination law.



   VII. Conclusion



 The Sarkozy Law, which was passed in France in November 2003, should be a cause

of concern for the international community. It restricts the freedom of the

individual in various capacities and creates more barriers to the successful

entry into French society as a card-holding resident. While the French

government and the law's supporters claim that it is the necessary next step in

order to create economic stability and social harmony, they seem to point to the

most visible scapegoat, African immigrants. North African immigrants in

particular do not fit the mold of the classic European in their race, their

ethnicity, or, many times, their religious practice. While the law appears to be

facially neutral, the disparate impact on those immigrants who are different

from the traditional Caucasian, Christian European manifests that the truth is

otherwise.



   The Sarkozy Law may fit into the current trend of the European Union in terms

of a common immigration policy, yet it contravenes the beliefs and ideals that

have been put down on paper in human rights agreements and antidiscrimination

legislation. The law will only fuel the current problems with racial and ethnic

discrimination between Europeans and non-European (particularly North African)

immigrants. In addition, the law's consequences work against the human rights

doctrines that France is required to follow as a signatory party. The passage of

the Sarkozy Law can only mean an increase in ethnic tensions between the French

and non-European immigrants, as well as a broadening of the mentality that

ethnic discrimination is acceptable because the law permits it.





Legal Topics:



For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:

Family LawMarriageCertificates & LicensesGeneral OverviewImmigration LawAsylum &

Related ReliefGeneral OverviewInternational LawSovereign States &

IndividualsAsylum



FOOTNOTES:









n1.  Pascal Perrineau, The Conditions for the Re-emergence of an Extreme Right

Wing in France: the National Front, 1948-98, in The Development of the Radical

Right in France: From Boulanger to Le Pen 253, 253 (Edward J. Arnold ed. &

trans., 2000).











n2.  Assemblee Nationale [National Assembly], Projet de Loi Relatif a la

Maitrise de l'Immigration, au Sejour des Etrangers en France et a la Nationalite

[Proposed Law Relating to the Control of Immigration, the Stay of Foreigners in

France and Nationality] [hereinafter Proposed Immigration Law].











n3.  Id. art. 5.











n4.  Id. art. 10.











n5.  Law No. 2003-1119 of Nov. 26, 2003, J.O., Nov. 27, 2003, p. 20136 (Fr.),

available at http://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/WAspad/UnTexteDeJorf?numjo=INTX030004

0L (last visited Mar. 3, 2005).











n6.  The "double penalty" system consists of the expulsion of a foreigner to his

or her native country after he or she has already served a prison sentence for a

crime committed. The banishment from French territory can be for a specified

duration of time or infinite. Senat, La Double Peine [The Double Penalty], Les

Documents de Travail du Senat: Serie Legislation Comparee [The Working Papers of

the Senate: Comparative Legislation Series], Feb. 1-2, 2003, available at

http://www.senat.fr/lc/lc117/lc117.pdf (last visited Jan. 24, 2005).



   The use of the "double penalty" system has been specifically denounced in a

resolution by the European Parliament: "the expulsion by certain Member States

of non-Community residents who have been sentenced and have completed their

sentences amounts to punishing a person twice for the same crime; calls on the

Member States to eliminate any possibility of this practice." Eur. Par.,

Resolution on Respect for Human Rights in the European Union art. 17 (1996),

available at http://www.proasyl.de/folien/eu-hr/eu-rese.htm (last visited Jan.

24, 2005) [hereinafter 1996 Resolution].











n7.  Ministere de l'Interieur [Ministry of the Interior], Les Objectifs du

Projet de Loi sur l'Immigration [The Objectives of the Proposed Law on

Immigration], Apr. 30, 2003, at

http://www.interieur.gouv.fr/rubriques/c/c2_le_ministere/c21&us

core;actualite/2003_04_30_pl_immig (last visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n8.  Jon Henley, Crime the Leading Issue for French Voters, Guardian (London),

Mar. 14, 2002, available at

http://www.guardian.co.uk/print/0,3858,4374398-205806,00.html (last visited Jan.

24, 2005).











n9.  Bloomberg, French Unemployment is Highest in Almost Three Years (Update 2),

Bloomberg.com, May 30, 2003, available at

http://quote.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid= 10000006&sid=ad22CNl39GIo&refer=home

(last visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n10.  Michael Radu, The French Election: Earthquake, Fascism, or Wake-up Call?,

Foreign Policy Research Institute Bulletin, May 3, 2002, at

http://www.fpri.org/enotes/ europe.20020503.radu.frenchelection.html (last

visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n11.  Institut National d'Etudes Demographiques [National Institute for

Demographic Study], Flux d'Immigration d'Etrangers Depuis 1994 [Flux of Foreign

Immigration Since 1994], at

http://www.ined.fr/population-en-chiffres/france/index.html (last visited Jan.

24, 2005).











n12.  Slobodan Djajic, Illegal Immigration Trends, Policies And Economic

Effects, in International Migration: Trends, Policies and Economic Impact 137,

139 (Slobodan Djajic ed., 2001).











n13.  Brigitte Serfaty, France, in Entry and Residence in Europe: Business Guide

to Immigration Rules 103, 104 (Paul Gulbenkia & Tad Badoux eds., 1997).











n14.  Djajic, supra note 12, at 139.











n15.  Maitriser les Flux Migratoires [Controlling the Migratory Flux],

Alsapresse, Apr. 29, 2003, available at

http://www.alsapresse.com/jdj/03/04/29/IGF/article_6.html (last visited Jan. 15,

2005).











n16.  Proposed Immigration Law, supra note 2.











n17.  University College London, French Legal News, Nov. 2003, at

http://www.ucl.ac.uk/laws/ global_law/legal-news/french/index.shtml?archive

(last visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n18.  Viepublique.fr, Les Modifications de l'Ordonnance du 2 Novembre 1945

[Modifications to the November 2, 1945 Ordinance] (2003), at

http://www.vie-publique.fr/dossier_polpublic/immigration/legislation/

modifordonnce45.shtml (last visited Jan. 15, 2005) [hereinafter Modifications].











n19.  Vaiju Naravane, Europe's Right Turn, Frontline, May 25-June 7, 2002,

available at http://www.frontlineonnet.com/fl1911/19110570.htm (last visited

Jan. 15, 2005).











n20.  Proposed Immigration Law, supra note 2, art. 2.











n21.  Id. art. 5.











n22.  France to Fingerprint Tourist Visa Applicants, BBC News.com, Apr. 30, 2003

available at http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/2989637.stm (last visited

Jan. 24, 2005) [hereinafter France to Fingerprint].











n23.  See generally Proposed Immigration Law, supra note 2.











n24.  Id. art. 10.











n25.  Id.











n26.  Assemblee Nationale [National Assembly], Compte Rendu du Conseil des

Ministres [Report on the Advice of the Ministers], Apr. 30, 2003, at

http://www.assemblee-nat.fr/12/dossiers/immigration.asp#conseil (last visited

Jan. 24, 2005) [hereinafter Ministers' Report].







   La connaissance de la langue francaise, le suivi d'une formation

professionnelle ou encore la participation a la vie locale et associative. Elle

constituera une incitation majeure au suivi du contrat d'accueil et

d'integration qui va etre mis en place progressivement et generalise a compter

du 1er janvier 2005. Le stade ultime de l'integration demeurera l'acquisition de

la nationalite.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n27.  Proposed Immigration Law, supra note 2, arts. 11, 35.











n28.  Id.











n29.  Id. art. 35.











n30.  Sylvia Zappi, Immigration: Le Virage A Droite [Immigration: The Move To

The Right], Le Monde, Apr. 28, 2003, available at

http://www.in-nocence.org/pages/parti/revuedepresse/ immigration.html (last

visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n31.  M. Thierry Mariani, Assemblee National Debats Parlementaires [National

Assembly Parliamentary Debates] (July 10, 2003), in Journal Officiel de la

Republique Francaise [Official Journal of the French Republic], available at

http://www.assemblee-nationale.fr/ 12/cri/2002-2003-extra/20031018.asp#TopOfPage

(last visited Jan. 15, 2005).







   La commission est radicalement opposee a cet amendement. Notre collegue

demande que l'on interdise le mariage des personnes en situation irreguliere.

C'est contraire aux decisions de 1993 et de 1997 du Conseil constitutionnel sur

la liberte matrimoniale, et, de surcroit, on violerait l'article 12 de la

Convention europeenne des droits de l'homme.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n32.  Proposed Immigration Law, supra note 2, art. 36.











n33.  Id. art. 37.











n34.  Id.











n35.  Conseil Constitutionnel, Loi Relative a la Maitrise de l'Immigration, au

Sejour des Etrangers en France et a la Nationalite [Law Relating to the Control

of Immigration, the Stay of Foreigners in France and Nationality], Decision n

[degrees] 2003-484 DC, Nov. 20, 2003 available at

http://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/decision/2003/2003484/2003484dc.h tm (last

visited Jan. 24, 2005). Olivier Pognon, Le Conseil Constitutionnel Corrige a la

Marge la Loi sur l'Immigration [The Constitution Council Marginally Corrects The

Law On Immigration], Le Figaro (Paris), Nov. 22, 2003.











n36.  Olivia Marsaud, France: Les Clandestins en Ligne de Mire - la Nouvelle Loi

sur l'Immigration [France: The Clandestines in the Line of Sight - the New Law

on Immigration], Journal Paris, July 11, 2003, available at

http://www.afrik.com/article6353.html (last visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n37.  Noel Mamere, Assemblee National Debats Parlementaires [National Assembly

Parliamentary Debates] (July 4, 2003), in Journal Officiel de la Republique

Francaise [Official Journal of the French Republic], available at

http://www.assemblee-nationale.fr/12/cri/2002-2003-extra/20031009.asp #TopOfPage

(last visited Jan. 24, 2005).







   [L]'immigre aurait pour obsession de detourner les lois de notre Republique.

La fraude deviendrait la regle et l<acute>honnetete l'exception... . Cette

perception de l'immigration entretient les prejuges, les fantasmes et les

phobies d'une partie de l'opinion.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n38.  Marsuad, supra note 36.











n39.  Claire Rodier (GISTI), France-The New Immigration Law, Melting Pot, Nov.

11, 2003, at http://www.meltingpot.org/articolo1336.html (last visited Jan. 15,

2005).











n40.  Loi Sarkozy: Precarisation Generalisee des Etrangers [Sarkozy Law: General

Instability of Foreigners], Democratie & Socialisme [Democracy & Socialism],

July 12, 2003, at http://www.democratie-socialisme.org/breve.php3?id_breve=43

(last visited Jan. 24, 2005).







   Vont fragiliser les familles et creer des situations dramatiques. Cette

precarisation des parents et des conjoints ne peut guere faciliter leur

integration, au contraire, elle pesera sur les plus faibles, a savoir les femmes

immigrees et leurs enfants.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n41.  Proposed Immigration Law, supra note 2, art. 27.











n42.  The DOM-TOM regions comprise France's overseas departments and

territories. They became attached to France during the Sixteenth Century and

include Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guyana, and La Reunion, all of which have

the same administrative status as the departments of mainland France. Also

included are New-Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna, French Austral

and Antarctic territories, Mayotte, and Saint Pierre and Miquelon which have

their own special administrative status as territories of France. See generally

Ministere de l'Outre-Mer [Overseas Ministry], Decouvrir l'Outre Mer [Discover

Overseas], at http://www.outre-mer.gouv.fr/outremer/front (last visited Jan. 24,

2005).











n43.  Charlotte Rotman, Quand Le Travail Devient Un Delit [When Work Becomes A

Crime], Liberation, Oct. 8, 2003, available at

http://petition.gisti.ovg/manifeste/oldies/03-10-08libe.pdf (last visited Jan.

24, 2005).











n44.  Conseil Constitutionnel [Constitutional Council], Consolidation des Textes

Modifies par la Loi Maitrise de l'Immigration, Sejour des Etrangers en France et

Nationalite Apres Decision du Conseil [Consolidation of Texts Modified by the

Law to Control Immigration, the Stay of Foreigners in France and Nationality

After the Decision by the Council], art. 22, at 31, at

http://www.gisti.org/dossiers/reformes/2003-entree-sejour/lex.pdf (last visited

Jan. 24, 2005).











n45.  Senat [The Senate], Projet de Loi Relatif a la Maitrise de l'Immigration,

au Sejour des Etrangers en France et a la Nationalite [Proposed Law Relating to

the Control of Immigration, the Stay of Foreigners in France and Nationality],

8th Ordinary Sess. 2003-2004, Oct. 28, 2003, art. 34, at

http://www.senat.fr/leg/tas03-008.html (last visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n46.  Marsaud, supra note 36.











n47.  Proposed Immigration Law, supra note 2, art. 35(9).











n48.  Assemblee Nationale [National Assembly], Motion de Renvoi en Commission

[Motion to Resend to the Commission], 1st Sess., July 8, 2003, at

http://www.assemblee-nationale.fr/12/cra/2002-2003-extra/014.asp (last visited

Jan. 24, 2005). "Le dispositif que vous proposez est si complexe qu'il sera

inintelligible, surtout pour les premiers interesses, les immigres." Id.

(author's translation in text).











n49.  Id.







   Le Gouvernement a lance un programme d'integration des immigres dont ce

projet de loi dement a la fois les intentions et les objectifs. Vous nous avez

parle d'une reforme d'ensemble de l'asile ... et d'une reforme de l'immigration,

pour "restaurer une approche sereine et depassionnee' de la question. Il s'agit

en fait d'une machine de guerre qui conjugue vielles ficelles et innovations

dangereuses.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n50.  Senat [Senate], Immigration-Audition de M. Nicolas Sarkozy, Ministre de

l'Interieur, de la Securite Interieure et des Libertes Locales,

[Immigration-Hearing of Mr. Nicolas Sarkozy, Minister of the Interior, of

National Security and Domestic Freedoms], Sept. 30, 2003, at

http://www.senat.fr/commission/loi/lois031006.html#toc1 (last visited Jan. 24,

2005).



   "... en raison de sa resonance politique et sociale." Id. (author's

translation in text).











n51.  Id.











n52.  Id.











n53.  Confederation Francaise Democratique du Travail [The Democratic French

Confederation on Work], Entree et Sejour des Etrangers en France: Les Actes

Contredisent le Discourse [Entrance and Stay of Foreigners in France: The Acts

Contradict the Discourse], at

http://www.cfdt.fr/actualite/societe/discriminations/archives/

discriminations_0005.htm (last visited Feb. 17, 2005).







   En effet, le gouvernement d'un cote, prone un discours d'accueil plus

dynamique et de promotion de l'integration des migrants dans notre societe

auquel nous souscrivons pleinement car c'est la bonne approche ... . Il jette la

suspicion sur chaque etranger ... . Les actes contredisent le discours.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n54.  Id.







   La ligne conductrice de ce projet de loi est basee sur la suspicion de

fraude. C'est une ligne tres dangereuse qui ... risque de designer a tort

l'immigration comme responsable du climat d'insecurite ou des problemes

economiques actuels. Alors que les causes sont evidemment plus complexes et que

la solution ne surgira pas d'une nouvelle loi sur l'immigration.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n55.  Serfaty, supra note 13, at 103.











n56.  Id.











n57.  Id.











n58.  Id.











n59.  Id.











n60.  Brigitte Hardy, Droit de la Nationalite: Historique [The Nationality Law:

History], at http://www.ac-rouen.fr/pedagogie/equipes/ecjs/droit_de_la

_nationalite.htm (last visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n61.  Id.











n62.  Serfaty, supra note 13, at 104.











n63.  Hardy, supra note 60.











n64.  Id.











n65.  Modifications, supra note 18.











n66.  Hardy, supra note 60.











n67.  Id.











n68.  Id.











n69.  Modifications, supra note 18.











n70.  Hardy, supra note 60.











n71.  Id.











n72.  Id.











n73.  Id.











n74.  Modifications, supra note 18.











n75.  Hardy, supra note 60.











n76.  Id.











n77.  Id.











n78.  Id.











n79.  Id.











n80.  Hardy, supra note 60.











n81.  Edward G. Declair, Politics on the Fringe: The People, Policies, and

Organization of the French National Front 11 (1999).











n82.  Id. at 80.











n83.  See generally Declair, supra note 81, at 12.











n84.  Jonathan Marcus, The National Front and French Politics 73 (1995).











n85.  Ministers' Report, supra note 26.











n86.  Djajic, supra note 12, at 153.











n87.  Thomas Fuller, Foreign Workers Face Turning Tide, Int'l Herald Trib., Dec.

24, 2002, available at http://www.iht.com/articles/81250.html (last visited Jan.

15, 2005).











n88.  Djajic, supra note 12, at 155.











n89.  Id. at 156.











n90.  Id. at 153.











n91.  Id.











n92.  Id. at 156.











n93.  Djajic, supra note 12, at 157.











n94.  Id. at 154.











n95.  Id.











n96.  Ministere des Affaires Etrangeres [Ministry of Foreign Affairs], Une

Vieille Terre d'Immigration [Long Tradition of Immigration], at

http://www.france.diplomatie.fr/france/gb/ geo/popu03.html (last visited Jan.

24, 2005).











n97.  Djajic, supra note 12, at 154.











n98.  Naravene, supra note 19.











n99.  Id.











n100.  Institut National de la Statistique et des Etudes Economiques [National

Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies], Monthly Unemployment Rate (ILO

definition) by Gender and Age (%), available at

http://www.insee.fr/fr/indicateur/indic_conj/donnees/ sl_chomage.xls (last

visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n101.  Id.











n102.  Fuller, supra note 87.











n103.  Id.











n104.  Jan Niessen, Overlapping Interests and Conflicting Agendas, 3 Eur. J.

Migration & L. 419, 432 (2001).











n105.  Harvey G. Simmons, The French National Front: The Extremist Challenge to

Democracy 79 (1996).











n106.  Marcus, supra note 84, at 36.











n107.  Fuller, supra note 87.











n108.  Id.











n109.  Niessen, supra note 104, at 433.











n110.  Communique de Presse [Press Release] INSEE, Economie et Statistique (Dec.

12, 2002), available at http://www.insee.fr/fr/ppp/comm_presse/comm/

cpes355356.pdf (last visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n111.  Breffni O'Rourke, EU Immigration Controls May Not Solve Problem, EU

Business, Aug. 2, 2001, at http://www.eubusiness.com/imported/2001/08/54513

(last visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n112.  Charlotte Rotman, L'Immigration, Un Besoin Pour l'Economie [Immigration,

A Necessity For The Economy], Liberation, Oct. 28, 2003, available at

http://www.liberation.fr/ page.php?Article=153124 (last visited Jan. 24, 2005).

"Ouvrir, compte tenu des besoins identifies ou previsibles de notre economie,

nos frontieres a une immigration economique maitrisee et organisee." Id.

(author's translation in text).











n113.  Id. (author's translation in text).











n114.  Id.











n115.  Council Decision 2003/578/EC, 2003 O.J. (L 197) Guidelines for the

Employment Policies of the Member States, available at http://europa.eu.int/

smartapi/cgi/sga_doc?smartapi!celexapi!prod! CELEXnumdoc&lg=

EN&numdoc=32003D0578&model=guichett (last visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n116.  Perrineau, supra note 1, at 262.











n117.  Id. at 263.











n118.  J.F.O. McAllister, A Shock to the System, Time, Nov. 24, 2002 available

at http://www.time.com/time/europe/magazine/2002/1202/crime/story.html (last

visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n119.  Sebastian Roche, La Delinquance De 1975 <grav A> 2000: Evolutions Des

Chiffres Et Des Concepts [Criminality From 1975 to 2000: Evolutions of Numbers

and of Concepts], at

http://www.upmf-grenoble.fr/cerat/Recherche/PagesPerso/Roche_SH

_La_delinqunce.html (last visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n120.  Id.











n121.  Ministere de l'Interieure et des Libertes Locales, Direction General de

la Police National [Ministry of the Interior and Local Freedoms, General

Direction of the National Police], Crimes et Delits Constates en France en 2002

par les Services de Police et Unites de Gendarmerie: Chiffres Definitifs [Crimes

and offenses Recorded in France in 2002 by the Police Services and Police Force

: Final Numbers], at

http://www.interieur.gouv.fr/rubriques/c/c3_police_nationale/c31

_actualites/2003_01_13_delinquance/conference.p df (last visited Jan. 15, 2005).











n122.  Perrineau, supra note 1, at 263-64.











n123.  Simmons, supra note 105, at 72 (internal quotation omitted).











n124.  Charlotte Rotman, La Vie Familiale Des Immigres Radiographiee Par l'Insee

[The Family Life Of Immigrants Examined By Insee], Liberation, Oct. 30, 2003,

available at http://www.liberation.fr/page.php?Article=153766 (last visited Nov.

3, 2003).











n125.  Id.











n126.  Jean-Marie Le Pen, Les Francais d'Abord [The French First] 75 (1984).











n127.  Jean-Christophe Cambadelis & Eric Osmond, La France Blafarde [The Waning

France] 93 (1998).







   Il y a actuellement plus de 3 millions d'etrangers en France dont plus de la

moitie appartiennent a la seule Afrique du Nord. Sur 800 000 enfants qui

naissent chaque jour, 200 000 le sont de peres et de meres etrangers... . Ces

chiffres annoncent le danger... . Il n'est pas tolerable que notre pays soit

devenu ouvert aux bons a rien, aux tares, aux delinquants, aux criminels. Il

n'est pas tolerable que l'insecurite regne dans tant de quartiers ou les

commercants vivent dans l'inquietude, ou les agressions sont quotidiennes ou il

est dangereux pour une femme de sortir seule a la tombee de la nuit. Il n'est

pas non plus tolerable que notre budget social et hospitalier soit dilapide au

profit des indesirables. A ces perils croissants, une seule solution: la stricte

surveillance aux frontieres des candidats a l'immigration enfin soumis a un

triple controle-sanitaire, professionnel et judiciaire. Une seule sanction aux

manquements aux regles de l'hospitalite: l'expulsion immediate par mesure

administrative.



 Id. (author's translation in text).











n128.  Conseil Constitutionnel [Constitutional Council], Election Presidentielle

2002, Resultats du 1er Tour - 21 Avril 2002 [Presidential Election 2002, Results

from the April 21, 2002 Primary], available at

http://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/dossier/

presidentielles/2002/documents/tour1/resultat1.htm (last visited Jan. 24, 2005).











n129.  Conseil Constitutionnel [Constitutional Council], Election Presidentielle

2002: Resultats du 1er tour - 21 avril 2002, Classement par Departements,

[Presidential Election 2002 Results from the April 21, 2002, Primary Classified

by Departments], available at

http://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/dossier/presidentielles/2002/documents/

tour1/ departements.htm (last visited Feb. 27, 2005).











n130.  Brussel Protest Silences Le Pen, BBC News, Apr. 24, 2002, available at

http://news.bbc.co.uk/ 1/hi/world/europe/1947616.stm#map (last visited Jan. 24,

2005).











n131.  Chirac Wins by a Landslide, BBC News, May 5, 2002, available at

http://news.bbc.co.uk/ 1/hi/world/europe/1969649.stm (last visited Jan. 24,

2005).











n132.  Zappi, supra note 30.











n133.  France to Fingerprint, supra note 22.











n134.  Ministers' Report, supra note 26.











n135.  Controlling the Migratory Flux, supra note 15.











n136.  Niessen, supra note 104, at 423.











n137.  Id.











n138.  Id. at 424-25.











n139.  Id. at 421.











n140.  European Union, General Report 2002: The European Union in 2002, at

http://europa.eu.int/abc/doc/off/rg/en/2002/pg0002.htm#anch0001 (last visited

Jan. 24, 2005).











n141.  Agence France Press, G5 Ministers Move Forward Against Terrorism, Stall

on Illegal Immigration, Le Monde, Oct. 18, 2004, available at 2004 WL 96180932.











n142.  Id.











n143.  Djajic, supra note 12, at 144.











n144.  Id. at 145.











n145.  Id.











n146.  Id. at 145-46.











n147.  Id. at 146.











n148.  Djajic, supra note 12, at 146.











n149.  1996 Resolution, supra note 6, arts. 9, 13, 14, 30. When looking at the

effects that the Sarkozy Law will have on immigrants, there seems to be a

question as to whether the law conforms with the 1996 Resolution, in particular

with articles 13 and 14, but it does conform to article 30.



   Article 9:







   Deplores the exclusively repressive nature of many of the recommendations,

declarations and resolutions which have been adopted or are currently being

drawn up at Community level, notably as regards immigration, the right of

asylum, family reunions and the concept of refugee.



 Article 13:







   Demands that immigrants from outside the Community should enjoy the same

economic and social rights and be granted the same civil, cultural and political

rights, and notably that those residing for a period of over five years in a

Member State be entitled to vote in local elections in accordance with the

Convention of the Council of Europe; points out that the dignity of the

individual is sacrosanct and that inviolable and inalienable human rights form

the basis of any human society are fundamental to peace and justice in the world

and must apply without restriction to all people on the territory of the

European Union.



 Article 14:







   Demands that the right to live in a family unit be fully recognized, which

implies that all persons residing or living in a Member State should be able to

be joined by their families.



 Article 30:







   Considers it necessary to step up the struggle against clandestine

immigration and the networks and traffickers involved and to combat

moonlighting; the penalties for this offence should be stringent enough to act

as a deterrent.











n150.  Universite de l'Ete des Droits de l'Homme (ULDH) [Summer University on

Human Rights], Adoption of the Universal Declaration, 1948 Paris, at

http://www.droitshumains.org/uni/Formation/02Charte_a.htm (last visited Jan. 24,

2005).











n151.  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, G.A. Res. 217, U.N. GAOR, 3d

Sess., U.N. Doc. A/810 (1948), pmbl. available at

http://www.unhchr.ch/udhr/lang/eng.htm (last visited Jan. 24, 2005) [hereinafter

UDHR].











n152.  Id. art. 2. Article 2 states: "Everyone is entitled to all the rights and

freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such a

race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or

social origin, property, birth or other status." Id.











n153.  Id. art. 7.











n154.  Id. art. 9.











n155.  Id. art. 10.











n156.  UDHR, supra note 151, art. 15.











n157.  Id. art. 13.











n158.  Id. art. 14.











n159.  See generally Hurst Hannum, The Status and Future of the Customary

International Law of Human Rights: The Status of Human Rights in National and

International Law, 25 Ga. J. Int'l & Comp. L. 287 (1996).











n160.  1996 Resolution, supra note 6, art. 33.











n161.  Id. art. 34. The European Parliament "is alarmed at the rise in racists

and xenophobic ideas in political circles, in public opinion, in society at

large and in undertakings." Id.











n162.  European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental

Freedoms as Amended by Protocol 11, Nov. 11, 1998, 213 U.N.T.S. 221, art. 2,

available at http://www.echr.coe.int/Convention/webConvenENG.pdf (last visited

Jan. 24, 2005) [hereinafter European Convention].











n163.  Id. art. 3.











n164.  Id. art. 5.











n165.  Id. art. 8.











n166.  Id. art. 12.











n167.  European Convention, supra note 162, art. 14.











n168.  Michele Totah, Fortress Italy: Racial Politics and the New Immigration

Amendment in Italy, 26 Fordham Int'l L.J. 1438, 1456 (2003).





