                              811 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)



                           October 15, 2011 Saturday



Defending champs fall



BYLINE: M. Karathu



SECTION: Pg. 43



LENGTH: 542 words





TERENGGANU sent defending champions Kelantan crashing out of the Malaysia Cup as

Selangor, Negri Sembilan and Kuala Terengganu T-Team all registered second leg

victories to book their places in the semi-finals yesterday.



After the first leg matches saw six red cards flashed, including five in Kuala

Terengganu, the second leg was tame by comparison as Ashaari Samsuddin scored

twice for FA Cup champions Terengganu to claim a 2-2 draw with Kelantan in Kota

Baru yesterday for a 5-3 aggregate success.



M. Karathu's dream of retaining the Malaysia Cup was dashed in the first half

when Terengganu took advantage of overzealous play by Super League champions

Kelantan to take a 2-0 lead at half-time.



Manaf Mamat latched on a poor clearance by Kelantan defender S. Subramaniam

before sending the ball to Ashaari who in turn lobbed goalkeeper Khairul Fahmi

Che Mat in the 18th minute for the opener.



Five minutes from half-time, Ashaari stabbed the ball past Khairul again before

Azamuddin Akil, who had a goal ruled out for offside in the first-half, reduced

the deficit for Kelantan following a mistake by Terengganu goalkeeper Shabinee

Allawee Ramli, who allowed the ball to slip through his hands, for the striker

to slot the ball into an empty net in the 54th minute.



Badhri Radzi scored a penalty in the 70th minute after referee Suhaizi Sukri

pointed to the spot for a handball by Terengganu captain Marzuki Yusoff but the

visitors held on to claim victory on aggregate.



Selangor's renaissance under interim coach P. Maniam continued after Rudie Ramli

scored in a 1-0 win over Perak in the second leg at the Perak Stadium in Ipoh

for a 4-1 aggregate victory.



Perak had few goalscoring chances despite having the majority of possession and

were punished five minutes into the second half when Rudie, who came off the

bench to replace the injured Amri Yahyah midway through the first half, headed

into an empty net.



The goal resulted from a free-kick taken by Safiq Rahim, who scored twice from

set-piece play in the first leg, which could only be pushed high up by

goalkeeper Nasril Nourdin as Rudie followed up with an opportunistic header for

his second goal of the tournament.



T-Team extended their fairy-tale run through the competition to the last four

after repeating their 2-1 first leg win in Kota Kinabalu to defeat Sabah 4-2 on

aggregate at the Sultan Ismail Nasiruddin Shah Stadium in Kuala Terengganu.



Fitri Omar put T-Team ahead when he scored off a pass from Norfarhan Mohamad in

the 28th minute with a grounder which had Sabah goalkeeper Syed Adney Syed

Hussain well beaten.



Zairo Anuar Zailani unleashed an unstoppable shot from just outside the penalty

box in the 67th minute to double T-Team's lead before Mafri Balang scored a

consolation for Sabah four minutes from time.



Negri needed extra-time to overcome a 1-0 first leg deficit against Felda United

but advanced after Idris Karim and Hairuddin Omar scored in the additional

period for a 3-0 win on the night at the Paroi Stadium.



Hairuddin cancelled Felda's first-leg advantage in the 17th minute when he

knocked in Shahurain Abu Samah's pass before bagging another in the 112th minute

to take his Malaysia Cup tally to five goals, either side of a strike by Idris

in the 100th minute.



( END )



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Football



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2011 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              All Rights Reserved





