

Another milestone was reached by our university last week with the news that,
following the latest round of appointments, there was now one human resources
manager available for every member of academic staff.

"This is an exciting breakthrough," declared Louise Bimpson, our Corporate
Director of Human Resources (formerly the Personnel Officer). "Only last week, a
survey by Coventry University revealed that university academic staff had the
worst perceptions of their managers of any employment sector. What better way
could there be to resolve this unsatisfactory situation than by drastically
increasing the overall number of managers who can provide management training?"

She went on to tell our reporter Keith Ponting (29) that this latest increase in
human resources meant that all academic staff could at last be liberated from
their "traditional obsessive concern with teaching and research" and be free to
develop their leadership and performance- management skills, as well as their
capacity to harness their endeavours to the strategic goals of the university
going forward.

Asked by our reporter if there was any reliable evidence that the employment of
ever-larger numbers of human resources staff had done anything whatsoever to
improve the performance of individual universities, Ms Bimpson said that "the HR
revolution still had a long way to go". "But," she added, "always remember that
the Tower of Babel wasn't built in a day."

LOST

Were you by any chance walking along the beaches of North Yorkshire during the
Easter break? Then perhaps you can help Ted Thorndike of our Psychology
Department, who tells The Poppletonian that he lost a carrier bag containing 145
first-year psychology projects during his holiday ramble along the cliffs above
Robin Hood's Bay.

"I was simply strolling happily along, looking forward to getting some marking
done as soon as I reached the outskirts of Whitby when a sudden gust of wind
tore the bag from my arm and sent it skittering over the cliff edge."

Ted says the carrier bag is easily recognised. It carries the logo "This is not
a plastic bag" and, apart from the scripts, contains an apple, an emergency
whistle, and a small packet of prescription pills.

This is Ted's second piece of bad luck. Only last year he was out walking in the
Trossachs when his Karrimor knapsack containing over 150 second- year psychology
projects was snatched by a marauding eagle.

CORRECTION

In last week's edition, we erroneously referred to the university's new pressure
group as Re-Claim the Streets. This should have read Re-Pave the Streets. We
regret any confusion this mistake might have caused among participants taking
part in last week's city-centre demonstration.

CAN YOU HELP?

Volunteers wanted to help out on the university's Diversity Awareness Week (May
5th-9th). Preference will be given to applicants with an awareness of their
diversity.

THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK

(contributed by Jennifer Doubleday, Head of Personal Development)

Now that the holidays are over once again, here's a thought to help you back to
work:

The secret of success is making your vocation your vacation.

