                              816 of 820 DOCUMENTS



           Copyright (c) 2014 I/S: A Journal of Law & Policy for the

                              Information Society

          I/S: A Journal of Law and Policy for the Information Society



                                  Winter, 2014



          I/S: A Journal of Law and Policy for the Information Society



                                  9 ISJLP 531



LENGTH: 21366 words



SYMPOSIUM: COMPETITION & INNOVATION IN THE BROADBAND AGE: Market Definition

Analysis in Latin America with Applications to Internet- Based Industries



NAME: David S. Evans* and Elisa V. Mariscal**



BIO: * Evans is Founder, Market Platform Dynamics; Lecturer, University of

Chicago Law School; Executive Director, Jevons Institute for Competition Law and

Economics and Visiting Professor, University College London

(devans@marketplatforms.com).





** Mariscal is Managing Director, Market Platform Dynamics; Visiting Professor,

Centro de Investigaci n y Docencia Econ micas (CIDE) and Lecturer Instituto

Tecnol gico Aut nomo de M xico (ITAM) (emarsical@marketplatforms.com). We would

like to thank Alexis Pirchio for excellent research help and Google for research

support. We retain sole ownership of any errors.



LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:

 ... The consumers who are most likely to switch are "marginal consumers" who

were already predisposed to consider other products because they view them as

good substitutes.  ... Nonetheless, CADE, who as we mentioned has not formally

adopted these guidelines to date, has noted in its resolutions the importance of

considering competitive constraints, noting that firms that are followed or

observed by other suppliers and by consumers in their negotiations to determine

prices and establish commercial conditions, must be included in the relevant

market. .  ... To illustrate the importance of competitive constraints in the

analysis of markets and power in internet-based industries we use the

Microsoft/Skype decision, which illustrates the types of questions that ought to

be posed and answered by an authority when investigating anticompetitive

practices or mergers in these industries-we do not, of course, mean to judge

this decision as a whole.  ... Even with the total time spent by internet users

on the web increasing by nearly a factor of five over this period, the 85

percent of attention losing websites in the top 15,000 in September 2002,

managed to lose a total of 460 million of hours by September 2012.  ... However,

because they are software-based media properties, these attention rivals can

engage in highly targeted advertising that is customized to the person viewing

the advertisement.  ... and Twitter illustrates, the fact that ads in one firm

are displayed and look different than they do in the other, does not mean that

the entry of one rival into the market (Twitter) cannot divert marginal

consumers from one firm to the other-going back to our best practices

lexicon-and therefore can effectively constrain competition for Yahoo!  ...

Focusing on competition between specific products and services, rather than

attention, could result in competition authorities and courts making either

false- negative or false-positive errors in their decisions.  ... For example, a

number of transactions involved vertical integration between Internet access

providers and online content producers; others involved horizontal acquisitions

either in the jurisdictions themselves or elsewhere but with effects in Latin

American countries; some of these involved online businesses, others mergers of

online and offline businesses.  ... Analyses based on functional equivalence

among services are wrong as attention rivals impose competitive constraints on

each other across boundaries defined by the products and services they provide

to consumers and advertisers.







HIGHLIGHT:

Abstract: There has been a surge of recent antitrust cases involving Internet-

based industries around the world, including in Latin America. These types of

industries present special challenges for authorities, as their analysis

requires an understanding of the fast-paced, innovative, and multi-sided nature

of these businesses. In this paper we present methods and techniques for market

definition and power analysis which emphasize the need to focus on competitive

constraints rather than structural or functional characteristics of products and

services-a particularly relevant issue in Internet-based industries. We next

explore whether the legal frameworks of Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico can

accommodate this type of analyses. Our focus then shifts to how competition

takes place in Internet-based industries; we describe how firms vie for consumer

attention and provide this attention to advertisers and developers using the

concept of "attention rivalry." Taking this theoretical background into account,

we pose the question of whether the three largest Latin American economies have

the tools, legal ability, and expertise to undertake these types of complex

analyses. We use cases to illustrate where they have done so, and review the

most relevant work they have undertaken in Internet- based industries since

2000. In our view, nothing prevents competition agencies in these countries from

conducting the correct economic analyses.



TEXT:

 [*532]



   I. INTRODUCTION





   Antitrust has expanded rapidly in Latin America over the last two decades as

a result of economic development in a number of countries, and the effort to

open up to competition former public monopolies, such as telecom and

electricity, and to modernize regulatory institutions charged with overseeing

them. These efforts have been part of a push to change the drivers of economic

growth from those that emphasized the government's role in leading the economy

to one that considers market- based competition to be best in spurring economic

performance. By the end of 2012, seventeen of the twenty Latin American

countries had competition laws and authorities in place to enforce them. The

first country that adopted a modern competition law was Chile in 1973, but since

then the remaining authorities have adopted new laws, with the Dominican

Republic being the most recent one in 2008. Tellingly, the current head of the

International Competition Network is the President of the Mexican Federal

Competition Commission.





   As with many countries, the practice of competition law enforcement is a work

in progress in Latin American countries. Competition authorities and courts are

developing best practices often by adapting methods that have been refined in

other jurisdictions to their national contexts. The purpose of this paper is to

gauge whether there is room in the current legislations for following some of

these best practices for defining markets, and analyzing market power, in merger

and monopolization cases, and to highlight their importance when studying

Internet-based industries. Market definition and market power are usually the

foundations on which merger and monopolization analyses are based. Getting this

part of the analysis correct is therefore essential.





   Some of the most complex applications of antitrust analysis concern Internet-

based industries. These industries pose challenges to the traditional analysis

of market definition and market power in part because they are highly dynamic

and the boundaries between products are typically fluid. n1 In Latin America, as

in most other parts  [*533]  of the world, Internet-based industries have become

increasingly important in the economies. Around twenty years after the birth of

commercial Internet the pace of change is accelerating as a result of greater

access to the Internet. A key contributor to this acceleration has been the

deployment of smart mobile devices and applications that run on these devices,

which are connected to the Internet. n2 For this reason, to illustrate best

practices in a complex, fast changing and innovative environment, this paper

focuses on the analysis of market definition and power in Internet-based

industries for the three Latin American economies that have already begun to

review and investigate these industries: Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico.





   The paper is organized as follows. Section I describes methods and techniques

for market definition and market power analysis. The section is meant to provide

background on the type of analyses based on international best practices that

are currently being undertaken by different authorities. It is based in part on

guidelines the authors developed for Mexico. n3





   The next section looks at the legal frameworks underlying relevant market and

market power determination in the three largest Latin American countries. We

also look at how relevant market guidelines for each of these countries support

or expand on the elements included in the laws. There is a tendency particularly

in less mature agencies-not required by the law and unfounded in economic

principles-to use mechanical approaches to market definition and market power.

In this, Latin America is not unique, as actual and best practices will

sometimes deviate.





   Section III then turns to market definition in Internet-based industries. It

focuses on market definition for a class of Internet-based firms that we call

"attention rivals". These firms vie for the time of consumers and then direct

some of that attention to advertisers. The competitive constraints for attention

rivals comes from other attention rivals regardless of whether they are offering

the same product or service. That, in part, is the explanation for the fact that

it  [*534]  is widely perceived that Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google are

each other's most significant rivals even though each specializes in very

different products and services. The section concludes with a discussion of the

European Commission's decision approving Microsoft's acquisition of Skype-an

example that used most of the principles we outline throughout this paper.





   Section IV poses the question as to whether Latin America's antitrust

authorities in its three largest economies have the technical know-how,

experience, and the operate under a sufficiently flexible legal framework-which

we review in detail in section II-to apply best practices and undertake complex

analyses in internet-based industries. In this section we begin by addressing

the issue of experience in undertaking complex analyses by presenting examples

of casework, unrelated to Internet-based industries, for each country where

authorities have used some of the principles we outlined in section II. We then

summarize the types of Internet-based cases that have historically come up in

these jurisdictions since 2000. Although the degree of complexity of these cases

has not yet required the tools and analyses we discuss here, in our opinion,

there is a good possibility that authorities will be in a position to apply

these tools to future Internet-related cases.





   II. BEST PRACTICES FOR MARKET DEFINITION AND MARKET POWER





   The purpose of market definition is to identify the competitive constraints

on the supplier of the product under consideration - the market forces that

reduce the profitability of raising prices above competitive levels or lowering

quality. If the buyers of a particular product from firm A can realistically

only turn to firm B if firm A raises its prices substantially, for instance,

then B provides the only competitive constraint on A. In general, the strength

of the competitive constraints determines whether practices engaged in by the

supplier of the product under consideration, or the combination of two or more

suppliers, could harm competition and consumers. For example, it is unlikely

that the merger of two firms could harm competition if consumers could turn to

many alternative and comparable suppliers. Those firms, once merged, would not

be able to raise prices because consumers would simply buy elsewhere.





   Market definition is closely related to the assessment of market power. n4

Market power concerns the ability of a supplier of a product to  [*535]  charge

prices that are significantly higher than those that would occur under perfect

(i.e., very intense) competition. Most businesses have some market power;

business practices are anticompetitive only when engaged in by those with

substantial market power (with the exception of hardcore cartel behavior, of

course). A particular business practice, such as entering into exclusive

contracts, could harm competition if the supplier has substantial market power

but could be benign if the supplier does not have such power. Likewise, a merger

of two firms could only result in higher prices if the concentration results in

the merged firm having significantly greater market power than either firm had

alone. Market definition is the first step in assessing market power; it

identifies the sources of competitive constraints that determine the degree of

power that a supplier (or a combination of suppliers) likely has. The weaker the

competitive constraints a firm faces, the greater its market power.





   Market definition is not, however, an end in itself. This analytical device

is useful only to the extent that it assists in assessing the competitive

constraints that are relevant for the matter under consideration. In fact, the

assessment of the relevant market could lead to significant error if it resulted

in ignoring competitive constraints, as this could lead to the false conclusion

that practices are harmful to competition, or if it resulted in exaggerating

competitive constraints, as this could lead to the false conclusion that the

practices are lawful.





   Several practices are advisable to minimize errors in market definition. We

list these as recommendations next.





   A. Identifying Competitive Constraints





   1. Always Come Back to Competitive Constraints





   Since the ultimate purpose of the analysis of market definition and power is

to assess competitive constraints it is important that the analysis of the

relevant market and market power accurately reflect these constraints.

Therefore, best practice requires that each of these competitive constraints-or

lack thereof-are carefully considered in the analysis.





   There are several key competitive constraints that could limit the ability of

the supplier of the product at issue to make changes that are adverse to the

interest of consumers. Assessing whether a merger or competitive conduct harms

consumers often requires the balancing of positive and negative effects,

including price, quality, and the rate of innovation. It is important to focus

on "net" changes since is it possible that price could increase but that

consumers would be better off because the quality of the product more than

compensates for the  [*536]  increase in price; or that price could fall but not

enough to compensate for reductions in quality or other factors. In such an

assessment, key competitive factors include:





   Demand substitutability. Could consumers turn to other products so that an

adverse change by the producer would result in consumers reducing consumption of

its product in favor of other products?





   Switching costs. Can consumers readily switch to an alternative product or do

they incur costs that would make them captive to the supplier at issue?





   Multihoming. Do consumers have ready access to several alternative versions

of a product or service so that they could easily switch from one version if it

imposed adverse conditions? The concept of multihoming is particularly relevant

when consumers make sequential decisions to "join" a service (e.g., a particular

type of payment card) and "use" the service (e.g., using a type of card

available to pay a merchant).





   Supply substitutability. Could other producers of substitute products expand

output to avail themselves of increased demand by consumers for alternatives to

the product at issue?





   Entry. Could new firms enter in competition with the supplier of the product

at issue or could existing firms switch production capacity to supply substitute

products?





   Innovation. Does incremental or drastic innovation occur rapidly enough to

either make significant market power temporary or to force the supplier at issue

to both improve its product and limit any adverse changes?  [*537]



   Buyer power. Do buyers of the product at issue have significant market power

that could prevent or limit the supplier of the product at issue from making

adverse changes?





   Complementary products. Does the supplier at issue supply complementary

products whose demand, and profitability, would fall if it made adverse changes?

A special case of this involves multi-sided platforms that serve as

intermediaries between multiple customer groups. An adverse change to consumers

on one side would reduce the value received and the price paid on the other

side.





   Regulation. Do regulatory constraints limit the ability of the supplier at

issue to make adverse changes? Alternatively do regulatory constraints limit the

ability of new firms to enter the market or expand output?





   Unfortunately, through statutes, case law, or actual practice by enforcement

agencies, some jurisdictions have adopted approaches that limit the ability to

consider some of these constraints in defining the relevant market. Moving

toward best practice requires the consideration of these constraints as part of

the assessment of market power and whether the conduct at issue harms consumers.

Errors arise when the analysis ignores one or more of these constraints in the

market definition exercise and then refuses to consider them, or treats them in

passing, in the remainder of the analysis. Failure to properly weigh these

competitive constraints not only causes mistakes in market definition; it

encourages parties to a dispute to believe that whoever wins the market

definition battle will win the war and thereby puts undue emphasis on market

definition.





   2. Focus on "Marginal" Consumers





   The basic question that motivates the assessment of market power is whether

enough consumers would switch to substitute products in response to a price

increase by a supplier of the product under consideration to make the price

increase unprofitable. The consumers who are most likely to switch are "marginal

consumers" who were already predisposed to consider other products because they

view  [*538]  them as good substitutes. If there are enough of these consumers

who would switch then the price increase would not be profitable. Identifying,

measuring, and estimating the behavior of these marginal consumers is critical

to best practice market definition.





   Figure 1



    [figure]





   Figure 1 above illustrates this point by considering the case where every

consumer buys at most one unit, a reasonable approximation for some

durable-goods markets (e.g., central air conditioners or washing machines).

Consumers are, in effect, listed on the demand schedule at the point

corresponding to the most they would be willing to pay for the good. The diagram

shows the case where a 5 percent price increase results in a 20 percent decrease

in the quantity demand, as a result of there being a significant number of

consumers at the margin between wanting to buy the product in question rather

than substitute products. Once the price goes up, they switch.





   A common mistake in the analysis of market definition and market power is to

focus on what the "typical" or "average" consumer would do. The typical or

average consumer may not in fact switch to substitute products when a supplier

increases its price. That is the case shown in Figure 1. But it usually is not

the average consumer who determines whether a supplier can profit from a price

increase. So long as there are enough consumers "at the margin" between the

supplier's product and alternatives, the price increase cannot result in greater

profits. Suppose, for example, that a firm has variable cost per unit of $ 5 and

would sell 100 units at a price of $ 10 for a profit, before  [*539]  fixed

costs, of $ 500. (This may or may not be enough to cover fixed costs, of

course.) Suppose 80 percent of consumers would buy from this supplier even with

a small price increase of say $ 1, so that the "typical" consumer will not

switch in response to this price change. But suppose that 20 percent are

extremely price sensitive, so that if this firm raised its price to $ 11, all

would switch to another product. That would reduce sales to 80 units and reduce

profit before fixed costs to $ 480, making the price increase unprofitable. For

details of how to analyze this in practice, see Section III below. n5





   When there is product differentiation, which is present in most real-world

markets, there may be discrete categories of consumers that will switch from a

product in question at various price points or based on particular product

attributes. Depending on what the price is, and how much it is changing, many or

a few consumers might switch in response to a price change. Understanding how

the market is segmented is important in these cases. For example,

telecommunications cases have often brought up the question of whether fixed and

mobile phones are substitutes and whether price changes would entice consumers

to switch from one to the other. Although, for some consumers, phones-whether

fixed-line or mobile-may represent a means of voice communication, in reality

the ability to communicate by voice "on the move" using the latter means that

for mobile phone consumers, a fixed- line phone is probably not a good

substitute even ignoring the other features that mobile phones provide; the same

of course is not true for fixed-line phones for which a mobile phone may well be

a good substitute. In both cases, it is the number of consumers who would likely

switch (the marginal consumers) that will determine whether these products are,

or are not, good substitutes.





   3. Use the Right Basis for Assessing Competitive Constraints





   One of the consequences of a firm already having significant market power is

that the firm may have raised the price so much that marginal consumers might

have already switched to poor substitutes. This is the well-known cellophane

paradox based on a US case. n6 The cellophane producer had raised prices so high

that the marginal consumers considered paper and other methods for covering food

as  [*540]  alternatives. The only reason these products were substitutes is

because the firm had exercised market power. The cellophane paradox highlights

the fact that the analysis of market definition and market power needs to be

careful about the vantage point from which it is assessing market power.





   In a monopolization matter, the relevant question ordinarily concerns whether

the party at issue in the case has significant market power. For this purpose

the question is whether it is currently able to adopt pricing and related

policies that differ significantly from what a competitive firm would do. Thus,

the benchmark for assessing competitive constraints is the constraints that

would limit a competitive producer of the product. In particular, the relevant

demand-side substitutes are the ones that consumers would consider if price were

increased from the competitive level.





   In a merger matter, by contrast, the relevant question concerns whether the

merging parties could, through their combination, make things worse for

consumers. In this case the relevant question is whether, given the state of the

industry today, competitive constraints would limit the merging parties from

raising prices. The fact that either or both merging parties have significant

market power does not affect the analysis since for the purposes of a merger

review competition law usually accepts the market as it is now. It is only the

worsening of market conditions that causes antitrust concerns. So here, the

relevant demand-side substitutes are the ones that consumers would consider if

prices were increased from the current level even if the current level is not

competitive.





   4. Recognize that No Real Competitive Market Looks Like Textbook Competition





   There are two features of real-world competitive markets that competition

analysis needs to account for.





   First, almost all real-world markets involve products and services that are

differentiated from each other. Consumers have different preferences for

products and services and different needs depending on their circumstances.

People even of the same income like different kinds of beer and different types

of cars. There is therefore a market opportunity to cater to these preferences

and needs. Businesses respond to these market opportunities by creating

different types of products and coming up with innovations that will appeal to

particular people. Businesses have strong incentives to exploit the differences.

There are usually limited profit opportunities in producing the same product and

service as everyone else. Therefore, hardly anything is a perfect substitute for

anything else. But many  [*541]  products are imperfect substitutes and these,

individually or collectively, could constrain the ability of a firm to impose

adverse conditions on consumers.





   Second, most seemingly competitive real-world industries do not, and cannot,

operate at the point where price equals marginal cost-the equilibrium that

maximizes welfare in the standard model of perfect competition used by

economists. n7 The reason is that most firms incur fixed costs including the

fixed costs of establishing the business in the first place. To recover these

fixed costs, and therefore earn at least a competitive return on their capital,

they have to charge prices that are in excess of marginal cost; that is they

must have a positive operating margin to cover their costs. Many firms in

seemingly competitive industries engage in value pricing-that is price

discrimination-to earn enough profit from various subsets of consumers to cover

their fixed costs of production.





   5. Collect Evidence from Multiple Sources





   In practice, competition policy analysis seldom has available conclusive

evidence. Most types of evidence are subject to frailties or open to

interpretation. By combining multiple sources of evidence, however, it is

possible to reach more robust conclusions. Key sources of evidence include:





   Interchangeability information. Do consumers switch between products based on

common knowledge? That is, are there documents, studies or other evidence that

would provide information on the relative ease or difficulty of adopting

different technologies or switching to alternative products? Is this a simple

process or does it require specialized knowledge or learning? Do all consumers

or only some consumers do this? This may help focus the analysis on the marginal

consumer.





   Company records on competitors. Who do company executives say they compete

with? Sales force documents, minutes of meetings among senior management,

securities filings,  [*542]  and public documents such as those provided to

investors may say. Especially when produced in the normal course of business

such evidence is highly informative.





   Win-loss sales reports. What do company sales records show about who they win

sales from and who they lose sales from most frequently (particularly important

for business to business, or B2B). This is particularly strong evidence on who

effectively constrains a company in the marketplace.





   Customer surveys. These are surveys whose questionnaires have been designed

to obtain an insight into consumer reactions to price increase. They ask

consumers what products they would switch to if prices went up. They also allow

to better focus on marginal vs. average consumers.





   Statistical estimates. Conduct statistical analysis of historical data on

prices and demand. Historical analysis can prove useful in determining whether

recent price information is indeed the right basis for assessing competitive

constraints, nevertheless, even what economists note as "data regularities" may

not necessarily be regular and additional evidence is also beneficial.





   Natural experiments. Compare demand patterns between different places with

different prices. These types of analyses are very useful provided that

allowances are made for variables that can capture and isolate differences not

solely explained by price variations.





   Standard tests used to analyze mergers and antitrust cases, with a particular

focus on price. Hypothetical monopolist test or small but significant and non-

transitory increase in price  [*543]  (SSNIP) test. We would caution on the use

of these tests, however, as they tend to focus on price competition only, and

ignore other dimensions of competition that are relevant to a firm's business.





   We now look at the underlying legal institutions as well as the case law,

which governs competition determinations in the three largest Latin American

economies. We seek to determine whether these best practices are either

explicitly mentioned or whether there are legal impediments to their

application.





   III. CASE LAW AND DECISIONAL PRACTICE IN LATIN AMERICA





   It is widely recognized among antitrust authorities and practitioners that

competition analysis needs to incorporate economic thinking in decisions.

Furthermore, there needs to be a flexible approach in employing economic tools

to diverse industries, and to accommodate technological change. The recent

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Roundtable

discussions on Market Definition, n8 for example, note the importance of

recognizing the existence of multiple methods to arrive at an answer for the

main goal of market definition: to capture competitive constraints faced by a

firm as accurately as possible.





   Over the last 25 years, many jurisdictions around the world have made an

effort to modernize their approach to antitrust. It began in the US in the

mid-1970s, when courts began incorporating economic analysis into their

decisions, and was continued and deepened as authorities issued the 1982 merger

guidelines. In Latin America, this effort to make transparent its use of

economic tools in antitrust analysis is just underway, with the publication of

guidelines starting in the late 1990s. It is not a simple undertaking.





   Modernizing antitrust can be a more challenging exercise in countries with

civil law traditions that tend to have hierarchical laws each with a precise

interpretation mostly based on the letter of the law and not always its intent.

Changes to the interpretation of this vast body of laws very often require a

redrafting of the statutes by the legislative branch. It is particularly

challenging in countries whose  [*544]  legal systems have tended to be

particularly formal, or whose judges are not entirely attuned to a subject so

intricately related with economics. Nevertheless, Latin America can look to

other jurisdictions for some direction. In the US and the EU there has been a

push for more economic thinking, particularly in merger cases. n9 Both these

jurisdictions have followed up by modernizing their approaches to market

definition through guidelines, and/or notices and regulations that have inserted

economic thinking into decisions.





   With rapid technological advances revolutionizing many industries, it is

critically important to modernize antitrust analysis. Internet, mobile, and

other technological changes have made traditional formalistic methods obsolete,

as these were designed for industrial settings that were fundamentally different

from the dynamic and fluid industries that authorities are increasingly

addressing in mergers or conduct cases. There is a clear recognition of this

among most mature competition agencies around the world, as emphasized in the

OECD discussion paper cited above.





   By reviewing the legal frameworks of Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico in this

section, we make a case that there is nothing holding back Latin American

countries from following the modernization efforts of other jurisdictions. In

fact, some of these countries are taking such steps already. In Section IV, we

use some recent technical decisions by the three authorities regarding mergers

and anticompetitive practices to illustrate the application of economic tools to

antitrust cases.





   A. Competition Law Framework in Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico





   1. Argentina





   Argentina's enabling statute is its 1980 Law 22,262, which was subsequently

modified in 1999 with Law 25,156. The 1980 law was largely based on Articles 85

and 86 (now Articles 101 and 102 TFEU) of European Union's Treaty of Rome, thus

prohibiting price fixing agreements (cartels) and banning abuse of dominance

(unilateral practices). n10 Merger control was not introduced until 1999 with

the new law.



     [*545]



   This law created the National Commission for the Defense of Competition,

under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce and International Economic

Negotiations, which subsequently rendered a final decision. The 1999 law created

an autonomous National Tribunal for the Defense of Competition with the

authority to resolve cases and impose remedies and fines; the Tribunal has not

yet been created.





   Meanwhile, all decisions by administrative authorities can be challenged

before courts in the federal system. Most appeals are heard before the Federal

Civil and Commercial Court of Appeals in Buenos Aires, which is a

quasi-specialized court, but not specialized in competition matters. n11 Its

decisions can be further appealed to the Supreme Court. Although the legal

system does not create binding precedent, cases decided by the courts,

especially the Supreme Court, do have practical effects on antitrust decisions.





   2. Brazil





   Brazil's first competition law was enacted in 1962 (Law 4137-62). The law was

subsequently reformed in 1994 (Law 8884/94) and more recently in 2011 (Law

12,529/12). n12 The new statute considers violations of the law cartels (article

36, paragraph 3), and various unilateral and concerted actions (also within the

purview of article 36), noting more generally that any actions which limit or

restrict competition, control markets, arbitrarily increase profits, or

constitute an abuse dominant position are economic violations under the law. The

law prohibits mergers that eliminate competition in a substantial portion of the

relevant market or that enhance a position of dominance in a relevant market.

The biggest change in the new law relates to merger review. The previous law had

language that would apparently require all agreements, not just mergers, to be

reviewed; this is clarified under the new law, which also streamlines review

[*546]  procedures and updates thresholds (Title VII, Chapter I, articles 88-

91). n13





   In Brazil, the law that created the current competition authority, the

Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE), was enacted before the

1990s. The 1962 Law 4137/62 created CADE and up until 2011, CADE shared

competition enforcement responsibilities with the Secretariat of Economic Law of

the Ministry of Justice (SDE) and the Secretariat for Economic Monitoring of the

Ministry of Finance (SEAE). The new law establishes that the Brazilian

Competition Defense System is made up of CADE and SEAE. n14 It transfers SDE's

investigative and preliminary enforcement responsibilities to a new CADE

Superintendent, and terminates SEAE's advisory role in conduct and merger

investigations. The new law grants CADE judicial powers and makes it a federal

agency that depends on the Ministry of Justice, but continues SEAE's competition

advocacy responsibilities.





   An internal appeal exists before CADE's Plenary and is then appealed before

courts. Courts are a significant source of delay in CADE's decisions. Federal

courts of first instance hear appeals, with a second appeal from regional courts

of appeals and then the Supreme Court of Justice. Cases involving claims of

unconstitutionality may be appealed beyond the Superior Court of Justice to the

Supreme Federal Court. Even though judges are not obligated to follow higher

court decisions, they have begun to do so. Generally, the merits of the

decisions are currently left to specialized tribunals such as CADE.





   3. Mexico





   Mexico's first prohibition of monopoly comes from its 1857 Constitution. n15

With no legislation to make this prohibition effective, competition policy did

not really exist until 1993, when it was adopted  [*547]  as part of the

conditions for the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).

The Federal Law for Economic Competition (LFCE), n16 largely inspired by US

statutes, has been praised for its simplicity and breadth by the OECD in its

2004 review, n17 but it has proven to be difficult to understand for courts and

practitioners, because of the widespread use of economic concepts throughout it.

The law divides conduct into two types: those that ought to be reviewed under a

per se standard, and those that ought to be reviewed under a rule of reason

standard. Cartels lie in the first category ("absolute monopolistic practices"),

and all other conduct that must be analyzed under a rule of reason

standard-including unilateral conduct-under the second type ("relative

monopolistic practices"). Merger review was also included in the original law,

with thresholds pegged to minimum wages to ensure that these are in line with

current economic conditions.





   The law created the Federal Competition Commission (CFC) as a technically

autonomous agency, dependent in its budget on the Ministry of the Economy. It is

responsible for enforcing the law and has other attributions outside the LFCE

and noted under laws in regulated sectors, mainly overseeing competition

conditions in regulated sectors that, if absent, may trigger price regulation

imposed by sectoral regulators. It can also give binding opinions in certain

public tender processes and administrative bills, which can only be overturned

by a Presidential veto.





   During its initial years the CFC's decisions were subjected to an avalanche

of appeals before the courts. Economic agents not only appealed decisions, but

also every single administrative act through district judges, appellate

tribunals, and the Supreme Court. In its decisions, the courts have made clear

that the use of economic terminology in the law is constitutional. To strengthen

the CFC, there have been two reforms to the law, in 2006 and 2011, mostly

granting the CFC additional powers, streamlining its merger procedures, allowing

for a leniency program (to incentivize self-reporting of violations), and

increased fines for violations. Another round of  [*548]  reforms are currently

under discussion to increase the powers of the CFC.





   B. Market Definition and Market Power





   1. Argentina





   While the law makes no specific mention of relevant market definition,

Article 5 identifies three factors to be considered in determining the existence

of market power: the degree of substitution of the product or service (including

the possibility of substituting with imports, the conditions for substitution

and the time required to substitute); legal barriers to access these substitute

goods by consumers or suppliers; and the ability of a seller to unilaterally

influence prices. These factors should be considered in both merger and

unilateral conduct cases. The guidelines issued for merger analysis (Resolution

164/2001) describe relevant market and power determinations. These are official

guidelines, binding on the authority in merger cases. While not required in

unilateral conduct cases, the guidelines are usually followed by agencies,

especially when other guidance does not exist.





   Resolution 164/2001 notes that the product market includes those goods and/or

services that are substitutes based on characteristics, prices, and consumption

purpose. Substitutes are those goods that capture the demand of a consumer, and

should therefore be included in the same market. While the guidelines include

the SSNIP test as a valid methodology for determining relevant market, it notes

that the test is not conclusive to relevant market determination. The guidelines

consider the possibility that price could be higher than marginal costs due to

high fixed or sunk costs and takes into account characteristics other than price

to determine demand substitution, such as additional services supplied by the

company. None of these statements would contradict or negate the competitive

constraints analysis that we discussed previously.





   2. Brazil





   While the law makes no explicit mention of how to define relevant markets, it

states that dominance is presumed when a company or group of companies wields

more than 20% of a relevant market (but grants discretion to CADE to modify this

threshold for specific sectors). Thus, market shares are a hard boundary in the

analysis of both mergers and unilateral conduct, making market definition a

critical step in the process.



     [*549]



   CADE has mentioned, but never formally adopted the Horizontal Merger

Guidelines issued by SDE and SEAE in 2001. n18 The guidelines mention elements

for the definition of a relevant market-including undertaking a hypothetical

monopolist test- and the need to evaluate the probability of exercising market

power-with a safe harbor of up to 20% market share and a measure of the

participation of the four largest firms (C4), below 75%, or up to a 10% market

share and a C4, above 75%. Thus, the guidelines posit a traditional or

formalistic merger analysis, which would require a clearly defined relevant

market where market shares could be determined, and an identification of

economic agents and their joint shares in the market (at least the four

largest). n19 Nonetheless, CADE, who as we mentioned has not formally adopted

these guidelines to date, has noted in its resolutions the importance of

considering competitive constraints, noting that firms that are followed or

observed by other suppliers and by consumers in their negotiations to determine

prices and establish commercial conditions, must be included in the relevant

market. n20





   3. Mexico





   In Mexico, market definition is a legal prerequisite for a finding of harm-in

the case of abuse of dominance or monopolization claims (relative monopolistic

practices under Mexican law)-and a requirement for a finding of potential

harm-in the case of mergers, the analysis of public tenders, and determinations

of effective competition conditions in regulated sectors. n21 As such, market

definition and power determinations must reach hard boundaries, including

estimating or considering market shares before any decision is taken requiring

this analysis.





   According to statute, a market definition analysis must examine substitution

possibilities, (article 12, paragraph I); transportation costs for the relevant

product, its inputs, complements, and  [*550]  substitutes to determine the

relevant geographic market (article 12, paragraph II); users' possibilities of

switching to alternative product or service offerings-to a large extent a

re-statement of substitution possibilities-(article 12, paragraph III); and

barriers to entry or expansion (article 12, paragraph IV). For market power

determination the law requires that the authority "consider" market shares and

the economic agent's ability to fix prices unilaterally (article 13, paragraph

I); barriers to entry (article 13, paragraph II); the existence and power of

rivals (article 13, paragraph III); access to inputs (article 13, paragraph IV);

recent behavior (article 13, V); and other criteria established in the bylaws.





   The statute, while imposing strict requirements on any analysis (e.g. market

share "consideration"), does not establish thresholds or methodologies, noting

only that there must be a finding of harm. In mergers, harm is described as

those mergers "whose objective or effect is to reduce, harm or prevent

competition and free market access of products and services that are equal,

similar or substantially related . . ." these are prohibited. In conduct

investigations, harmful actions are those ". . . whose object or effect is or

may be to unduly displace other agents from the market, substantially foreclose

their access, or establish exclusive advantages in favor of one or more persons

. . ." Because the law is silent about possible methodologies for relevant

market and market power determination, the authority has some flexibility to use

new or different analytical tools to support its conclusions and eventual

decisions.





   An increased awareness of the need for methodological guidance recently led

the CFC to commission white papers on market definition and market power. The

reference documents are intended to be used for any procedures that require this

analysis, not just mergers. The previous section draws largely from these two

white papers. n22





   C. Summary





   While all three authorities incorporate elements of a formalistic approach in

their legislations, including the need to calculate market shares (Mexico), and

even safe harbors (Brazil and Argentina), they also require (Argentina) or

suggest (Brazil) the use of the hypothetical monopolist test, and mention

minimum elements that need to be accounted for in market definition analysis,

such as substitution, and in market power determination, for example barriers.

We summarize  [*551]  and compare the flexibility in each country's legal

framework to accommodate different technical elements in their analysis of

markets and power in the following table.





   Table 1: Market Definition and Market Power Determination in Latin America.



   [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]



   + n23



   + n24





   + n25



   ? n26





   ? n27



   ? n28



   + n29





   + n30



   + n31



    [*552]  [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]



   + n32



   + n33



   + n34



   + n35



   + n36



   + n37



   + n38



   + n39



   + n40



   ? n41



   ? n42



   + n43  [*553]  [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]



   ? n44



   + n45



   ? n46



   + n47



   + n48



   + n49



   + n50



   + n51



   ? n52



   + n53  [*554]  [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]



   + n54



   + n55



   ? n56







   Table 1 suggests a consensus about the goals and elements required for market

definition and determination of market power, with other elements still to be

defined as the case law and practice evolve. There is sufficient latitude in the

legal frameworks of these three jurisdictions to determine competitive

constraints. In our view, nothing in the legal framework prevents competition

agencies in these countries from conducting the correct economic analysis.





   Nonetheless, as the next section discusses, internet-based industries exhibit

traits that make economic analysis more complex relative to other industries and

which, if ignored, can lead to incorrect conclusions. We discuss some of the

principles that ought to be considered in defining markets and analyzing market

power for online businesses, largely based on the idea that many of these firms

are in fact rivals for users' attention. n57 To illustrate the importance of

competitive constraints in the analysis of markets and power in internet-based

industries we use the Microsoft/Skype decision, which illustrates the types of

questions that ought to be posed and answered by an authority when investigating

anticompetitive practices or mergers in these industries-we do not, of course,

mean to judge this decision as a whole. A more recent case, which also undertook

this  [*555]  type of analysis, is the decision by the High People's Court in

China in the matter of Qihoo v. Tencent. The Court in this matter concluded that

Tencent did not have a dominant position partly because it competed against

several other platforms that attracted traffic by using different products and

services and led to profits from the sale of advertising and value-added

services. n58





   IV. INTERNET-BASED INDUSTRIES





   A. The Development of Online Industries





   The online industry has resulted from the evolution of two related

technologies, the World Wide Web and the development of mobile

telecommunications. The first, the Web, consists of pages that people can see

with a browser and accessed over the Internet. Internet-based industries,

however, now transcend products and services offered and accessed through these

pages only, as they increasingly include offline products and services among

their offerings, e.g. Amazon.com competes with brick and mortar stores, Google

Drive competes with Microsoft's Windows/Office offerings; in fact there are

traditional appliances that are now controlled over the internet (thermostats,

washer and dryers).





   Up until recently webpages were primarily accessed using personal computers.

This is no longer the case, which leads us to the second major development of

the World Wide Web: the development of mobile communications. Most people in the

world have a mobile phone that they can use over domestic wireless networks. A

steadily increasing fraction of those users have "smart mobile devices" which

enable them to access the Internet. Those devices are computers with operating

systems that support mobile applications and browsers. Both developments have

spurred the creation of businesses, or extensions of existing businesses, that

rely on these online technologies. These online businesses conduct many of their

activities "in the cloud"-collections of server computers that are accessed

through the Internet.





   The development of the Internet has led to the creation of an "online world"

of commerce and community. The development of smart mobile phones has resulted

in the deep penetration of the online world through the day and across physical

location. The result is that increasingly the Internet is always on, everywhere.

[*556]  Importantly, the development of smart mobile phones is spurring the

growth of online industries in developing and lesser-developed economies because

it lowers the cost of access significantly to a large portion of people and

businesses.





   Today, and looking forward, the online and offline worlds are merging.

Internet connectivity over wireless is being integrated into more devices such

as point-of- sale devices for merchants, cars, and televisions. Moreover, an

increasing number of people carry during their movement through the physical

world smart mobile phones with location-based technologies that enable

Internet-connected applications to know where users are. The result of this is

that many physical activities, including shopping, are integrating online

aspects.





   Despite the fact that the development of the commercial Internet happened

almost two decades ago there remains rapid growth and innovation. In the United

States, for example, which has one of the most advanced online industries,

online commerce still accounts for only 5 percent of total commerce. There is a

common misconception-known as the "end of history illusion"-that we have seen

all the change there is and that the most recent revolution is the last, this

illusion recurs whenever we face a major technological change or drastic

innovation. It is useful to keep this illusion in mind in considering market

definition for the online world. Six years ago-but more than a decade after the

rise of the commercial Internet-smart phones, social networking, and

micro-blogging were insignificant activities. Six years hence it would appear

likely that there will be new activities as disruptive as these.





   Before we begin our analysis of competitive constraints for online businesses

it is useful to survey the current state of development of these businesses in

Latin America and the three countries that we are focused on. Most Latin

American countries have a vibrant Internet-sector with many consumers engaging

in online activities. As a general matter e-commerce is not as highly developed

in most Latin American countries as it is in the US and most of the EU

countries. Nevertheless, there are certain similarities; about 25 percent of the

time spent online in the region involves using social networks compared with 29

percent in the US. Table 2 summarizes key aspects of Internet use in Argentina,

Brazil, and Mexico. We have also provided comparisons to the US. Obviously, the

use of the Internet in Latin America also shows significant differences between

major cities and outlying areas.



     [*557]



   Table 2: Summary of Internet Use in Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico



[SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]



     n59



    n60



    n61



    n62





   While there are differences in infrastructure build-up (broadband

penetration) and even in device ownership (percent of people with smart phones),

it is interesting to note that the one variable where all three countries have

similar numbers is the average time they spend each month using the Internet,

regardless of the means by which they are accessing it, which is roughly 26

hours. This reflects a fairly hard constraint-all Internet-based firms must

compete for a share of the total amount of time users spend using the Internet.

We call this "competition for scarce attention" and discuss it in more detail

below. n63



     [*558]



   B. Basic Economics of Online Industries





   There are several aspects of online businesses that can affect the

competitive constraints that online businesses face.





   1. Multi-Sided Platforms





   Many online businesses are multi-sided platforms that serve as

intermediaries-or in some way connect-two or more distinct groups of customers.

n64 The most common situation involves properties that connect consumers with

merchants. Some of these properties attract consumers with content and then

present advertisements that help merchants obtain sales. Others provide online

malls that create a place for consumers to shop and merchants to sell online.

Other platforms attract users and support application developers. Many of those

application developers in turn connect consumers and merchants. Like many

multi-sided platforms, online platforms often provide services to one side of

the platform at no charge (the "subsidy side") and make money from the other

side (the "money side").





   Multi-sided platforms often have indirect network effects. Users on one side

of the platform value having a larger number of users on the other side of the

platform. That creates a start-up problem because platforms need to have a

critical mass of customers on both sides to be viable. An online mall is not

valuable to shoppers unless there are enough merchants, and is not valuable to

merchants unless there are enough shoppers. That also creates an engine for

growth. Once a platform reaches critical mass, more users on one side may entice

more users on the other side; these sorts of positive feedback effects can fuel

growth.





   In the early days of the Internet, some commentators argued that positive

feedback effects would result in first-movers attaining monopolies. In fact, as

we will see below reality has been much more complicated than that. Many

investors who bet on the positive feedback strategy as the road to monopoly and

riches were wiped out in the dot.com crash of 2001. As we will see below, churn

has largely characterized these industries, not just during a stock market

crash, and this includes those firms who arrived first to market and who were

regarded as unseatable.



     [*559]



   2. Technology





   Online businesses rely almost entirely on software that runs in the cloud.

That software could be a sophisticated platform such as Facebook, or it could be

a simple web site designed to display content. As a result, these businesses

typically involve a fixed cost for developing the software n65 and a low

marginal cost for people accessing that software. This software can support

third-party developers by exposing Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and

providing other services; that is, the software becomes a multi-sided software

platform. n66





   The underlying software and IT technology for online businesses has two

implications. At least in terms of the physical infrastructure for the business

the cost of entry is relatively low. It is possible to start and grow rapidly

with a programmer and rented server space. It is also relatively easy-since it

involves writing code-to change and add features to the products and services

being offered. And once those changes and features are added it is possible to

make them available to all customers instantly. Thus, online businesses are very

different from physical businesses and particularly manufacturing businesses.





   3. Competition for Scarce Attention





   Many online businesses seek the attention of consumers and then make that

attention available to advertisers, merchants, developers, and others. That

attention, however, is a scarce commodity. People only have so much attention

since they have to sleep, work, and do various other things that cannot be done

offline. This scarcity creates intense competition among online businesses to

get that attention. It is the main driver behind innovation as businesses try to

develop something new to attract attention. Competition among these online

attention rivals is the principal focus of the remainder of this section because

they constitute the preponderance of online activity and shape the dynamics of

much online competition.





   We focus on evidence from the United States in much of this discussion since

it is one of the more advanced online markets and therefore provides a harbinger

of developments for Latin America. There is also systematic data over long

periods of time available in the  [*560]  US to assess dynamic competition,

which may not always be readily available even for the largest or more advanced

Latin American economies, which we have studied here. Whenever possible, we will

provide similar information for Argentina, Brazil, and/or Mexico or for the

region as a whole.





   C. Attention Rivalry





   People only have so much time-precisely 168 hours a week. That time gets

parceled out to various activities involving work, leisure, and sleep. Increases

in activities that one can do online can draw time away from other activities

that comprise this fixed time constraint for consumers. However, that

substitution becomes harder to do since it is difficult for consumers to curtail

activities such as work, sleep, and various leisure activities.





   1. Evidence on Competition for Scarce Attention





   In fact, in the United States the amount of time the average Internet user

spent online doubled between 2001 and 2010. n67 But the number of distinct web

servers increased six fold in part because of the entry of new web properties

and the expansion of those properties. The amount of content likely increased

more than six fold since those servers were able to handle an increasing amount

of capacity as memory prices declined. Therefore, the amount of online content

increased far more rapidly than the amount of attention available for that

content.





   A study for the US conducted by Evans found that of the top 15,000 websites

in September 2002, 12,775 (85 percent) had fewer hours spent by visitors in

September 2012 than in September 2002. n68 Furthermore, 14,036 (94 percent)

increased the total time spent by less than the 373 percent increase in the

overall time spent on websites, and therefore had declining shares of attention.

Even with the total time spent by internet users on the web increasing by nearly

a factor of five over this period, the 85 percent of attention losing  [*561]

websites in the top 15,000 in September 2002, managed to lose a total of 460

million of hours by September 2012. These 460 million hours represent 30 percent

of the total number of hours spent on all websites in September 2002.





   A further analysis suggested that, over the decade, consumers shifted not

just between websites in the same category, such as playing games online, but

between different categories. In particular the share of the amount of time

spent on portals (including search) declined from 68 percent in 2002 to 28

percent in 2012 while the share of time spent on social networking increased

from 2 percent in 2002 to 29 percent in 2012.





   There is one important point to note on the scarcity of attention. The

development of smart mobile phones resulted in a discrete jump in the attention

available for online activities. That is because people can use mobile devices

throughout the day and engage in multi-tasking with them in ways that they could

not do as conveniently with computers. That jump occurred in the late 2000s as

people started acquiring the new iPhone and then Android-based phones. The trend

is continuing as more people acquire these and other smart mobile phones and

tablets.





   2. Competition for Seeking Attention





   Attention rivals see each other as competitors. As Yahoo! observed, "[w]e

also compete with social media and networking sites which are attracting a

substantial and increasing share of users and users' online time, and may

continue to attract an increasing share of online advertising dollars." n69 A

review of financial filings by leading web properties found that many of them

identify other properties that provide very different products and services as

rivals. n70 What these properties all have in common is that they are seeking

attention from consumers and are trying to make money by selling that attention

to retailers or programmers.





   In this part we examine the competitive constraints they impose on each other

for seeking attention and in the next for providing attention.



     [*562]



   a. Scarcity of Attention





   Consumer attention is an input into selling advertising, sales services, and

other services. It is scarce because consumers have a limited amount of time

available and because a minute spent on one website is a minute less available

for another website. As with any scarce input, firms must compete vigorously in

order to attain it. The pursuit of attention sets up the basic dynamic of much

online competition.





   On this basis, competition occurs among very different offerings of site

content, such as: search sites, social networking, social media, portals,

auction sites, newspapers, entertainment, multimedia, games, etc. In Table 3 we

show the different types of competition that websites competing for advertise

are facing.





   Table 3. Ranking of types of websites in the selected countries by Total

Minutes stayed at the site. n71



    [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]  [*563]  [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]





   It is interesting to note that time spent is not overwhelmingly concentrated

in one or a couple of websites. If we estimate a Herfindahl Hirschman Index

(HHI) for these 20 attention grabbers in Latin America (based on Argentina's top

20) the HHI's for Argentina, Mexico, and Brazil are 1,220 1,198 and 1,308

respectively-figures that denote relatively unconcentrated markets.

Concentration is overestimated with this measure as it excludes all other

websites that do not make the top 20-it assumes they have a zero share of the

market for consumers' web minutes.





   b. Pricing for Securing Attention





   Attention seekers typically do not charge consumers for visiting their online

properties and in fact entice them to come to their sites, and spend time there,

with valuable services. This practice is similar to that of many multi-sided

platforms that make access free, or indeed subsidize, one group of consumers.

They do that, as is the case with attention seekers, in part because that group

of consumers is highly valuable to the other side. In the case of attention

rivals, it is especially not surprising that consumers get services for free

given that there is intense competition for scarce attention.





   c. Feature Competition





   Given a price of zero, attention seekers primarily compete for attention by

offering new attractive features. That constant feature competition is

particularly apparent to users of smart mobile devices. Many times over the

space of the year users are prompted to update their applications often as a

result of the addition of new features. Feature competition is rapid and

pervasive among attention seekers in part because of how they attract new

customers and keep existing ones engaged. Consumers have come to expect that

online businesses will do this and that their online businesses must introduce

new  [*564]  features regularly to remain competitive. Importantly, a website

can add a new feature and all of its users all around the world can immediately

have access to it.





   d. Drastic Innovation





   In addition to feature competition, there is "drastic innovation" which

creates completely new and highly trafficked categories. Examples of these over

the last decade include Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, Wikipedia, and YouTube.

These websites brought new products and services in the market previously not

even in the consumer's imagination.





   e. Entry, Exit, and Churn





   There is frequent entry by advertising-supported online attention seekers.

These range from small businesses such as blogs to ones that become large

quickly such as Twitter. As the study by Evans documented for the US, each

month, Compete.com reports the top 15,000 websites by unique visitors. Out of

the top 15,000 websites in the January 2012 list, 3,954 (26 percent) were

replaced by different websites on the July 2012 list, just six months later. n72

Many of these new entrants quickly grew to a substantial size. The largest 100

of them each had more than 150,000 hours of time, which would have placed them

in the top sixth of the January 2012 list. n73 Over a longer time period, out of

the 15,000 websites in the September 2002 list, 12,257 (82 percent) were

replaced by different websites on the September 2012 list, a full ten years

later. n74 As a consequence of this growth, the number of very large websites is

growing. Table 4 shows the growth in the number of websites with more than one

million hours of attention per month.



     [*565]



   Table 4: Growth in the Number of Websites Attracting Large Amounts of Time

Spent in the US. n75



    [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]





   We see this churn in Latin America as well. Tables 5-7 show the change in the

rankings of websites between 2006 and 2013 measured by number of visits, based

on data from Alexa for our three study countries. n76 In each country many top

websites fall out of the top ranking and other websites increase or decrease

their standing.





   Table 5: Top 20 Websites Visited in Argentina in 2006 and 2013.



    [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]  [*566]  [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]





   Table 6: Top 20 Websites Visited in Brazil in 2006 and 2013.



    [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]  [*567]  [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]





   Table 7: Top 20 Websites Visited in Mexico in 2006 and 2013.



    [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]  [*568]  [SEE TABLE IN ORIGINAL]





   f. Number of Competitors





   Thousands of firms compete for consumer attention in this way on the

Internet. Of the top 500 websites in the US as measured by time spent, 135

primarily gather attention and sell it to advertisers, defined narrowly. The HHI

for these websites is 1345-a figure denoting a relatively un-concentrated

market-based on time on site and assuming zero share for websites outside of the

top 500; as a result of the zero share assumption, this HHI is therefore

overstated. The five largest sellers of attention have 67 percent of the

attention garnered by these 135 websites. Defined slightly more broadly, 233 of

the top 500 websites primarily gather attention and sell it to advertisers. n77

The HHI for these websites is 1088, again assuming a zero share for  [*569]

websites outside of the top 500. The five largest attention sellers have 60

percent of the attention garnered by these 233 websites. Attention seeking is

not a winner- take-all business.





   3. Competition for Providing Attention





   In this part we focus on attention rivals that earn revenue by selling

attention to advertisers. We comment on the relevance of this to offline

attention rivals that provide other commerce-related services at the end of this

section. Online attention rivals are similar to traditional

advertising-supported media platforms such as newspapers, magazines, and

television. They provide news and entertainment to attract viewers and then sell

display-advertising spots on their pages. However, because they are

software-based media properties, these attention rivals can engage in highly

targeted advertising that is customized to the person viewing the advertisement.





   Online advertising-supported attention rivals sell many different kinds of

advertising. These include search-based, social media, and display advertising.

The advertisements themselves range from short text ads to image-heavy display

ads to video ads. Some, primarily display ads, are sold based on the number of

people who see the ads, while others are sold based on whether individuals click

on the ads. Most online advertising is targeted based on information, or

educated guesses, about the person looking at the screen at a particular point

in time.





   Advertisers buy online advertising because they want to sell products and

services to consumers-to obtain what are called "conversions." n78 They

therefore make decisions on how much to spend on advertising and how to allocate

that spending across different advertising channels-offline as well as online-by

comparing the rate of return on incremental investment across different

channels. Historically, advertisers have faced challenges in making these

decisions rigorously because of lack of data on the relationship between

advertising spending and conversions. They have had to make them judgmentally

based on a mixture of subjective and objective information.





   In recent years, however, advertisers have started using sophisticated

software- known as cross-channel attribution technologies-for determining the

marginal return on investment of  [*570]  expenditures on different channels.

n79 These technologies collect data on who has seen various ads, match that data

to information on whether there was a sale, assess the importance of different

ads in generating that sale and in some cases provide dynamic reallocations of

advertising budgets across sales channels based on results. n80 A survey of 607

entities in late 2011 found that 77 percent of advertising agencies and 62

percent of markets used these technologies. n81 A study of 53 marketers examined

how they used cross-channel attribution technologies. n82 Virtually all of them

used it to "measure the value and performance of digital channels" (98 percent).

Almost two thirds (64 percent) "use attribution to make improvements to

in-flight or future interactive marketing strategies like channel allocation and

media planning optimization." They used these attribution technologies to

examine many different channels. More than 70 percent of the markets said they

considered paid search, online display, natural search, affiliate partners and

email. More than a third also considered Facebook posts, comparison shopping

engines, Twitter, online video ads, and the brand's own website.





   The existence and widespread use of cross-channel marketing technologies

shows that advertisers (or advertising and marketing firms which serve as their

agents) see different online channels as substitutes. Otherwise they would not

be using products that facilitate  [*571]  the comparison of their marginal

returns on investment. The availability and widespread use of these technologies

also makes it likely that these different channels have relatively high degrees

of substitution. Advertisers compare them using a single metric and can make

quick adjustments to their campaigns depending on the rates of return, which

depend on costs and results. In fact, the survey of 607 marketers and agencies

in the US and UK discussed above found that users of channel- attribution

technologies changed their spending as result of their use of these

technologies. As shown in Figure 2, responses from 179 of those surveyed shows

that they appeared to have substituted between both online media as well as

between online and offline media.





   Figure 2: Substitution between Advertising Channels



    [figure]



     [*572]



   4. Product Differentiation and Attention Seeking





   Attention rivals are obviously dramatically different from each other.

Twitter provides a very different service to viewers (micro-blogging) than

Yahoo! (content curation). Twitter also provides a very different service to

advertisers-tweets with short urls for links-than Yahoo!-multi-color display

ads. The point of this section, however, is that those differences are not

necessarily relevant for assessing competition among online businesses. These

attention rivals are all competing aggressively with each other to secure

attention. The emergence of Twitter likely took viewers away from Yahoo!. And

the fact that services like Twitter can become quickly established and grow

explosively puts constant pressure on attention seekers. These attention rivals

then compete for advertisers to buy access to some of that attention. But

advertisers are constantly looking for ways to reallocate their budgets among

different channels to get what they often really want-a sale. They do not

necessarily care whether that sale came from a tweet, a search, a social network

ad, or a variety of other media.





   This section does not claim that attention rivals are necessarily all in the

same market. As usual with competition policy analysis we need to consider the

facts. Those facts may show product differentiation among platforms softens

competition enough to make the relevant antitrust market narrower than "all

attention rivals." But differentiation is not functional equivalence, meaning

that companies ought to offer services with equivalent functions in order to be

considered competitors. Indeed, this is exactly the point we argue against in

section I of this paper. As our previous example of Yahoo! and Twitter

illustrates, the fact that ads in one firm are displayed and look different than

they do in the other, does not mean that the entry of one rival into the market

(Twitter) cannot divert marginal consumers from one firm to the other-going back

to our best practices lexicon-and therefore can effectively constrain

competition for Yahoo!





   In contrast, we could consider that there are enough facts to determine that

one attention rival does not share the same market as another. There could be

differences among the people providing attention. An advertiser seeking to sell

an expensive automobile is interested in getting the attention of high-income

people who are likely in the market for buying a car. The attention of a teenage

game player is not a substitute. Hence the importance of garnering information

about customers by age and income group; for example, in 2006, in Mexico 58% of

internet users were between 12-24 years old, 34% were between 25-44 years old,

and 8% were more than 45  [*573]  years old; in 2010, 50% of internet users were

between 12-24 years old, 29% were between 25-44 years old, and 11% were more

than 44 years old. n83 There could also be differences in the manner in which

attention is generated which in turn reduces substitution possibilities. The

value of messages that are delivered on a search results page, as a display

advertisement on a web page, or as part of a web- based video could differ.

There are differences in the formats that are dictated in part by the method of

producing the attention. The context in which the attention is generated could

also lead to differences in the value of attention to advertisers. Such product

differentiation could result in some attention seekers, or some segments of

attention seekers, having significant market power. n84





   There are several factors, however, that tend to reduce the importance of

differentiation for online platforms. Physical media often have differentiated

content because this tends to attract particular types of consumers who are

attractive to particular advertisers, alternatively this type of media may also

bundle content in the hope of attracting a widest possible audience who will

select the content they find appealing. In the case of online media, software

and data-based targeting technologies can be used to identify particular kinds

of consumers without the need to bundle and differentiate their content to a

wide audience in order to engage the "right" audience. They are therefore less

reliant on content differentiation for targeting  [*574]  the right people. It

is also easier for online attention rivals to reposition themselves in the event

that there is a market opportunity in another niche. They can add features,

including content, to attract particular consumers.





   5. Extensions of Offline Attention Seekers





   There are reasonable arguments for why different types of offline attention

seekers do not compete with each other. Consider offline advertising-supported

platforms. Historically advertisers did not have good data for comparing the

effectiveness of television, radio, and print advertising. Their budgeting and

allocation decisions were therefore highly judgmental. These media were

different from each other and therefore arguably served different advertising

purposes. Entry and expansion was much harder than it is for online advertising.

It would also be hard to argue that advertising-supported platforms were close

substitutes for commerce platforms such as shopping malls, if for no other

reason than the time cost and inconvenience of travel.





   The emergence of online advertising and development of sophisticated

technologies has changed this in several ways. The fact that it is possible to

measure and determine incremental returns of investment for online attention

seeking places pressure to consider the same issues for offline attention

seeking. Knowing the return on investment (ROI) for online display advertising

encourages advertisers to think through the likely ROI for offline advertising

to make budgeting decisions. In addition, the development of computer

technologies has made it increasingly possible to measure conversions in

physical advertising-such as using coupon codes in print advertising.





   As noted above, some of the cross-channel attribution technologies compare

online with offline advertising channels. Figure 2 showed that this comparison

has encouraged substitution particularly away from print and towards online.

Goldfarb and Tucker have also found evidence of substitution between online and

offline advertising. n85 The online and offline worlds for commerce are

converging and this is likely to increase the degree of substitution. The use of

mobile devices is bringing the online world into physical spaces.   [*575]

Advertisers and marketers are using increasingly mobile applications to drive

physical commerce. n86





   D. The Analysis of Market Definition and Market Power





   This section has argued that "attention"-its acquisition and its delivery-is

the relevant dimension for analyzing the competitive constraints these rivals

impose on each other. n87 In practice, attention rivals more frequently face

significant competition from purveyors of new products or services that could

divert consumer attention from them, than from the entry of close substitutes

for their existing products or services. Ostensibly different attention rivals

often substitute for each other from the standpoint of consumers and merchants.

Product differentiation tempers the significance of these constraints. Product

differentiation is relevant, however, when it involves aspects of the attention

that is procured and sold, rather than particular features of the products and

services used for acquiring and delivering that attention to advertisers.





   Antitrust analysis should therefore focus on competition for securing and

delivering attention in considering market definition, market power, and

competitive effects. Focusing on competition between specific products and

services, rather than attention, could result in competition authorities and

courts making either false- negative or false-positive errors in their

decisions. False-negative errors could result from concluding that attention

rivals do not compete because they offer dissimilar products or services. False

positive errors could follow from ignoring competition among attention rivals

that offer different products and services. Analyzing attention, which is the

dimension on which these rivals compete in fact, reduces the likelihood of these

errors. The precise contours of  [*576]  markets, market power, and impacts on

competition will depend on the particular circumstances of the subjects of the

antitrust analysis, the conduct under consideration, and the extent of

differentiation among relevant attention rivals.





   There is no doubt that the Internet has resulted in the emergence of large

global firms that lead their categories. To take a few examples, Facebook is

clearly the leader in social networking, Google in search, and Twitter in

micro-blogging. However, as we have shown, several factors need to be considered

in evaluating whether these entities have long-lived market power and whether

product or services categories correspond to relevant antitrust markets:





   The product or services categories morph quickly and easily. Google has moved

into social networking, Facebook into search, and Apple into

advertising-supported media;





   There is rapid displacement of leaders both overall and within categories.

Facebook very quickly displaced Google as the most trafficked web property

globally- it took a little longer, however, to displace Brazil's social

networking site, Orkut- and Apple displaced Blackberry as the software

development platform for mobile devices, with Google, through its Android

platform, now contending strongly for this market; and





   The Internet-based industry is highly dynamic with frequent drastic

innovation, a feature that is consistently mentioned in best practice relevant

market and market power determination as difficult to analyze within a

traditional, hypothetical monopolist or structuralist approach to do it right.

Every time we think the online industry has reached maturity, disruptive

innovation changes it all.





   Attention rivals impose competitive constraints on each other across

boundaries defined by products and services they provide to consumers and

advertisers. It is an empirical matter whether these  [*577]  constraints are

strong enough to place particular attention rivals in the same relevant

antitrust market and to significantly limit the market power of particular

platforms. This will ultimately depend, in part, on the extent to which

consumers and advertisers turn from one attention seeker to another as prices,

quality, and features change. Some standard tools of competition

analysis-diversion analysis and econometric analysis of demand, adjusted for

applicability to multi-sided platforms- can help analysts obtain the evidence

necessary for a proper assessment. We offer here the example of relevant

questions that the European authority posed in reviewing the merger between

Skype and Microsoft. Our next section offers examples of how Argentina, Brazil,

and Mexico have posed similar such questions, which follow the best practices we

outlined, to reach an informed conclusion on cases which unfortunately have not

yet been about Internet-based industries.





   As we noted at the outset of this paper, what is important in assessing

market definition and market power is a careful analysis of competitive

constraints rather than formalistic methods that do not correspond to economic

realities. A good example of these principles involves the EU's analysis of

Microsoft's proposed acquisition of Skype. n88 The European Commission's

decision approving Microsoft's acquisition of Skype echoes many of the themes we

have discussed above. Skype is an Internet-based company. It provides software

that enables people to communicate over the Internet through instant messaging,

voice calls, and video calls. Microsoft agreed to acquire Skype in 2011 for $

8.5 billion. Among other things Microsoft also has an Internet-based

communication service call "Windows Live Messenger" (WLM). n89 The combination

would result in Microsoft having an 80-90 percent share of video calls in the

European Economic Area (EEA). Yet the European Commission considered the

possible effects of the merger and approved it without conditions. n90



     [*578]



   The Commission recognized the ease of entry into web-based businesses and how

quickly these new businesses could grow:





   "... the use of sites such as Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn, and Twitter has

more than doubled since January 2009."





   "The Commission observes several recent entries into the consumer

communications services markets. The example of Viber Media ... shows that it is

possible even for a small company to enter the market and attract a significant

number of users within a short period of time."





   "The Commission notes that IM is a dynamic market, as illustrated by the fast

growth of Facebook that has become the leader for IM in less than three years

with a market share of approximately 50%."





   "... smaller players have succeeded in rapidly entering, and gaining traction

in the consumer communications sector with innovative products."





   In addition, it noted that existing firms innovate and add new features

constantly.





   "The innovation cycles in these markets are short. As a result, software and

platforms are constantly being redeveloped. Innovators generally enjoy a short

lead in the market."





   This innovation is important because feature competition is important.





   "Since consumer communications services are mainly provided for free,

consumers pay more attention to other features. Quality is therefore a

significant parameter of competition."  [*579]



   "Consumers are very sensitive to innovative services or products in consumer

communications services. Providers ... lose traction quickly if they are unable

to offer users new and innovative functionality. For example, Skype's

innovations over the last eight years highlight the critical role innovation

plays in its success....."





   The Internet-based communication providers are also price takers.





   "These markets, and this is also true for video calls, are currently free of

charge. If a company were to charge for its service, competitors would switch to

alternative providers offering their service free of charge. This is confirmed

by internal documents of Skype showing that [>75%] of its users would switch to

an alternative provider if Skype started charging for its free service (in

particular for video calls)."





   The Commission declined to define communication markets based on

functionality given the ease with which consumers could switch between different

services. And, while it also declined to define specific markets, its decision

to approve the merger is clearly based on finding that ease of entry, feature

competition, price-taking behavior, and rapid innovation defeated the exercise

of market power. Despite finding that Microsoft would obtain a dominant position

in video calling it approved the acquisition without conditions. In doing so it

specifically relied on evidence that the providers are price-takers and would

lose customers if they did not compete on feature innovation.





   V. TECHNICAL CAPACITY: ARE AUTHORITIES READY?





   Throughout this paper we have underscored the need to look at competitive

constraints in assessing markets and power. We've included some examples of key

competitive factors, and have noted that some of these are particularly relevant

for internet-based industries such as the possibility of using multiple devices

to access similar content-including mobile devices-(multihoming), the speed of

innovation, and the importance that seeking and providing attention plays for

firms in this market. The analysis of Internet-based  [*580]  industries has a

degree of complexity that is not always present in more traditional industries,

which begs the question of whether Latin American competition agencies are

equipped to undertake them.





   In this section we use non-Internet cases reviewed or investigated by each of

the three authorities to illustrate how they have in fact undertaken complex

analyses and have used the best practices in market definition and power that

we've outlined. We also include as a general reference, a compendium of

historical cases that do involve Internet-based industries. To date, none of the

Internet cases have used the complex analysis to which we have referred to

before.





   A. Competitive Constraints Analysis in Practice: Selected Case Studies





   1. Argentina





   In December 2004, Telef nica M viles S.A. announced the acquisition of the

assets of BellSouth Corporation. In Argentina, Grupo Telef nica was one of the

two main suppliers of fixed telephony services, and one of the four main

suppliers of mobile telephony services. BellSouth, also one of the four main

suppliers of mobile telephony services, had minor market shares in other

telecommunications activities including data transmission, Internet, cable

television, and long distance fixed telephony. At the time, the CNDC identified

seven markets where both companies were active and evaluated the likely effects

of the merger over the competitive dynamics of the market, as well as potential

vertical effects derived from the concentration. n91





   Although a traditional market share analysis was undertaken considering

participation prior to and following the merger, the authority observed that

between 2001 and 2004, the market shares of the participants had varied. Hence,

it considered that the intensity of the competition in the market was high,

given the volatility of the market shares. Furthermore, it reasoned that

competitors would be in a position to respond to any potential increases in

price from the merged company, as they possessed enough spectrum to increase

their service offerings and offset any exercise of market power by the merged

company. Lastly, the Commission considered that although spectrum accumulation

by itself can determine competitive conditions in the telecommunication

industry, accumulation can also lead to efficiencies in the market due to

reductions in marginal and total cost.



     [*581]



   2. Brazil





   The operation involved an agreement between Nestl and Garoto Brasil in which

Nestl would acquire new stocks issued by Garoto. Considering the market of

chocolates as a whole, Nestl was the leading company, alternating the first

place with Kraft Foods (Lacta), with Garoto as the third largest firm. Nestl 's

average market share between 1998 and 2001 was of 34.5%, while Garoto's was 23%.

n92





   The merging parties and Kraft filed dueling market definition studies,

employing price elasticity models to estimate consumer reactions to relative

prices among different chocolate formats and chocolate brands. Because results

were dramatically different CADE was forced to consider a host of methodology

issues associated with simulation models, including identification of the

relevant demand function, assessment of the statistical uncertainty associated

with demand elasticity estimates, and examination of the potential defects in

the differentiated products models that the simulations employed.





   Other hotly contested issues included barriers to entry and the prospects for

expansion of such rival brands as Mars and Hershey. The Council studied the

minimum efficient scale required to enter the market, the time required for

entry to be effective, minimum investments required to enter and selling

possibilities. CADE concluded it was unlikely that Kraft would make investments

necessary to offset market power. This conclusion together with the difficulty

of entry into the market led CADE to conclude that the probabilities that the

merged firm would abuse its market power was high.





   3. Mexico





   The case involved a renewed complaint by Pepsi Bottling Group against

Coca-Cola for exclusive dealings in the small retail shop distribution outlet,

which comprised 70% of all sales in the industry and involved more than 1

million points of sale nationwide. This conduct was foreclosing the market for

Pepsi's own carbonated beverages. n93



     [*582]



   The Federal Competition Commission (CFC) constructed a three-step structured

rule of reason test to determine potential harm arising from the conduct. It

considered that there was a high probability of harm if any of the following

three conditions existed (a) if, under normal conditions, an entrant that is as

efficient as a standard industry measure of efficiency cannot enter (does not

reach a Minimum Efficient Scale or MES); or (b) if the conduct is prevalent-that

is sufficiently widespread-such that it prevents industry participants from

attaining "normal" levels of efficiency; and/or (c) if the conduct determines

the incumbent's ability to maintain or increase its dominance.





   The authority found that Pepsi was able to attain a MES and in some cases,

was in fact operating in the decreasing returns to scale portion of its costs.

Through a survey of depositions by store keepers offered as evidence by the

complainant, it found the conduct was relatively infrequent (less than 4% of the

small shops confirmed the exclusivity agreements) and had a short duration (less

than 1 year). Finally, the CFC found that consumers have access to other

products in the distribution channel; that there was a competitive dynamic in

the market (entry, exit, innovation-new drinks, etc.); and that Coca-Cola's

market power arose mostly from the value of its brand and the efficiency with

which it operates its distribution network. The case was closed and the decision

withstood an appeal before the Commission.





   As evidenced by the three cases presented here, authorities have focused on

competitive dynamics and non-price information when determining ex ante harm to

competition (mergers) as well as ex post anticompetitive conduct

(investigations). The case in Argentina illustrates how the CNDC recognized that

shares were not a useful metric of market power when these are volatile and

there are other dimensions for rivals to compete aggressively (e.g. spectrum).

Brazil's case highlights the importance of evaluating diverse evidence to reach

a determination, and to review evidence based on accepted economic methodologies

that CADE determined in this case. It also illustrates the importance of

including estimates of minimum efficient scale (MES) of entry when reviewing

barriers to entry. MES played an important role in the decision by the Mexican

authority also, as it determined whether foreclosure was indeed possible as an

effect of exclusive deals. The Mexican case shows how market power should not

focus solely on the level of market shares held by the defendant but on whether

its conduct increases this level and causes harm.



     [*583]



   B. Internet Analyses in Practice: Case Studies





   In order to give a broad perspective of the types of cases that the

authorities have reviewed and the degree of complexity and depth that has so far

been required in analyzing them, we present a selection of cases-the majority of

them-that the CNDC, CADE, and the CFC have reviewed over a period of time that

spans 2000 through 2009. The fast pace of change in the industry is not only

evident in the cases, but also in the agencies' decisions. In addition, since

2000-the first internet-based case we have on record-there have been important

changes in the technical know-how and expertise within the agencies themselves,

as they have garnered knowledge and experience, and have sought training for

their employees. The cases are grouped into three different types of analyses.

For example, a number of transactions involved vertical integration between

Internet access providers and online content producers; others involved

horizontal acquisitions either in the jurisdictions themselves or elsewhere but

with effects in Latin American countries; some of these involved online

businesses, others mergers of online and offline businesses. In each case,

authorities seemed to be posing traditional questions to analyze a new industry.

For vertical mergers, the acquisition of a website by an access provider focuses

on an essential facility-type of query; for horizontal mergers, concerns seem

more focused on whether content offerings or services are sufficiently similar

to be considered substitutes or if these operations appear to be analogous to a

company acquiring a portfolio of content. n94





   It is evident from the resolutions of the three authorities we included here,

however, that they have been careful in not constraining themselves to set

relevant market definitions or to strict methodologies for market power

determination. It is particularly interesting to note the evolving description

of Microsoft's business over the course of time as the Brazilian authorities

analyzed the different merger deals, from a very generally defined market in

2001-software development-to a broader conception of its business that goes

beyond the IT industry: programming and correlated services for any customers

involving online, business, and peripherals including entertainment. Yahoo! also

conceives of its business as having a wider  [*584]  reach than just search

capabilities or advertising revenues. Its business is no longer restricted to

Internet, but includes features we associate with telecommunications and

broadcasting markets, such as email, messaging, video streaming, and music. It

is also interesting to highlight how Argentina's advertising market analysis

tends to include all broadcasting distribution outlets: printed, video,

streaming and internet media. In the case of Mexico, the information included in

its case summaries points to a wide conception of the product market, again

underscoring care in not overly constraining case law to narrowly defined

markets in a rapidly changing industry.





   1. Offline and Online Mergers





   a. AOL/Time Warner-Argentina





   In 2000, Argentina's CNDC analyzed the effects in its territory of the merger

between America Online and Time Warner. n95 The analysis does not suggest

recognition that this was a two-sided market where market share analysis could

provide little insight into market power; it also ignored any indirect

externalities between each side of the respective offline and online content

providers. Instead the agency's focus was on identifying overlaps between the

two companies considering each side of the market as distinct. Thus,

distribution of online and offline content was analyzed in two distinct

channels: TV and Internet, finding no competition concerns. The CNDC also

analyzed the other side of the market as a separate advertising market. This

broad product dimension, led to a conclusions that the effects of the merger

were very small as most advertising revenues did not come from pay TV or

internet and were distributed as follows: coming from free to air TV (close to

40%), newspapers (23%), pay TV (12%), and internet advertising at 0.1%.





   b. Microsoft/aQuantive-Brazil





   In 2007, Microsoft sought to acquire aQuantive. n96 aQuantive participated in

the advertising sector through 3 business divisions: technology for digital

publicity, digital communication performance,  [*585]  and digital marketing.

Microsoft described its business as creation, development, and provision of

computer software and related services. Brazil's SDE considered that there was

no horizontal overlap between the different companies, but noted that 90% of

aQuantive's revenues came from Microsoft, so that the transaction had a vertical

component. It consequently looked at the market offering online advertising

services and found that there were a large number of competitors worldwide and

therefore no evidence of upstream closure. The operation was approved.





   c. Microsoft/Fast Search-Brazil





   In 2008 Microsoft purchased all shares for Fast Search & Transfer ASA, n97 a

Norwegian firm that developed and marketed software for corporate search.

Microsoft described its business to the Brazilian authorities as a firm that

participated in the market for operating systems, computer software and

production of video, videogames, computer games, and other peripherals, as well

as corporate search. The latter was the only market subject to analysis by SDE.

SDE did not undertake a complete relevant market definition analysis as it

considered that there were a large number of participants in the market, that

Fast and Microsoft's participation was modest and that each party's service

offerings were complementary. In addition, clients stated no opposition to the

deal.





   d. Microsoft/Yahoo!-Brazil





   In 2009, Microsoft and Yahoo! decided on an exclusive licensing agreement for

10 years whereby Microsoft would grant Yahoo! technology to undertake

algorithmic and sponsored searches. n98 Following the 10 year period, the

license would continue but with no exclusivity. Microsoft also agreed to offer

advertising text services to Yahoo! and Yahoo! would become the sole worldwide

representative of both companies in their sales relationship with premium

advertisers. The agreement excluded web products, email services, instant

messaging, graphic publicity, or other businesses. Microsoft's  [*586]

programming and correlated services were described as including 5 segments:

clients; suppliers and tools; online services; Microsoft business division; and

accessories and entertainment division. Yahoo!'s services were divided into 6

categories: "Front Door" services (free to users and financed through

advertisements); communities services; search services, also financed through

advertising revenues; communication services; advertising and premium services,

including TV and music services; and applications to access internet. Brazil's

SDE defined online markets following previous jurisprudence, as global with an

open geographic reach. SDE concluded that the deal would allow the parties to

better compete with Google globally, and would improve advertising competition,

benefiting those seeking to advertise, consumers, and improve websites.





   e. Yahoo!-Brazil





   There are two operations involving Yahoo! that the Brazilian competition

agencies reviewed. The first in 2002 involved the acquisition of Starmedia, n99

and was reviewed by all three Brazilian competition agencies. The second,

involved the 2003 acquisition of Inktomi, n100 was also reviewed by the three

agencies. In the first case Starmedia operated a Brazilian search engine named

"Cade?" that edited and catalogued Brazilian websites. Both companies obtained

revenues through advertising sales. Even though the advertising market could

include TV, radio, printed media, and internet, CADE decided to take a narrow

view of the market as internet advertising in Brazil, reasoning that it was a

small but growing industry and data could not yet be secured to allow for a

substitution analysis between "virtual" publicity and publicity in more

traditional media outlets. Nevertheless, the transaction represented too small a

market share to require further scrutiny. In the proposed acquisition of Inktomi

Corporation by Yahoo! the authorities determined the relevant market to be

internet search, where Yahoo! did not participate but purchased search

technology from Google, who did compete with Yahoo! in offering website

services. Although the authorities did foresee future vertical relations among

the parties, they did not consider this to be a concern. In the case of the

Brazilian authorities' analysis of Yahoo!'s  [*587]  acquisition of Starmedia as

early as 2003, the small size of this market and lack of data to allow for a

more in depth analysis of substitution among different advertising media

outlets, led the authority to only make general statements about possible

elements that would differentiate internet based advertising from other types of

advertising. Here, CADE took the view of deciding on a narrowly defined market

for Internet advertising, and noted only differences in what it called directed

advertising, publicity where the consumer takes an active role in searching for

a product or service, in contrast with creative advertising, where a message

reaches a consumer with the intent of persuading him or her about the qualities

of certain products or services and conquering him or her for a client or

advertiser. It noted that Internet advertising could include either one of these

types of publicity.





   2. Online Content Mergers





   a. BtoB Factory/btoben.com Inc.-Argentina





   For very early cases (c. 2000) there is a tendency to separate markets based

on functional interchangeability. For example, Argentina's analysis of the

merger between BtoB Factory and btoben.com Inc. in 2001, n101 delved into the

types of internet portals involved in the operation, noting that there were 3

distinguishable segments: business to consumers (B2C), business to business

(B2B), and consumer to consumer (C2C). Based on this separation, the CNDC noted

that there was no overlap between the business served by BtoB factory, the B2C

segment, and that served by btoben.com Inc., the B2B segment. According to CNDC,

since the focus of the analysis was on type of content provided by each party,

the universe of existing and potential Internet content providers was

sufficiently vast and barriers sufficiently low so as to deem any one company

incapable of exercising significant influence.





   b. Google Brasil/Akwan-Brazil





   Brazil's SEAE reviewed the acquisition of Akwan by Google Brasil in 2005.

n102 Both companies were regarded as having a similar  [*588]  line of business:

search for final consumers with revenues generated mainly through the sale of

Internet advertising space. But the line of business was not translated into one

two-sided market, but instead SEAE defined the relevant markets under review as

(1) Internet search technology, (2) Internet advertising space, and (3)

corporate search, which was an additional service offered by Akwan and not by

Google. As was the case of Argentina before, two-sided markets were defined as

two one-sided markets, and even within those services, there were further narrow

classifications: in Internet search technology, the authority distinguished

between search firms that offered their own searching capabilities and those

that searched linking to other search engines. SEAE ultimately approved the

transaction.





   3. Vertical Mergers: Internet Access and Online Content





   a. Terra Networks/Infosel-Mexico





   There were three operations reviewed by Mexico's competition authority

involving access providers and content producers, we look at the two that have

more information on the analysis. n103 The first, in 1999, where Terra Networks

Mexico, a Spanish holding, purchased Infosel, a Mexican society offering media

and news content through TV, telephony, messaging, internet, cable, electronic

and telegraphic media. According to the CFC, Terra and Infosel coincided in the

following relevant markets: financial information (content), financial

electronic commerce, business to business, corporate services (internet service

provision and solutions) and consumer services (internet service provision and

websites). That same year, Via Net, which marketed Internet access services and

other value added services (electronic data exchange, email, remote access to

data bases), entered the Mexican market through the acquisition of Infoacces.

Via Net, who offered Internet access services, installation and administration

of networks and was authorized to offer value added services in various cities

in Mexico. In both cases the Commission seems to have taken a mechanistic view

of the markets it was reviewing: the type of content involved in the operation

was  [*589]  noted, as was the service for each type of consumer (corporate or

final consumers). However, true to its legal underpinnings, the CFC's analyses

really focused on the effects: in both cases, the operation involved a new

entrant, market definition was simply accessory to the final decision which

focused on new entry, which is always good for competition, and hence received

the Commission's approval.





   b. Terra Networks/Lycos Inc.-Mexico





   The 2000 merger between Terra Networks and Lycos Inc., which originated in

the US was analyzed in Argentina as a vertical merger, that of an Internet

access provider (Terra Networks, owned by Telefonica) and an online content

provider, Lycos. n104 Since the parties also coincided in online content

provision, the market was also analyzed. As was the case of the AOL/Time Warner

merger, two one- sided markets were reviewed instead of one two-sided market. On

the content production side, the CNDC argued that the parties coincided in

search and content generation, with Lycos being a fairly new entrant. On the

selling side of the platform, treated as an independent market from content

production, an analysis similar to the AOL/Time Warner merger was undertaken.





   c. Google/Motorola-Mexico





   In 2011, the CFC reviewed the acquisition by Google of the Mexican

subsidiaries of Motorola. n105 Google's business included search and online

advertising, as well as an open architecture operating system for mobile

devices, Android. Motorola, marketed hardware (mobile devices and set-top boxes

or STBs) in two business segments: mobile devices including smartphones and

tablets, and home appliances including broadband access solutions. The

Commission concluded that there were no horizontal overlaps between the parties,

but a vertical relationship. Again, following its law in determining whether the

merger had or could have as object or effect harm or hindrance to the

competition process, it concluded that Google had no incentives to refuse or

condition the sale of Android as a result of its acquisition of Motorola.

Furthermore, it reasoned, there  [*590]  were important competitors, including

Nokia, Samsung, and LG. This led to an unconditional approval of the merger.

n106





   VI. CONCLUSIONS





   In Latin America, modern antitrust institutions have emerged as a result of a

changing perspective on the role that government should play in the economy.

Public policy no longer considers the State as a key driver of economic growth;

rather, modern antitrust policy in many of these countries regards markets as

key to growth, so that interventions by an agency are usually limited to

ensuring that firms follow a competitive process. As part of the efforts to

"catch up" with more mature agencies, antitrust authorities in the region have

made conscious efforts to "spell out" and follow best practices, particularly

through guidelines. The implementation of best practices can be seen in certain

antitrust analyses of Brazil, Mexico, and Argentina.





   We presented three examples of casework, not necessarily related to internet-

based industries, where these competition agencies have undertaken a market

definition and power analysis that follows best practices. But some questions

remain:





   Will agencies be able to apply these same concepts as they face mergers and

investigations into "new economy" industries? They certainly do have the

technical capabilities to do so.





   Will they have an awareness of the ways in which these practices ought to be

reviewed in light of the special features that characterize these industries?

We've presented considerations that must make up any competition analysis into

this industry when reviewing competition matters, to ensure that their fast pace

of change, multi-sided characteristics and attention seeking rivalry form part

of any relevant market and power analysis.



     [*591]



   As one of us has argued in a previous paper, attention seeking by online

rivals means that in many instances competition is not occurring "for the

market" but "in the market" and this is an empirical question that authorities

need to address. Analyses based on functional equivalence among services are

wrong as attention rivals impose competitive constraints on each other across

boundaries defined by the products and services they provide to consumers and

advertisers.





   Finally, while this degree of detail in the analyses of cases involving

Internet-based industries have not yet been used by the competition agencies we

study here, it is very likely that cases will be brought before these

authorities soon. It is only a matter of time before we hopefully see a decision

that provides in-depth analytical considerations about market definition and

power concepts in a highly dynamic, multi-sided industry. At least that would be

our wish.



Legal Topics:



For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:

Antitrust & Trade LawMarket DefinitionGeneral OverviewComputer & Internet

LawCivil ActionsDamagesMergers & Acquisitions LawAntitrustMarket Definition



FOOTNOTES:









n1  Douglas H. Ginsburg and Joshua D. Wright, Dynamic Analysis and the Limits of

Antitrust Institutions, 78 Antitrust L. J. 1 (2012), available at

http://ssrn.com/abstract=2084355.









n2  Growing arrays of other devices are also being connected to the Internet,

such as television sets, point-of-sale devices for card acceptance, and

household appliances.









n3  Federal Competition Commission of Mexico, Assessment of Market Power in

Competition Matters, (March 2011), available at

http://www.cfc.gob.mx/images/stories/Documentos/guias/ultdoctopodersustmercado.p

df [hereinafter, Market Power Report]; Federal Competition Commission of Mexico,

Assessment of the Relevant Market in Competition Matters, (March 2011),

available at

http://www.cfc.gob.mx/images/stories/Documentos/guias/doctoreferenciadefmercrele

vant. pdf [hereinafter, Market Definition Report].









n4  For further discussion, see Market Power Report.









n5  See also, Market Definition Report, Section 2.









n6  George W. Stocking and Willard F. Mueller, The Cellophane Case and the New

Competition, The American Economic Review Vol. 45, No. 1 (1955): 29-63,

available at http://www.jstor.org/stable/1811582.









n7  Louis Kaplow and Carl Shapiro, Antitrust, Harvard Law and Economics

Discussion Paper No. 575 (2007), available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=961264.









n8  OECD Policy Roundtables, Market Definition, Directorate for Financial and

Enterprise Affairs, Competition Committee (2012), available at

http://www.oecd.org/daf/competition/Marketdefinition2012.pdf.









n9  See The Commission of European Communities, "Case No IV/M.1524 -

Airtours/First Choice," (Sept. 1999), available at

http://ec.europa.eu/competition/mergers/cases/decisions/m1524 en.pdf.









n10  Inter-American Development Bank, Organisation for Economic Co- operation

and Development, Competition Law and Policy in Argentina: A Peer Review, OECD

Country Studies (2006), available at

http://www.oecd.org/daf/competition/Argentina-CompetitionLawPolicy.pdf.









n11  The court has competency to resolve cases related in commercial matters and

has decided various competition cases. However, the Supreme Court has intervened

in some so that it is still unclear whether this court has indeed competence to

review all competition-related cases, hence the term quasi-specialized that we

use here. See Jorge Otamendi, Tribunales competentes en material de aplicaci n

de la ley de defense de la competencia, LA LEY 2006-C, 656-Derecho Comercial

Doctrinas Esenciales, Tomo V, 505, available at

http://www.gbreuer.com.ar/admin/files/boletin

archivos/Tribunales%20competentes.pdf.









n12  Brazil National Law 12, 529/12 (2011), available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/Default.aspx?84a467a9769494b68e.









n13  Description based on Inter-American Development Bank, Organisation for

Economic Co-operation and Development, Competition Law and Policy in Brazil: A

Peer Review, OECD Country Studies (2010), available at

http://www.oecd.org/daf/competition/45154362.pdf.









n14  Id., Article 3.









n15  Constituci n Politica de la Rep blica Mexicana de 1857(Constitution of the

Republic of Mexico of 1857), art. 28, available at

http://www.juridicas.unam.mx/infjur/leg/conshist/pdf/1857.pdf. "There will be no

monopolies or state monopolies of any kind, nor prohibitions aimed at protection

of industry. Excepted only those relating to the coinage of money, to the

privileges that, for a limited time, the law grants to inventors or improvers

for some improvement."









n16  The enabling law, bylaws, internal code of rules as well as court

jurisprudence legal statute are available at Comisi n Federal de Competencia M

xico, Compendio Normativo en Materia de Competencia Econ mica, (2012), available

at www.cfc.gob.mx/images/stories/Leyes/compendionormativo/2012/compendiocfc 2012

octubre .pdf.









n17  Inter-American Development Bank, Organisation for Economic Co- operation

and Development, Competition Law and Policy in Mexico: An OECD Peer Review

(2004), available at http://www.oecd.org/mexico/31430869.pdf.









n18  Joint Directive SEAE/SDE No. 50 (Aug. 1, 2001), available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf.









n19  The guidelines also mention the "hypothetical monopolist test," also part

of a traditional or formalistic merger analysis.









n20  See Resolution 15/98, available at

http://www.cfc.gob.mx/docs/pdf/ra-15-98.pdf.









n21  See Directorate for Financial and Enterprise Affairs Competition Committee,

Roundtable on Market Definition, OECD (2012), available at

http://search.oecd.org/officialdocuments/displaydocumentpdf/?cote=DAF/COMP(2012)

13&do clanguage=en.









n22  See Market Power Report and Market Definition Report.









n23  Secretaria de la Competencia, la Desregulaci n y la Defensa del Consumidor

(Secretary of Competition, Regulation, and Consumer Defense), Resolution

164/2001, available at http://www.infoleg.gob.ar/infolegInternet/anexos/70000-

74999/70302/norma.htm.









n24  Joint Directive, SEAE/SDE No. 50 (2001) at 8, available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf. Product

and geographic dimension of the relevant market are defined in Item 28.









n25  Resolution 164/2001, available at

http://www.infoleg.gob.ar/infolegInternet/anexos/70000-74999/70302/norma.htm.

Note that this test is not conclusive.









n26  Joint Directive, SEAE/SDE No. 50 (2001) at 8, available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf. The SSNIP

test is defined in Item 30 of the Guidelines of Horizontal Mergers but is not

used often in the analysis of cases.









n27  While not explicitly mentioned, Resolution 164/2001 does not prohibit it

either.









n28  It is not explicitly described in law, Guidelines or cases.









n29  See Market Definition Report, which is a suggested set of best practices

but non-binding to the authority.









n30  Resolution 164/2001, available at

http://www.infoleg.gob.ar/infolegInternet/anexos/70000-74999/70302/norma.htm. It

is important to analyze the producers' location for the determination of the

relevant geographic market.









n31  Joint Directive, SEAE/SDE No. 50 (2001) at 9, available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf. Item 32

of the Guidelines for horizontal concentrations describes that the agency must

consider suppliers' location, but this is not always included in the analysis of

all cases.









n32  Resolution 164/2001 requires evidence that consumers are able to move to

other areas due to changes in price in order to buy the product.









n33  Joint Directive, SEAE/SDE No. 50 (2001) at 9, available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf. Item 32

of the Guidelines for horizontal concentrations notes that the agency must

consider consumers' location, but this is not always considered in every case.









n34  Resolution 164/2001 can be interpreted as saying both that rapid entrants

need to be considered (a low barriers to entry argument) and that supply- side

substitution ought to be included as well, since the example it presents is that

of paper whereby a company can adjust its production technology to produce

different grades of paper.









n35  Joint Directive, SEAE/SDE No. 50/2001 at 9, available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf. According

to Item 32 of the Guidelines for horizontal concentrations, the agency must

consider time and costs involved in producing substitute products, but this is

not always included in all of the cases analyzed.









n36  By allowing for technical possibilities of substitution of a product or

service within paragraph I of article 12, the law is allowing for supply-side

substitution within the relevant market definition analysis. Federal Law of

Economic Competition, Mexico.









n37  Resolution 164/2001, available at

http://www.infoleg.gob.ar/infolegInternet/anexos/70000-74999/70302/norma.htm.









n38  Resolution 164/2001, subsection II.3 (and is also applied where

concentrations are horizontal or vertical).









n39  Resolution 164/2001, subsection II.4 (and in several cases when the type of

concentration is horizontal or vertical).









n40  Resolution 164/2001, subsection IV. Consider supply side substitution as an

element for the possibility of abusing market power.









n41  Although not explicitly excluded, marginal consumers' considerations are

not taken into account neither in the Resolution 164/2001 nor in case decisions.









n42  Marginal consumers are not considered in law or in the Guidelines for

Horizontal Mergers. They are not considered either in the cases analyzed, but

this type of analysis is not prohibited.









n43  Market Power Report at 13-14.









n44  Resolution 164/2001 subsection III.b. Non-price competition, mainly

innovation, is considered as part of the unilateral effects to measure the

competitive assessments, but is not mentioned with regards to market power.









n45  Market Power Report; Market Definition Report.









n46  Is not explicitly defined in Resolution 168/2001 but an outline of this

subject could be seen in subsection VII, and in various cases vertical relations

of parties to a concentration, where upstream and downstream effects are

analyzed and the agency has explores any changes to buying power.









n47  Market Power Report, 16-17.









n48  Resolution 168/2001, Subsection IV.









n49  Horizontal Merger Guidelines, Item 45, available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf.









n50  Article 12 of rulings to the law (Federal Law of Economic Competition,

Mexico) describes different elements that can be considered barriers to entry,

such as financial costs, investment amounts and indivisibilities, legal

barriers, advertising expenditures and legal limitations, but does not

explicitly describe timeliness, likeliness and sufficiency of entry.









n51  Resolution 168/2001, Subsection VI.









n52  Horizontal Merger Guidelines, Items 61-65, available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/internacional/Horizontal Merger Guidelines.pdf.









n53  This is contained within the definition of relative monopolistic

practices-conduct analyzed by rule of reason (article 10)-and of anticompetitive

mergers (article 16). The language for both note that in order to establish an

infringement to the law it is necessary to determine that their objective or

effect is to unduly displace, substantially foreclose or establish exclusive

advantages, for conduct investigations; or to reduce, harm or impede competition

and free market access for anticompetitive mergers. Federal Law of Economic

Competition, Mexico.









n54  Resolution 164/2001. Unilateral effects are not explicitly stated as such,

but the Resolution states that a merger review must consider whether the company

eliminated was a vigorous and effective competitor.









n55  Resolution 164/2001. Coordinated effects are not explicitly stated as such,

but the Resolution states that the characteristics of the remaining competitors

in the relevant market have to be considered, and if they tend to accept

stability and behave as followers, competitive conditions could be harmed.









n56  Federal Law of Economic Competition, Mexico. This is still an open

question. Article 17 of the law clearly foresees unilateral effects but adds

that any act or attempt to exercise monopolistic practices is evidence of an

anticompetitive merger. This has currently been interpreted as a possibility to

review coordinated effects within a merger.









n57  This section draws largely from David S. Evans, Attention Rivalry among

Online Platforms and Its Implications for Antitrust Analysis, Journal of

Competition Law and Economics (forthcoming). University of Chicago Institute for

Law & Economics Olin Research Paper No. 627 (2013), available at

http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2195340.









n58  See David S. Evans, Vanessa Zhang, and Howard Chang, Analyzing Competition

among Internet Players: Qihoo v. Tencent, CPI Antitrust Chronicle(2013).









n59  Lucia Bibolini and Lawrence Baker, Latin American Broadband and Internet

Market, 9th ed., available at http://www.budde.com.au/Research/2010-Latin-

American-Broadband-and-Internet-Market.html.









n60  Comscore, available at http://www.comscore.com (last accessed Dec. 2011).









n61  Comscore, available at http://www.comscore.com (last accessed June 2007).









n62  Google and Ipsos, 2012, available at

http://www.rcrwireless.com/americas/20120522/devices/smartphone-penetration-24-i

n- argentina-20-in-mexico-14-in-brazil.









n63  The advent of smart mobile devices has increased the amount of time that

consumers realistically have available for Internet-based activities. They are

still constrained by having no more than 168 hours a week.









n64  See David S. Evans and Richard Schmalensee, The Antitrust Analysis of

Multi-Sided Platform Businesse, Oxford Handbook on International Antitrust

Economics, eds. Roger Blair and Daniel Sokal (Oxford University Press, 2013).

Also available in University of Chicago Institute for Law & Economics, Olin

Research Paper No. 623 (forthcoming), available at

http://ssrn.com/abstract=2185373.









n65  The fixed cost could be endogenous in the sense that firms invest more in

the asset in anticipation of attracting more people.









n66  See David S. Evans, Andrei Hagiu, and Richard Schmalensee, Invisible

Engines: How Software Platforms Drive Innovation and Transform Industries (MIT

Press, 2006).









n67  David S. Evans, Attention Rivalry among Online Platforms and Its

Implications for Antitrust Analysis, University of Chicago Institute for Law &

Economics Olin, Research Paper No. 627 (2013) at 9-10, available at

http://ssrn.com/abstract=2195340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2195340. The

total amount of time spent online increased by 373 percent between September

2002 and September 2012. That figure includes both the increase in the number of

people online and the increase in the average amount of time spent online.









n68  Id.









n69  United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Yahoo Inc. Annual Fiscal

Report (Washington D.C. 2011) at 14, available at

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1011006/000119312513085111/d442073d10k.ht

m.









n70  See Evans, Attention Rivalry.









n71  Comscore, available at http://www.comscore.com (last accessed Apr. 2013).









n72  Some of these new websites do not represent new businesses, but are rather

new websites for existing businesses.









n73  Compete.com database, January 2012 and July 2012.









n74  Compete.com, September 2002 to September 2012.









n75  Compete.com, September 2002, September 2007, and September 2012.









n76  www.alexa.com.









n77  Under the narrower definition, a website counts as an advertising-

supported attention seeker if 1) it is consumer-focused, and 2) its revenues

come exclusively or almost exclusively from banner ads, search ads, or flat

listing fees for items for sale. Under the broader definition, a website counts

as an attention- seeker if 1) it is consumer focused, 2) it earns substantial

revenue from banner ads, search ads, fees for items for sales (whether flat

listing fees, commissions, revenue sharing, buyer fees, or sales lead fees), 3)

its other revenue comes from advertising-related sources, such as consumer

research, marketing campaign design, other marketing services, premium

membership fees for consumers to avoid ads and/or receive additional services,

and credits for virtual goods.









n78  Conversions are defined as the proportion of visitors to a website who take

action to go beyond a casual content view or website visit as a result of subtle

or direct request from marketers, advertisers, and content creators.









n79  See Catherine Tucker, The Implications of Improved Attribution and

Measurability for Online Advertising Markets?, (Competition Conference,

University of Melbourne, Nov. 6, 2012), available at

http://ipria.org.au/events/conf/Competition Conference/Measureabiltiy and online

ads. pdf.









n80  According to marketing material for Visual IQ's IQ Intelligence Suite,

which is one of the leading cross-channel attribution technologies, "Once your

marketing performance data and customer data (and any other data you wish to

include) has been collected, formatted, normalized and integrated during the

software set-up process, IQ Insight presents it to you through its powerful, yet

easy to use dashboard and reporting interface. This allows you the flexibility

to view, report upon and compare the performance of every channel, campaign and

marketing tactic side by side, and to analyze that performance by any criteria

specific to your company, industry or business model. IQ Insight provides both

executive overview and granular views of your marketing ecosystem using a common

set of your own key performance indicators (KPIs)," available at

http://www.visualiq.com/products/iq-intelligence- suite (last accessed Nov.

2012).









n81  Econsultancy (2012). The data were collected from September 26 through

October 23, 2011. Of 607 respondents, 44 percent were located in North America

and 33 percent were in the United Kingdom.









n82  Forrester Interactive Attribution (2012).









n83  Asociaci n Mexicana de Televisi n (AMIPCI), H bitos de los usuarios de

Internet en Mexico. May 17, 2011 and October 2007, 2011 version available at

http://www.slideshare.net/venturis/amipci-hbitos-de-los-usuarios-de-internet-en-

mxico-2011.









n84  Different sources of attention may have different values to advertisers

because of differences in "how attentive" people are to advertisements on the

property and the context in which they are seeing the advertisements. These

differences between source of attention lead to differences in the likelihood

that a view by a consumer will result in a "conversion"-that is a sale of a

good-for the merchant. However, these differences do not necessarily lead to

traditional product differentiation issues. For example, if property A leads to

10 percent of the conversions per person viewing an advertisement as property B,

and that is the only difference, the price for showing an ad to a person on

property B would be 10 percent of the price of the same advertisement on

property A. At these prices the two properties would be close substitutes. For

example, it is much "cheaper" per click to buy display ads on Facebook than to

buy search ads on Google. But the Facebook ads result in much fewer conversions

per click than do the Google ads. See Larry Kim, Google Display Network vs.

Facebook Advertising, Wordstream (2012), available at

http://www.wordstream.com/blog/ws/2012/05/15/ipo-facebook-vs-google-display-

advertising; see also, JCD Repair, Google Adwords vs. Facebook Ads - It Was No

Contest, (2012), available at http://www.jcdrepair.com/blog/google-adwords-vs-

facebook-ads-it-was-no-contest/645.









n85  Avi Goldfarb and Catherine Tucker, Substitution between Offline and Online

Advertising Markets (2010), available at http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1721001.









n86  Chantal Tode, Macy's makes mobile integral part of Black Friday strategy to

drive in-store sales, Mobile Commerce Daily (2012), available at

http://www.mobilecommercedaily.com/macy%E2%80%99s-enhances-mobile-app-to-facilit

ate- shopping-on-black-friday; Chantal Tode, Fairmont Hotels enhances foursquare

check-ins with location-based offers, Mobile Commerce Daily (2012), available at

http://www.mobilecommercedaily.com/fairmont-hotels-enhances-foursquare-check-ins

- with-location-based-offers.









n87  For the purposes of this Article, attention is the time that consumers

spend focusing their minds on content. Attention rivals provide products and

services to buyers, such as advertisers, who would like to get some of this

attention. This attention is not necessarily fungible. Depending on the

circumstances in which it is provided advertisers might have a chance of getting

more attention or greater focused from consumers or might get attention in a

context that makes that attention more valuable because they have a greater

chance of persuading consumers to buy something.









n88  Although an example from one of the three Latin American countries we have

presented here would have been ideal, our research into the experiences of

Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico in reviewing internet-based cases offered very

little information about their analysis. Nevertheless, we present a summary of

this research in an Appendix to the paper.









n89  Skype and Microsoft provide communication services to consumers and

enterprises. For the sake of brevity this section just considers the merger

issues relevant for the consumer services.









n90  EC Microsoft Skype Decision, Case No. Comp/M.6281-Microsoft/Skype (2011) at

20, available at http://ec.europa.eu/competition/mergers/cases/decisions/m6281

20111007 20310 2079398 EN.pdf.









n91  National Commission for Defense of Competition (CNDC), Dict men 196/2004,

Grupo Telef nica and BellSouth Corporation (2004).









n92  Ato de Concentra o 08012.001697/2002-89. Oficio SDE/GAB 050/2002. Nestle

Brasil LTDA. e Chocolates Garoto S.A. (2002), available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/Default.aspx?e142c252a3798dadb8.









n93  Case number DE-013-2008 (appeal RA-037-2012), available at

http://resoluciones.cfc.gob.mx/ (last accessed June 2012).









n94  It is unfortunate, however, that the level of detail in the analysis of

these cases is scant in the case of Argentina and most notably in Mexico.

Nevertheless, to the extent that we can present their decisions as a reference

of what the agency considered the relevant markets to be and whether market

power existed in this industry, we've included the authorities' determinations

here.









n95  CNDC, Dictamen 144, America Online Inc. and Time Warner Inc. (Oct. 24,

2000), available at http://www.cndc.gov.ar/dictamenes/39 1 000144.pdf.









n96  Department of Justice, Secretary of Economic Law, Ato de Concentra ao

08012.008554/2007-11, Microsoft Corporation and aQuantive Inc. (2007), available

at http://www.cade.gov.br/plenario/Sessao 404/Pareceres/ParecerProcade AC

08012.008554- 2007-11 001.pdf.









n97  Department of Justice, Secretary of Economic Law, Ato de Concentra ao

08012.000710/2008-78, Microsoft Corporation and Fast Search & Transfer Asa.

(2008), available at http://www.cade.gov.br/temp/t1010201310013648.pdf.









n98  Departmentof Justice, Secretary of Economic Law, Ato de Concentra ao

08012.006419/2009-94, Ministerio Da Justi a. Secretaria de Direito Econ mico.

Microsoft Corporation y Yahoo! Inc. (Aug. 24 2009), available at

http://www.cade.gov.br/temp/t1010201310013966.pdf.









n99  Department of Justice, Administrative Council for Economic Defense, Ato de

Concentra ao 08012.000182/2002-61, Yahoo! Do Brasil Internet y Starmedia do

Brasil Ltda.









n100  Department of Justice, Secretary of Economic Law, Ato de Concentra ao

08012.000212/2003-11 Yahoo! Inc. y Inktomi Corporation (Jan. 14, 2003).









n101  CNDC, Dictamen 197, B to B Factory Ventures S.A. y Consalvi International

Inc. (Jan. 25 2001).









n102  Department of Finance, Secretary for Economic Monitoring, Ato de Concentra

ao 08012.006162/2005-47, Google Brasil Internet Ltda. y Akwan S.A. (Aug. 26

2005), available at http://www.abusando.org/denuncias/akwan-cade google1.pdf.









n103  CNT-138-1999 (Terra Networks Mexico, SA de CV / Informacion Selectiva, SA

de CV / Infoshare Communications, Inc / Interdata Infosel, SA de CV / Seguridad

Privada, SA de CV), (October 4, 1999), available at

http://www.cfc.gob.mx/docs/pdf/cnt-138-99.pdf; CNT-139-1999 (Via Net Works, Inc

/ Infoaccess, SA de CV), (Nov. 15, 1999), available at

http://www.cfc.gob.mx/IMAGES/STORIES/PUBLICACIONES/GACETAS/05SEPTIEMBRED

ICIEMBRE1999/ G5-2CONCENTRACIONES.PDF; CNT-41-2004 (Flux International / MVS Net

/ Clearwire Corporation), (May 19, 2004), available at

http://www.cfc.gob.mx/docs/pdf/cnt-41- 2004.htm.pdf.









n104  CNDC, Dictamen 153, Terra Networks y Lycos Virginia (Nov. 17 2000),

available at http://www.cndc.gov.ar/dictamenes/39 1 000153.pdf.









n105  Federal Competition Comission, Expediente No. CNT 090-2011, Google Inc.

and Motorola Mobility Holding (Dec. 8 2011), available at

http://www.cfc.gob.mx/cfcresoluciones/docs/concentraciones/V414/1/1613669.pdf.









n106  Google/Motorola was also reviewed and approved by CADE. It is currently

under review in Argentina by the CNDC.





