                              84 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             July 6, 2016 Wednesday



LG goes for restructuring post 'dissapointing' G5 sales



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 306 words





Seems like LG 's latest flagship smartphone G5 has failed to meet the company's

expectations. According to a report in Korea Times, the company said that the

recent restructuring in the mobile division is because its latest flagship G5

smartphone failed to generate sales.LG recently announced that it has replaced

some of its executives and formed a program management office (PMO) in its

mobile division. The restructuring is reportedly aimed at bringing some

much-needed "new momentum" to its struggling mobile business.According to the

report in Korea Times, "mobiles chief Cho Juno will oversee the PMO, which has

authority to handle strategies for product development, manufacturing, marketing

and sales; while Oh Hyung-hoon, a former research lab head, will be its chief,

supported by mobile division vice president Ha Jeong-wook."The company has named

senior vice president Kim Hyung-jeong as head of its mobile research lab.The

South Korean giant unveiled the LG G5 smartphone in February at Mobile World

Congress in Barcelona.



The main highlight of the smartphone is its the modular body. The modules are

called as LG Friends, as they are the companion of the smartphone and can be

attached to it. G5 sports aluminum unibody modular design featuring a slide-out

battery. The battery of the smartphone can be popped out to attach the LG Cam

Plus module to it. It comes with an additional 1,200mAh battery which adds to

the G5's standard 2,800 mAh battery.The smartphone is powered by a Qualcomm

Snapdragon 820 processor coupled with 4GB LPDDR4 RAM and 32GB UFS ROM with

support for microSD cards of up to 2TB in size. The modular smartphone has a

5.3-inch Quad HD IPS Quantum display with a resolution of 1440x2560 pixel.The

modular smartphone launched in India in June this year at Rs 52,990.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





