                              89 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)



                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday



LG differentiates from others with its clip-in modules for G5



LENGTH: 618 words





The modular smart accessories offer LG ways to generate profits adjacent to the

commoditising smartphone market, analyst says



Image Credit: Zarina Fernandes/ Gulf News Naushad K. Cherrayil, Staff Reporter



Dubai: LG is trying to differentiate itself from the competition with its

modular smartphone hardware as no other current manufacturer has anything

similar.



The LG G5, which was launched in Dubai on Wednesday, comes with clip-in modules

and accessories that LG calls it "Friends" which enables the LG G5 to transform

into a digital camera with its Cam Plus, a Hi-Plus module adds a Bang & Olufsen

32-bit audio DAC (digital-to-analogue converter) with an amplifier to the G5 for

hi-res audio, a 360 degree camera with its 360 Cam, a virtual reality headset

with its 360 VR.



Encased in a metal aluminium body design, the 5.3-inch Quad HD IPS Quantum

Display (2560 x 1440 resolution) is powered by Qualcomm 820 processor and is

coupled with 4GB RAM and 32GB storage capacity. The microSD card supports up to

2TB of storage expansion.



There are two cameras at the rear (16MP standard camera and 8MP wide camera with

wide angle lens) while the front is 8MP.



Evolving consumer demands



The phone is priced at Dh2,499, and available for purchase in the region from

the third week of April.



Yong Geun Choi, President of LG Electronics Gulf, said that smartphone consumers

in the UAE are saturated in terms of the experiences they get from devices. The

G5 provides the unique opportunity to satiate the evolving consumer demands for

flexibility, adaptability and fresher experiences.



While creating a revolution within the smartphone industry, he said that the LG

G5 enables users to add such features and is opening a new platform open to

everyone who'd like to join a new ecosystem -- the LG Playground.



The LG Playground is a system where various modules and devices are produced

through collaboration giving users unique fun experiences.



"We are giving a whole new experience of how to enhance the smartphone

experience. We are planning to bundle the whole hardware accessories with the

device. As a promotion, we are planning to bundle the smartphone with the Cam

Plus," Sang Rhee, general manager for mobile Division at LG Electronics Gulf,

told Gulf News.



Huge potential



Daniel Gleeson, senior analyst at IHS Technology, said that the modular smart

accessories offer LG ways to generate profits adjacent to the commoditising

smartphone market and offers huge potential.



But to maximise this opportunity, LG is smart to embrace "third-party support"

for its modular hardware with LG Playground.



LG should mimic Apple's hardware licensing programme -- Apple's "Made for

iPhone" approach -- to generate additional revenues, and also benefit from those

third parties own marketing spend.



He said that LG is no longer a smartphone leader, it's now a mere challenge for

other smartphone makers, adding that LG is under pressure from many the rising

Chinese players, most notably Huawei.



Long term



In 2015, LG's share of global smartphone shipments was just 4 per cent, and to

grow this significantly LG needs visibly different smartphone products. With

this range, LG will definitively differentiate from the competition in the long

term.



Many of the smartphones from 2014, 2013, or even 2012 are still in active usage

and their owners believe they are "good enough".



Gleeson said that LG must convince those users, now is the time to upgrade.

Smartphone makers must understand in detail the characteristics of the active

installed base of smartphones in order to speed the handset replacement cycle

and sell more smartphones now.



LG said that it shipped 59.7 million units in 2015, a slight increase from the

59.1 million shipped in 2014.



LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 57





               Copyright 2016 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





