                               8 of 820 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                     February 27, 2016 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



LG to Launch 2016 Flagship G5 in India, in Next Quarter



LENGTH: 569  words





Saturday, February 27, 2016: LG Electronics India Limited (LG), India's most

loved consumer durable company, today announced that it will launch the LG G5,

its flagship smartphone for 2016, in India in the next quarter. The handset,

unveiled at the recent Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona, has already

garnered over 33 awards and commendations from some of the most renowned

publications and blogs making it one of the best received smartphones so far.



The G5 comes with a brand new design with a sleek, metal uni-body featuring a

slide-out Battery tray and a Modular Type design that enhances the overall

smartphone experience. This is accompanied by LG Friends, a collection of

companion devices that can transform the G5 into a digital camera, Hi-Fi player,

and much more.



The handset comes encased in a sleek metal aluminum body, surpassing the visual

experience of its predecessor. Its 135-degree, wide angle lens allows you to get

more in the shot. It's always-on Display makes notifications just a glance away

with the time and date available anytime. The 3D Arc Glass featured in the

smartphone's 5.3-inch display creates a gentle curve and a smooth colorful metal

surface formed through an advanced microdizing process takes the anodized

aluminum finish to a whole new level.



LG G5's insulative antenna is invisibly integrated into the body without

disrupting handsets seamless look of the metal uni-body. LG's designers took the

metal body concept one step further by adding a Shiny cut edge for added

contrast and a more comfortable grip.



LG's First Modular Type Smartphone



LG's innovative Modular Type design gives the LG G5 the ability to transform

into a digital camera, Hi-Fi player and more, while evolving to marry the

traditional removable battery in a full metal uni-body design for the first time

ever. It is your life companion, make it a phone, camera, player depending upon

your mood.



Diverse Range of Companion Devices



With the G5, LG is introducing a paradigm-shifting smartphone ecosystem - the LG

Playground. As part of the ecosystem, LG will bring forth a wide range of

companion devices, aptly called LG Friends, to deliver fun while providing a

whole new mobile experience that transcends far beyond the traditional

smartphone boundaries.



The very diverse range of Companion devices with LG G5 includes LG 360 VR, LG

360 CAM, LG Rolling Bot, LG Tone PlatinumTM, H3 by B&O PLAY, LG Smart Controller

and LG Friends Manager.



Announcing the launch of LG G5 next quarter, Mr Amit Gujral, Marketing Head -

Mobiles, LG India, said "We are really happy to see all the positivity around

the LG G5 ever since its global unveil at the MWC. In fact, in a survey

conducted in Korea the LG G5 topped consumer preference leaving its closest

competitors trailing far behind. We hope to make this available to users in

India very soon and are optimistic that consumers will love its revolutionary

design and features."



Key Specifications:



Chipset: Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 Processor



* Display: 5.3-inch Quad HD IPS Quantum Display (2560 x 1440 / 554ppi)



* Memory: 4GB LPDDR4 RAM / 32GB UFS ROM / microSD (up to 2TB)



* Camera: Rear: Standard 16MP, Wide 8MP / Front: 8MP



* Battery: 2,800mAh (removable)



* OS: Android 6.0 Marshmallow



* Size: 149.4 x 73.9 x 7.7mm



* Weight: 159g



* Network: LTE / 3G / 2G



* Connectivity: Wi-Fi 802.11 a, b, g, n, ac / USB Type-C) / NFC /



Bluetooth 4.2



* Colors: Silver / Titan / Gold / Pink



LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





