                              90 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                            February 15, 2016 Monday



LG Pay to be delayed



LENGTH: 261  words





By tbreak Staff -



LG has been gearing up to launch its LG Pay service this MWC along with its new

LG G5 flagship and mid range smartphones. However, LG has now pushed the launch

date back into the second quarter of the year to ensure maximum exposure for its

upcoming G5 smartphone.



According to an LG official, "LG Electronics has delayed the official launch of

LG Pay to the second quarter of this year to help the new LG flagship

smartphone, G5, receive more media attention." LG has been preparing to launch

its mobile payment service since late last year, while also partnering up with a

number of card companies.  One of LG's affiliates also suggested that the

company is concerned about flagship smartphone sales, and is hoping that G5 will

be the handset to lift the company's mobile business.



LG's mobile payment system would be going up against the Apple and Samsung Pay

platforms, which have already established themselves in the market. However,

instead of relying only on mobile devices, LG Pay would make good use of a new

feature called the White Card, that can be tied to existing bank accounts and

cards. The card appears to make use of a small display and navigational buttons,

to allow consumers to pick between associated cards.



LG has reportedly already signed up a number of Korean card companies, but

recent rumors suggest that LG might take a while to sign on major companies in

the international market. However, an LG official denied that this claim has

anything to do with the launch delay.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/70/145562086625.jpg







LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





