                              98 of 820 DOCUMENTS







                               The Saudi Gazette



                              May 27, 2016 Friday



Google's Project Ara proves LG was right about modular phones



LENGTH: 435  words





Nate Swanner



Project Ara, Google's modular phone, will be available this Fall for developers.

It' won't be the original modular phone moonshot we were sold on, though; in

fact, it feels a little bit like a bait-and-switch.



Rather than a completely open framework, Project Ara hardware will have static

RAM, SoC, storage and a 5.3-inch display. Google says add-ons like a kickstand

(wow!), non-functional 'style' bricks (amazing!), e-ink display (for

notifications, because dual-screen phones are super popular), fingerprint

reader, camera and speaker/microphone are coming.



And it all still sounds cool, but it's time to be equitable about our critique

and praise of modular phones. When the LG G5 was launched, many thought its

modularity was pretty lame; instead of a skeleton where you can slip components

in and out, the G5's bottom slips off to allow for more stuff to be added on. It

wasn't the complete autonomy Ara promised we'd have with our smartphones, and by

comparison was a bit laughable.



Google v LG



The only real discernible difference between the two devices at this point is

form factor. Google is sticking to its skeleton, while the G5 lets you add

components (called 'Friends') to the bottom of your device. Ara still feels a

lot cooler than LG's design, but that's subjective.



You can add manual camera controls to the G5, or swap the battery out.



There's even an EQ if you're an audiophile. Like Google, LG says it's working

with hardware partners to get more modules built (I'll be fair and note that

some modules, like the B&O EQ, still aren't available for the G5).



On launch, some derided the LG G5's modularity as being half-assed. I agreed

with that mindset at the time, but that was before Google flipped the script on

us about Ara. Now, LG seems downright innovative and realistic. Project Ara

almost feels like a bait-and-switch, and would have actually been so if Google

had ever taken pre-orders.



We always knew Ara was a moonshot, and the road to true and complete modularity

wasn't going to be easy. It was a radically different way of thinking about

phones, and that Google couldn't - or wouldn't - execute on its own concept is

disheartening.



Ara will still be neat, and we'll definitely be interested to see a final

product, but we should be just as eager for a second version of LG's modular

phone concept. It was first, may be better, and is a tangible, real product you

can own today.



We're not expected to see Ara land until 2017, but who knows how real that

timeframe is.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/79/146434517892.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/79/146434517892.jpg



LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1526





                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





