                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The New York Times



                          September 24, 2015 Thursday

                              Late Edition - Final



Testing iPhone 6s's 3D Touch and Live Photos Features



BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN



SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; TECH FIX; Pg. 7



LENGTH: 1100 words





NOW that smartphones can do more than a million different things with apps, you

have to wonder whether it matters when Apple adds two main new features to its

latest iPhones.



The answer, to cut to the chase, is yes. That's because when Apple incorporates

new smartphone capabilities, the features may become widely used by consumers

and then copied by rivals.



The trend may start again this Friday, when Apple releases the iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus, part of an S generation of iPhones that are typically known as the

''iteration'' cycle. In an S generation, the company improves on the last model

by sprinkling in a few new features. For the iPhone 5s, for instance, it was the

fingerprint sensor. For the iPhone 4s, it was Siri, the voice assistant.



This time, the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus are being equipped with two signature new

tricks: 3D Touch, in which hard or soft presses on the touch screen bring up

different functions; and Live Photos, which lets you snap photos that turn into

miniature videos. The iPhone also now comes in a new metallic finish, a pale

pink that Apple's marketing team insists on calling ''rose-gold.''



After testing the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus for two weeks, I had mixed feelings on

the usefulness of the new features. I found that Live Photos quickly became an

enjoyable, integral part of shooting photos with an iPhone. But I couldn't get

into the habit of using 3D Touch.



Live Photos



Live Photos works like this: When you take a photo, you capture a still frame in

full resolution. But the iPhone camera system keeps a buffer of a second and a

half's worth of motion frames before and after you take the photo. So while you

get a still shot of your photo, when you press down on the image, you can also

get the motion frames to play back, bringing the photo to life.



You might wonder, why not just shoot a video? The short answer is that there

will be tiny moments in life where you would never have guessed you wanted to

shoot a video, and now Live Photos has a chance to capture them.



I tried this by photographing my pets. In one instance, I captured a moment when

my corgi started digging his paws into dirt on a mountain, showing a side of his

personality you wouldn't witness in a normal photo.



There is a short learning curve for Live Photos. If you move your camera

immediately before or after taking the photo, the movement will show up in the

animated photo. Several of my Live Photos were ruined because I put the phone

down too quickly after taking the picture. Apple said it planned to modify the

feature in a software update so that it did not capture those quick movements.



Two other items that I'd like to see addressed in future software updates: One,

when Live Photos are captured, they include audio. I'd like the option to

disable that because images alone can speak loudly enough. You also can't edit

Live Photos. You can only apply an edit to the still frame, but not the motion

frames. It would be ideal to at least be able to make minor adjustments to Live

Photos, like increasing brightness or contrast.



The major limitation of Live Photos is that only Apple devices with the latest

software systems -- iOS 9 for mobile devices, OS X El Capitan for Macs, and

WatchOS 2 for the Apple Watch -- can see them. Apple says it is working with

Facebook so users can share their Live Photos with others on the social network.

Hopefully more platforms will support Live Photos in the near future.



3D Touch



In interviews, Apple executives have moaned about the pains that engineers went

through to develop 3D Touch. Pressing lightly on an email, for example, displays

a ''peek,'' or preview of the message; pressing harder opens the email. The

phone also responds to your finger with a light vibration.



3D Touch also works on app icons to get quick access to different actions.

Pressing hard on the icon for the camera app gives you the options to take a

selfie, shoot a video, record a slow-motion video or take a photo. You can also

use 3D Touch to turn your keyboard into a trackpad to hover around a document as

you would on a computer.



It was fun experimenting with 3D Touch, but I rarely felt compelled to use it.

With my camera, my instinct continues to be to open the camera app by swiping up

on the shortcut on the iPhone's lock screen. When using email, I don't bother to

peek; I just open them. Unlike past touch gestures on the iPhone, like pinching

or swiping, I found 3D Touch, in its current state, to be limited and mostly

unnecessary.



But it's still early days, and 3D Touch has the potential to mature into a

useful feature. Third-party companies, like Instagram and Dropbox, plan to

support the feature in their iPhone apps. I would like to see Apple expand 3D

Touch into other key parts of the iPhone system -- for example, it would be

thrilling to be able to fast-forward or rewind a video or audio recording at

different speeds, depending on how hard I press down on the screen.



Buying Advice



So who should buy the 6s? For owners of iPhones that are at least two years old

(which includes the iPhone 5s and any generation before that), the new phones

are an excellent overall upgrade. With the 6s or the 6s Plus, you're getting a

screen that is significantly larger than those of the older iPhones. Also, the

phone's processor, called A9, will deliver a big increase in speed.



For screen size, I personally prefer the 6s with a 4.7-inch screen to the 6s

Plus with a 5.5-inch screen, because the smaller phone is easier to pocket and

use with one hand. But people who want a smartphone that will double as a

tablet, for reading books or watching videos, will be better off with the 6s

Plus's larger screen.



And then there's data storage. Apple offers the new iPhones with different

storage options and prices: The 6s costs $650 for 16 gigabytes, $750 for 64 gigs

and $850 for 128 gigs; the big-screen 6s Plus costs $100 more, respectively, for

each of those storage tiers.



I strongly recommend against the 16-gigabyte model, largely because Live Photos

are twice the size of a normal photo. For just $100 more, you'll get a lot more

enjoyment out of your iPhone with 64 gigs.



For those with an iPhone 6 or 6 Plus, the new 3D Touch and Live Photos perks

aren't substantive enough to make it worth upgrading to a 6s. While Apple

improved the camera resolution and designed the 6s and 6s Plus with stronger

metal and glass than the last iPhones, a major component -- battery life -- was

not improved. It would be wiser to hold off until the next version, which will

most likely include more significant improvements.









URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/24/technology/personaltech/testing-iphone-6s

-3d-touch-and-live-photos-features.html



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The iPhone 6s has 3D Touch, which brings up different options by

finger pressure on an icon. Pressing hard on the icon for the camera app gives

you options to take a selfie, shoot a video, record a slow-motion video or take

a photo. Pressing hard on the Safari icon produces other choices, like a reading

list, bookmarks and others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company





