                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                           September 25, 2015 Friday



An inside peek at new iPhones pick-up day in Beijing



BYLINE: Liu Zheng



LENGTH: 575  words





After two weeks of counting down the days, Chinese buyers witnessed the arrival

of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in stores and at their doorsteps on Friday.



As the largest overseas market for the Cupertino, California-based company, the

Chinese mainland is one of the first countries and regions to launch the new

iPhones. It's the second time in the phone's history following the unveiling of

the prior generation, iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c.



Apple fans wait outside the Apple store in Sanlituan to pick up new iPhone 6s

and iPhone 6s Plus, in Beijing, on Sept 25, 2015. [Photo by Liu

Zheng/chinadaily.com.cn]



"I took a night train from Baotou for 11 hours to pick up my new iPhone 6s Plus

in Beijing," said Zhang Yubo, who comes from Hohhot, the capital city of North

China's Inner Mongolia autonomous region. The city is more than 600 kilometers

away from the Apple Store in Taikoo Li shopping center in Beijing's Sanlitun

area.



"The reason why I'm not choosing door-to-door delivery service to receive my new

iPhone is because I enjoy the welcome ceremony hosted by Apple's Genius Bar in

the Apple Store," Zhang told chinadaily.com.cn. Being a hardcore fan of Apple

products, Zhang said he's always been eager to be an early bird in getting the

company's new devices.



"I'm more interested in the 3D Touch function of the new iPhone," Yue Zhenfei,

an employee who works in the IT sector, said right after he collected his new

iPhone 6s from the Apple Store. Yue said the new function provides a new

dimension in terms of operation, which is a technological leap compared to

existing smartphones.



According to Apple, the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus introduce an entirely new way to

interact with the phones. For the first time, iPhone senses how much pressure

you apply to the display. In addition to familiar multi[#x2011]touch gestures

like tap, swipe, and pinch, which are on the Apple Watch, 3D Touch introduces

peek and pop. These bring a new dimension in functionality to the iPhone

experience.



Rose gold, which is recognized as the only new debut color of the new iPhones,

is seen as a hot choice for most of the buyers who appeared in the Apple Store

in Sanlitun.



Meanwhile, the 64GB read-only memory (ROM) version is the hot sales product due

to an improved iSight camera that will produce bigger-sized photos and video

footage.



Though it is only one of four colors available, the new rose gold iPhone 6s is

said to be the most popular option for preorders, according to appleinsider.com,

citing analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI Securities.



Sales of the new iPhone 6s are expected to ride high on Chinese demand, but some

consumers have mixed responses to the closely tracked smartphone, according to

previous reports by China Daily.



"It's unnecessary for me to buy one. There aren't that many new functions and I

don't like the new case colors," said Zhang Jixuan, a college student in Durham,

North Carolina, United States.



Preorders for iPhone 6s and 6s Plus were "very strong" and sales are on pace to

exceed last year's launch-weekend record of 10 million handsets, Apple said on

September 14th.



"Orders may be roughly flat if customers in China are not included in the

initial availability," said Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos,

according to Reuters. Munster is predicting opening weekend sales of as many as

13 million units, with China accounting for about two million shipments.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/7/144316954024.jpg



f8bc126d980d176f2fa303.jpg



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





