                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                     September 28, 2015 Monday 1:09 AM GMT



iPhone 6s: Video suggests new Apple phone might be waterproof - but don't try it

at home;

Conflicting video reports see iPhone 6s owners testing their new gadgets in

water



BYLINE: Ben Travis



SECTION: TECH AND GAMING



LENGTH: 290 words





Great news - you've just picked up your brand new Apple iPhone 6s, with the

snazzy new 3D touch feature, and that selfie flash you've always wanted.



Next thing you know, up pops a video claiming that Apple might have 'secretly'

made the phones watertight, meaning you can drop it in a bowl of water for up to

an hour without significant damage.



But don't reach for the sink just yet. It's best you don'ttry this one yourself,

unless you want a soggy and dead - if otherwise pristine - iPhone.



Read more



iPhone 6s launch: Apple fans gather outside London stores overnight



Apple could allow iPhone users to delete default apps



Apple Event September 2015: iPhone 6s and 6s Plus revealed



Apple don't advertise the phones as being waterproof, so those hoping to claim

back some money from a water-damaged iPhone won't have much luck.



Testing the supposed ability, Zach Straley posted a video on YouTube which sees

him put a brand new iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus into a small bowl of water, as

the stopwatch app counts up to an hour. When he takes the phones out, they

appear to work perfectly well - 3D Touch and all.



However, a video from iDeviceHelp saw an iPhone 6s Plus plunged into four foot

deep pool of water, with far less successful results - the phone barely lasted

two minutes, and wouldn't even turn on afterwards.



While some have suggested that the iPhone 6s might survive in shallow pools

thanks to water-resistant tech, others have speculated as to whether the video

might just be a pesky hoax to lure the unwitting into breaking their new

devices.



Long story short: don't chuck your brand new iPhone into a tub of water, ok?



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





