                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)



                            October 3, 2015 Saturday



Are the new iPhones worth buying?



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 18



LENGTH: 945 words





BLAYNE SLABBERT poses some questions to ask yourself before buying the iPhone 6S

or 6S Plus.



--------------------



DETAILS The latest iPhones come in rose gold, silver, gold and grey and they

have three storage sizes, 16GB, 64GB and 128GB.



iPhone 6S16GB: NZ$1199; 64GB: NZ$1399; 128GB: NZ$1599.



iPhone 6S Plus16GB: NZ$1399; 64GB: NZ$1599; 128GB: NZ$1799.



--------------------



If you are one of the 40 per cent of Kiwis who use an iPhone then you might be

considering upgrading to one of the latest models.



Your current iPhone is probably working well, but you may be tempted by the 6S

or 6S Plus. Maybe because it has got 3D touch, or the ability to take 4K video,

or perhaps that new pink colour appeals.



But the new iPhones cost between $1200 and $1800 so it pays not to rush in -

unless you're an early adopter, in which case you've probably already bought

one.



Here are some questions you should ask yourself before you buy an iPhone 6S or

6S Plus.



DO YOU USE YOUR PHONE A LOT?



If you "live" on your phone then one main advantage of the 6S models is in how

you navigate around. The phones use a technology called 3D touch that lets you

press on the screen to bring up extra menus so you can access features faster.



Want to send a message? Press on the Message app and a small menu pops up so you

can write a new message. This means you don't have to open an app to access

certain functions.



This technology also allows you to "peep" into items within apps. For example,

if you open your email app you can lightly press on each email and it'll give

you a preview without having to open it. Once you are "peeping", you can then

swipe to delete or archive it or push harder to actually open it.



For people dealing with dozens of emails a day this makes your life more

efficient. If you only use your phone a few times a day then these features may

not be that important.



DO YOU LOVE PHOTOGRAPHY?



If you enjoy taking photos, then it might be worth upgrading, especially to the

6S Plus. Both new iPhones now have 50 per cent more megapixels than the iPhone

6. But extra megapixels aren't the only improvement.



Apple has tweaked the software and processor which means there is a noticeable

improvement on earlier iPhones. Also, the front camera has been increased from

1.5MP to 5MP and the screen can now be used as a flash when taking selfies. The

phones can also take "live photos" which is essentially a bunch of images

stitched together to make a three-second "movie" with audio.



If you are serious about using an iPhone for photography, keep in mind the 6S

Plus has optical stabilsation (better for low light photos) and a bigger screen

for viewing and editing.



DO YOU LIKE MAKING VIDEOS?



The new iPhones can take 4K video, which captures four times the resolution as

previous models and most other smartphones.



At the moment, this is an emerging technology and you need a 4K screen to take

full advantage. Note that all iPhones only have 1080 resolution screens.



But it does have other advantages such as being able to crop a video to a

quarter of its size and still keeping 1080P resolution.



Another feature you can use is stabilised timelapses.



Usually, timelapses work best when the camera is on a tripod, but Apple uses

software that smooths out the footage so you can move around. Also, optical

stabilisation in the 6S Plus now works for videos as well as photos.



ARE YOU FRUSTRATED WITH YOUR CURRENT PHONE?



Do you feel as though your phone pauses before doing anything? Then you'll be

pleased to know the 6S devices are very, very fast. The fingerprint scanner is

so fast that it unlocks the phone before you've really noticed.



They both have a new processor and increased RAM which makes everything work

faster. Also, the graphics chip has been boosted, which will please anyone who

loves playing games or editing video.



What this all means is that if you use your phone a lot it could be worth paying

for this extra power. However, if you only use it to check Facebook, send texts

and make calls then you don't really need all this speed.



DO YOU FIND YOUR PHONE TOO SMALL?



If you find your screen hard to see, or want to be able to watch videos at a

bigger size, then it might be worth upgrading. The 6S Plus has a 5.5-inch screen

which is great for viewing photos, words or videos.



It makes using apps like Instagram so much better and most people would be happy

watching a movie on it.



However, it is big. If you have an older, smaller iPhone then it might be worth

going to a shop to try it out in person before buying. If you are unsure, then

the 6S is a nice compromise at 4.7 inches.



Also, this year, the iPhones are heavier, with the 6S Plus weighing 192g which

could be tough for some people to hold in one hand.



IS MY 4S STILL OK?



If you only use your phone a few times a day, then, yes, it's fine. It's still

capable of running iOS 9, so it still works OK as a basic smartphone.



However, it won't work with some apps and the camera is looking pretty old.



Don't feel pressured to upgrade just because everyone else seems to be. If you

find it OK, then stick with it. Also, if you do want to upgrade you don't have

to get the latest.



An iPhone 6 will be a significant improvement and is $200 cheaper than the 6S

models.



SO, DO I REALLY NEED TO UPGRADE?



That's up to you. The new 6S iPhones are very nice devices and quite a

significant improvement over the iPhone 4 or 5 models.



It's a harder decision for iPhone 6 owners, but if you answer yes to any of the

first five questions then it might be worth going shopping.



--------------------



CAPTION:



Apple customers queue to get the latest device in Sydney last week.



Picture: GETTY IMAGES



The new iPhones cost between $1200 and $1800.



Picture: REUTERS



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





