                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                             The Financial Express



                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday



MobiKwik rolls out support for app on iPhone 6s, 6s Plus and Apple Watch



BYLINE: FE Online



LENGTH: 352  words





Mobile payments network, MobiKwik has rolled out updates for its app for the new

iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus. The latest release of the iOS app - version 5.6

launched on October 11 - with its presses, peeks, and pops, will support the 3D

Force Touch feature and iOS 9 users in India. With this, accessing features and

offers on MobiKwik becomes easier as extra taps and clicks are eliminated.



Apple has chosen the MobiKwik iOS app for demonstrating 3D Force Touch feature

on iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus to customers at Apple Shops and Apple Premium

resellers. It is among the few apps that support 3D Force Touch, some others

being Instagram, Pinterest, Dropbox,Facebook and Evernote.



The 3D Force Touch feature in the newly launched iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus

enables different actions to be triggered depending on the pressure of the touch

applied to the screen. Following the update to the MobiKwik app for iOS, this

enhancement will be used to let users recharge their devices, transfer money,

and shop online more quickly and directly from the home screen of their iPhone

6s and 6s Plus using Quick Actions.



Peek and Pop at features and offers



The 3D force touch feature enables users to Peek and Pop app screens. So, once

the user taps the MobiKwik app,  Peek and Pop is activated, which lets users

shallow-press the screen to launch a pop-up window that offers a glimpse of

features and offers. WIth a deep press on 3D Touch, users can either open it, or

release it to return to the list.



Spotlight Search



On iOS 9, users can now search for features or offers without even opening the

Mobikwik app. They can open Spotlight Search by swiping down on the home screen

and typing "recharge" or "offer" and matching MobiKwik titles will appear among

the results.



Apple Watch OS 2 update, changes the way you pay through your wearable



The update via a companion app brings with it support for the Apple Watch. On

the wearable, users can now recharge their mobile phones with a tap, as well as

browse through top offers, shop and much more. The app for the wearable also

brings support for the latest Apple watchOS 2.



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





        Copyright 2015 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





