                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                           Philippines Daily Inquirer



                            November 9, 2015 Monday



Globe offers complete iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus postpaid bundles



LENGTH: 565  words





Undisputed number 1 postpaid brand Globe Telecom has unveiled its best-ever

offers for the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, giving customers the most complete

digital experience with a full-packed postpaid plan bundle with a lower monthly

plan at a shorter contract period.



The iPhone 6s 16GB will be available on Plan 1799 with P450 monthly cashout

while iPhone 6s Plus 16GB will be available on Plan 1799 with P650 monthly

cashout, both on a 24- month contract period.



With Plan 1799, customers can enjoy a best-value postpaid plan package with

bigger data allocation and free access to exclusive content for a complete

digital experience. Under the postpaid plan bundle, customers get 10GB of mobile

data per month for worry-free connectivity, access to non-stop music, movies,

and games with free access to Spotify Premium, HOOQ and top mobile games for 3

months, free access to Facebook, Viber and Instagram for 24 months, and

unlimited calls to Globe and TM and unlimited texts to all networks all for 24

months.



Customers also get exclusive deals together with their postpaid plans that

include free Gadget Care for 30 days; free 1GB of Globe Cloud storage for 24

months; and P500 discount on digital connectors from Globe for every P1500

purchase at the Globe Store. Bonus deals also await new postpaid customers

through the G Deals App, an all-in-one app that showcases offerings from various

deal sites. These deals include P600 voucher for Hotel Quickly, P200 voucher for

GrabCar, no transaction fees for GMovies ticket bookings, and food treats from

partner establishments booked via restaurant reservation app sEATs.



We are very excited to be offering the new iPhones in the Philippines once again

with our unbeatable offers for the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus to cater to the

burgeoning shift to the digital lifestyle. With our innovative offerings that

showcase a lower monthly plan at a shorter lock-up period, customers can

maximize the features of the new iPhones with more than double the data

allocation for uninterrupted surfing and free access to music, movies and games.

Completing the best digital experience in a postpaid plan is an entire 24-month

free access to the world's top social networking and messaging sites as well as

unlimited calls to Globe and TM and unlimited texts to all networks. We have

also added freebies such as discount vouchers and exclusive freebies for an

iPhone experience definitely made more wonderful, said Globe Senior Vice

President for Consumer Mobile Marketing Issa Cabreira.



iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus bring a powerful new dimension to iPhone's

revolutionary Multi-Touch interface with 3D Touch, which senses force to enable

intuitive new ways to access features and interact with content. The new iPhones

introduce a transformative new approach to photography called Live Photos,

bringing still images to life by capturing a moment in motion. Live Photos, 3D

Touch, 12-megapixel iSight camera, 5-megapixel FaceTime HD camera with Retina

Flash and more are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip, the most advanced chip

ever in a smartphone, delivering faster performance and great battery life.

iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are designed with Retina HD displays made from the

strongest glass on any smartphone and 7000 series aluminum, the same alloy used

in the aerospace industry, in gorgeous metallic finishes that now include rose

gold.



LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Philippines Daily Inquirer

                              All Rights Reserved





