

SMALL, medium or large? You might drive a Toyota Prius, and I might drive a
Chevrolet Silverado. I might like a shot of espresso while you might like a Big
Gulp. Seems like there's a right size for everything-including cell phones.
Apple introduced the original iPhone with a 3.5-inch screen and kept that size
through the iPhone 4S, before screens started getting bigger.

It's just in the last two years that Apple started rolling out two iPhones per
year with differing screen sizes. But those new screen sizes were big and
bigger.

Apple jumped from the 4-inch screen of the iPhone 5S to give customers the
4.7-inch iPhone 6 and the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus.

Just like that, Apple decided iPhone users wanted bigger screens, but did we
really?

I've read that 25 percent of iPhone users did not upgrade to one of the larger
iPhones. Indeed, Apple kept selling the iPhone 5S with its smaller screen and
two-year-old processor as the entry level iPhone, and it was apparently selling
pretty well.

A lot of people I know were not happy that Apple was forcing larger iPhones on
them. I like to keep my phone in my back pocket, and I found the iPhone 6S Plus
just too big. I'm sure people who wear smaller pants than I do have that same
problem.

I also know iPad mini owners who think the larger iPhones are just too close in
size to their iPads.

Plus, a lot of people like using their phone one-handed, and the 6S made that
almost impossible.

Thankfully, Apple decided to listen to the market and introduce the iPhone SE,
which is basically the guts of an iPhone 6S crammed into the case of an iPhone
5S.

THE GOOD STUFF

THE iPhone SE has a lot of features in common with the iPhone 6S, but not
everything.

The SE uses the same processor, the A9, with the same M9 motion coprocessor. The
main camera on the SE is the same .12-megapixel model as in the 6S, and it can
capture 4K HD video.

The SE has a CPU that's twice as fast and graphics performance three times as
fast as the iPhone 5S.

The SE also has Apple Pay, which is missing from the 5S. The faster processor
also allows for Hey, Siri hands-free use.

THE DIFFERENCES

THE insides of the SE have a lot in common with the 6S, but the case and screen
are the same as the 5S.

That means the SE's 4-inch screen has a resolution of 1136 x 640 pixels with a
pixel density of 326 pixels per inch. It uses Apple's first-generation Touch ID
sensor, which is not as fast as the second-generation fingerprint sensor of the
6S.

The fingerprint recognition is still plenty fast, but not lightning-fast like in
the 6S.

THE PRICE DROP

APPLE surprised a lot of people with a low starting price for the SE. There are
two storage configurations-16 gigabytes for $399 and 64 gb for $499. The low
starting price is going to bring a lot of new customers to Apple and, perhaps,
convince a number of iPhone 5 and 5S users to upgrade.

The iPhone 6S starts $250 higher at $649.

There are naysayers who claim Apple is going to eat into its own market share
with the SE, but honestly, while there are some 6S and 6S Plus users who will
jump to a smaller iPhone, I think the people holding onto their 5S handset now
have a good reason to upgrade.

Plus, in markets like China and India, iPhones have been out of reach for a good
chunk of the population. The SE will be popular overseas.

Apple seems to be pretty good at waiting to see what people want and then giving
it to them.

People are fickle. We want bigger phones until it's all we have, and then we
want smaller phones. Now there is a current-generation iPhone for everyone.

