                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)



                           November 26, 2015 Thursday



Abans launches Apple iphone 6s and 6s plus



LENGTH: 569 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, Nov. 26 -- Abans Group, the Authorized Reseller / Service Provider

for Apple in Sri-lanka left no stone unturned on 19th November at the launch for

the much awaited iphone 6s and 6s plus. The Colombo Abans Apple istores

witnessed a night packed with umpteen excitement, glitz and glamour,

establishing a strong footing for being the first of this caliber in the nation.



Abans Authorized Apple Reseller and Service Provider marked its presence in

Sri-lanka in 2007 with ipod's later branching into a wider product range

comprising of the Macbook Air, Macbook Pro, Macbook Pro Retina Display, imac,

ipad Air 2, ipad Mini 3, Macbook Gold, Macbook Space Grey, iphone 5s, iphone 6

and now the iphone 6s and 6s Plus. We will also bring the new apple products in

the coming months. ipad pro will be launched shortly.



A pre-order campaign was initiated on the 13th of November by Abans Group

leading up to the night of the event wherein customers who pre-ordered their

latest iphones before the 19th of November could collect them on the night of

the launch. American Express joined hands with Abans to offer customers 2

installments waived off on all pre-orders till the 19th of November. In the

hours leading up to the launch the excitement grew simultaneously with the

number of consumers queuing up to collect their phones. When the doors opened to

the public at midnight the first consumer was greeted overwhelmingly to make it

an experience of a lifetime.



Adding to the excitement of the night consumers were given a free back cover,

screen protector, assistance to transfer existing data onto their new phones,

free training and demonstration of the iphone 6s and 6s Plus.



Since its grand unveiling at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium the iphone 6s and

6s Plus has flourished with rave reviews often being referred to as a game

changer in the iphone series. The star feature of this phone is the "3D Touch"

technology, which enables you to activate menus or options by pressing down

harder onto the screen without having to specifically open the app. Both the

iphone 6s and 6s Plus contain an A9 processor with a 12-megapixel-rear camera

which is an upgrade to its predecessor of 8 megapixels. Along with improved

camera quality consumers are also able to shoot 4K videos and "Live Photos"

where pictures captured are generated into short video clips.



The front camera features 5 megapixels with an added option of flash photography

for users passionate about selfies. In addition to this the phones are built

with a 7000 Series less bendable aluminium for a hassle free usage. The new Rose

Gold colour will join the existing Gold, Silver and Space Grey to give consumers

more colour choices to suit their preferences.



Careful planning and meticulous training was provided to the 15 Apple certified

product professionals to efficiently serve clients. Going a step further Abans

also includes drop damage warranty coverage, a service exclusive to Abans in

Sri-lanka. Join Abans in this revolutionary walk into the new era of modern

technology.



Visit Abans Apple istores today to experience the new iphone 6s & iphone 6s Plus

and get a free demonstration & free training from our Apple product

professionals.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2015 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





