                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 2:04 PM GMT



iPhone 6s rumours suggest new Apple smartphone will feature motion wallpaper as

release date nears;

The rumour has been sparked by a leaked image of the supposed packaging for

Apple's iPhone 6 smartphone



BYLINE: By Jon Livesey



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 609 words





The soon-to-be-unveiled iPhone 6s will include a motion wallpaper feature.



At least that's according to rumours sparked by a leaked picture of the

packaging for Apple's latest smartphone.



The image, which has emerged via website MacX ahead of today's official launch,

is similar to pictures of the apparent iPhone 6s Plus box, which were shared

last month.



Like the iPhone 6s Plus box, it features a koi-like fish against a white

surface.



And, according to macrumours.com, it has given rise to yet more rumours that the

updated handsets will include a motion wallpaper feature.



It is thought that the motion backgrounds will be similar to the dynamic

wallpapers introduced by Apple with iOS 7 and resemble those on the Apple Watch.



Sources suggest images will include impressive and detailed scenes ranging from

fish in a koi pond to different coloured smoke clouds.



Is this a tantalising glimpse of the iPhone 6s?



Tantalizing glimpse of iPhone 6s or 7 leaked online



The iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus smartphones are expected to be unveiled at a

launch event later today.



The event will take place at the Bill Graham auditorium in San Francisco at 6pm

UK time. For those in California, it'll be happening at 10am.



Apple is also set to unveil a king-size, 12.9in iPad and a 12.2ins iPad Air Plus

to take on Microsoft's 12ins Surface Pro 3. A cheaper gold Apple Watch is also

on the cards.



The tech giant will be providing a live stream of the event, but it will only be

available to watch on Mac computers or iPhones and iPad mobile devices.



You can also follow the action at Mirror.co.uk.



Watch the iPhone 6s launch via the Mirror.co.uk stream HERE from 7pm.



Here are the rest of the rumoured iPhone announcements and features:



As in previous years, we expect Apple to reveal two versions of the new iPhone

at the same time.



Like it did with the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus, we could see two different

sizes to appeal to two different types of customer.



Apple is hardly alone in this approach - Samsung has recently launched two new

super-sized smartphones for those who like their phones a little bigger.



Apple's Force Touch feature was developed for the Apple Watch and works as a

wholly new type of input method.



You press down on the screen with a little more force, and it activates a

different action.



It's heavily tipped to be the standout new feature of the iPhone 6s.



So far, this hasn't been widely implemented - but with an arrival on the

iPhone's big screen developers could find some unique usages for the new

feature.



Apple has continuously updated the processors in its new phones and this year is

likely to be no exception.



Many rumour sites are suggesting Apple has built an "A9" processor that would

give the new iPhone the same power as the iPad Air 2.



Meanwhile, battery life will be improved as well. Apple is reportedly using

contoured, layered battery stacks to squeeze as much power into the body of the

new phone as possible.



Once paired with the company's efficient new iOS 9 software, the length of usage

time should be much improved over the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



Apple largely stays out of the camera arms race that other manufacturers follow.

That being said, the new iPhone is expected to boast a 12-megapixel rear facing

camera.



That will be a big step up considering all the iPhones going back to the iPhone

4s have used 8-megapixel cameras.



Another expectation is that the front-facing camera will, for the first time,

shoot 1080p high definition footage.



Apple brought out a rose gold version of the Apple Watch.



According to pictures leaked onto the internet, will be doing the same with the

iPhone.



Will you be following Apple's iPhone 6s event?



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





