                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             March 29, 2016 Tuesday

                                 First Edition



Big improvements but a small phone is still small;

Digital life



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 11



LENGTH: 835 words





There is a conundrum at the heart of all the screens we carry in our pockets:

the ones that are small enough to carry easily are too small to use easily, and

the ones that are big enough to use easily are too big to carry easily.



There is no middle ground, no happy medium. Ideal portability stops at screen

sizes of about four inches. Ideal usability starts at screen sizes of about five

inches. Until someone comes up with a phone with an expandable screen, or one

that projects the display directly into your retina or something, the devices we

carry are always going to be the wrong size in some respect.



Until someone comes up with a cure, we have to choose our poison.



And I must say that, after five days of carrying around the tiny iPhone SE, it's

a poison I'd be willing to swallow.



The iPhone SE is basically the guts of an iPhone 6s, squeezed into the shell of

an iPhone 5s. There are a few differences, a few things from the iPhone 6s that

wouldn't squeeze into the smaller shell, as well as one improvement to the 6s,

which appear to have been happy side effects from the squeezing process, but

that's basically it. A 4.7-inch phone, barely big enough to use easily, shrunk

down to 4 inches, just small enough to carry easily.



Of course, your definition of easy carrying will vary, depending on your size

and habits. For me, the test of easy carrying is whether a phone can fit in my

shirt pocket without giving rise to the constant, nagging anxiety that it's

about to topple out; and whether I can climb onto a motorcycle with a phone in

my front jeans pocket, without giving rise to the feeling that either the phone,

or my hip, is going to snap.



On both counts, the iPhone SE has been a very welcome relief these past five

days, after several weeks of carrying around the utterly brilliant, but very

large, Samsung Galaxy S7 edge.



One of the many things to like about the Galaxy S7 edge is its battery life,

which can easily make it into a second day, and sometimes even a third day, on a

single charge. Compare that with the iPhone 6s, which with the same usage

patterns usually makes it to the end of one day, but not always. Battery life is

the iPhone 6s's single biggest weakness.



So I'm very pleased to report that, based on five days of testing (enough to be

indicative, but not enough to be definitive), the iPhone SE has roughly 150 per

cent of the battery life of the 6s. Putting it onto the charger after fairly

heavy days of usage, it's had an average of 52 per cent and never less than 44

per cent charge remaining, suggesting it should get well into a second day of

use before it needs recharging. That's enough to get you through an impromptu

sleepover (wink wink), which should always be the test of halfway decent battery

life.



On the negative side of the ledger, the iPhone SE lacks the 3D Touch feature of

the iPhone 6s, which is the pressure-sensitive feature that lets apps do

different things depending on how hard you press on the screen. It's one of the

niftier features to appear on mobile phones in recent years, though I must say

that, much as I am enamoured of 3D Touch, I do forget to take advantage of it

most of the time. That it's missing on the iPhone SE is, for me at least, more

of a theoretical disappointment than an actual one.



The same could be said of the front-facing camera on the iPhone SE: it's not as

high-res as the one on the 6s, but as someone who eschews the selfie, that's

barely a disappointment at all.



And in any case, it's not a bad selfie camera at all.



Other than that, the iPhone SE is more or less the same as an iPhone 6s, only

much smaller. The performance is practically identical, both in our benchmarks

and in practice, due to the fact it has the identical processor.



The rear camera on the SE is said to be the same as the rear camera on the

iPhone 6s, and it takes photos that, in our tests, are indistinguishable. That's

a good thing, because we rate that camera as one of the best on the market. (But

not the very best. The best is the camera on the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge.)



Another thing the iPhone SE has inherited from the iPhone 6s is the "always on"

Siri feature, which activates the phone's voice recognition system whenever you

say "Hey Siri". It's a very useful feature, particularly when you're driving (I

used it a lot for navigation over the Easter holidays), but it was never

available on the iPhone 5s because it relies on the newer, more energy-efficient

co-processor that first appeared in the 6s.



Ultimately the iPhone SE can't escape the physical realities of its size. Sure,

the always on Siri helps overcome the limits of the four-inch screen size, by

allowing you to avoid typing on the tiny keyboard, but that's only on the

margins of usage. Mostly you will be typing into a tiny keyboard and trying to

use apps on a four-inch screen.



It's definitely acceptable, but it's not optimal. It comes down to a simple

question of what matters to you most: what your phone feels like when it's in

your pocket, or when it's in your hands.



LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The iPhone SE has a four-inch screen.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





