                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Australian Financial Review



                             October 2, 2015 Friday

                                 First Edition



New dimension to plus-sized mobiles;

DIGITAL LIFE SMARTPHONES



BYLINE: John Davidson



SECTION: LIFE & LEISURE; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 903 words





There's a huge debate raging in my head, something you might call a storm in a

teacup except a teacup might be an over-generous description of my brain

capacity.



This storm in a tea thimble concerns large phones. Which phone, do you think, is

the best plus-sized phone on the market?



One moment I'm convinced it's Samsung's brilliant 5.7-inch Galaxy Note5, a phone

I turn to every day for productivity applications regardless of which other

phone I happen to be reviewing at the time. Its little stylus, which you can use

to write on the screen like a pen on paper, is incredibly useful, especially for

someone like me who needs to jot down notes and interview people all the time.



The next moment I'm convinced it's Apple's 5.5-inch iPhone 6s Plus, which I have

a feeling could turn out to have much of the utility of the Note5 despite its

lack of an electronic stylus, plus a whole level of creative functionality the

Note5 could never hope to match.



It's hard to resolve this debate right now, because much of the appeal of the

iPhone 6s Plus lies in things yet to come.



Like the iPhone 6s, the iPhone 6s Plus has a new feature known as 3D Touch,

which adds a new dimension to the way you can interact with your phone. As well

as the usual tap and swipe gestures, you can now press down on icons and inside

apps on the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, and trigger different functions depending on

the app and depending on how hard you press.



On the keyboard on the iPhone 6s Plus, for instance, if you tap on a letter you

get that letter just like on any other keyboard, but if you press hard on a

letter the keyboard becomes a trackpad, enabling you to move a cursor quickly

and accurately through your text if, say, you need to make a correction. (How

that's better than moving your finger up into the text to select it, I'm not

sure, but it does illustrate the point that 3D Touch enables new functions.)



On a big-screen phone with the right creative apps, 3D Touch could be amazing,

especially when you consider Apple has almost doubled the graphics processing

power of the phone. It's hard to say just how amazing, because we don't really

have the apps yet that take full advantage of 3D Touch, so we don't yet know

what its



limits are, but based on what I've seen in a few days of using the iPhone 6s

Plus it's likely to be somewhere between quite amazing and absolutely bloody

amazing.



Apple has already added some 3D Touch functionality into its Note app, for

instance, which now lets you draw darker or lighter lines, or erase smaller or

larger areas, depending on how hard you press. It's a little thing, but imagine

what could happen when Adobe gets its hands on 3D Touch, and lets you change

your brush size or your feather radius or your layer opacity or whatever,

depending on how hard you press. It could be make for the best photo-editing app

ever to make it onto a phone.



Add a third-party stylus such as Adonit's Jot Pro, that lets you do all that

with a little more accuracy than you could with your finger, and suddenly you

could have all the advantages of a proper, pressure-sensitive stylus like the

one on the Note5, but on an iPhone, which tends to have better creative apps

than Android phones do.



My hesitation here is, it's hard to tell exactly how finessed and accurate the

pressure sensitivity of 3D Touch can be. On the one hand (or, more accurately,

one finger) apps such as Apple Mail demonstrate the new technology is capable of

quite a few levels of pressure - emails move smoothly in and out of focus,

depending on how hard you press on them - but on the other hand, Apple's lack of

adventurousness in its one drawing app, Note, suggests 3D Touch may prove

fiendishly hard to master for really accurate artistic work. We won't know for

sure until the serious creative apps begin to appear in coming weeks and months.



But they're bound to be good, that much is clear.



The reason I'm focusing on the creative side of the iPhone 6s Plus in this

review is that, after a year of on-and-off usage of the original iPhone 6 Plus,

I've formed the opinion that if you're not looking to Apple's plus-sized phone

for its creative features, you might as well get a regular-sized iPhone.



Unlike Samsung's Galaxy Note5 , which gives you a stylus as well as an extra-big

screen compared to the Galaxy S6, the iPhone 6s Plus mostly just offers the big

screen. It makes a big difference when you're, say, editing a photo on your

phone, but if you're just tapping out emails and social media updates, the

regular iPhone is more convenient to carry and, for my pixie-sized hands at

least, a good deal easier to type on, especially one handed.



For the record, the camera on the iPhone 6s Plus also has optical image

stabilisation that the regular iPhone 6s lacks, making it much better for

shooting movies, but that just goes to my point: the main appeal of the Plus is

on the creative side.



It's better than the regular iPhone for creating images and videos, and it's

better for viewing images and videos, too.L&L



John Davidson is taking a well-earned break for the next three weeks, scouring

the world for new gadgets to review. In the meantime, you can follow him on

Twitter: @DLLabs



iiPhone 6s Plus



Likes



3D Touch could revolutionise the way we use phones for creative apps



Dislikes



See price below



And it's a little larger than the Galaxy Note5 despite having a smaller screen



Price



$1229 for 16GB model to $1529 for the 128GB model



LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: THREE PHOTOS: Flowing caption Left: the iPhone 6s Plus compared with

the smaller iPhone 6s. Above: the Galaxy Note5.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





