

Click for image

Did you hear the bad news? That fancy iPhone 6s you just bought might be a
lemon. In case you haven't heard, your shiny new device might have subpar
battery performance depending on if its A9 processor came from Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) or Samsung.

Just when you thought we finally survived a new iPhone release without some sort
of overblown "-gate" scandal comes, well, an overblown story that recently
picked up quite a bit of steam mainstream tech circles.

The current 'scandal' is rooted in the fact that the A9 processors Apple packed
into its new iPhone 6s models are sourced from two different companies, TSMC and
Samsung. This, of course, is nothing new and shouldn't raise any eyebrows. Not
only does Apple often source similar components from different companies, but it
did the same thing last year with the A8 processor on last year's iPhone 6.

But this being Apple, even the tiniest seed of a complete non-story can quickly
blossom into a full-fledged panic.

Battery-related issues pertaining to the iPhone 6s began to pick up steam last
Wednesday when an Engadget piece popped up and suggestively asked users if their
iPhone "had a good or bad A9 CPU." The report boldly claimed that battery life
on iPhones with an A9 processor from TSMC yields about two hours more battery
life than an iPhone with A9 processor from Samsung.

From there, the story was picked up by MacRumors and was even tweeted by noted
blogger and developer Marco Arment.

The only problem is that the Engadget story wasn't exactly a legit Engadget
article. Specifically, it was written by one of the site's community members.
Indeed, the tagline above the headline, which was perhaps overlooked by some,
reads:

"This post was created by a member of the Public Access community. It has not
been edited for accuracy or truthfulness and does not reflect the opinions of
Engadget or its editors."

Furthermore, a closer look at the Engadget post reveals that the bulk of its
evidence came from a lone Reddit comment alongside some scattered speculation
from forum threads. In other words, there wasn't a lot of empirical evidence to
truly suggest that iPhone battery life might vary wildly from device to device.

As for the testing done by the Reddit user, there are a number of problems to be
had with drawing any bulletproof conclusions. For starters, any number of
factors can affect battery life, and we have no way of knowing what steps were
taken to ensure a controlled testing environment. Note that when the Reddit user
conducted his testing, one iPhone 6s had a SIM card installed, while the other
one did not. Additionally, the screenshots that accompanied the Reddit comment
suggested that an app using location services was active during testing; which
app or apps were in use? We don't know. Was screen brightness uniform between
devices? Who knows. Were these devices on the same Wi-Fi network? Perhaps, but
how do we really know for sure? Obviously, there are enough question marks here
that ultimately make this thread somewhat hard to take seriously.

So, what might happen when we see iPhone's with varying A9 chips tested in a
controlled environment? Well, there's actually some video footage of an iPhone
6s Plus with a Samsung A9 going head-to-head against an iPhone 6s Plus with a
TSMC A9.

The result? There's basically no difference whatsoever.

Now, what's that you say? The phones in the video above are on two different
carriers? Why yes, yes they are. Which goes to show that its hard to take these
one-off examples with effective sample sizes of just one all that seriously
because users can easily unearth "evidence" to support contrived conclusions.
While it's certainly easy to manipulate statistical data, the problem here is
that there's not even any data to speak of in the first place.

Even if we put aside glaring statistical holes and all of the various ways one
can go about testing battery life on varying iPhones, one would have to suspend
disbelief to believe that Apple, even for a second, would ever contemplate
putting out a product with subpar performance relative to a seemingly equivalent
device released at the same time. The idea is downright preposterous.

If anything, Apple would much sooner release a product with uniformly lower
battery performance than it would release a product with wildly inconsistent
battery life.

Indeed, product uniformity and consistency is taken with utmost seriousness
across all industries. Even when McDonald's sources something as seemingly
inconsequential as cheese from a new farm, the company undergoes an exhaustive
an extensive series of tests to ensure that the flavor of its products remains
exactly the same. To think that Apple wouldn't take similar precautions with its
prized iPhone is laughable.

If battery life on your new iPhone 6s or 6s Plus isn't up to snuff with Apple's
published specifications, then by all means take it in and see what's going on.
Otherwise, it's probably best to stop worrying and enjoy your new device.

Of course, Apple hopefully put this mini-scandal to bed last week when it issued
the following statement to TechCrunch.

With the Apple-designed A9 chip in your iPhone 6s or iPhone 6s Plus, you are
getting the most advanced smartphone chip in the world. Every chip we ship meets
Apple's highest standards for providing incredible performance and deliver great
battery life, regardless of iPhone 6s capacity, color, or model.

Certain manufactured lab tests which run the processors with a continuous heavy
workload until the battery depletes are not representative of real-world usage,
since they spend an unrealistic amount of time at the highest CPU performance
state. It's a misleading way to measure real-world battery life. Our testing and
customer data show the actual battery life of the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus,
even taking into account variable component differences, vary within just 2-3%
of each other.

Indeed, all of the subsequent battery tests that sprung up in the wake of
batterygate or chipgate (or whatever you want to call it) seemed to put the
iPhone through unrealistic testing conditions. As far as real-world usage is
concerned, there's probably not much reason at all for iPhone 6s owners to
worry.

