                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)



                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday



New iPhones out on Friday



BYLINE: Staff Report



LENGTH: 351 words





Apple announced on Monday that iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus will be available on

Friday, September 25 in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong,

Japan, New Zealand, Puerto Rico, Singapore, the UK and the US. Apple also

announced the fastest iOS adoption ever, with more than 50 percent of devices

already using iOS 9.2



"Customer response to the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus has been incredibly

positive, we can't wait to get our most advanced iPhones ever into customers'

hands starting this Friday," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president

of Worldwide Marketing. "iOS 9 is also off to an amazing start, on pace to be

downloaded by more users than any other software release in Apple's history."



iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus bring a powerful new dimension to iPhone's

revolutionary Multi-Touch interface with 3D Touch, which senses how deeply you

press the display, letting you do essential things more quickly and simply. The

new iPhones introduce Live Photos, which bring still images to life,

transforming instants frozen in time into unforgettable living memories.



Live Photos, 3D Touch, 12-megapixel iSight camera, 5-megapixel FaceTime HD

camera with Retina Flash and more are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip, the

most advanced chip ever in a smartphone, delivering faster performance and great

battery life. iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are designed with the strongest glass

on any smartphone and 7000 series aluminium, the same alloy used in the

aerospace industry, in gorgeous metallic finishes that now include rose gold.



iOS 9, the world's most advanced mobile operating system, brings more

intelligence to iPhone with proactive assistance, powerful search and improved

Siri features, all while protecting users' privacy. Built-in apps become more

powerful with a redesigned Notes app, detailed transit information in Maps, and

an all-new News app for the best news reading experience on any mobile device.3

The foundation of iOS is even stronger with software updates that require less

space to install and advanced security features to further protect your devices.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 57





               Copyright 2015 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





