

For those waiting for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus from overseas via the grey
market route, chances are that you won't get them. And those planning to get
them from outside India? and trying to evade duty?, might need to do a rethink?
as they could be fined. And alleged smugglers face arrest.

Noticing the massive spurt in smuggled iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus through
Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai customs authorities have
issued a press release informing fliers to "voluntarily declare iPhones to
customs on arrival."

The authorities have warned that if passengers are picked up after passing
through the Green channel, they become liable to pay fine, penalty and customs
duty. According to the release, duty will be levied on a single phone as well,
since the value of the phone is more than permitted under 'free allowance.'

The authorities additionally warn that passengers carrying iPhones in commercial
quantity are liable to be arrested as per provisions in the Customs Act.

Additional Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai Airport, Milind Lanjewar confirmed
the developments to ET, and said that the rules already exist but are being
reiterated to travelers. "For goods above Rs 45,000, technically passengers have
to declare but most people are not aware of it. A duty of 36% is levied on the
amount above this limit," he said. This means that even a single iPhone brought
from overseas would have to be declared and duty would have to be paid.

When the value of undeclared goods rises above Rs 20 lakh, the authorities
proceed with arrests, he added.

The Mumbai Airport Customs authorities have seized around 200 of the latest
iPhone models, valued at Rs 1.23 crore, over the last two weeks. The phones were
being smuggled into India by fliers coming from Singapore, Hong Kong, London,
Dubai and other countries. Authorities have since increased screening of
checked-in and hand baggage, besides profiling of passengers travelling.

Apple will officially launch the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in India on the
intervening night of October 15 and October 16, and is yet to release the
official pricing.

However, the phones are available on online sites including eBay India, OLX,
Quikr and Flipkart for massively marked up prices - starting from Rs 69,999 for
the lowest storage variant to Rs 1,14,999 for the 128 GB iPhone 6s Plus. While
some promise delivery in a couple of days without company guarantee, others
promise delivery on the day of the launch, or a day later.

Grey market prices are much higher than indicative prices that ET had reported
last week based on trade sources. The iPhone 6s 16 GB would be sold for Rs
62,000, 64 GB variant for Rs 72,000 and 128 GB version for Rs 82,000, while the
iPhone 6s Plus 16 GB would be priced Rs 72,000, 64 GB for Rs 82,000 and 128 GB
for Rs 92,000.

"As the models are still to be launched in India, passengers are trying to
smuggle these iPhones for monetary benefit by sale through grey market," the
authorities have said.

The Mumbai seizure is not the first of its kind.

On Sunday, seven youth were detained at the Indira Gandhi International Airport
with about 182 iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, who had come from Hong Kong and Singapore
on separate flights, officials said. They expected more such cases since the
launch is nearly 10 days away.

The new iPhone models were available for sale on September 25 across the US, the
UK, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand,
Puerto Rico and Singapore. Apple had sold over 13 million units of these phones
on the first three days of the launch on September 25.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

