                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Brand Reporter



                               February 16, 2016



Media - Apple: Behold...



BYLINE: Suraj Ramnath



LENGTH: 374  words





The outdoor 'ads' are photographs clicked by users of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.





Around ten months back, Apple ran an outdoor campaign, using photographs clicked

by users of the iPhone 6. The campaign fetched ad agency TBWAMedia Arts Lab an

outdoor Grand Prix at Cannes.







The second leg of the campaign is out. The brand is running a similar campaign

presently; it comprises stunning photographs clicked by users of the iPhone 6s

and iPhone 6s Plus.



This is a global campaign known in the media as 'Apple World Gallery'.

Reportedly, this year's campaign includes over 50 images clicked by over 40

photographers (both, amateur and professional), that are being displayed in

around 85 cities across over 25 countries. In all, there are over 10,000

billboards, across the world, reports Business Insider.



The copy on the current billboards reads: 'Shot on iPhone 6s'. In Mumbai, the

billboards carry the Vodafone logo and Airtel in Delhi.



On its web page, team Apple says, "The world's most popular camera is better

than ever. Each photo and video...is the original taken with iPhone 6s or iPhone

6s Plus - without filters, adjustments or retouching. Imagine what you can do

with a camera this advanced, along with the powerful editing tools built into

your iPhone."



Meanwhile, Israeli photographer Sephi Bergerson shot an entire Indian wedding on

his iPhone 6s Plus. In the video, which was published on YouTube last month, he

mentions, "It is not going to replace the DSLRs... but enables a different range

of shooting."



The difference between traditional cameras and an iPhone, he explains in his

film, is that the latter allows him to maintain eye contact with the subject

being photographed or filmed, something that can't be done when shooting on a

DSLR camera. The postproduction editing can also be done on the iPhone 6s Plus,

he says.



Wondering whether the video is a piece of branded content released by Apple,

surfers have left several comments on the YouTube page. Bergerson's response

reads: "Why can't someone just do something because they want to see how it

comes out? I've been shooting with SLR cameras for more than 30 years. Am I

allowed to try something new without being suspected of making a PR piece for

Apple?"



suraj.ramnath@afaqs.com



LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





         Copyright 2016 The Brand Reporter, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





