
DATELINE: Mumbai


Mumbai, Oct. 13 -- Hundreds of Apple fans in India will be able to get hold of
the much-awaited iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus on the same day of the launch this
year.


 Hyper-local delivery app Grofers, which allows consumers to order products
online across categories from groceries to smartphones and get them delivered to
their doorstep within a few hours, has taken the hyper-local delivery to a next
level.
 The Gurgaon-based start-up has tied up with Reliance Digital to deliver iPhone
6s to its customers at midnight on Friday when the Cupertino-based Apple Inc
launches the smartphone in India. The base price of iPhone 6s is pegged at
[#x20b9]62,000 while that for iPhone 6s Plus is [#x20b9]92,000.
 Tiger Global-backed Grofers, which recently entered the electronics category,
is exclusively starting midnight deliveries of the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus
in eight cities. This will be for the first time in India that iPhones will be
delivered at the doorstep of the customer on the midnight of the launch in India
- October 15.
 Dhruv Arora, Category Head for Electronics at Grofers, said, "Many speak about
standing in lines around iPhone launches, but the majority gives up on the idea
because of the given constraints around late night, assured availability, etc.
This will be the first for India and probably the world that iPhones will be
delivered within minutes after the midnight launch. Several people from senior
management along with other employees will be personally delivering the iPhones
at midnight."
 Arora added that ever since the app has taken pre-bookings of iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6s, the traffic and overall engagement on the app has gone up by 30 per
cent.
 "We have grown 200 per cent in the number of net orders since the previous
month in the electronics category. We got our first 2 pre-bookings of iPhone 6
in the first 3 minutes. And 80 per cent of our consumers who have booked iPhones
have opted for midnight deliveries on October 15," he added. He, however, did
not give out any figures on the number of bookings received for the iPhones.
 Aiming high
 Apple, which is looking to set up a manufacturing base in India in
collaboration with Foxcon, is looking to surpass the 55,000 sales number it had
achieved last year during the launch of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus this year
through a mix of online and offline sales strategy.

