                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 1:46 PM GMT



The best iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s cases;

The newest member of the Apple family line is being snapped up like hot cakes.

If you've welcomed the latest iPhone into your life, you'll need something tough

to protect it from scuffsand scratches. We've found the best cases to keep your

6sin tip-top condition



BYLINE: Melisha Kaur



SECTION: GADGETS & TECH



LENGTH: 419 words





Your spanking new iPhone 6sis a beautiful thing. But you'll need a protective

case to keep it that way. Drops, scrapes and marks are hard to avoid if you're

always on the go, so we've found some tough covers to safeguard your smartphone

while giving it a stylish finishing touch.



1. Ted Baker iPhone 6/6sCase in Alli Cascading Floral with Mirror



Featuring a vibrant floral design, this pretty case offers all-round protection

against everyday bumps and scrapes and gives easy access to controls. Selfie

queens can use the built-in mirror before taking a snap and keep their phone in

a handbag without worrying about it getting scratched.



Ted Baker iPhone 6/6sCase in Alli Cascading Floral with Mirror



£29.95, Proporta,



Buy it now



2. Skinnydip iPhone 6/6s Krusty O's Case



The Simpsons fans can protect their tech with this fun case by Skinnydip London.

The colourful accessory is made with flexible silicone and will cover the back

and sides of your smartphone.



Skinnydip iPhone 6/6s Krusty O's Case



£16, Skinnydip London,



Buy it now



3. Rock Dr.V iPhone 6s/6 View Case in Gold



Perfect for multi-taskers on the go, this sleek gold flip case offers strong

protection for the front and back of your phone and allows you to unlock your

device while it's still closed. The slim cover offers a snug fit and also aids

grip - which is great for those who tend to drop their phones.



Rock Dr.V iPhone 6s/6 View Case in Gold



£19.99, MobileFun,



Buy it now



4. Spigen iPhone 6 and 6s Air Skin Soft Clear Case



This semi-transparent case may only be 0.4mm thick, but a premium polycarbonate

build and protective urethane coating means it's tough enough to keep your

iPhone safe from knocks and scratches. If you're not keen on the bulk of most

cases, then this lightweight cover is your best bet.



Spigen iPhone 6 and 6s Air Skin Soft Clear Case



£12.99, Mobile Madhouse,



Buy it now



5. Olixar Maze Hollow iPhone 6s/6 Case in Mint Green



Give your phone a fresh look with this handsome mint green case. With a striking

hollow maze-inspired design, the hard cover has a raised bezel to shield your

device from scratches and dirt and won't add extra bulk.



Olixar Maze Hollow iPhone 6s/6 Case in Mint Green



£15, MobileFun,



Buy it now



Follow us on Twitter



@ESLifeandStyle



and on



Facebook



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





