                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday



Apple says preorders for new iPhones will set a record



BYLINE: By Patrick May pmay@mercurynews.com



SECTION: BREAKING; News; Business



LENGTH: 278 words





Scrambling to meet an unexpectedly robust demand for its new iPhone 6s Plus,

Apple said Monday that preorders have been so strong that the company should

surpass last year's record sales of 10 million phones over the first weekend.



"The online demand for iPhone 6S Plus has been exceptionally strong and exceeded

our own forecasts for the pre-order period," Apple said in a statement. "We are

working to catch up as quickly as we can, and we will have iPhone 6S Plus as

well as iPhone 6S units available at Apple retail stores when they open next

Friday."



Unveiled last week at an event in San Francisco, the two new models -- the 6S

and the slightly larger 6S Plus -- became available for preorders over the

weekend. Hyped on stage by CEO Tim Cook and his lieutenants as practically a

compete overhaul, with the slogan "The Only Thing That's Changed is Everything,"

the new phones have more memory and faster chips inside. Besides a new 12

megapixel camera, the phones feature a new "3D Touch" screen that allows users

to dive deeper into an email or webpage simply by applying more pressure to the

glass with their fingers.



"This news doesn't surprise us," said analyst Tim Bajarin with Creative

Strategies. "Apple continues to give reasons for people to upgrade, including

the new 3D Touch, and the improved camera and processor."



Bajarin also pointed out that fewer than a third of iPhone owners have upgraded

yet to the original iPhone 6 released last September, "so there's still plenty

of headroom for iPhone 6Ss and 6S Plus growth."



Apple stock jumped more than 1 percent during trading Monday.



Contact Patrick May at 408-920-5689 or follow him at Twitter.com/patmaymerc



LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus during an

Apple media event in San Francisco, California on September 9, 2015. Apple

unveiled its iPad Pro, saying the large-screen tablet has the power and

capabilities to replace a laptop computer. AFP PHOTO/JOSH EDELSONJosh

Edelson/AFP/Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





