

Apple's latest smartphones -- iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus -- are finally here!
Launched in India within a month of their global rollout for the first time, the
new iPhones look pretty similar to last year's models, but sport for a lot of
new features, like 3D Touch and better camera

But these are not the only new thing to look forward to. Here are 10 things you
need to know about Apple's new iPhone 6S:

3D Touch

Most smartphone users are accustomed to 'multi-touch' -- the ability for phones
to recognize touches from multiple fingers, enabling such capabilities as
pinching to zoom. With the new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, Apple brings in 3D Touch.

Pressing down hard on the new iPhones will launch additional capabilities. For
example, you can get quick access to tasks such as taking a selfie or getting
directions home. From a message, 3D Touch will give you a preview of a web link
without launching the browser. Similarly, press for a few seconds on a document
icon, and a preview pops out. Press on an address in an email, and a map opens
up. On some video apps, the pressure determines how quickly you forward or
rewind.

12MP rear camera

After being stuck with an 8MP camera sensor since iPhone 4S, the iPhone range
has finally received a substantial megapixel upgrade. iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S
Plus sport a 12MP rear camera, with 50% more focus pixels to ensure faster
autofocus.

Apple says that the new iPhones' camera will deliver more detailed photos than
ever before. It can also capture panorama shots in 63MP resolution and capture
videos in 4K (movie hall quality) resolution.

5MP selfie camera

The selfie camera has also got an upgrade this year, jumping from 1.2MP in
iPhone 6 and 6 Plus to 5MP in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.

Though it is not backed by a front-facing LED flash, Apple has used a technology
called Retina Flash to deliver brighter selfies. This feature increases the
brightness of the screen by three times, which Apple claims is comparable to
that of its rear dual-LED flash.

The front camera also gets an upgrade. It'll be 5MP FaceTime HD camera that uses
the phone's Retina display for a flash for "detailed selfies." Apple claims that
the new capabilities will now let the display light up 3-times brighter for a
flash that's comparable to that of the TrueTone flash on the back.

Live Photos

Apple has also debuted a feature called Live Photos in the camera app, which
will capture a 1.5-second video before and after you click the shutter in order
to create animated GIFs. Facebook has already added support for Live Photos,
while others may follow suit soon.

A new colour

The new iPhone 6S Plus will also come in a rose gold colour, as well as the
standard silver, gold and space gray hues.

More durable body

Though the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus look the same as their respective predecessors,
they are made of stronger material. Apple has used aircraft-grade 7000 aluminium
alloy, which is less dense and lighter than standard metals used in smartphones,
but is up to 60% stronger.

Apple has also said that the glass used in the touchscreen this time is stronger
than ever before.

Faster processor

The new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus pack the new 64-bit A9 chip with integrated M9
motion coprocessor under the hood, which processes apps 70% faster and graphics
90% faster according to Apple.

Faster fingerprint sensor

Apple says that the TouchID fingerprint sensor used in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus is
twice as fast as the one used in previous iPhones and iPads.

Improved 4G and Wi-Fi performance

Apple has upgraded the wireless chips in iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus too, which
can download/upload data twice as fast compared to last year's models.

The two iPhones now support up to 23 4G LTE bands.

Price

Apple has priced the 16, 64 and 128GB variants of iPhone 6S at Rs 62,000, Rs
72,000 and Rs 82,000, respectively.

Likewise, the 16, 64 and 128GB versions of iPhone 6S Plus cost Rs 72,000, Rs
82,000 and Rs 92,000, respectively.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

