                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                     March 23, 2016 Wednesday 10:35 AM GMT



iPhone SE: Release date, price and specs revealed at launch of Apple's new

4-inch iPhone;

Here's everything you need to know about Apple's 4-inch iPhone SE - successor to

the popular iPhone 5s



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 946 words





Apple unveiled its latest iPhone at an event in California on 21 March - and it

wasn't the phone many people were expecting.



The company traditionally updates its iPhone line once a year, at an event in

September, but rumours had been building for months suggesting Apple was

developing a new device.



Although there are plenty of rumours flying around about the iPhone 7, this is

NOT that phone. The iPhone 7 is expected to launch in September 2016 - according

to the usual schedule.



The phone that Apple launched on Monday is called the iPhone SE - a smaller,

cheaper device that will be sold alongside Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus models.



Here's everything we know about Apple's new "mini" iPhone SE:



After weeks of rumours suggesting that Apple's forthcoming smartphone would be

called the iPhone 6c , and then the iPhone 5se, the Californian company decided

to call it the iPhone SE.



A report in 9to5Mac ahead of the event claimed that Apple had decided against

naming the new handset after the 5s and 5c range of 2013, for fear of confusing

customers.



This marks the first iPhone upgrade without a number in its name, and would

logically remove it from a yearly update cycle - suggesting it may be a one-off

device.



The "SE" suffix has reportedly been described by Apple employees as a "special

edition" variation of the iPhone screen size.



Apple currently sells three iPhone models - the 4.7-inch iPhone 6s and 5.5-inch

6s Plus, which were both launched in September 2015, and the 4-inch iPhone 5s,

which launched in September 2013.



The iPhone SE will replace the iPhone 5s - bringing Apple's 4-inch iPhone up to

date with the other two devices. The iPhone 5s will be discontinued.



Read more: Apple's MUCH CHEAPER new iPhone has the power of an iPhone 6s and the

price of a 5s



The iPhone SE comes with the same 64-bit A9 chip from the iPhone 6s and iPhone

6s Plus, offering "blazing fast speeds," according to Apple.



It also has the same M9 motion co-processor, meaning it is capable of supporting

graphics-intensive mobile games.



The device also boasts a high-definition Retina display, longer battery life, 4K

video, faster 4G and Wi-Fi connectivity, and Touch ID with Apple Pay.



"Everyone who wants a smaller phone is going to love iPhone SE," said Apple's

senior vice president of worldwide marketing, Phil Schiller.



iPhone SE has a 12-megapixel rear camera with fast-focus technology, an

Apple-designed image signal processor, advanced noise reduction and better face

detection - all resulting in sharper, more detailed photos



Although the iPhone SE doesn't feature Apple's pressure-sensitive 3D Touch

technology, users can still capture Live Photos on the device.



This means that, after taking a photo, users can "relive the memory" by touching

the touching the screen to reveal the moments immediately before and after the

shot was taken.Other camera advancements include the ability to shoot 4K video

and "True Tone" lighting technology, which momentarily makes the display three

times brighter for brighter selfies in low light.



Apple's new 4-inch iPhone will come in pink, or "rose gold" as Apple calls it,

as well as space grey, silver and gold.



What do you think of the new mini iPhone? Let us know in the comments below



The iPhone SE will sell alongside the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus , but will be

significantly cheaper at a cost starting at £359.



That means its will be cheaper than the iPhone 5s, which currently starts at

£379. The 5s is expected to have its price more or less halved after the iPhone

SE launches.



Tim Cook takes to the stage for Apple announcement



Customers in the UK will be able to pre-order the iPhone SE from Thursday, March

24, with availability beginning Thursday, March 31.



Every customer who buys iPhone SE from Apple will be offered free Personal

Setup, in-store or online, to help them customise their iPhone by setting up

email, showing them new apps from the App Store and more.



So far the reaction to the iPhone SE has been fairly good. Analysts seem to

think the release of a smaller, cheaper iPhone is a smart move by Apple, and

believe it could trigger a new wave of upgrades.



"A less powerful processor would have been perfectly acceptable in a cheaper

iPhone," said Stephen Ebbett, global director of gadget insurer Protect Your

Bubble.



"But with the processor and graphics on par with the iPhone 6s, you're left

wondering what features have Apple scrimped on to keep costs down? Other than

the screen size, not many it seems."



Ernest Doku, telecoms expert at uSwitch.com, said the iPhone SE was argeted at

Millennials with smaller budgets, offering a fully-formed iPhone experience for

around £170 cheaper than its flagship.



"Taking the iconic design of the 5s and supercharging it with the innards of the

6s, its best iPhone yet, and for a vastly lower price, should strike fear in the

hearts of brands already competing in the mid range mobile market," he said.



Read more: Why the iPhone SE could make tightfisted Apple fans crumble



Jefferson Wang, senior partner at IBB Consulting, added that it will allow Apple

to compete in up-and-coming markets such as India and South America:



"Apple is facing much higher price sensitivity in some developing regions.

Manufacturers like Huawei, Lenovo, and ZTE have no problem selling phones to the

masses outside of the US," he said.



"Apple can't lose big to these companies and iPhone SE gets it back in the game

with price conscious shoppers that don't mind paying just a little more for the

Apple brand, even if it means sacrificing on screen size and the latest

must-have features."



Apple unveils iPhone SE and iPad Pro at launch event



Could this be the iPhone 7? Amazing concept video shows new futuristic design



LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





