                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            Business World (Digest)



                           September 28, 2015 Monday



Apple reports record sales of iPhone 6s;

Apple reports r...



LENGTH: 333 words







HIGHLIGHT: Apple said on Monday it had sold more than 13 million iPhone 6s and

6s Pluses during their first weekend on the market, setting a record for its

marquee product.





Apple said on Monday it had sold more than 13 million iPhone 6s and 6s Pluses

during their first weekend on the market, setting a record for its marquee

product.



The company beat its previous record of 10 million in sales for the previous

generation of iPhones in its first weekend in 2014. This year's results

benefited from the inclusion of the Chinese market, where regulatory problems

delayed the gadget's debut last year.



Analysts had expected the company to sell 12 million to 13 million phones this

past weekend.



"Customers' feedback is incredible, and they are loving 3D Touch and Live

Photos," Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said in a statement. "We can't

wait to bring iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus to customers in even more countries

on October 9." Analysts had said Apple was virtually assured to set a new record

for iPhone sales with the inclusion of China, which many expect will soon be the

company's largest market. But the figures announced on Monday suggest Apple's

iPhone sales were up overall, said FBR Capital Markets senior analyst Daniel

Ives. He said the sales figures should ease investors' concerns about how Apple

will fare amid economic turmoil in China. "Demand out of China looks white-hot,"

Ives said. Moor Insight & Strategy analyst Patrick Moorhead said the sales

figures also suggested Apple seized some market share from Samsung Electronics

Co Ltd, its chief rival in the smartphone market. Apple said the new iPhones

would be available in more than 40 additional countries starting Oct. 9,

reaching more than 130 countries by the end of the year. The iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus arrived in stores on Friday, kicking off a sales cycle that will be

scrutinized for signs of how much allure remains for the smartphone. The company

relies heavily on the sale of its flagship iPhones, which generated nearly

two-thirds of its revenue in the latest quarter. Shares of Apple were down 1.5

percent at dollar 112.97 in early trading. (Reuters) Source:

www.businessworld.ie



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





