                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                            September 2, 2016 Friday



iPhone 7 and possible Watch 2: Here's what Apple fans can possibly expect from

September 7 event



BYLINE: Smita Sinha



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 799 words





After month of speculations, leak and rumours, Apple has finally announced the

launch date for its next generation of the iPhone. Beside iPhone, one can also

expect an Apple Watch 2 along with a host of other announcements to be made on a

press event on September 7. The Cupertino-based company will live stream the

event that can be watched here at 10.30 PM IST.



Though Apple struggles to maintain the mystery of its new devices, but there

have been a plenty of reports and rumours indicating that the company plans to

launch the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus, which will look lot like their

predecessor iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus. A bigger change to device is expected

next year in 2017.



Also Read: Apple iPhone 7 leaks: Here's what we know till date



Apple CEO Tim Cook will unveil the new iPhones at a time when Apple is

struggling somewhat in the market. The iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus really did

not set the market on fire. According to a report by Strategy Analytics, Apple

iPhone shipments fell by 35% annually at 0.8 smartphones in India in the second

quarter of 2016.



Android smartphone users have greater levels of honesty and humility than iPhone

users: Study



Apple's smartphone marketshare halved from 4.5% to just 2.4% in India during the

past year. But it is expected that with iPhone 7, Apple will regain its top slot

in the market. Rumours hint that the new iPhones will come packed with new

features, which may give tough fight to Samsung.



Here's a quick rundown on what one can expect from much-awaited Apple's iPhone

launch event:



1) iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus:



- Rumours hints that the new iPhone models, presumably called iPhone 7 and

iPhone 7 Plus respectively, will have a very similar designs to the existing

iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus.



- Expected to come in three variants (based on storage) - 32GB, 128GB and 256

GB.



- According to a report iPhone 7 32GB is said to cost Rs 53,000, the 128GB and

256 GB are expected to cost Rs 61,200 and Rs 71,250 respectively. While 32GB,

128GB and 256GB versions of iPhone 7 Plus would roughly cost Rs 61,200, Rs

69,200 and Rs 79,300 respectively.



- Some recent reports suggest that, the iPhone 7 will feature a 4.7-inch 3D

touch display, while the iPhone 7 Plus is expected to feature a larger display

5.5-inch display.



- Both the models are rumoured to be powered by Apple's A10 processor.



- Although, this information is still in realm of rumours, it is almost certain

that Apple may drop the port on the next models and instead use the space for

other upgrades or slimmer iPhones in future. Users may have to use the Lightning

port to attach headphones or move to a Bluetooth pair.



- According to a report, Apple will remove the two innermost antenna lines that

runs across the back of the current iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus.



- More and more wishpers have also pointed towards Apple will use the 3D

technology of the iPhone 6S, possibly alongside hardware taken from the latest

MacBook and will ditch a moving button altogether in favour of a touch-sensitive

patch.



- If the rumours and leaked pictures are to be believed, there will a

significant camera upgrade. The upcoming iPhone 7 is expected to bear a 12MP

rear camera coupled with a 5 MP front-facing snapper. The iPhone 7 Plus will

sport a 16MP rear camera. A huge upgrade could mean near DSLR quality

photographs.



- Pre-release rumours also suggests that both the devices will be

water-resistant, bringing the phones in line with the likes of the Samsung

Galaxy S7.



- Both the models will be powered by iOS 10 OS version.



- Apple will also incorporate fast charging functionality in both the devices.

Early whispers also inevitably tagged the iPhone 7 as an adopter of wireless

technology.



- According to a report, the phone will go on pre-order soon after the launch

date with expected delivers and market availability from September 16. In India,

the iPhone 7 is likely to launch around the end of September or early October,

depending upon the demand and supply situation.



2) Apple Watch 2:



Some reports hinted that Apple is likely to launch Watch 2 this year. The new

model is expected to come with better waterproofing feature, along with hardware

features such as GPS, thinner display with One Glass Solution, a barometer and a

higher capacity battery life. Even the Watch 2 is not expected to come without

any cosmetic changes, but will pack faster internals, which will be ideal for

those who use it to go running. Whispers also hinted at the Watch having camera,

but no images have been leaked so far.



It is still unclear as to what Apple will or will not unveil on September 7, but

the only certain thing that the Cupertion-based company will roll out is iOS 10,

which was announced at WWDC 2016 get-together in San Francisco on June 13, 2016.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





