                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                       March 22, 2016 Tuesday 8:46 AM GMT



iPhone SE: Release date, price and specs following Apple's new 'mini' smartphone

launch;

Here's everything you need to know about Apple's iPhone SE - successor to the

popular 4-inch iPhone 5s



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 494 words





Apple unveiled its latest iPhone at an event in California today - and it wasn't

the phone many people were expecting.



The company traditionally updates its iPhone line once a year, at an event in

September, but rumours had been building for months suggesting Apple was

developing a new device.



Although there are plenty of rumours flying about the iPhone 7, this is NOT that

phone. The iPhone 7 is expected to launch in September 2016 - according to the

usual schedule.



The phone that Apple launched today is called the iPhone SE - a smaller, cheaper

device that will be sold alongside Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus models.



Here's everything we know about Apple's new "mini" iPhone.



A report in 9to5Mac claimed that Apple has decided against naming the new

handset after the 5s and 5c range of 2013, for fear of confusing customers.



This marks the first iPhone upgrade without a number in its name, and would

logically remove it from a yearly update cycle - suggesting it may be a one-off

device.



The "SE" suffix has reportedly been described by Apple employees as a "special

edition" variation of the iPhone screen size.



Apple currently sells three iPhone models - the 4.7-inch iPhone 6s and 5.5-inch

6s Plus, which were both launched in September 2015, and the 4-inch iPhone 5s,

which launched in September 2013.



The iPhone SE is something of a replacement for the iPhone 5s - bringing Apple's

4-inch iPhone up to date with the other two devices.



The iPhone SE comes with the same 64-bit A9 chip from the iPhone 6s and iPhone

6s Plus, offering "blazing fast speeds".



Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing, said: "

iPhone SE is packed with a stunning four-inch Retina display, advanced 64-bit A9

chip with M9 motion co-processor, longer battery life, 12-megapixel iSight

camera with True Tone flash, Live Photos, 4K video, faster LTE and Wi-Fi, and

Touch ID with Apple Pay.



"Everyone who wants a smaller phone is going to love iPhone SE."



Apple's new 4-inch iPhone will come in pink, or "rose gold" as Apple calls it,

as well as space grey, silver and gold.



What do you think of the new mini iPhone? Let us know in the comments below



The iPhone SE will sell alongside the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus , but will be

significantly cheaper at a cost starting at £359.



That means its will be cheaper than the iPhone 5s, which currently starts at

£379. The 5s is expected to have its price more or less halved after the iPhone

SE launches.



Tim Cook takes to the stage for Apple announcement



Customers in the UK will be able to pre-order the iPhone SE from Thursday, March

24, with availability beginning Thursday, March 31.



Every customer who buys iPhone SE from Apple will be offered free Personal

Setup, in-store or online, to help them customise their iPhone by setting up

email, showing them new apps from the App Store and more.



Apple unveils iPhone SE and iPad Pro at launch event



Could this be the iPhone 7? Amazing concept video shows new futuristic design



LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





