                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   Daily Star



                          September 17, 2015 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Apple of our eyes;

StarTech



BYLINE: DAVE SNELLING; TOM HUTCHISON



SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 33



LENGTH: 350 words





IT'S iPhone time again! Apple has just launched two new smartphones.



And StarTech has been lucky enough to take them for a spin.



The iPhone 6s and bigger 6s Plus may look familiar on the outside, but there's

plenty going on inside to get fans excited.



Perhaps the biggest change is the new 3D Touch display.



This clever screen is packed with sensors that know exactly how much pressure

you're applying.



The iPhone can then enable gestures so you can dip in and out of content without

losing your place.



For example, you can tap and hold the phone app to reveal your most popular

contacts and call them without lifting your finger off the screen.



3D Touch. also provides shortcuts to the 3D Touch also provides shortcuts to the

things you do most, so you can send a message or take a selfie with just a

simple press from the Home screen. Having tested 3D Touch, it's a dream to use

and we can see it becoming a very welcome addition.



Another new feature on the 6s is the improved camera, which can record in Ultra

HD 4K quality.



We viewed content shot in this format and it looks mightily impressive. Another

bonus is the new Live Photo mode.



This records a short video each time you take picture, allowing your snaps to

move and come to life. It's a nice way to view your images, but the jury's out

on how often use it. With Apple's super-fast A9 chip inside, the iPhone 6s feels

slick.



Apps are swift to launch and you get the feeling the new iPhone will cope with

everything thrown at it.



One thing we did notice is this new device is slightly bigger than its older

sibling. And the new means the iPhone tech has put on a small amount of weight.

But one bonus of this added bulk is that the iPhone 6s is tough.



Apple say the screen is made from the strongest glass on any smartphone. And

we're sure people will accidentally test the truth of this when it goes on sale

next week.



We had only a short time with the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, but there's plenty to

be excited about.



They look good, are fast and you'll be wondering how you ever managed without 3D

Touch.



Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus can be pre-ordered now.



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: UPGRADED: New iPhone 6s has an improved camera and a new 3D Touch

display



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DST





                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





