                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            October 18, 2015 Sunday



No midnight queues for iPhone 6S, demand lower than last year



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 530 words





NEW DELHI/KOLKATA/CHENNAI: Apple kicked off the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus

launch in India at midnight, with early sales and estimates from retailers in

key cities indicating the magic may not be working as much as it did last year

on account of lukewarm demand.



A majority of large-format retailers and brick-and-mortar stores that ET spoke

to across different locations in New Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Chennai said

sales this time were not as high as a year ago, when Apple launched large-screen

iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus and demand had outstripped supply.



"I was manning the iPhone counter here last year. This year, it is very low.

Today, sales were 10-20% of last year," said a leading retailer at Forum in

Koramangala in Bengaluru, asking not to be identified.



Spice Hotspot, which has three retail stores in New Delhi's Connaught Place,

sold 25 units on day one. Demand was lower than last year and the stores had

extra phones available for customers who hadn't booked the devices.



The head of a big retail chain in the capital said there was sufficient

inventory, unlike last year when stocks were sold out by mid-day. "Apple was

cautious this year to ensure there is no stock out this year. The lower demand

was also the reason why inventory has piled up," he said, adding that only

die-hard Apple fans were buying this year.



The situation was similar in Kolkata, where two leading Apple exclusive retail

shop owners said sales were less than last year, with one of them revealing it

had sold 120 units of iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, compared with more than 200 units

last year. Another shop confirmed sales have been 50% lower.



Queues of buyers were seen at midnight across some stores in New Delhi and other

cities, which prompted Apple CEO Tim Cook to thank Indian buyers. "Thanks to all

our customers in India who queued at midnight for the new iPhone 6S and iPhone

6S Plus!" Cook said on Twitter early Friday.



Alok Gupta, CEO of The Mobile Store, India's largest cellphone retailer, was

cautiously optimistic, saying the first lot of buyers are always true Apple

lovers and a clear trend would emerge after a few days.



The 16GB, 64GB and 128GB variants of the iPhone 6S are being sold for Rs 62,000,

Rs 72,000 and Rs 82,000, respectively, and similar versions of the 6S Plus cost

Rs 72,000, Rs 82,000 and Rs 92,000. Prices, which are higher than that in the

US, were not a deterrent for many ardent Apple fans.



The initial tepid demand might mimic the lacklustre demand trends that analysts

predict globally. According to a report quoting Pacific Crest Securities, which

obtained information from multiple chip maker sources, Apple is said to have

reduced component orders by about 15% on a global scale, indicating

weaker-than-expected sales.



Apple said it sold more than 13 million iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus models in

the three days after the September 25 launch in the US, which is a record.

Chennai-based retailer Magnum Computers had sold seven devices, while retail

chain Vivek's had sold nine iPhones by Friday evening. Retailers said they were

confident of sales picking up over the weekend and through the Diwali shopping

period.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





