                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            October 1, 2015 Thursday

                                Kolkata Edition



'Imported' iPhone 6s Available in India, But Be Ready to Pay More



BYLINE: Gulveen.Aulakh@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 359 words





For those not willing to wait, the iPhone 6s is already available in India.With

just over two weeks before some of the most sought after smartphones hit retail

shops in India, Apple's latest offering -iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus -are

available on eBay India and a few reseller sites such as OLX and Quikr for what

appears to be an astounding marked up price.



One can buy an 'imported' iPhone 6s 128 GB model for Rs 1,14,999 on ebay.in,

which will be delivered anywhere in India within five to six days from receiving

the payment. The seller is also offering a six month seller-warranty on models,

including the iPhone 6s 16 GB model for Rs 69,999, and the 64 GB variant for Rs

84,999. These are backed by an eBay guarantee.



Another seller on used goods site Olx.in is offering the iPhone 6s 64



GB for '. 75,000 and can ship it within a day. While one on Quikr.com has put a

. 65,000-tag for the 16 GB ' variant of iPhone 6s Plus.



"But there will be no guarantee or warranty on this phone," a seller on Olx.in

told ET when contacted. "The phone's come from overseas and won't have the

standard warranty or guarantee," he added.The phones are available within five

days of the US



launch on September 25.



Sources at Apple say these are imported phones, therefore won't have guarantees,

features that Apple does not provide internationally. Also, they warn that

buyers would be taking a real chance as the seller could take all the money

upfront, but with no guarantee of delivery.



Apple did not officially comment on the grey market or resale trend. While Olx

and Quikr did not respond to queries on listings on their sites, an eBay India

spokesperson clarified that the seller-warranty was not akin to

manufacturer-warranty , the latter is offered by phone brands.



If the buyer does not get the product as per the listing specification, he or

she can raise an eBay Guarantee claim within a specified time limit and seek

replacement or refund. "eBay acts as a facilitator to resolve the claim between

the buyer and seller. The fact that the transaction is via PaisaPay the buyer's

interest is always maintained till he/she confirms receipt," the spokesperson

added.



LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





