

The humorous post was captioned 'Vegetables & Apple', hinting the phone could be
Apple's latest toy. It received more than 33,400 'likes'.

It appears the Crown Prince of Dubai may have got a new iPhone 6S.

In a cryptic post on Instagram, His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin
Rashid Al Maktoum shared a picture of himself holding a handful of carrots,
cucumbers and tomatoes - alongside a companion holding items that include what
appears to be a Silver iPhone.

The humorous post was captioned 'Vegetables & Apple', hinting the phone could be
Apple's latest toy. It received more than 33,400 'likes'.

Apple CEO Tim Cook presented the latest version of the company's iPhone - the
iPhone 6S and iPhone 6SPlus - at the tech giant's highly anticipated 'Hey Siri'
event on September 9 at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco,
California.

Cook called the iPhone 6S range "the most advanced iPhones ever".

The new models feature 3D Touch, which senses force to enable intuitive new ways
to access features and interact with content.

iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus feature Retina HD displays and 7000 series
aluminium, the same alloy used in the aerospace industry, in metallic finishes
that now include Rose Gold.

The phones also introduce a photography function called Live Photos, which
brings still images to life by

"capturing a moment in motion".

RELATED: Will the new iphone 6S arrive in time for Gitex?

If Sheikh Hamdan, also chairman of Dubai Sports Council, has indeed switched to
the 6S we may see him using this feature and posting 'Live Photos' on his social
media channels.

The crown prince, or Fazza as he's fondly known, has more than 2.6million
followers on Instagram and is well known for his love of photography. His
profile on Instagram states: "Every picture has a story and every story has a
moment that I'd love to share with you Thanks and enjoy."

megha@7days.ae

http://imgs.syndigate.info/8/10/58/144335472478.png



