                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday

                              Australian2 Edition



iPhone 'peek and pop' makes impression



BYLINE: Chris Griffith



SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 5



LENGTH: 554  words





Apple has changed how we interact with smartphones, with a new "hard press"

feature on iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus available from this weekend.



I've been testing the new handsets for 10 days, and while they look almost

identical to last year's, the new models represent the most exciting "s" upgrade

to date.



The new feature, called 3D Touch, involves pressing the screen harder than usual

to drill down and view an email from the inbox or a text message, a calendar

entry from a calendar link, or a web page from a Safari hyperlink.



After pressing hard, releasing your finger from the screen causes the

information you viewed to evaporate. There's no need to press a back button. But

if you press harder again, you feel a "pop" and gain further functionality.

Apple calls the whole experience "peek and pop".



Already more than 20 appli-cations use 3D Touch, and once third-party developers

upgrade their applications, there will be hundreds more. One of the best

examples is the new trackpad. Hard pressing the regular keyboard changes it into

a trackpad with useful cursor control.



Apple introduced the hard-press gesture this year on the 12-inch MacBook's

trackpad, and migrated it to Apple Watch. With it also on iPhone, we can expect

to see it across all Apple devices.



iPhone 6s and 6s Plus also -introduce "live photos", a concept unsuccessfully

implemented by HTC in 2013 where the camera takes three seconds of video

whenever you snap a still. Your photos move slightly when you view them in the

Photos app and, by hard pressing, you get the video.



The new iPhones have better back and front-facing cameras, with 12 and five

megapixel resolution respectively. The previous iPhone 6 and 6 Plus had eight

and 1.2MP ones. Low-light performance is better too. And you can take selfies in

the dark. Although there is no specific front-facing flash unit, the screen

itself flashes brightly enough to light up surroundings.



The new phones shoot high-resolution video although the display doesn't support

that quality in playback. But you can edit high-resolution video in iMovie and

manually upload it to a desktop via a USB cable to achieve top quality.



Unfortunately, because of the weaker dollar, all new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus

models cost more than $1000. Prices range from $1079 for the iPhone 6s with 16

gigabytes of storage to $1579 for an iPhone 6s Plus with 128GB.



The new iPhones are available in gold, silver, "space grey" and with a new

rose-gold metallic -finish.



Customers can order online from Apple from Saturday, or through carriers. Apple

says most of its stores will have iPhones for walk-in customers each day.



Chris Griffith travelled to the Apple launch event in San Francisco this month

courtesy of Apple.



CORE APPLE FEATURES PROS * 3D Touch feature adds new ways of interacting with

the phone * Live photos shoots three seconds of video when snapping a still *

Improved 12 megapixel back-facing camera & 5mp selfies camera * You can shoot

selfies in the dark with front-screen flash * iPhone 6s and 6s Plus shoots

high-resolution video CONS * Expensive in Australia, with all models costing

more than $1000 * High-resolution video selection hidden away in settings app *

You can shoot high-resolution but the screen does not support it in playback



* As with all iPhones, no microSD card for expanding storageLIFE P16



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





