
DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, March 30 -- Apple will launch three new iPhone models in September
this year rather than the usual two, according to new rumours that have surfaced
online.

Alongside an iPhone 6S and an iPhone 6S Plus, the world's most valuable company
could reveal a smaller iPhone 6C - potentially with a 4-inch screen.

The new addition would be in a similar vein to the iPhone 5C that launched
alongside the iPhone 5S in 2013. It would feature a smaller screen and could,
potentially, be more affordable than the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.

Like the current models, the new iPhones would all be equipped with TouchID
fingerprint scanners and Near-Field Communication (NFC) for using Apple Pay.

The iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus would - as in previous years - feature a boost
in processing power to stay relevant against the likes of the HTC One M9 and the
Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge.

But it is believed that the smaller iPhone 6C would stick with the current A8
processor found in the iPhone 6 in order to keep the overall cost down.

A report published in Digitimes suggests the display panels for the new phones
will be developed by screen companies Japan Display and LG Display. The iPhone
6C and iPhone 6S Plus screens will have added input from Sharp.

Rather than feature the long-rumoured sapphire crystal screen, the new phones
are believed to stick with Corning's Gorilla Glass display.

However, the displays are likely to be more sensitive than ever before and
incorporate new technology that Apple has developed for the Apple Watch and new
Macbook.

It is believed the new iPhone models could support the equivalent of the
Macbook's "force click" feature - where a harder press results in a different
action.

"Apple plans to add sensors to detect how hard a user is pressing on a screen to
its next iPhones, incorporating a technology used in its forthcoming MacBook and
Apple Watch, according to people familiar with the matter," reported the Wall
Street Journal. All three new phones are likely to be revealed in September,
which is historically when Apple chooses to reveal its latest handsets.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

