                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                     September 29, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



More than 13 Million iPhones 6s and 6s Plus Sold during First Weekend



BYLINE: Peter Jenkins



LENGTH: 299  words





Apple has set record for its marquee product by selling more than 13 million

iPhone 6s and 6s Pluses during their first weekend of availability in 12

markets. Though, the Company sales crossed expectations from many analysts of 12

million, about 1% drop in the shares of the Company has been reported.



Not only iPhone 6s and 6s pluses, iPhone 6 had also set the previous record of

10 million unit sales in its first weekend. Apple was virtually assured to set a

first-weekend record for iPhone sales with the inclusion of China, said

analysts. But, some analysts said that the sale of 6s helped the Company to lift

its iPhone sales this year when compared with 2014.



I am impressed to see Apple's ability to attract consumer interest in a device

with very slight improvements over the iPhone 6, said Analyst Shannon Cross of

Cross Research. John Jackson, IDC analyst, said "Topping what the iPhone 6

achieved looks like a tall order, even for Apple, with its history of outdoing

itself".



Daniel Ives, FBR Capital Markets analyst, estimated that Apple sold more than 2

million iPhones in China over the weekend. He also appreciates Apple's upgrade

program which allows users to receive a new iPhone each year on monthly

installments of just $32. As per the latest statement by the Company, the new

iPhones would be available in more than 40 additional countries starting Oct. 9.



The new iPhones have been featured with improved cameras and a display

technology called 3D Touch. The Company depends mainly on sales of its iPhones,

which generated nearly two-thirds of its revenue in the latest quarter.



Business: Technology (http://nycity.today/business/technology)Company: Apple

(http://nycity.today/company/apple)



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





