

Tech Notes 101

Is it time to upgrade to the iPhone 6S or iPhones 6S Plus? Besides faster
computing, better insides, better battery life, and bigger screens, the focus
seems to be on the camera.

The new camera is a 12-megapixel camera with a new feature called Live Photo.
Live Photo captures the photo not only in the moment, but the moment before and
after. This is useful if someone blinks, or moves. By placing your finger on the
photo, you may see the moment before or after the shutter click, and choose the
photo you prefer.

The disadvantage is, the Live Photo is only sharable among other Apple users
running the iOS 9 update, or Mac users running El Capitan. The original photo is
sharable among other users as a standard JPEG.

Optical Image Stabilization is now available on the iPhone 6S, and 6S Plus. This
means your phone senses and compensates for the shaking of your hand with image
processing as well as movements of the camera lens. The result is clearer
pictures, even in low light situations.

The video camera now can shoot 4K video which is four times higher the HD video.

Selfies are better because the front facing camera has been upgraded to a 5
megapixel image.

The new iMovie allows you to edit two movie streams at the same time, and have
effects such as a picture inside another picture, and a split screen as well.

Hard press on the camera icon and take a seine, or a video. Hard press on
Facebook allows you to change your status. This feature is referred to as 3D
Touch. Use 3D touch on Apple maps to jump to turn by turn directions, or add
music to your Apple Playlist.

3D Touch in your e-mail, called Peek and

Pop allows you to peek at your message. If you wish to read the message, keep
pressing and it will pop open.

3D Touch in Safari allows you to peek at a website link received in an e-mail
without opening it. Again, if you wish to open it, keep pressing. A new color,
Rose Gold, has been added to the list of colors.

A new metal called 7000 Series aluminum makes the iPhone stronger than ever. The
glass has been upgraded also, so the phone is stronger than the previous models.
More drop resistant.

Touch ID now includes third-party integration.

Apple Pay now includes NFC, Near Field Communication. This feature allows users
to pay for purchases at thousands of retail stores using your fingerprint.

VoLTE, voice over LTE, support makes calls over cell networks more clear. Wi-Fi
calls when cell calls are not available has been added. Be sure to check with
your carrier on this one. Not all carriers allow this.

The 16GB iPhone 6S will cost you $199.00, and the iPhone 6S Plus will cost your
$299.00. What is the $100.00 difference? The screen is bigger, and according to
the experts, it has a noticeably higher pixel density than the iPhone 6S.

Apple has introduced an Apple Upgrade Program, which provides a new iPhone every
year with your choice of carrier, and Apple Care coverage starting at $32.00 per
month.

The new smarter than ever smart phone goes on the market September 25th. If you
are a camera bug, or like the latest greatest gadget on the market, the iPhone
6S or iPhone 6S Plus for you.

Questions, or comments? Contact Lucy at technotes101@gmail.com

