                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                          September 10, 2015 Thursday



Revolutionary new Force Touch for iPhone 6S? Sorry, Android got there first;

Apple's new Force Touch technology, expected to ship in their new iPhone 6S and

iPhone 6S Plus today, has been around longer than you think.



BYLINE: Aditya Shenoy



LENGTH: 359  words





Apple's new Force Touch technology, expected to ship in their new iPhone 6S and

iPhone 6S Plus today, has been around longer than you think.



The Apple event has been scheduled in September every year and this year it is

on schedule as usual. Apple is considered  a pioneer in the smartphone industry

as it has introduced a lot of firsts in the segment. They have heavily

influenced the course of progress for a mobile device and, at the event

tomorrow, they are expected to unveil something revolutionary. Right?



The whole world has their eyes set on the Cupertino company to release the next

lineup of smartphones. Apple launched two phones last year, the iPhone 6 and the

iPhone 6 Plus and tomorrow they plan to launch the Apple iPhone 6S and the Apple

iPhone 6S Plus. The devices are rumoured to sport Force Touch Display, a

technology that Apple first showcased with the Apple Watch. The main motive

behind the Force Touch display was to introduce a new method for the user to

interact with the device.



What is Force Touch? Force Touch is a feature developed by Apple that senses

pressure applied on a screen or touchpad and responds accordingly. The

technology first debuted on the 2015 Apple MacBook, followed by the Apple Watch,

and the next generation of iPhone is also expected to sport the same. Force

Touch uses tiny electrodes around the flexible Retina Display to distinguish

between a light tap and a hard press. And some might think this is revolutionary

but guess what?



Android has had this nifty little feature since November 2009! It dates back to

Android Eclair 2.0 and the feature was introduced in the Level 5 API.  A

developer even made an app that uses this API and shows how Force Touch works on

Android. The app is very crude but demonstrates how Android does record pressure

exerted on the touchscreen. We've got screenshots below from our tests on a

Nexus 5. You can try out the app called Force Touch Demo yourself, but don't put

a whole lot of pressure on the touchscreen else you may end up cracking it.



Aditya Shenoy is a technology enthusiast and the Deputy Editor at Pricebaba.com



LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





