                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)



                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday



New iPhone launch breaking all records



SECTION: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 330 words





APPLE said yesterday it had sold 13 million of its new iPhones over the weekend,

in a record-breaking launch for the latest model of its iconic smartphone.

  The California tech giant began selling the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus in nine

markets, including China, on Friday.





 The company said the devices would be available in 40 additional markets from

October 9 including Italy, Mexico, Russia, Spain and Taiwan.

  "Sales for iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus have been phenomenal, blowing past any

previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history," said chief executive

Tim Cook.

  The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have the same overall dimensions as the last

version, with new technologies under the hood.

  One of the key new features is called "3D touch," which responds to the level

of pressure exerted on the screen, allowing users to apply light pressure to

peek at messages and applications, and to press a little deeper to open them.

  The 6S has the 12cm display of its predecessor and the 6S Plus - which updates

one of the more popular handsets in the "phablet category" - has the same 165cm

screen.

  But the devices have more powerful processors that allow for improved

graphics, harder glass and a new aluminium body. Pricing will be kept at the

same levels as the earlier versions.

  Analysts at IHS Technology project said Apple would ship 236 million iPhones

this year, up 22% from a year ago.

  IHS analyst Ian Fogg said, "For its next model, Apple is going to have to find

a way to reinvent the iPhone, and it is hard to find something that is radically

new."

 Apple's new phone also features upgraded operating system iOS 9, which the

company says offers "more intelligence" while taking up less space.

  Apple said that it would roll out the new devices in the coming weeks and that

they would be available in 130 countries by the end of the year. - AFP

 GROWTH: The various models of iPhone sold over the weekend worldwide, from the

iPhone 4 to the just-launched iPhone 6 and 6S



LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch





                    Copyright 2015 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





