

NEW DELHI: Apple usually releases its flagship smartphone(s) in fall
(September-October), however, thanks to leaks and rumours we get some idea about
the upcoming devices way before the launch.

It's only March but we're already seeing the rumour mill churn out news related
to this year's iPhone(s).

According to a report by Digitimes, Apple will launch three different iPhones -
iPhone 6S, iPhone 6S Plus and a 4-inch screen-equipped device which is currently
being referred to as iPhone 6C. The report cites industry insiders as the source
to inform that Apple is likely to partner Wistron to assemble the iPhone 6C
while the 6S phones will be made by Foxconn and Pegatron.

The report mentions that all phones will feature LTPS panels. Japan Display,
Sharp and LG Display will supply panels for iPhone 6S Plus and iPhone 6C while
the iPhone 6S panels will be sourced from Japan Display and LG.

Further, it adds that the phones will come with Corning Gorilla Glass, the
iPhone 6S/6S Plus will be powered by Apple's new A9 chips and the iPhone 6C will
feature the A8 chip. All new iPhones will have NFC connectivity and fingerprint
scanning capability.

Apple may also use new camera technology embedding an advanced three-sensor
based camera module within the iPhone. The company was recently granted a patent
for a "Digital camera with light splitter."

According to another report citing supply chain sources by Taiwanese website
UDN, Apple will use a two-lens system in the camera of the next-generation
iPhone. The dual lens setup will help the iPhone capture more light, resulting
in better photos. It will also add optical zoom capability to the camera, which
also gives better photos compared to cameras with digital zoom.

The report also said that Apple will use its Force Touch technology in the
upcoming iPhones. This technology, already being used in Apple Watch, will allow
the touchscreen distinguish between light taps and long presses, thus allowing
the users to interact with their iPhones in several new ways. Moreover, the
touch sensors said to be used in the new iPhones can determine the users' blood
pressure and pulse more accurately.

Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>

And like us on Facebook >>>

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

