                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                             March 22, 2016 Tuesday



Apple states that iPhone SE has a better battery life than iPhone 6s: Let us see



LENGTH: 282  words





By tbreak Staff -



After announcing iPhone SE, it did not take long for Apple to upload the amount

of battery the phone would be able to deliver depending on the kind of activity

you are engaged in. Turns out that the smartphone ended up delivering more

battery life compared than iPhone 6s, suggesting that if you are into smaller

screen iPhones and want more battery life, then this is definitely the device

for you.



Also, keep in mind that this is the most cheapest and more powerful 4 inch

iPhone to be released from Apple, so not only will you experience better battery

life according to the company, but experience the same level of performance

exhibited by iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus.



The pricing details of iPhone SE have been listed below, along with a detailed

list of the number of hours that iPhone 6s and the 4 inch smartphone would be

able to deliver depending on the kind of activity you happen to be engaged in.



During the announcement of the device, it was also stated that it has a 12MP

rear camera sensor that is able to record 4K video. For selfie loves, the

brightness of the screen increases to three times the original state in order to

improve the image quality. Apple has stated that an LED flash would give away

the quality of the picture, so the best way to make selfie stand out was to

implement this feature.



According to Apple, iPhone SE orders will commence from March 24, and it will be

available to purchase from March 31. Naturally, it will take time for the

smartphone to be shipped to various parts of the globe, but if you do not have

sufficient funds to purchase an iPhone 6s or an iPhone 6s Plus and if you simply

love iOS, this should be your next smartphone.



LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





