

Apple unveiled its latest iPhone at an event in California today - and it wasn't
the phone many people were expecting .

The company traditionally updates its iPhone line once a year, at an event in
September, but rumours were building for months suggesting Apple was developing
a new device.

Although there are plenty of rumours flying about the iPhone 7, this is NOT that
phone. The iPhone 7 is expected to launch in September 2016 - according to the
usual schedule.

The phone that Apple launched today is called the iPhone SE - a smaller, cheaper
device that will be sold alongside Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus models.

Follow our live updates from the Apple event here

Here's everything we know about Apple's "mini" iPhone.

Apple's new 4-inch iPhone will come in pink, or "rose gold" as Apple calls it.

Although early rumours suggested the iPhone SE could come in hot pink, these
pictures from media company Beeep suggest that it could be more of a pale
orangey-pink colour.

It will also come in space grey, silver and gold.

What do you think of the new mini iPhone? Let us know in the comments below

After weeks of rumours suggesting that Apple's forthcoming smartphone would be
called the iPhone 6c , and then the iPhone 5se, the Californian company simply
decided to call it the iPhone SE.

A report in 9to5Mac claimed that Apple has decided against naming the new
handset after the 5s and 5c range of 2013, for fear of confusing customers.

This marks the first iPhone upgrade without a number in its name, and would
logically remove it from a yearly update cycle - suggesting it may be a one-off
device.

The "SE" suffix has reportedly been described by Apple employees as a "special
edition" variation of the iPhone screen size.

iPhone SE release date, specs, features and price rumours ahead of Apple's new
mini iPhone launch

Apple currently sells three iPhone models - the 4.7-inch iPhone 6s and 5.5-inch
6s Plus, which were both launched in September 2015, and the 4-inch iPhone 5s,
which launched in September 2013.

The iPhone SE is something of a replacement for the iPhone 5s - bringing Apple's
4-inch iPhone up to date with the other two devices.

The iPhone SE comes with the same 64-bit A9 chip from the iPhone 6s and iPhone
6s Plus, offering "blazing fast speeds".

Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing, said: "
iPhone SE is packed with a stunning four-inch Retina display, advanced 64-bit A9
chip with M9 motion co-processor, longer battery life, 12-megapixel iSight
camera with True Tone flash, Live Photos, 4K video, faster LTE and Wi-Fi, and
Touch ID with Apple Pay.

"Everyone who wants a smaller phone is going to love iPhone SE."

Read More: What time is Apple's iPhone event?

Apple typically leaves two weeks between the announcement of an iPhone and its
retail date, but most rumours seem to suggest that the new device will go on
sale the following Friday.

iPhone SE rumours

That means you'll probably be able to buy the new device on March 25.

"Apple is unlikely to offer pre-orders for the new devices, according to sources
who cautioned that the plans could still change," 9to5Mac said.

Tim Cook takes to the stage for Apple announcement

The iPhone SE will sell alongside the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus , but will be
significantly cheaper at a cost starting at £359.

That means its will be cheaper than the iPhone 5s, which currently starts at
£379. The 5s is expected to have its price more or less halved after the iPhone
SE launches.

Could this be the iPhone 7? Amazing concept video shows new futuristic design

Should Apple make a budget iPhone?

