                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      February 5, 2016 Friday 7:17 PM GMT



Apple's next iPhone could launch as soon as March - but it might not be the

phone you're expecting;

Apple's next iPhone will be unveiled next month, according to rumours, but it

won't be the iPhone 7



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 371 words





Apple's next iPhone will launch next month, according to a new report, but it

may not be the phone you're expecting.



The company traditionally updates its iPhone line once a year, at an event in

September, but rumours have been building for months that Apple is developing a

new device that will launch in the Spring.



Now a report in 9to5Mac claims that the new iPhone will be unveiled at an event

on Tuesday March 15, alongside the iPad Air 3 and Apple Watch 2.



Although there are plenty of rumours flying about the iPhone 7 , this is NOT

that phone. This is what many are expecting to be called the iPhone 5se .



The iPhone 7 is expected to launch in September 2016 - according to the usual

schedule.



Confusing right? Here's what we know so far about the iPhone 5se.



Apple currently sells three iPhone models - the 4.7-inch iPhone 6s and 5.5-inch

6s Plus, which were both launched in September 2015, and the 4-inch iPhone 5s,

which launched in September 2013.



The iPhone 5se is rumoured to be a replacement for the iPhone 5s - bringing

Apple's 4-inch iPhone up to date with the other two devices.



The "se" suffix has reportedly been described in two ways by Apple employees: as

a "special edition" variation of the 4-inch iPhone screen size, and as an

"enhanced" version of the iPhone 5s.



Leaked photos suggest that it will take design queues from the iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus - , with curved glass edges and a "Touch ID" fingerprint reader .



Read more: iPhone sales may have peaked, but our love affair with Apple is far

from over



Could this be the iPhone 7? Amazing concept video shows new futuristic design



Other rumoured features include an 8-megapixel rear camera and 1.2-megapixel

front camera, support for Live Photos and Apple Pay, and the same Silver, Space

Grey, Gold and Rose Gold colour options as the 6s lineup.



The iPhone 5se will sell alongside the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus , but will be

significantly cheaper , according to KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, who

suggests it will cost around $400-500 (£250-350).



It will only account for 8-9% of next year's iPhone sales, but it will help

Apple expand its presence in emerging markets, and among consumers on tighter

budgets, according to Mr Kuo.



Should Apple make a budget iPhone?



LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





