                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)



                           October 10, 2015 Saturday

                                 Jaipur Edition



E-tailers may earn Rs 3k cr in iPhone sales



BYLINE: John.Sarkar@timesgroup.com



SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS



LENGTH: 368 words





After brick-andmortar retailers, it's now the turn of India's e-tailing giants

to gear up for Apple's 6S and 6S Plus launch, which is slated to rake in

domestic revenues in excess of Rs 6,000 crore for the US tech company. Apple

plans to sell more than 10 lakh units of its new phone in India, and half of it

is expected to happen through the online route. This will also reduce the

chances of offline retailers charging a scarcity premium, say industry experts.



The new phones will hit the shelves on October 16 at a price ranging between Rs

62,000 for the 16GB iPhone 6S and Rs 92,000 for the 128GB iPhone 6S Plus. While

offline retailers have already started taking bookings for the launch, their

online counterparts have readied a war chest that includes delivery on launch

day , cashbacks, assured buybacks and great trade-in values.



For instance, Snapdeal, one of Apple's largest partners here, is bundling an

interesting assured buyback offer with the iPhone 6S.



"Within six months of purchase, if you want to sell your phone we will pay you

50% of its value and 40% after that, till 15 months," said Karan Khara, VP ,

strategic alliances, Snapdeal. "We won't be offering discounts in the beginning

and most of the competition between e-tailers will take place on the basis of

stock availability , delivery on the day of launch and cashbacks." Snapdeal has

assured delivery on the first day of the phone's India launch to its pre-booked

customers who complete payment by 4pm on October 15. Though Khara did not reveal

numbers, it has been learnt that the New Delhi-based online marketplace is

eyeing reve



nues that may run into hundreds of crores from the iPhone 6S.



A relatively new entrant into the e-tailing space, Paytm is looking at a

business of Rs Rs 150-200 crore from the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.While Croma, one

of India's largest electronics goods chain, is charging Rs 1,000 for pre-booking

the iPhone 6S, an online shopper can book it on Paytm for Rs 2,000.



Similarly , Bengaluru-based e-tailer Flipkart has gone live with iPhone 6S

pre-bookings from Thursday night.A senior executive from the company said it

will offer a 30-day replacement guarantee on the phones that no other player is

offering



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





