                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              The Financial Daily



                            November 16, 2015 Monday



Zong exclusively launched iPhone 6s and 6s Plus with style



LENGTH: 284  words





Zong, Pakistan's first and only 3G + 4G network here on Friday officially

launched thelatest iPhone 6s and 6sPlus for its valued customers at a colorful

ceremony arranged at state-of-the-art Experience  and  Service Centre.



As per set pattern prescribed by Apple, Zong has been given special mandate to

exclusively launch Apple's latest smartphones in Islamabad. A number of Zong

customers that had pre-booked their latest iPhones one week prior to its

official launch along with other senior officials including Babar Bajwa, Chief

Commercial Officer - Zong gathered at Sharp 6 pm to witness this grand occasion.



Babar Bajwa CCO Zong handed-over first iPhone 6s to a customer that is resident

of Islamabad. Speaking at the occasion MrBajwa said, We, at Zong, endeavor to

bring innovative solutions through latest technologies to our customers in

Pakistan. We are proud that we have taken another leap forward by bringing the

world's latest smartphone devices with distinction. Our customers now can

experience the true speed of 4G/LTE on latest smartphones by iPhone which is a

perfect technology match.



First 100 iPhone customers received mifi devices worth Rs 6,000/from Zong that

was an add-on for them. Most of the customers immediately unsealed their iPhones

and started enjoying fastest internet speed besides taking selfies and sharing

with their near and dear ones. iPhone 6s and 6s Pluswill soon be available on

selected ZongCustomer Service Centres nationwide paired with official

warranty.Zong is offering iPhone 6s and 6s plus on 6% and 10% discount with 3

months and 6 months advance line rent plans. Further details can be found

through www.zong.com.pk  and lt;http://www.zong.com.pk and gt;.



LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2015 The Financial Daily

                              All Rights Reserved





