                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            October 11, 2015 Sunday



E-tailers may get half of Rs 6k-cr iPhone pie



BYLINE: John Sarkar



SECTION: INDIA BUSINESS



LENGTH: 507 words





NEW DELHI: After brick-and-mortar retailers, it's now the turn of India's

e-tailing giants to gear up for Apple's 6S and 6S Plus launch, which is slated

to rake in domestic revenues in excess of Rs 6,000 crore for the US tech

company. Apple plans to sell more than 10 lakh units of its new phone in India,

and half of it is expected to happen through the online route. This will also

reduce the chances of offline retailers charging a scarcity premium, say

industry experts.



The new phones will hit the shelves on October 16 at a price ranging between Rs

62,000 for the 16GB iPhone 6S and Rs 92,000 for the 128GB iPhone 6S Plus. While

offline retailers have already started taking bookings for the launch, their

online counterparts have readied a war chest that includes delivery on launch

day, cashbacks, assured buybacks and great trade-in values.



For instance, Snapdeal, one of Apple's largest partners here, is bundling an

interesting assured buyback offer with the iPhone 6S. "Within six months of

purchase, if you want to sell your phone, we will pay you 50% of its value and

40% after that, till 15 months," said Karan Khara, VP, strategic alliances,

Snapdeal. "We won't be offering discounts in the beginning and most of the

competition between e-tailers will take place on the basis of stock

availability, delivery on the day of launch and cashbacks." Snapdeal has assured

delivery on the first day of the phone's India launch to its pre-booked

customers who complete payment by 4pm on October 15. Though Khara did not reveal

numbers, it has been learnt that the New Delhi-based online marketplace is

eyeing revenues that may run into hundreds of crores from the iPhone 6S.



A relatively new entrant into the e-tailing space, Paytm is looking at a

business of Rs 150-200 crore from the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. While Croma, one of

India's largest electronics goods chain, is charging Rs 1,000 for pre-booking

the iPhone 6S, an online shopper can book it on Paytm for Rs 2,000.



"I'm an Apple fan. Earlier, people would have to queue up in front of Apple

stores all night to lay their hands on a phone on the day of the launch. Only

two out of those would manage to get a phone and even then, getting the colour

or specifications of your choice would be a distant dream. Online marketplaces

have changed that. Now, by booking online, you can get your iPhone on the same

day of the launch since we have tied up with local retailers. You can book the

colour you want and get the specifications of your choice too," said Amit

Bagaria, head, electronics business, Paytm.



The Noida-based electronics payments company and marketplace has tied up with

several banks for finance schemes for the iPhone 6S and plans to sell around

10,000 units in the first month of its launch. Similarly, Bengaluru-based

e-tailer Flipkart has gone live with iPhone 6S pre-bookings from Thursday night.

A senior executive from the company said it will offer a 30-day replacement

guarantee on the phones that no other player is offering.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





