                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         Business Mirror (Philippines)



                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday



A better iPhone experience



BYLINE: Gerard Ramos



LENGTH: 589  words





OPEN the Globe Telecom web site (www.globe.com.ph) and among the plethora of

smartphones, gadgets and services that the company offers, the one that greets

you upon landing-the gadget that takes pride of place-is none other than the

latest iteration of Apple's best-selling communications device, the iPhone 6s,

together with its big-screen (and reportedly better-selling) Plus sibling.



The premium that Globe places on the iPhone should surprise no one, given that

the company was first in line around these parts in going all in on the

then-unproven brand when Apple released the iPhone back in 2007.



Given, especially, that the iPhone has since become, arguably, the most

lusted-after smartphone in the world-and never mind that in terms of user base,

smartphones powered by Google's Android mobile OS far, far outnumber the iPhones

out there globally (according to the most recent market data from International

Data Corp., Android enjoys an 82.8 percent worldwide market share versus the

13.9 percent of iOS, the platform that fuels all iPhones).



Globe has not released any sales figures since it launched the iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus last November, but Apple fans being the way they are, and given our

collective desire for having the latest and greatest, we wouldn't be altogether

surprised if the numbers are again healthy.



That s appendage might make the recent twin releases seem iterative-and indeed

they are as far as design is concerned. But as any Apple fanboy will tell you,

the s iPhones are always infinitely much better than the non-s models (and

according to The Verge.com, Apple also says the s variants actually sell better

and last longer in the marketplace). The same holds true for this year's

releases.



Amid the hurly-burly of its Star Wars: The Force Awakens partnership as 2015

drew to a close, Globe sent us a review unit of the iPhone 6s, the gold

variant-and we can say that it feels and performs much better than the non-s

iPhone 6 issued last year. (We reviewed the iPhone 6 Plus.)



True, the iPhone 6s is not only a hair thicker than last year's model

(5.44A창(EURO)"2.64A창(EURO)"0.28 in versus 5.44A창(EURO)"2.64A창(EURO)"0.27 in) but

also notably heavier (143 g versus 129 g), but all that is totally

negligible/forgivable given what you get in return: better cameras with a

rear-facing 13-megapixel sensor (up from 8 MP), a front-facing 5-MP sensor (up

from the ridiculous 1.2-MP shooters of older models) and some nifty tricks up

their sleeve (Live Photo; turning the entire screen into a flash for selfies in

low light, among others); a glass screen that is reportedly stronger (we

couldn't summon up the nerve to conduct any kind of drop test) and made more

intelligent courtesy of 3D Touch, which brings users a whole new way of

interacting with on-screen content; and a reportedly stronger metal chassis

fashioned out of 7,000 series aluminum, a material used by the aerospace

industry (presumably so that there will no more Bendgate videos floating around

YouTube starring the iPhone 6s).



Beyond the improved cameras and the highlight 3D feature, which been welded

system-wide onto iOS, the iPhone 6s provides the kind of experience that every

Apple fanboy has grown to love, gush over and have wet dreams about.



Globe offers the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in 16GB/64GB/128GB iterations with

the company's various myLifestyle Plans that come with such goodies as free

access to various social media and messaging platforms, along with niceties with

partner services such as HOOQ and Spotify, among others.



LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 Business Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





