                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                            Asia News Network (ANN)



                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday



Apple fans complain about iPhone 6s made with Samsung processors By Christine

Chou in Taipei/The China Post/13 October 2015



LENGTH: 421  words





Taipei (The China Post/ANN) - Apple fans from Taiwan and Hong Kong have

complained that iPhone 6s smartphones made with Samsung processors perform worse

than those made by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC).

Following the release of the new iPhone 6s, it has come to light that Apple had

dual-sourced its A9 processors for the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus from both Samsung

and its rival TSMC. The difference between the two versions continues to be a

point of debate.

¿They are not created equal,¿ said tech journalist Andy Patrizio, writing on his

blog on IT World.com.

Users have found the TSMC chip had eight hours of battery life, while Samsung

had six hours. In addition, some lab results have shown the TSMC chip is faster

and runs cooler than the Samsung processor.

Some users said on the Internet that they were insisting on ¿TSMC only,¿ while

another user remarked, ¿If I get the Samsung version, I might as well buy a

Samsung phone.¿ However, there are others that don't find the difference too

significant, since they would ¿say goodbye¿ to the model in a year anyway.

Some Hong Kong media said the two chips appear to be unequally distributed

around the world ¿ Almost 60 per cent of iPhone 6s models sold in the United

States and Japan were made with the TSMC chips, while over 60 per cent of chips

in Hong Kong were provided by Samsung. As for Taiwan, over 80 per cent of iPhone

6s¿s allegedly run on Samsung chips.

It is not evident by looking at the packaging whether it Samsung or TSMC

supplied the processor for an individual iPhone, nor do serial codes or barcodes

offer any clues. Developers have created apps that can detect which chip your

phone operates on, such as the ¿CPU Identifier¿ offered online, free of charge.



Apple issued a statement on October 9, ¿Our testing and customer data show the

actual battery life of the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, even taking into

account variable component differences, vary within just 2-3 per cent of each

other.¿ Apple rebutted previous lab tests, indicating such tests were conducted

under battery-straining conditions that would be deemed ¿unrealistic¿ for

real-world use.

Amid user complaints and online debate, both Samsung and TSMC have declined to

comment on the subject.

Hong Kong media has speculated that Apple would cut down on chip orders from

Samsung in the future, and industry analysts predict that TSMC would likely gain

an upper hand in a coming deal with Apple, allowing it to become the exclusive

supplier for Apple¿s A10 processors.



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 2075





                       Copyright 2015 Asia News Network.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





