                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 5:10 PM GMT



What time is the iPhone 6s launch today? Latest Apple event news;

The iPhone 6S, iPhone 6S Plus and an updated Apple TV are all expected to be

showcased at tonight's event



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 556 words





Excitement is reaching fever pitch among tech fans as Apple prepares to unveil

its latest smartphone and gadget.



Later today, Apple CEO Tim Cook will deliver a keynote address and reveal the

latest version of the tech giant's iPhone gadget, expected to be called the

iPhone 6s.



The event will take place at the Bill Graham auditorium in San Francisco at 6pm

UK time.



For those in California, it'll be happening at 10am.



Apple will be providing a live stream of the event, but it will only be

available to watch on Mac computers or iPhones and iPad mobile devices.



You can also follow the action at Mirror.co.uk.



Watch the iPhone 6s launch on catch-up via the Mirror.co.uk stream. It will be

available as live HERE from 7pm.



Around 7,000 people are expected to attend the event - many of whom will be

Apple employees.



This year, Apple sent out a bunch of invitations, which cryptically suggests you

ask Siri for a hint.



If you ask the iPhone's digital assistant, it reveals there's a big event

happening on Wednesday, September 9.



Apple re-shaped its flagship handset in a big way last year, making the iPhone 6

bigger and slimmer than any previous phone.



What's likely is that today the company will reveal an iPhone 6s upgrade - with

improved specs but an appearance that stays roughly the same.



There will also be an upgrade to Apple TV - but here's the main iPhone

announcements we're expecting.



As in previous years, we expect Apple to reveal two versions of the new iPhone

at the same time.



Like it did with the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus, we could see two different

sizes to appeal to two different types of customer.



Apple is hardly alone in this approach - Samsung has recently launched two new

super-sized smartphones for those who like their phones a little bigger.



Apple's Force Touch feature was developed for the Apple Watch and works as a

wholly new type of input method.



You press down on the screen with a little more force, and it activates a

different action.



It's heavily tipped to be the standout new feature of the iPhone 6s.



So far, this hasn't been widely implemented - but with an arrival on the

iPhone's big screen developers could find some unique usages for the new

feature.



Apple has continuously updated the processors in its new phones and this year is

likely to be no exception.



Many rumour sites are suggesting Apple has built an "A9" processor that would

give the new iPhone the same power as the iPad Air 2.



Meanwhile, battery life will be improved as well. Apple is reportedly using

contoured, layered battery stacks to squeeze as much power into the body of the

new phone as possible.



Once paired with the company's efficient new iOS 9 software, the length of usage

time should be much improved over the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



Apple largely stays out of the camera arms race that other manufacturers follow.

That being said, the new iPhone is expected to boast a 12-megapixel rear facing

camera.



That will be a big step up considering all the iPhones going back to the iPhone

4s have used 8-megapixel cameras.



Another expectation is that the front-facing camera will, for the first time,

shoot 1080p high definition footage.



Apple brought out a rose gold version of the Apple Watch and, according to

pictures leaked onto the internet, will be doing the same with the iPhone.



Will you be following Apple's iPhone 6s event?



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





