                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                       August 4, 2015 Tuesday 8:25 AM GMT



Apple iPhone 6S could be THICKER than the iPhone 6 to avoid repeat of

'bendgate';

Leaked renders of the new smartphone appear to show a thicker frame than the

current iPhone model



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 229 words





The iPhone 6 was received enthusiastically when it launched in September last

year - until someone figured out it bent under pressure.



Now Apple is gearing up to reveal either the iPhone 6S or iPhone 7 later this

year and it doesn't want a repeat of the controversy.



According to the latest images of the upcoming smartphone, the world's most

valuable company is making the frame thicker to avoid the perils of a bending

gadget.



The images in question are 'CAD design renders' and are sent to third-party case

manufacturers ahead of a phone's release so they can prepare cases and

accessories for it.



They were published by uSwitch and, if accurate, would mean for the first time

Apple has built a phone that's thicker than its predecessor.



The prevailing wisdom in smartphone design is that each iteration should be

slimmer and lighter than the previous model. At 6.9mm thick, the iPhone 6 is

Apple's thinnest smartphone to date.



"While the iPhone 6 came in at 6.9mm thick, the iPhone 6S is 7.1mm, according to

our source," reports uSwitch.



"Intriguingly, it also appears that the protruding camera that featured on the

iPhone 6 could be missing from the iPhone 6S but will reappear on the iPhone 6S

Plus."



There's no current release date for the iPhone 6S but many experts believe it

will be revealed sometime next month.



Should Apple make the next iPhone thicker to avoid bending?



LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





