                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         Daily National Herald Tribune



                            October 8, 2015 Thursday



iPhone 6 battery life hugely depends on chip



LENGTH: 318 words



DATELINE: Karachi





Karachi, Oct. 8 -- The battery life between iPhone 6s and 6s Plus models can

vary significantly depending on which of two companies manufactured its

processor, according to reports. The recently-released new generation of iPhones

each contain a chip made by one of two manufacturers, Samsung and TSMC,

teardowns have confirmed.



It has since been reported that the TSMC processor is 10 per cent larger than

Samsung's, resulting in significant difference in battery life, according to

Anandtech. There is no way of telling which chip your iPhone 6s sports when you

first buy the handset, but America-based owners can check by using apps like

Lirum Device Info. Samsung chips are marked as N71AP in the 6s and N66AP in the

6s Plus, and TSMC's processers run under the name N71MAP in the 6s and N66MAP in

the 6s Plus. YouTuber Jonathan Morrison tested two iPhone 6s models, one with

each chip, by shooting 4K video, exporting the footage to iMovie and running

benchmark tests. The TSMC chip handset used 38 per cent of its battery, while

the Samsung model used 45 per cent - a 7 per cent difference. Austin Evans ran

the Geekbench 3 battery test on two iPhone 6s models, again with different

chips, and left the phones running to see how long it would take them to run

down to 50 per cent battery. He found the TSMC handset lasted around 50 minutes

longer, taking 2 hours, 34 minutes and 44 seconds to reach the half way point,

compared with 1 hour, 44 minutes and 18 seconds for the Samsung chip unit.

However, when playing an hour long video on each phone free from analytics,

Evans found only 1 per cent different between the pair, suggesting that while

the TSMC chip is likely to offer better.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily National Herald Tribune .

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,

please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 National Herald Tribune

                              All Rights Reserved





