

Tired of smashed phone screens? See if your new iPhone 6s will stand up to a
10FT drop

Have you managed to get your hands on a new iPhone 6s or 6s Plus yet?

If so, then this video is going to make you very happy indeed.

According to a YouTube video uploaded by TechSmart, the new smartphone 6s Plus
can survive a face-down ten-foot fall - with barely any scratches.

The tech team tested the new super-phones at a shopping centre in Australia,
showing they're an extremely hardy pair of Apple gadgets.

While the iPhone 6s, which is slighter smaller and lighter, can't quite survive
the epic ten-foot descent, it is still a pretty impressive piece of technology.

Read more: Britain is second most expensive place in world to buy iPhone 6S:
Here's how to get best deal

The video shows the new phone, with Apple's new pressure sensitive screen, can
be dropped from a six-foot height with only superficial damage.

The new phones launched in the UK yesterday to the glee of Apple fans across the
country.

A customer who had camped out all week was the first to cross the threshold of
an Apple Store as the new phones went on sale.

Sam Shaikh, from Stratford, was the first to enter the Apple Store in Covent
Garden, London, having been outside "since 8.30pm on Monday night" - while a
woman in Australia even sent a robot to queue on her behalf.

Mr Shaikh, 29, was greeted by claps and cheers from the staff, as they welcomed
the first of several hundred customers waiting outside.

Mr Shaikh said he was also the first person in the queue last year when the
iPhone 6 launched.

Apple iphone 6 release

In Birmingham, Callum Edward-Williams, 22, slept outside the store in the
Bullring shopping centre in the city to be the first to get his hands on the
gadget.

The new phones come with a touch aluminium casing to prevent a repetition of
"Bendgate".

Some iPhone 6 Plus mobiles warped when put in back pockets, but the iPhone 6s
and 6s Plus are designed to stay in shape - even from a significant height.

