                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)



                           January 30, 2016 Saturday



Huawei takes on iPhone



SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 724 words





Huawei has just released the Mate S.



Pat Pilcher compares the device to the iPhone 6S Plus.



--------------------



Huawei has been making a big push at the top end of the smartphone market and

now it has another offering - the Mate S. So how does its new smartphone stack

up against a flagship device like the iPhone 6S Plus?



DESIGN



The Mate S features a brushed alloy body, topped with Gorilla Glass. Its curved

back and chamfered edges make it comfortable in the hand. It's not a small

phone, but it isn't unwieldy. It measures 2.65mm at its thinnest point and 7.2mm

at its thickest point. At 149.9mm x 75.3mm, it is smaller than the iPhone 6s

Plus (158.2mm x 77.9mm x 7.3mm). Both have 5.5-inch displays. The iPhone 6S Plus

is no slouch in the design department. It also features an alloy body, and its

design incorporates soft edges for more comfy use. It may have attracted scorn

for looking identical to the iPhone 6, but it feels sturdier than its

predecessor.



Winner: Tie. Both have great designs.



DISPLAY



The 5.5-inch display on the Mate S delivers dark blacks and crisp whites with

vivid colours. Viewing angles are good, and it is bright enough for use on sunny

days. Huawei opted for a 1080p display with a pixel density of 401ppi. Apple

also chose the same resolution but went for LCD which doesn't quite deliver the

same contrast levels. However, colour accuracy is quite good.



Winner: Huawei, due to its energy efficiency and contrast/ colour capabilities.



PERFORMANCE



While both smartphones offer 16GB base capacities, the iPhone doesn't have

storage expansion. The Mate S can take up to 128GB of Micro SD card storage. A

speed test saw the iPhone just outperform the Mate S.



Winner: Apple. When it comes to processing grunt, iPhone 6S wins.



CAMERA



Camera sensors are a specification that phone shoppers often focus on. The

Huawei Mate S is well appointed on the photography front. It has a 13MP image

sensor, optical image stabilisation, a two- tone flash and zippy autofocus. On

the downside, it doesn't record 4K video. The iPhone 6s Plus comes with a 12MP

sensor, but is otherwise comparable to the Mate S camera specifications. The 6s

Plus can shoot 4K video. Apple's camera software did, however, feel "janky"

compared to the shooter app on the Mate S.



Winner: Apple (by a hair) thanks to its 4K video shooting.



FINGERPRINT SENSOR



Smartphones contain a huge amount of personal information. Keeping that

information secure is vital. Passwords, pin numbers and unlock patterns are

guessable. Fingerprints are harder to spoof. The Mate S comes with a rear-

mounted fingerprint sensor. Its location is where most users will find their

fingers when they pick up the phone. In use, its sensor was less flummoxed by

wet hands or finger movement on the sensor. Huawei has also added fingerprint

sensor gestures. These allow the user to use the sensor to take photos, scroll,

or pull down the notification drawer. The iPhone's fingerprint sensor is on its

front. I'd often find my damp dabs confused it.



Winner: Huawei. Sensor accuracy and functionality makes the Mate S a dab hand

with prints.



BATTERY LIFE



CPUs are becoming more energy efficient and software optimisation is helping

too. Demand for slimmer phones has seen manufacturers shrinking batteries. . The

iPhone 6S Plus has a 2750mAh battery and the Mate S has a 2700mAh battery.

Apple's iOS 9 now features a Power Saving feature, which extends battery life,

equating to just over 11 hours. The Mate S has similar capabilities which

delivered just over 12 hours.



Winner: Huawei: With typical use, the Mate S edged ahead of the Apple 6s Plus.



PRICE



Price is a huge consideration for buyers. The 64GB iPhone 6S Plus isn't cheap at

$1399. The Huawei Mate S is just a shade more affordable, retailing for $1349.

Both phones do offer a lot of functionality for the price.



Winner: Huawei, which just pips Apple 6S at the pricing post.



VERDICT



Comparing Apple and Huawei highlights just how close both devices are with

specifications and price. Huawei's price, battery life, display and fingerprint

sensor saw it ahead of Apple in four out of seven categories. While Apple's

camera and CPU outshone Huawei, both tied when it came to design. Huawei has

come a long way.



--------------------



CAPTION:



The iPhone 6S Plus, left, lost four out of seven categories, making the Huawei

Mate S the winner.



Picture: REUTERS



LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand

                              All Rights Reserved





