                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Korea Times



                            October 23, 2015 Friday



iPhone 6s hits store shelves in S. Korea '



LENGTH: 331 words





Apple Inc.'s two latest smartphones went on sale in South Korea on Friday, with

the industry poised to keep close tabs on the market for possible overheating on

the retail front.



The country's three major mobile carriers -- SK Telecom Co., KT Corp. and LG

Uplus Inc. -- released the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus for sale via their

respective retail stores nationwide.



The iPhone 6s is available for 720,000 won ($635) for the 16GB model and 1.14

million won for the 128GB, given the subsidy of about 130,000 won, according to

the telecom companies.



The price of the iPhone 6s Plus starts from 999,000 won and runs to 1.26 million

won depending on the phone's storage capacity.



The mobile carriers each held a launching event for the new iPhone series

earlier in the day, offering various promotions and free gifts to woo consumers.



The release of a new iPhone series usually draws heated interest here among

consumers, including Apple loyalists, and the entire industry.



Huge demand for the new iPhones has been a trigger for the mobile carriers to

risk giving large sums of rebates that passed the legal limit in order to steal

customers away from rivals.



In October last year, the government came up with a new handset subsidy law to

curb the excessive paybacks. Yet it proved to be less than effective when the

iPhone 6 series went on sales later in that month and retail vendors began to

splurge subsidies.



Industry watchers are paying close attention again this time as to how the

market will response to the two upgraded iPhones, although many bet that there

won't be as much of a fuss as the previous releases due to tougher market

conditions.



The online presales of the iPhone 6s series, which ran through this week, ended

in early closures as they sold out in the first few minutes of the start.



Of the early purchases, 30.4 percent booked the new rose gold model, while

preorders for the silver iPhone 6s Plus came in at mere 0.1 percent, according

to one of the mobile carriers. (Yonhap)



LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2015 The Korea Times

                              All Rights Reserved





