                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         The Christian Science Monitor



                           September 27, 2015 Sunday



What makes the iPhone 6s better?;

Is the 6s a significant improvement over the iPhone 6?



BYLINE: Annika Fredrikson Staff



SECTION: Technology



LENGTH: 432 words





The S versions of iPhones aren't known for being significant improvements over

their predecessors. Is the iPhone 6s any different? Some say yes.



"The iPhone 6s can only be seen as 'boring' by some because it has the same

design as the iPhone 6. But everything else is different, making it a much

better proposition to buyers than last year's phone," says Chris Smith, writer

for Boy Genius Report, a site that focuses on the mobile and consumer electronic

markets.



While the design of the 6s looks a lot like that of the 6, the new model does

have a few hardware upgrades. Not only did it gain some weight, it's made from

different metal and has a stronger screen. The model also houses a new A9

processor and has 2GB of RAM.



In what was dubbed "Bendgate," the iPhone 6 drew criticism for bending under

stress. The new iPhone 6s is manufactured from Series 7000 aluminum which means

"bends are a sign of the past," says Forbes' Gordon Kelly. The stronger screen

should also lessen the chances of screen cracks, as Apple claims it's made from

the most durable glass in the smartphone industry, reports Joanna Stern for The

Wall Street Journal.



One of the most significant changes though comes in the form of 3D Touch.

Comparative to a mouse right click, 3D Touch allows the user to bring up

shortcut options based on the amount of pressure applied to an app's icon. A

"deep" press on the email app for example gives you a preview of the email

without fully entering the app, whereas a "deeper" press will open the app full

screen.



3D Touch also allows for cursor control. "In a text entry field, press on the

keyboard and you can slide your finger around as a cursor, to make text editing

easier," says Gizmag.



But Mr. Kelly says "3D Touch is unlikely to come into its own until the iPhone

7."



Additionally, the iPhone 6s introduces the Live Photos capability. When taking a

photo, a bit of live action on either end gets saved. That means when you take a

look back at photos, you can essentially watch a short video of the moments just

before and after your snapshot.



Ms. Stern also points out, "The new Touch ID fingerprint sensor is at least

twice as fast. You barely place your finger on the button and you're in."



But reviewers don't come to an overall consensus. Mr. Smith says the iPhone 6s

is "Apple's best ever S update yet." On the other hand, Stern concludes, "It is

a slightly better iPhone - that must be what the S stands for."



"Right now they look a lot like other S-year iPhone updates: better than last

year's models, but owners of those phones will do just fine standing pat," says

Gizmag.



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





              Copyright 2015 Christian Science Publishing Society

                              All Rights Reserved





