

Hoping to reinvent the way we communicate, Apple has unveiled its latest gadgets
in San Francisco in what it called the biggest innovation since the iPad was
launched. Rod Chester was there.

APPLE promised a day of "monster" announcements and has delivered with a giant
iPad, a revamped smarter Apple TV and two new iPhones that are smarter, faster
and tougher than ever.

In one of its biggest days of hardware announcements in recent years, Apple CEO
Tim Cook yesterday unveiled the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, the 12-inch iPad Pro and
a revamped Apple TV which, with its own app store, is Apple's push to grab a
slice of the US$34 billion games console market.

In what is likely to be the last Apple event in a year that began with the
launch of the Apple Watch, the launch of two new iPhones also got lost in the
crowd of Apple announcements headed up by Apple's promise to bring "innovation"
to TVs through a TV app store.

The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus look the same on the outside as last year's models,
with a 4.7-inch screen for the 6S and a 5.5-inch screen for the bigger phablet.

But under the hood the new iPhones have significant improvements, including a
tougher aluminium body and glass to avoid the problems of "Bendgate" in which
some people reported bending their iPhone 6 Plus smartphones.

The new phones have 3D Touch, which lets you quickly access features of the
phone by applying extra force as you touch the touchscreen, plus a 12 megapixel
camera which is a big jump from the 8 megapixel camera in the iPhone 6.

Selfie fans will appreciate their own faces even more with an upgrade to the
front-facing camera to 5 megapixels plus the ability to use the glow of the
touchscreen as a front-facing flash.

Apple made a push into productivity yesterday with an iPad Pro, a 12-inch tablet
that lets you view apps side-by-side in split-screen, that it hopes is a step
towards reviving a stagnate tablet market.

While Steve Jobs was said to be dismissive of the need for any stylus other than
a finger, Apple launched the Pencil along with a fold-up keyboard giving the
big-screen iPad Pro features to battle the appeal of Microsoft's Surface tablet.

Potentially the biggest announcement of the event was the launch of a new Apple
TV, with an app store that will allow third-party app makers to transfer popular
games, news, entertainment and lifestyle apps from mobile devices to television
screens.

Rod Chester travelled to San Francisco as a guest of Apple.

Read the full reviews of what's new from Apple and see video of the new features
and devices at www.advertiser.com.au/technology

The iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus Hold the iPhone 6S (11.9cm screen) and 6s Plus
(14cm screen) in your hand and the mantra about looking beyond face value comes
to mind. But start using the phone and you can see some differences.

Apple has thrown out the label Force Touch and now calls it 3D Touch. The clever
combination of software and hardware means the device can sense the amount of
force you use in a touch and offer a variety of options in response. 3D Touch
and the "quick look" feature Apple is calling "peek-and-pop" could come with a
similar explainer.

Press a bit and you "peek" at a pop-up of information. Press a little harder and
you "pop" through to the next level of information or to a particular feature
within an app.

The 6s/6s Plus rear camera is now a 12 megapixel camera.The front camera goes
from 1.5 megapixels to 5 megapixels and now has a flash. It is the first iPhone
that can shoot and edit 4K video. It is also made out of a tougher grade of
aluminium and has a tougher glass screen.

It will run iOS 9, the new operating system available as a free update for
download on older Apple devices on September 16. And it will be faster - there
will be a faster chip and faster wi-fi.

The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus is available for preorder from tomorrow and will be
available on September 25. Prices: iPhone 6S: $1079 for 16Gb model; $1229 for
64Gb, and $1370 for 127Gb. iPhone 6s Plus: $1,229 for 16GB model, $1,379 for the
64GB model and $1529 for 128Gb.

The Apple Pencil What's the Apple Pencil? It's a stylus you have when you're not
having a stylus charges through a Lightning connector. It's handy in something
like Microsoft Powerpoint - draw a quick shape that's roughly circular with the
Pen and the software turns it into a proper circle.

But using it in the new Notes app and you can see the potential even more. It is
like a pencil with a small p - the harder you press the thicker the line. Like a
highlighter, if you angle it on the side you get a thick band of colour. And
like a coloured pencil, if you lay it on the side and rub, you get a sense of
shading in.

The Pencil will be available in November. Australian prices not yet announced.

The Apple watch WatchOS 2.0, will bring "time travel" features, that will let
you scroll forwards and back in time to upcoming appointments.

Facebook Messenger is coming to the watch as well as iTranslate, which lets you
speak into your watch and see the translation. Health features include blood
pressure and heart rate monitoring as well displaying the heart rate of a foetus
for a pregnant mum. Apple also announced a deal with Hermes for new bands, along
with its own new bands including two new finishes.

The new watch models are available in Australia today. The updated OS will be
released on September 16. Apple Watch Hèrmes from $1700 to $2350 inc GST.
Available 5 October.

Apple TV The new remote that includes a Siri button that responds to commands
such as "show me funny TV shows".

Siri searches across multiple content apps, such as iTunes and Netflix. Apple
announced a new operating system for TV called tvOS, which is similar to iOS for
app developers.

New apps coming to Apple TV include fitness apps, Airbnb, entertainment apps and
games.

The interaction between the mobile games and the TV app games was emphasised.
Start a game on your iPhone and you will be able to continue, at the same point,
on the Apple TV. The Apple TV remote has Bluetooth 4.0 so you don't have to
point it at the TV, it has volume control, accelerometer and gyroscope.

Apple TV will be available in 80 countries in October. It will be available in
two models, with the top model at $US199 with 64Gb. Australian pricing not yet
announced

iPad Pro The iPad Pro has the biggest screen and the most power of any iPad
device. The advantages of a bigger screen iPad include a full-size software
keyboard. The screen is 12.9-inches on the diagonal, with 5.6 million pixels.
The Retina screen is 5.6 million pixels of brilliance with a 2732 x 2048
resolution.It's powered by the 64-bit A9X chip, which is up to 1.8 times faster
than the A8X it replaces. Graphics performance has gone up 360 times since the
original iPad.

The iPad Pro is faster than 80 per cent of current PCs but has a 10-hour battery
life. It is the first iPad to have a four-speaker system.

It comes with an 8 megapixel camera, touch ID and in silver, gold or space grey.
It will connect to the smart keyboard through magnetic points, eliminating the
need to pair the keyboard through Bluetooth.

The iPad Pro goes on sale in Australia in November. Prices have yet to be
announced.

iPad mini 4 Wi-Fi - $569 (16GB), $699 (64GB) and $829 (128GB). Shipping
today.iPad mini 4 WiFi and Cellular - $729 (16GB), $859 (64GB) and $989 (128GB).
Shipping today.

