                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                           September 13, 2015 Sunday



iPhone 6S vs iPhone 6S Plus - Which one would you pick?



LENGTH: 530  words





By Abbas Jaffar Ali -



I was quite pleased with Apple's decision to go with a 4.7-inch screen with the

iPhone 6 last year and ordered one almost immediately. Apple also introduced the

iPhone 6 Plus with a 5.5-inch display targeted towards people that prefer a

phablet. Having played with the Samsung Galaxy Note series and other larger

phones, I knew that the larger sized screen was not for me. And yet, here I am,

using the iPhone 6 Plus as my primary phone a year later.



So what made me switch? Well, there are three key difference between the regular

and plus models. First and the most obvious is the larger screen with a higher

resolution. It makes watching videos and playing games more fun. It also makes

the two-handed typing experience much better. That being said, the iPhone 6 Plus

requires both hands to operate. The bumps on my iPhone are proof that using it

with one hand one can be hazardous to your health. But the larger screen isn't

the reason I switched.



The second difference is the presence of Optical Image Stabilisation (OIS) on

the camera which helps prevent shaky videos and possibly blurry images. Having

used the regular iPhone 6 for about two months, I can definitely say that the

camera on the iPhone 6 Plus takes better pictures and videos. While OIS was a

strong reason in my consideration to switch to the iPhone 6 Plus, it wasn't the

primary reason.



What did make me switch was the horrendous battery life on the iPhone 6. During

the two months I was using the iPhone 6, more often than not, I'd end up with a

dead battery by 6PM. At first I thought I might have gotten a bad unit because I

remember my iPhone 5S lasting longer. But that was not the case. I replaced the

first unit and the second iPhone 6 was equally bad.



I need my phone to last me until the night.



Thus I switched to the iPhone 6 Plus and while the size and weight of the device

still feels uncomfortable, the battery easily lasts a day or more. Now with the

announcement of the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, I am tempted to go back to the

smaller iPhone. Why do you ask?



Well, I passed the iPhone 6 to my wife and with iOS updates, the battery life on

it has gotten considerably better. It usually lasts her until bedtime although

there is a day or two each fortnight when she needs to charge it in the middle

of the day. I could live with that.



Apple has also improved the camera in the new set of iPhones, moving to 12

Megapixels and a new sensor. My guess is that that iPhone 6S should take better

pictures- possibly as good as the current iPhone 6 Plus. Yes, the new iPhone 6S

Plus might take better pictures but I'll be sold as long as the 6S can produce

results comparable to the previous generation of Plus.



Finally, with 3D Touch, the new pair of iPhones is heavier than the previous

generation. The table below compares to the two models.



I'd much rather move to a lighter phone than a heavier one. My iPhone 6 Plus

already has a few bumps and I imagine a heavier device would be more accident

prone- at least in my hands. So now that I've decided which size to go for, the

next challenge is the colour. And no, Rose Gold is not for me.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/57/144222775224.jpg







LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2015 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





