                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)



                           October 15, 2015 Thursday



Celcom to offer iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s plus from midnight tomorrow



SECTION: Pg. 7



LENGTH: 307 words





KUALA LUMPUR: Celcom Axiata Bhd will start offering Apple's iPhone 6s and iPhone

6s plus beginning midnight tomorrow.



The iPhone 6s 16GB will be available starting at RM1,058 with the FIRST plan and

iPhone 6s plus 16GB from RM1,478 with the FIRST plan.



Customers who sign up now will receive a limited time offer of 12GB

complimentary data (1GB per month for 12 months) as an additional quota on top

of the new plan.



In addition, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 plus and iPhone 5s are also available.



Celcom said iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s plus brought a powerful new dimension to

iPhone's revolutionary multi-touch interface with 3D touch, which senses how

deeply the users press the display, letting them do all kinds of essential

things more quickly and simply.



The new iPhones introduce live photos, which bring still images to life.



Live photos, 3D touch, 12-megapixel iSight camera, 5-megapixel facetime HD

camera with retina flash and more are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip,

delivering faster performance and great battery life.



iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are designed from the strongest glass on any

smartphone and 7,000 series aluminium the same alloy used in the aerospace

industry, in metallic finishes that now include rose gold.



"Celcom offers the fastest and widest-reaching 4G LTE network in Malaysia.

Customers will love using their new iPhones on our network, enabling a great

experience that will enhance their mobile needs," said Celcom Axiata chief

marketing and sales officer Zalman Aefendy Zainal Abidin.



Customers can purchase iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s plus starting midnight tomorrow

at four different outlets - Blue Cube@Sunway Pyramid, Blue Cube Publika, Celcom

Centre Taman Molek, Johor Bahru and Blue Cube Elit Avenue Bayan Baru, Penang.



Celcom is also offering customers trade-in values of up to RM1, 900 for current

iPhones.



( END )



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: Company



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2015 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

                              All Rights Reserved





