

iPhone fever came to Liverpool city centre when the newest versions of the
firm's smartphones went on sale this morning.

Around 20 people gathered outside the Apple store at Liverpool One in a bid to
be one of the first to get their hands on the new iPhone 6, which starts at
£539.

The real diehards had queued through the night but no-one could beat Matt Duffy,
from Wirral, who took up pole position a full 24 hours before the smartphones
went on sale.

Matt, 34, from Greasby, said: "I love the phones and I love Apple, so I wanted
to make sure I got one.

"I upgrade every year. I've been further back in the queue before and your
heart's racing wondering whether you're going to get one.

"You get some abuse by drunks when they see you waiting outside late in the
evening, saying things like 'what a sad loser'.

"Now I'm going to bed."

iPhone 6s Tweet

Thomas Lawton, 17, from Old Swan, who has set up a luxury personal shopping
website, had spent all night in the queue.

He bought four of the new smartphones - one for personal use, one for business
use, and two to sell on.

He said: "Everyone in the line was buzzing about the phone. I wanted to be one
of the first to get my hands on it. It's all been worthwhile."

Apple claims demand for its new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus could surpass the
record-breaking sales of iPhone 6 last year.

The new iPhone 6s, which was unveiled earlier this month, has much the same
design but comes with an improved camera in both the front and rear of the
phone, as well as a pressure sensitive screen - where users can press more
firmly in order to open new shortcuts - a feature Apple calls 3D Touch.

The technology giant said that pre-orders were "on pace" to match those of the
iPhone 6 launch in September last year, when that device went on to sell more
than 10 million units in the first three days and help Apple post world-record
profits.

The new phone also comes with a rose gold finish on the rear casing for the
first time.

Phil Schiller, Apple's head of worldwide marketing, said: "Customer response to
the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus has been incredibly positive, we can't wait to
get our most advanced iPhones ever into customers' hands starting this Friday.

"iOS 9 is also off to an amazing start, on pace to be downloaded by more users
than any other software release in Apple's history."

