                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)



                          September 26, 2015 Saturday



Lines vary as new iPhones arrive here



BYLINE: Maggie Menderski



SECTION: D; FL News; Pg. 1



LENGTH: 577 words





Sam Mateer was more excited about his daughter's wedding photos on his old phone

than the iPhone 6s Plus that had him at an AT&T store before sunrise on Friday.



Still, he was first in the door when the store at University Town Center opened

at 8 a.m., as Apple Inc. launched sales of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.



Mateer, 72, and his wife, Jo Ann, had been waiting there since 5:45 a.m. Their

new son-in-law, Jason Piercy, had shown up at 6:30 a.m. and took the third spot

in line.



Just days before, an iPhone 5 had captured the bride, groom and a picturesque

beach sunset during the Piercy wedding on Siesta Key. It was hard to believe the

images could have been any more beautiful, but Mateer said he knew the iPhone 6s

Plus had a better camera. They were looking forward to using the new phone on a

trip to Illinois in the coming weeks.



"It takes better pictures than this thing does," Sam Mateer said, with his old

iPhone 5 in hand.



The new phone was expected to break the sales record set last year after the

release of the iPhone 6 and 6 plus. Deliveries of online orders are delayed up

to four weeks for some models. Yet, Mateer and his family made up half of the

early morning line at the University at Town Center Store, where six people

waited for the opening.



"We didn't know we'd be first," Jo Ann Mateer said. "I expected more people."



The buzz surrounding the new phone was more robust in other parts of Southwest

Florida. The crowd at the Apple Store inside the Mall at University Town Center

was overflowing. After its doors opened, a few customers trickled across the

street to AT&T for the shorter wait.



The AT&T store on Cortez Road in Manatee County had a crowd of



at least 20 in line when the store opened, said Zoran Jovic, area retail sales

manager. The store had the stock and staff to sell hundreds of phones before the

day was over, he said.



"We had a pretty decent crowd this morning, but we are more than prepared,"

Jovic said. "We're expecting it to be steady traffic throughout the day."



Ahnaysa Turner, 25, was second in line at the University Town Center AT&T. She

arrived just before 6:30 a.m., eager to swap her iPhone 6 for the iPhone 6s Plus

in Apple's new rose gold color. She said enjoyed her old phone, but was looking

forward to a larger screen on the Plus model. Her husband had preordered a 6s

online and was expecting it to arrive on Friday. She didn't want to miss out on

the fun later that day.



"I knew it was coming in today, so I was like, 'I'm going to get in line and get

my new phone, too,' " she said.



The phone looks identical to the iPhone 6, which debuted in September 2014. But

the 6s, in addition to an improved camera and other features, has increased

durability, with stronger glass and 7000 series aluminum.



"The actual material that it's made out of is used for aircraft production,"

Jovic said. "It's going to be stronger, less prone to breaking and bending."



Most of the changes are internal, Jovic said. The touchscreen offers different

menus and options based on the pressure of the user's taps. The camera has a new

function, which captures a still image but also records the moments before and

after it. Selfie enthusiasts can expect better low-light images through new

technology that uses the screen as a flash. The phone's new A9 chip offers

greater speed and battery life, and several of the apps have been redesigned.



"What this phone does behind the scenes will make your life a little bit

easier," Jovic said.



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Ahnaysa Turner, of Sarasota, shows off her new Apple iPhone 6s Plus in

the new rose gold color. Ahnaysa was the second person in line at 5:45 a.m. at

the AT&T store at the Mall at University Town Center in Sarasota. STAFF PHOTO /

MIKE LANG AT&T Store manager Nik Manos, left, speaks with customer Sam Mateer,

of Sarasota, about his current iPhone 5 early Friday morning at the Mall at

University Town Center. Mateer was at the store at 5:45 a.m. to be the first in

line to buy the new Apple iPhone 6s Plus. Also in line to get the new iPhone,

from left, were Ahnaysa Turner, Mateer's son-in-law, Jason Piercy, and Lindsay

Dinant. STAFF PHOTO / MIKE LANG



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.

                              All Rights Reserved





