                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                            April 16, 2016 Saturday



iPhone SE Review: The 'ideal' smartphone size with the performance of an iPhone

6s



BYLINE: Ryan Rodrigues



LENGTH: 840  words





The iPhone SE brings back the 4-inch display that Apple once called "the ideal

smartphone size" with the processor of an iPhone 6s.



I've been using the iPhone 5s as my primary phone since the day it was launched

(almost 3 years now) and I love it so much that I've never thought of switching.

Whether it's the mobility of a 4-inch, the abundant room in my pocket, or how

adept my hands have become for a 4-inch device, I was rather reluctant to

switch.



Well all good thing must come to an end and so must my iPhone 5s. If Apple

follows the norm that it has been doing thus far, the company will stop support

for the iPhone 5s in about a year or so, though they thankfully launched a

substitute for people like me, albeit at a hefty price. The price is so close to

the iPhone 6s that I cannot in my right mind, recommend this smartphone, even

though it is a nice addition to the Apple brand. The kicker? Despite the price

tag, Apple has conveniently left out certain features that made the iPhone 6s a

great phone.



The Difference



Even though the iPhone SE is built with the same A9 chip as the iPhone 6s or 6s

plus, it doesn't have the same guts owing to which a few key features were

omitted: 3D touch, second-generation fingerprint scanner, dual-domain pixels for

wide viewing angles, Display Zoom (provides larger icons, buttons and text), the

option to move the top half of a screen to the bottom, Optical image

stabilization and a 5-megapixel FaceTime camera (1.2-megapixel on iPhone SE).

Even though It makes sense for the company to exclude Display Zoom, Reachability

and even dual-domain pixels to an extent, I would have been nice if they

included 3D touch and optical image stabilization at least



Unboxing



The packaging keeps up with Apple's criterion. The company knows how to bring

out the child in me, I almost had more fun unboxing the device than I did using

it for the first time. In the box you'll find the usual components -- Apple's

patented pair of in-ear headphones, a user manual, a warranty card and USB

charger, along with the iPhone SE.



The Performance



In short I loved it; the heft and feel of the smartphone is perfect for one hand

use which is what I'm accustomed to. It doesn't take long to notice the

difference in performance between the iPhone SE and its predecessor, the iPhone

5s. Everything from startup to loading apps to the speedy iSight and FaceTime

camera gets a significant upgrade. Performance-wise it's what you can expect

from an iPhone 6s -- sans the aforementioned features like 3D touch -- thanks to

the A9 chip with 64bit architecture and an M9 motion coprocessor (the same

processor used in an iPhone 6s). Night shift mode -- the company's new feature

that helps users fall asleep -- makes a triumphant return and it works

surprisingly well (It's the little things you do that shows you care, Apple).



The Camera



A noteworthy piece of hardware is the 12-megapixel iSight rear camera with 1.22

pixels, Live Photo integration and 4K video recording, making it by far the best

camera on a 4-inch smartphone. Apple says this smartphone doesn't have motion

optical stabilization, an integral feature that, when coupled with 'Live Photos'

gave the iPhone 6s a sizable advantage over its competition. This is however,

missing from the iPhone se. Even though the device sports a 1.2-megapixel

FaceTime camera, the image quality is better than most premium smartphones.



Gaming



The 4-inch screen isn't ideal for gaming or viewing multimedia. For most games,

the screen feels a little cramped, I had to move my thumbs around the edges of

the screen so that I could see what I was doing. Considering that your thumbs

would clog about a third of the screen, you're better off buying an iPhone 6 or

above, if you're really into gaming on your smartphone.



Audio



It should come as no surprise that the SE follows the benchmark set by a long

lineage of Apple products. It is what the company is known for; the ergonomic

headphone design fit comfortably in my ears. I prefer Apple's patented headphone

design compared to the in-ear headphones that comes complimentary with most

other smartphones these days. I can listen to music for hours on end with Apple

headphones without feeling like I've been to a Rock concert.



AT A GLANCE



What we liked



Ideal 4-inch frame



Best-in-class camera



What we didn't like



High price point



Omitted features like 3D Touch



Key Specifications



4-inch Retina display (1136x640 @326ppi) with Night-Shift



64-bit A9 processor with M9 motion coprocessor



f/2.2 12MP iSight camera with 4K recording and Live Photos



f2.4 1.2MP FaceTime camera



iOS 9 and fingerprint scanner



For those of you hell-bent on upgrading to a 4-inch smartphone, the iPhone SE is

a great choice. However, the price in India is far too close to the iPhone 6s

(Rs 39,000 to Rs 49,000) for me to recommend the iPhone se. The same smartphone

cost about Rs 25,000 in the US when converted. If Apple decide to mimic the US

price tag in India it would be a viable choice.



LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





