                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                    Zee News



                          September 10, 2015 Thursday



Apple iPhone 6s: Best features at a glance!



LENGTH: 301  words



DATELINE: New Delhi





New Delhi, Sept. 10 -- The moment that all Apple fans across the globe have been

waiting is finally here. Apple Inc on Wednesday unveiled the updated

smartphones, the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus and they are a reality now.





 2015 is an 'S' year. Here's what you need to know about the new iPhones and

what makes it so great. Let us throw a glance!

 The standout feature of the new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus is the new touchscreen

technology called '3D Touch'. The new iPhones are able to recognize three levels

of touch pressure. This allows the user to perform different actions based on

the amount of pressure applied with a tap.

 The new peek and pop gestures are two examples. Press lightly on a tap target

in an app and you'll get a peek at whatever it leads to. Press harder and the

app will pop open a new screen.

 Apple's new 6s now features a 12MP camera with a new image signal processor,

advanced pixel technology and improved tone mapping. It also feature 5MP

FaceTime HD camera with Retina Flash. Both new cameras include a new

software-based flash feature that should improve low-light photography.

 iOS 9 brings more intelligence to iPhone with proactive assistance, powerful

search and improved Siri features. The foundation of iOS is even stronger with

software updates that require less space to install and advanced security

features to further protect your devices.

 Also, the new A9 chip is 70 percent faster than the A8 used in last year's

phones, and is 90 percent faster for graphics performance.

 Apple has kept the same gold tone from the iPhone 6, but also adding a new rose

gold colour for the iPhone 6s.

 Apple's new iPhones will support Motion Wallpapers. Though, Android users have

been enjoying for years now but Apple's are far more complex than anything we've

seen on other platforms.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2015 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





