

After a tepid start to sales of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, there's been a
turnaround with Indian buyers matching the rest of the world in fervour for the
devices. Apple is set for its best-ever quarter in local sales thanks to
promotional offers and discounts it launched before Diwali.

The company shipped more than 413,500 of the latest iPhones in the first

month of its launch to Nov 15, which is close to what Apple sold in the entire
October-December quarter last year in the world's fastest-growing smartphone
market.

Shipments of the new iPhones made up nearly 74% of Apple's total in the month
and a half that began Oct 1, according to shipment data

from Cybex Exim. Apple imported 562,500 iPhones between October 1 and November
15. That compares with 500,000 units it sold in the October-December last year,
its best quarter thus far. "The initial momentum was not that strong, so Apple
went in for a change and offered discounts on new phones," said Tarun Pathak,
senior analyst at Counterpoint Research.

"But the overall demand for Apple iPhone still remains strong, thanks to the
strong aspirational value attached to the brand," said Tarun Pathak of
Counterpoint Research.Research agencies estimate that sales for the quarter
ending December may exceed 700,000 units.

Apple launched the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in India on October 16 at ' .
62,000-92,000 depending on the memory and model, about ' . 14,000-16,000 more
than in markets such as the US, Middle East, Singapore and Hong Kong.

Apple admitted that the high prices may have discouraged buyers."We've adjusted
some prices around the world for the launch of iPhone 6s and 6s Plus...
Obviously when we increase prices around the world, it's normal to see some
impact on sales rates," Apple's CFO Luca Maestri said late last month on an
earnings call about the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations in parts of the
world including India.

The weak debut prompted a rethink by Apple and the announcement of a buyback
programme offering discounts of as much as . 34,000 in early November, just be'
fore Diwali. That strategy seems to have paid off, said retailers and those in
the trade.

"Our iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sales were very good primarily due to the buyback
offer, which started a week before Diwali," said the chief executive of a
leading retail chain in south India. "It started out slow but because of that
offer, which we marketed very well too, we had a very good sale for Apple
phones."

The 413,500 iPhones shipped in the first month represents a trebling of the
monthly average that Apple clocked for its fiscal year ended September.

