                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Voice & Data



                                October 8, 2016



Jio offers new iPhone users free service for 12 months



BYLINE: Sanjeeb Kumar Sahoo



LENGTH: 425  words





NEW DELHI: Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Jio Infocomm will offer iPhone 7 and

iPhone 7 Plus, along with complimentary services of Jio Digital Services for 12

months.



"Welcome to the next gen iPhones on the only-4G all-IP network in India. Jio

announced it will offer the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, the best, most advanced

iPhone ever, featuring an all-new advanced camera system, dust and water

resistant design, stereo speaker system and the A10 Fusion chip, which is the

most powerful chip on any smartphone while delivering the best battery life ever

in an iPhone," said Reliance Jio Infocomm, the wireless arm of Reliance

Industries Ltd (RIL).



All Jio customers purchasing a new iPhone will receive 12 months of Jio Digital

Services complimentary with purchase. This offer will be available for new

iPhone purchases across all Reliance Digital stores and select Apple Premium

Resellers (APR) and Apple Authorized Resellers (AAR).



"Today's announcement brings together India's best premium 4G network with the

incredible iPhone experience," said Mathew Oommen, President of Jio.



"Jio is India's 4G-only network, providing high-speed internet across India. The

true power of iPhones can now be experienced by all Indian iPhone users on the

Jio network," he said.



For the first time on a mobile network in India, iPhone customers on the Jio

Network will be able to watch 300+ channels of LiveTV, have buffer-free FaceTime

and enjoy high definition voice calling.



"Every customer purchasing a new iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s

Plus or iPhone SE at Reliance Digital and select APR & AAR will get 12 months of

complimentary Jio Digital Services worth over Rs 18,000. This includes unlimited

local, STD and national roaming voice, unlimited text, 20 GB of 4G Data, 40 GB

of WiFi Data and Unlimited Night 4G Data, unlimited subscription to premium Jio

Applications," it said.



"All Enterprise customers can get an exclusive discount on new iPhone 7, iPhone

7 plus iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s plus, iPhone 6 or iPhone SE with special Jio tariff

plans," it added.



Both the above offers have been brought to you by Reliance Retail.



"IPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are powered by iOS 10, the biggest release ever of

the world's most advanced mobile operating system. Customers can pre-order

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus now and both will be available in Reliance Digital

stores and online at www.jio.com/apple. IPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6,

iPhone 6 Plus and iPhone SE will also be available. For complete details on

pricing and availability," the company said.



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine





            Copyright 2016 Voice & Data, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





