                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                Daily Times (PK)



                           September 28, 2015 Monday



iPhone 6s goes on sale and a robot is one of its first customers



LENGTH: 341  words



DATELINE: Pakistan





Pakistan, Sept. 28 -- The iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus have both gone on sale

with expectations that Apple's new smartphones could smash the records set by

the previous models. Hundreds of people queued up around the world to be among

the first to get their hands on the iPhone 6s before anyone else. From Tokyo to

London's Covent Garden, die-hard fans pitched tents, prepped their flasks of

coffee and bedded down for the long haul ahead of the 8am launch. Queuing for an

Apple product has become something of a ritual at the company's stores, indeed

on launch day the first in line are clapped and praised for their dedication.

This year was no exception, aside from in Sydney where one of the first people

to buy an iPhone 6s wasn't actually a person at all, but a robot, Huffington

Post reports.



Lucy, a telepresence robot complete with iPad 'face', was the third person in

line to buy the new iPhone with her American Express card rather precariously

taped to the robot's head.



The iPhone 6s boldly comes with the tagline 'The only thing that's changed is

everything' and while on the surface it might look like this is a somewhat

misplaced claim the truth is this is an entirely different phone on the inside.



The 6s comes with a new 3D Touch display which allows the iPhone to detect how

hard you're pushing down on the screen opening up a myriad of opportunities for

developers and for Apple's operating system iOS 9.



Straight out of the box new users will be able to 'Peek' into emails, messages

and apps by pressing firmly down on the screen. A firmer press then 'Pops' the

preview into fullscreen.



Along with the new screen the new iPhone is much faster boasting a 70 percent

boost in CPU and 90 percent boost in graphics. Finally Apple's new phone comes

with a 12MP camera that can shoot 'Live Photos' and record - for the first time

- 4K video.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with

respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor

at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2015 Right Vision News

                              All Rights Reserved





