                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           October 22, 2015 Thursday



Apple iPhone 6s and 6s Plus review: Blazing fast performance



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 1516 words





Appearances Can Be Deceptive



"Both new iPhones look the same as before" is the most common complaint when it

comes to the 's' variants. Ever since the iPhone 3GS released in 2009, Apple has

followed the 'tick-tock' strategy - the tick is the all-new model and the 'tock'

has mostly internal upgrades. However, with these new phones - they're not

exactly the same dimensions as before, even though they look identical. There's

a minor difference in thickness (6.9mm for iPhone 6 and 7.1mm for 6s - and 7.1mm

to 7.3mm for the plus version). This means that all existing cases and skins may

not fit. We tried a couple of aftermarket cases meant for the 6 Plus on the 6s

Plus - one was fine, the other wasn't. Screen protectors in general are fine but

don't buy any textured skins unless they are specifically cut for the 6s and 6s

Plus. You can chalk up the slight difference due to the thicker and stronger

aluminium used in the new phones plus the new 3D Touch capacitive displays.



So What's New?



For both new phones, there are three key improvements. First is 3D Touch. This

is a hardware-enabled feature that cannot be implemented on older iPhones. The

screen can detect varying levels of pressure which let you 'peek' at and 'pop'

into content. More on this later. Second, you get substantial performance

improvements which come because of the new processor. Third biggest change is

the 'Taptic' engine - it's a larger, more precise vibration motor that can do

different types of vibration (different intensity and duration) to convey

contextual feedback. This also has use in gaming - similar to rumble feedback

you get with game controllers. Apart from this, the new phones are heavier than

before (172 vs 192 grams for the 6s plus and 129 vs 143 grams for the 6s) -

probably due to the heavier 3D Touch screen, addition of the Taptic engine and

stronger aluminium.



How Much Better is the Camera?



Substantially better - and it's not just about the bump in resolution from 8MP

to 12MP. Both the 6s and 6s Plus get the new sensor and the Plus also gets the

benefit of a very effective optical image stabilisation system. The front iSight

camera resolution has been improved from 1.2MP to 5MP and the screen acts like a

colour-corrected flash in low light. We found that the results in auto mode are

consistently goood across the board and with different lighting conditions.

Comparing the 6s and 6s Plus to devices like Galaxy S6 and Note 5, we found a

few key differences. On the device, photos tend to look better on the super

amoled screens of the Galaxy devices but compared side-by-side, the differences

are minimal. The S6 and Note are better at creating a shallower depth of field

and have higher resolution. The iPhones offer truer colour and have a better

dynamic range. Once again, these are among the best smartphone cameras on the

market.



What's Up With The Screen?



3D Touch is a big addition this year. Like the capacitive touchscreen, this is a

feature that could trickle down to all touchscreens. It lets you peek at

something (without actually opening it) with a harder press. For instance, you

can press harder on an email to peek inside - the same can be done on text

messages, calendar entries and image gallery. Press even harder and you can

'pop' into the item full screen. A harder press on certain app icons will throw

up contextual menus too. This feature is on Apple apps and other developers are

following up too - it works great on Facebook and Instagram for instance - more

developers are enabling 3D Touch support every day. We're happy to see that 3D

Touch continues to work with screen protectors (even tempered glass). As for the

IPS LCD screen itself, Apple doesn't seem to want to be in this race. That's why

we think the screen is the weakest link here. The 6s has a 4.7-inch screen with

a resolution of 1334 x 750 pixels (326 ppi) while the 6s plus has a 5.5-inch

screen with a resotuion of 1920 x 1080 pixels (401 ppi). The screen has

excellent colours, viewing angles and brightness, but it still falls short of

the super amoled screens on Samsung flagships.



What About Performance?



iPhones have always been about the experience rather than raw specs on paper.

iOS is not resource hungry and does things bit differently as compared to

Android. That being said, the new A9 chip offers loads of performance. It's a

dual core chip (two large cores, as compared to six or eight small ones) - but

this offers an advantage with apps that can only use one core at a time.

Needless to say, the new devices are really fast - while booting up, launching

apps, multi-tasking, viewing photos, editing video, gaming and so on.



Anything Else?



Battery life might be a concern for some, given that the new devices have

slightly smaller batteries than before. It's not a major issue since they don't

use much power in standby. You'll still find that heavy users will prefer the 6s

Plus for all day battery life while 6s users will struggle to last the entire

day. The new camera features are a hoot to use: Live Photos (it's like a photo

with embedded mini video), slow motion, 4k video is really good (with optical

stabilisation - and you can zoom into a recorded video) and built in time lapse.



Wrapping up



3D Touch is great and it has been implemented well across the device -

developers will take some time to catch up. Expect it to be a standard feature

from now on. If you have an iPhone 5S or older, the benefits of upgrading are

huge! Performance is blazing fast and these are some of the best cameras you can

get on a smartphone. Like it or not, you can't ignore the prices - India is one

of the most expensive places to buy an iPhone. And the battery life will

continue to be an issue for heavy users. But overall, these two new devices get

a high recommendation.



Specifications: Apple A9 SoC (dual core) with M9 motion co-processor, 2GB RAM,

16 to 128GB storage, global LTE, Bluetooth 4.2, NFC, WiFi ac, Touch ID v 2.0,

5MP front camera, 500 cd/m2 max brightness, 3D Touch, 4k video, Lightning

connector



iPhone 6s: 12MP rear camera with True Tone flash, f2.2, sapphire crystal lens

cover, 4.7-inch IPS LCD (1334 x 750 pixels), 143 grams



Price:



Rs 62,000 (16GB)



Rs 72,000 (32GB)



Rs 82,000 (128GB)



* * * * 1/2



iPhone 6s Plus: 12MP rear camera with True Tone flash and optical image

stabilisation, f2.2, sapphire crystal lens cover, 5.5-inch IPS LCD (1920 x 1080

pixels), 192 gram



Price:



Rs 72,000 (16GB)



Rs 82,000 (32GB)



Rs 92,000 (128GB)



* * * * 1/2



- Excellent performance, superb cameras, super-fast Touch ID, excellent build

quality, useful OS-wide 3D Touch



- 16GB storage is too little for a phone of this capability, screen is the

weakest link when compared to competition, expensive



The A9 'Chipgate' - Does it Matter?



The new iPhones have barely been out a month but the controversies have already

started. Like Antennagate (with the iPhone 4) and Bendgate (with the 6 and 6

Plus), the buzz doing the rounds on social media is Chipgate. It has primarily

to do with the fact that Apple has contracted out manufacturing of its A9 chip

to two companies: Samsung and TSMC (Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company).

While it still is primarily the same design, the Samsung chip uses a 14nm

manufacturing process while the TSMC chip uses a 16nm process. With

software-based performance and battery testing, there is a significant

difference between the two - with TSMC's version coming out ahead on almost all

counts. However, software benchmarks have a habit of testing by maxing out the

hardware and this doesn't translate directly to real-world usage. With the two

devices that Apple lent us, one was a Samsung and the other was TSMC. With real

world usage, the differences fade away to a level where it stops mattering.

After all, will you actually be measuring that a TSMC chip device lasted 15

minutes more than a Samsung chip on a daily basis? There's no way to check which

chip a device has before buying and they're not distributed in any order. If you

have one of the new iPhones and want to check which A9 chip you have, it's

fairly simple. Get a free app called Lirum from the App Store. On the home page,

you'll see details about the model number. If your device has an A9 from TSMC,

it'll say N71mAP or N76mAP. If it's made by Samsung, it'll say N71AP or N66AP.



A 16GB iPhone 6s? Yes or no?



You know that the 's' version in Apple's iPhone line offers mostly internal

upgrades rather than overt design upgrades - it's the 'tick-tock' cycle in

action. This year though, expectations were high that the 16GB entry-level

storage version would be done away with. The justifications are many: storage is

cheaper, the iPhone now has 4k video recording (which can eat up space faster

than you think), photo size has increased, Android flagship competition is

usually 32 or 64GB and app sizes have been growing over the years. Basically,

Apple should not be offering a 16GB version on a device of this class at all. If

you intend to really use the device - with apps, music, videos, lots of photos,

4k recording and so on, you need to get at least 64GB



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





