                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          Nikkei Asian Review (Japan)



                           October 29, 2015 Thursday



Asian parts makers have pride of place in new iPhones



LENGTH: 1129 words





TADASHI NEZU, YORIHISA OTA and MOTONOBU KAWAI, Nikkei Electronics staff writer

and Nikkei staff writers



TOKYO/KYOTO -- A teardown of Apple's new iPhone 6s models by Nikkei Electronics

magazine reveals that Japanese and Asian electronic parts makers contribute a

lot to the new features of the latest iPhones.



The U.S. consumer electronics giant continues to rely on Japanese and other

Asian manufacturers for key components of the iPhone, such as cameras, liquid

crystal display panels, sensors and lithium-ion batteries.



One prominent feature of the 6s is the 3D touch. It enables the new models --

the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus -- to sense three different levels of pressure the

user applies to the screen. What's more, the new models are equipped with the

Taptic Engine, which gives the user a more precise level of Taptic, Apple's

feedback vibrator.



Consumer electronics makers often face a host of technical challenges when they

bring new features to their products. To avoid this problem, it seems that Apple

relies on Japanese electronic parts makers for their ability to deliver

technological solutions. "Once again, I realize how much Apple depends on

Japanese makers," said Minatake Kashio, director of Fomalhaut Techno Solutions,

a Tokyo-based mobile equipment teardown company.



Kashio believes Japanese manufacturers, such as Nippon Mektron, Nippon Steel &

Sumikin Chemical, and JX Nippon Mining & Metals, are involved in the supply of

pressure-sensitive sensors used to enable the 3D touch function. According to

his analysis, the Taptic Engine is supplied by Kyoto-based motor maker Nidec and

Chinese micro-component provider AAC Technologies Holdings.



Other components makers are also involved in developing the new functions. We

found that the pressure-sensitive sensors are made by Taiwan-based Zhen Ding

Technology Holding.



Korean parts makers have also been manufacturing iPhone parts. Inside the new

iPhone 6s are LG Display's LCD panel, SK Hynix's flash memory, Samsung

Electronics-made application processors and so on.



Kashio pointed out that Asian countries have also played a crucial role as

production bases. It is true that many key components are made in China and

other countries in the region.



Another new trend is that the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus have different types

of Taptic Engine. This could indicate that the iPhone 7 will have more vibration

device functions.



The teardown also showed that a total of 96 pressure-sensitive sensor electrodes

have been laid out in 12 rows and eight columns inside the new iPhones. The

electrostatic capacity between these electrodes and the user's fingers helps

determine the level of force applied to the screen.



Fewer parts



In addition, various features of the iPhone 6s are consolidated into its

large-scale integrated circuit chips. This means the new models use a smaller

number of components, which in turn helps cut production costs.



For instance, the M9 coprocessor, used to process sensor data and other tasks,

has been integrated into the A9 application processor. The A9 appears to be made

using Samsung's 14-nanometer process or Taiwan Semiconductor Mfg.'s 16nm

process, according to the teardown results.



The new iPhones have about 200 fewer passive components, such as multilayer

ceramic capacitors on a printed circuit board, Kashio said. But it is still hard

to believe that the number of passive components has significantly declined, as

the iPhones need a certain number of them to respond to a wide band of

frequencies around the world. Many of those passive parts are suspected to have

been built into the communications module.



Kashio has also noticed that iPhone 6s models use geomagnetic sensors supplied

by Alps Electric, instead of the ones made by Asahi Kasei Microdevices.



As sales of smartphones vary among electronics makers, Japanese makers are vying

to develop parts for iPhones, a strong seller around the globe.



Taptic Engine and Nidec



The Taptic Engine is one of the key new features of iPhone 6s models. Nidec is

believed to be a major supplier of this component. Nidec's linear actuator is

used for the Taptic Engine. The actuator's motor part repeats linear motion,

generating quicker and finer vibrations compared with conventional vibration

motors used in mobile phones and smartphones. Nidec's linear actuators have so

far been used in the Apple Watch.



Indeed, Nidec's two subsidiaries -- Nidec Copal and Nidec Seimitsu --

manufacture those conventional vibration motors and boast the biggest share in

the global micro-motor market. These two companies are mainly responsible for

producing Nidec's linear actuators, an advanced version of these vibration

motors. It seems that Apple highly regards Nidec's product reliability and

quality.



Analysts believe AAC Technologies also won a contract for supplying Taptic

Engine parts for the Apple Watch. But the Chinese maker's products were found

faulty in the initial stages of Apple Watch production. As a result, Nidec

became the sole supplier of Taptic Engine parts to Apple for some time. This

incident has highlighted the high quality of Nidec's products. But with the new

iPhone models, both of these companies are believed to be supplying their

actuators to Apple.



In the smartphone sector, other manufacturers tend to follow Apple's lead and

adopt the new features of the latest iPhone models. This means Nidec could see

potentially huge demand for its linear actuators.



These vibration devices can give the user a button-press feel when he or she

touches the buttom of the smartphone screen. Experts expect this technology to

have a variety of applications in the future, such as remotely controlling

robots with a high level of Taptic feedback.



Nidec's key product has long been hard-disk-drive motors, but the business is

suffering slowing growth due to the maturing PC market. Thus, the company is

shifting its focus to automotive parts, and industrial and home-use motors. For

Nidec, vibration devices were not necessarily its envisioned growth pillar. "I

never imagined that such a market would emerge," said Nidec Chairman and

President Shigenobu Nagamori.



Nagamori is known for his ability to achieve both high growth and high

profitability by adopting and applying excellent technologies to growth markets.

Nidec Copal suffered a huge drop in sales of its digital camera shutter parts

due to the penetration of smartphones, but it has focused instead on automotive

cameras and vibration devices in a bid to return to a growth track.



Similarly, Nidec itself has transformed some of its overseas HDD motor factories

to ramp up output of vibration devices, getting ready to tap into this growth

sector.



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc.





