                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                    September 19, 2015 Saturday 9:59 AM GMT



Chinese men urged to donate sperm to earn money for the new iPhone 6S;

Social media set alight after adverts appeared encouraging donors to visit sperm

banks in order to afford the iPhone 6S, reports said



BYLINE: Fergus Ryan in Beijing



SECTION: WORLD NEWS



LENGTH: 326 words





Chinese men are being encouraged to donate sperm in order to earn enough money

to buy the latest iPhone, according to reports.



The adverts, from sperm banks in several provinces including Shanghai, Hubei and

Jiangsu, have been taking social media by storm this week.



Related: Why Apple shouldn't be selling a 16GB iPhone 6S or 6S Plus



"No need to sell a kidney... Shanghai sperm bank can make your iPhone 6S dream

come true," says one ad from the Shanghai Sperm Bank, which has been widely

circulated online.



The reference to selling kidneys has become synonymous with Apple enthusiasts

ever since a 17-year-old student from Hunan sold one of his kidneys on the black

market for 22,000 yuan (£2,224) in 2011 to buy an iPhone and iPad.



Several reports of people trying to sell their kidneys to buy Apple products

have emerged lately with one man even going missing following a failed organ

sale.



Sperm banks are hoping the pitch, which comes ahead of the release of the iPhone

6S on 25 September, will help fix a shortage in donors.



The Shanghai Sperm Bank is promising 6,000 yuan for 17 millilitres of semen for

those who qualify to donate. Donors needs to be university educated,

disease-free and over 5 foot 5.



"This is going to make me really suspicious of anyone with an iPhone 6S" said

one user on Weibo, China's Twitter.



"Wow I hope it's real, no need to give away a kidney for any Apple products

now!" wrote another.



According to a spokesperson with the Shanghai Sperm Bank, the campaign has

worked well so far, raising awareness and attracting potential donors, the state

news agency Xinhua reported.



A poll conducted on Sina Weibo shows that Chinese social media users are split

on the appropriateness of the campaign with close to 20% calling it unseemly and

another 27% saying they will donate immediately.



"I need the address to Hubei Sperm Bank now please" said one user.



Additional reporting Amber Ziye Wang



LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





