                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                       August 9, 2015 Sunday 09:26 AM EST



iPhone 6s, Apple TV, and iPad Pro launch event set for September 9



BYLINE: Yoni Heisler



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 464  words





Click for image



With August already in full-swing, we're just weeks away from Apple taking the

wraps off its next-gen iPhone. And now, thanks to a report from Buzzfeed, we

finally have an idea as to when we can expect to see what surprises Apple has in

store for us when Tim Cook introduces the iPhone 6s.



According to John Paczkowski, Apple's next big event will more than likely take

place on Wednesday, September 9. There, Apple will introduce the iPhone 6s

which, while not sporting any true aesthetic differences, will carry a number of

software and hardware improvements.



Of course, it's a given that the iPhone 6s will come with Apple's next-gen A-x

processor. It's also been reported that the iPhone 6s will finally feature 2GB

of RAM. Both of these additions should help make the iPhone user experience that

much more snappy.



Aside from that, the biggest iPhone 6s feature will likely be the inclusion of a

Force Touch display. While it remains to be seen what type of new gestures Apple

attaches to Force Touch, it's a safe bet that its inclusion will make the iPhone

user experience that much more intuitive and enjoyable.



But the interesting thing about Apple's rumored September 9 event is that it

won't be exclusively focused on the iPhone. On the contrary, Paczkowski writes

that Apple will take the opportunity to also introduce a revamped Apple TV.



As we've previously reported, Apple's next-generation Apple TV is a tactical

overhaul of the dusty set-top box, which hasn't much changed since early 2012.

Sources say the device will feature a refreshed and slimmer chassis and new

innards, Apple's A8 system on chip, an increase in on-board storage, and an

improved operating system that will support Siri voice control. Expected

alongside it, a new remote that sources say has been "drastically improved" by a

touch-pad input and a long-in-the-offing App Store.



The biggest game changer here is of course the inclusion of an App Store. With

such a feature in tow, the Apple TV instantly becomes a force to be reckoned

with in the living room. While it's one thing to mirror games on iOS to your

HDTV, giving developers the opportunity to create console style games for the

Apple TV is exceedingly intriguing.



Of course, we've seen no shortage of reports regarding Apple rolling out its own

TV subscription service alongside the Apple TV, but it appears that such plans

will remain on hold for now as Apple continues to hammer out agreements with

content providers.



What's more, there's even a chance that Apple on September 9 may showcase the

long-rumored iPad Pro. Reportedly measuring in at 12.9-inches, the iPad Pro will

seemingly flesh out Apple's iPad lineup and, if all goes according to plan, can

perhaps provide a much needed boost to what have been slumping iPad sales.



LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





