                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                      October 9, 2015 Friday 11:24 AM GMT



Apple says battery life difference in new iPhones not reflected in 'real-world

use';

Whether your iPhone processor chip was manufactured by Samsung or TSMC, Apple

says battery life will only vary by 2-3%



BYLINE: Alex Hern



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 336 words





Claims that the battery life of the new iPhones can vary by up to two hours

depending on which third-party supplier manufactured the central chip don't

reflect real-world usage, according to Apple.



The chip at the heart of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, named the "A9" chip by

Apple, comes in two forms, one manufactured by Samsung and the other by

Taiwanese company TSMC. Since the phones started hitting shelves last week,

users have reported that the phones containing Samsung chips significantly

underperform those with TSMC chips in intensive battery-life tests.



According to battery life benchmarks, the difference can be almost two hours.

But in a statement, Apple said that the discrepancy was not reflected in

real-world usage.



It said: "Certain manufactured lab tests which run the processors with a

continuous heavy workload until the battery depletes are not representative of

real-world usage, since they spend an unrealistic amount of time at the highest

CPU performance state.



"It's a misleading way to measure real-world battery life. Our testing and

customer data show the actual battery life of the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus,

even taking into account variable component differences, vary within just 2-3%

of each other."



The battery metrics cited by Apple for the iPhone 6S include a number of

different usage profiles, including talk time, internet use, HD video playback,

and standby time. While video playback is relatively processor-intensive, none

of those tasks are likely to max out the new A9 chip in the way a battery

benchmark test does, suggesting that the discrepancy between the two chips only

has an impact at the very highest end of performance.



In terms of real-world battery life, the Guardian's own review of the new

iPhones found that they underperformed compared to similar devices. Samuel

Gibbs, reviewing the iPhone 6s, found: "Battery life is the iPhone 6S's biggest

problem. During the week the phone failed to make it past 11pm after leaving the

charger at 7.30am in the morning."



LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





