

Not even chief executive Tim Cook singing Sweet Home Alabama on Carpool Karaoke
could get Wall Street excited about the launch of Apple's iPhone 7.

The new iPhone, which features a high-resolution camera and the option of a
jet-black glossy finish but notably lacks the traditional analog headphone jack,
is not revolutionary, analysts said.

"Overall, we thought that the phone was an improvement over previous models, but
not a game changer that will reignite a significant upgrade cycle," Deutsche
Bank analyst Sherri Scribner wrote in a note.

Apple shares, which closed up 0.6 per cent on Thursday (NZ time) when the new
phones were launched, were down more than 2 per cent at US$106.04 (NZ$143.3) in
morning trading yesterday.

The shares had closed down nearly 2 per cent last year on the day the iPhone 6s
and 6s Plus were unveiled.

The iPhone 7 is priced from US$649 (NZ$1199), the same as its predecessor, the
6s. The larger iPhone 7 Plus edition will retail from US$769 (NZ$1429) - US$20
more than the 6s Plus - and will feature two cameras, including a telephoto
lens.

Wells Fargo expects Apple to sell between 14 million and 15m of the new iPhones
in the first weekend as the phones will be released in more countries than in
previous years.

The company sold more than 13m of the 6s and 6s Plus phones in the first weekend
after their launch last year.

The new phones will start shipping in major markets, including the United States
and China, on September 16. That would give Apple 14 days of sales this quarter,
compared with two days for the iPhone 6s in the year-ago quarter.

The company said it will not release first-weekend iPhone sales data, saying the
number was more a reflection of supply than demand.

Sales of all iPhone models account for more than half of Apple's revenue.

Apple typically refreshes the iPhone every year, but goes in for a big makeover
once in two years.

However, many are expecting a three- year cycle this time, leading up to a major
redesign in 2017.

"While iPhone 8 has the potential to be a big cycle, we believe there is limited
visibility given the off cycle and, if history is an indicator, believe it too
early to be investable," Wells Fargo analyst Maynard Um said.

Investment banking firm Craig- Hallum said it expected Apple to sell 211m
iPhones in the fiscal year ending September - marking the first ever year-
over-year decline in annual sales - before bouncing back to an estimated 221m in
devices sales in 2017 and 240m in 2018. -Reuters

--------------------

CAPTION:

The wireless Apple Airpods will be sold separately to the new iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus.

Picture: REUTERS

