                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             July 25, 2015 Saturday



New leaked images reveal next iPhone's design



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 305 words





NEW DELHI: It looks like the successor to the Apple iPhone 6, which is expected

to be unveiled this fall (September-October), may not be very different from the

current version of the phone.



Pictures allegedly featuring the iPhone 6S' front panel have appeared on French

website Nowhereelse.fr, which has a good record when it comes to Apple related

leaks and rumours. The pictures feature close-ups of the phone's front panel and

the panels on assembly line.



The website mentions that the images depict the front panel of the Gold and

Silver variants of the iPhone 6S which is currently in production. The website

credits a person close to the development as the source of the information. It's

not clear if the panel features a sapphire crystal display or Force Touch, first

seen in Apple Watch.



It's not the first time we've seen leaked images of the iPhone 6S. Earlier this

month, 9to5Mac had featured images of the phone's rear shell. It was reported

that though the design of iPhone 6S does not have any tweaks, it's expected to

come with a different internal mounting structure for the new logic board and

components. The leaked images cleared the rumours that said iPhone 6S will be

equipped with a dual-lens rear camera system, since the cut-outs for camera,

microphone and LED flash on the rear casing were the same as the ones on the

iPhone 6. Like its predecessor, iPhone 6S will sport the same design at the

bottom for the headphone jack, speaker holes, microphone and Lightening port.



It's worth pointing out that the 'S' variants of iPhones are usually incremental

upgrades with no major design changes. The phone is expected to sport an

improved 12MP camera, Apple's A9 processor, 2GB RAM, 32GB storage variant and

Force Touch.



Follow TOI Tech on Twitter >>>



And like us on Facebook >>>



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





