                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                           September 28, 2015 Monday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



Apple sells record 13 mn iPhones in weekend launch



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 239 words





Apple said Monday it sold 13 million of its new iPhones over the weekend, in a

record-breaking launch for the newest models of its iconic smartphone.



The California tech giant began selling the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus in nine

markets, including China, on Friday.



On Monday, the company said the devices will be available in 40 additional

markets October 9 including Italy, Mexico, Russia, Spain and Taiwan.



"Sales for iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus have been phenomenal, blowing past any

previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history," said chief executive

Tim Cook.



Apple has also unveiled new lease and finance terms for US customers, which

analysts said could boost sales and shorten the upgrade cycle, at a time when

carriers are moving away from smartphone subsidies.



The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have the same overall dimensions as the last version,

with new technologies under the hood.



One of the key new features is called "3D touch," which responds to pressure

exerted on the screen to allow users to look inside messages and applications.



The 6S has the 4.7-inch (about 12-centimeter) display of its predecessor and the

6S Plus -- which updates one of the more popular handsets in the "phablet

category" -- has the same 5.5-inch screen.



But the devices have more powerful processors that allow for improved graphics,

harder glass and a new aluminum body. Pricing will be kept at the same levels as

the earlier versions.



bur-rl/sg



Apple



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





