                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               India Retail News



                       October 7, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST



Jio to Bring IPHONE 7, IPHONE 7 Plus to India with Unprecedented Experience



LENGTH: 459  words





Oct. 7 -- Welcome to the next gen iPhones on the only-4G all-IP network in

India. Jio announced it will offer the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, the best,

most advanced iPhone ever, featuring an all-new advanced camera system, dust and

water resistant design, stereo speaker system and the A10 Fusion chip, which is

the most powerful chip on any smartphone while delivering the best battery life

ever in an iPhone.



All Jio customers purchasing a new iPhone will receive 12 months of Jio Digital

Services complimentary with purchase. This offer will be available for new

iPhone purchases across all Reliance Digital stores and select Apple Premium

Resellers (APR) and Apple Authorized Resellers (AAR).



"Today's announcement brings together India's best premium 4G network with the

incredible iPhone experience," said Mathew Oommen, President of Jio. "Jio is

India's 4G-only network, providing high- speed internet across India. The true

power of iPhones can now be experienced by all Indian iPhone users on the Jio

network."



For the first time on a mobile network in India, iPhone customers on the Jio

Network will be able to watch 300+ channels of LiveTV, have buffer-free FaceTime

and enjoy high definition voice calling.



Exceptional Service Experience



Home Delivery and Activation: Convenient and personalized Jio SIM activation

experience at your doorstep



Express priority experience at Jio stores: Walk into any Reliance Digital store

and get access to priority Jio SIM activation



Jio for iPhone Customers



Every customer purchasing a new iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s

Plus or iPhone SE at Reliance Digital and select APR & AAR will get 12 months of

complimentary Jio Digital Services worth over Rs 18,000. This includes unlimited

local, STD and national roaming voice, unlimited text, 20 GB of 4G Data, 40 GB

of WiFi Data and Unlimited Night 4G Data, unlimited subscription to premium Jio

Applications.



Great Value Proposition for Enterprise



All Enterprise customers can get an exclusive discount on new iPhone 7, iPhone 7

plus iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s plus, iPhone 6 or iPhone SE with special Jio tariff

plans. Details available on www.jio.com/apple



Both the above offers have been brought to you by Reliance Retail.



IPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are powered by iOS 10, the biggest release ever of

the world's most advanced mobile operating system. Customers can pre-order

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus now and both will be available in Reliance Digital

stores and online at www.jio.com/apple. IPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6,

iPhone 6 Plus and iPhone SE will also be available. For complete details on

pricing and availability, please visit: www.jio.com/apple. For more information

on iPhone, please visit: www.apple.com/in/iphone/.



Source: Reliance Retail



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





