                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               New Indian Express



                           September 28, 2015 Monday



Apple Sells Record 13 Million iPhones in Weekend Launch



LENGTH: 274 words



DATELINE: WASHINGTON





WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 -- Apple today said it sold 13 million of its new iPhones

over the weekend, in a record-breaking launch for the newest models of its

iconic smartphone.



The California tech giant began selling the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus in nine

markets, including China, on Friday.



Today, the company said the devices will be available in 40 additional markets

October 9 including Italy, Mexico, Russia, Spain and Taiwan.



"Sales for iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus have been phenomenal, blowing past any

previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history," said chief executive

Tim Cook.



Apple has also unveiled new lease and finance terms for US customers, which

analysts said could boost sales and shorten the upgrade cycle, at a time when

carriers are moving away from smartphone subsidies.



The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have the same overall dimensions as the last version,

with new technologies under the hood.



One of the key new features is called "3D touch," which responds to pressure

exerted on the screen to allow users to look inside messages and applications.



The 6S has the 4.7-inch (about 12-centimeter) display of its predecessor and the

6S Plus, which updates one of the more popular handsets in the "phablet

category" -- has the same 5.5-inch screen.



But the devices have more powerful processors that allow for improved graphics,

harder glass and a new aluminum body. Pricing will be kept at the same levels as

the earlier versions.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2015 Expressbuzz.

                              All Rights Reserved





