                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            South China Morning Post



                           September 11, 2015 Friday



New iPhone 'will boost city's retail sales' with mainland demand a plus;

Experts predict high-demand for Hong Kong iPhones, even though the device will

be released on the mainland at the same time



BYLINE: Danny Lee and James Griffiths



SECTION: NEWS; Local (Hong Kong News); Technology; Pg.3



LENGTH: 392 words





The new Apple iPhone will give the city's battered retail sector a shot in the

arm, experts say, as the price difference between Hong Kong and the mainland

will help stimulate demand from across the border.



Previous iPhone launches have seen long queues in the city, as traders snap up

the latest model weeks or months before it is sold across the border. The iPhone

6S will be offered in both markets on September 25, but prices are likely to be

15 per cent lower here, and with limited supply and strong demand, resellers

still hope to cash in.



ANZ senior economist Raymond Yeung said sales of the phone "will give an obvious

short-term boost to retail sales and help top-line retail sales in September and

October".



Lo Lau, owner of a Mong Kok smartphone shop, expected the new phone - with

official prices starting at HK$6,388 - to fetch HK$11,000 to HK$20,000 at

resale. A street trader said he planned to charge a minimum of HK$12,000 for a

16GB iPhone 6S Plus, the cheapest of the new Apple range.



Demand for the iPhone has driven record profits for Apple in the past. Speaking

at the unveiling of the new model, chief executive Tim Cook said the iPhone

market in China had grown 75 per cent year-on-year, compared with 35 per cent

globally.



China is Apple's second-largest market after the Americas, bringing in US$13.2

billion in the latest quarter, up 112 per cent on the same period last year.



While ANZ's Yeung thought the iPhone would have a positive effect on Hong Kong's

retail sector, he warned the overall outlook remained weak. A reduction in

tourism and domestic consumption has dragged down sales, while a strong Hong

Kong dollar, pegged to the US dollar, has reduced the spending power of overseas

visitors, ANZ says.



At the Apple store in Causeway Bay yesterday, some shoppers who still formed

long lines to buy the current generation of iPhones expressed excitement about

the new model.



"I was using the [iPhone] 5, so I need to upgrade to the new one. At least my

phone has some resell value, so I can go ahead and trade," said Joseph Tsang

Ka-ho, 40, who was visiting the store to learn more about the 6S.



But 26-year-old Terry Lam King-wai was less impressed.



"There's not much difference between the old and the new iPhone 6S. The

appearance is the same, but with a new colour," he said. "I'll probably wait for

the next generation."



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



NOTES:                  {+$}6,388                ; The retail price, in HK

dollars, of a 16GB iPhone 6S Plus. Traders hope to resell for at least HK$12,000



GRAPHIC:                  Apple CEO Tim Cook launches the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus

during a speech in San Francisco.                    Photo: EPA



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2015 South China Morning Post Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





