


HIGHLIGHT: Pre-orders for the new phones will start in the UK and US on
September 12.


After months of speculations, Apple has unveiled the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus,
along with the iPad Pro, new Apple TV and Apple Watch upgrades featuring new
bands.

Apple claims that the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus are the most advanced iPhones ever,
as they feature a multi-touch interface and 3D Touch which recognises gestures
like pressing and holding to provide new ways to interact with content and
access features.

The new phones are powered by an A9 processor making it faster and better in
terms of battery life. It will run on the iOS 9, which is set to make its debut
on 16th September.

The latest phones are stronger than its predecessors, as they have been designed
using 7000 series aluminium which is used in the aerospace industry and feature
Retina HD displays made from the strongest glass used on any smartphone.

The $650 iPhone 6S and the $750 6S pro come with a 12MP iSight rear camera and a
5MP front camera, along with a feature called 'Live Photos' which records
second-and-a-half minute videos immediately before and after a picture is taken.

The San Francisco event also saw the introduction of a bigger, faster and
thinner iPad, starting at a price of $799.

The iPad Pro features a 12.9-inch Retina display with 5.6 million pixels - the
most pixels ever added in an iOS device.

The company is targeting professionals in the field of engineering, medical,
entertainment, and design with more than 850,000 apps that are specifically
designed for the new iPad.

It features the new A9X 64-bit chip, has a 10-hour battery life, streams 4K
video, weighs just over 1.5 pounds, and comes with a stylus that feels like a
real pencil. There is also a Microsoft Surface-style smart keyboard coated with
a thin fabric that doubles as a cover.

Apple CEO Tim Cook also unveiled a new set top TV box for Apple TV that features
its own app store and has voice assistant Siri in charge of user requirements.

The TV is powered by iOS based tvOS OS, and its remote features a glass touch
surface allowing swipe and gesture control.

Shipping of the new Apple TV will start this October at $149 for the 32 GB
version and $199 for 64 GB varient.

The company also unveiled Apple Watch Hermès, a partnership that led to the
introduction of Apple watches with distinctive styles from Hermès, along with
the introduction of new gold and rose gold aluminium Apple Watch Sport models.
The Watch has also been enhanced with OS 2, making apps faster and more fluid.

