                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                    September 10, 2015 Thursday 1:27 AM GMT



Apple iPhone 6S and 6S Plus: faster processors, better cameras, 3D Touch;

Next generation smartphone launched in San Francisco features a

pressure-sensitive screen, 12-megapixel camera and stronger screen and body



BYLINE: Samuel Gibbs



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 981 words





Apple has unveiled the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, the next generation of its

smartphones, with faster processors, longer battery life, improved cameras and

new "3D Touch" gestures.



Apple chief executive Tim Cook took to the stage in San Francisco's Bill Graham

Civic Auditorium to announce the new iPhones, along with a series of updates to

the company's other products including the iPad Pro and Apple TV.



As with all previous iPhone updates, the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have faster, more

powerful processors - the Apple A9 replacing the A8 from last year's iPhone 6.



The new A9 processor will have 70% faster performance and 90% faster graphics,

but will also boost battery life in conjunction with Apple's new version of the

iPhone's operating system, iOS 9.



The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will also support LTE Advanced, a faster version of 4G

currently supported by EE and Vodafone in the UK and rival manufacturers Samsung

and LG. The new iPhones will also Wi-Fi calling that can be used when no mobile

phone signal is available, which currently supported by EE in the UK.



Pressure sensitivity



The standout feature of the new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus is the new touchscreen

technology called 3D Touch. First introduced with the Apple Watch as Force Touch

and then the Apple MacBook trackpad, the pressure-sensitive touchscreen can

detect various types of tap. From a single traditional tap to heavier presses,

each gesture can produce a different interaction with the smartphone.



"We've fitted brand new glass, the strongest in the industry X-ion. And we've

improved on multitouch with 3D touch, a tremendous breakthrough in interacting

with the smartphone," said Phil Schiller on stage. "It took our unique

combination between our hardware and software developer teams to make it work."



New gestures, peek and pop, allow users to lightly touch to get a preview of

media or other item such as an email - a peek - and press longer and harder to

pop out the content for a full view.



The gestures can also activate an activity menu to jump to particular places

within an app. The pressure-sensitive touches are accompanied by Apple's Taptic

engine, first introduced with the Apple Watch, vibrating with short, tap-like

feedback.



Apple has also improved the Touch ID fingerprint sensor to make it twice as fast

for unlocking the device and authenticating purchases with Apple Pay.



Better camera



Apple has also improved the 8-megapixel camera of the iPhone 6, fitting a new,

more powerful 12-megapixel sensor on the back. The new addition is capable of

shooting 4K video and takes on Samsung and other rivals with their 16-megapixel,

feature-rich cameras. Apple's iMovie app on the iPhone 6S can also edit video in

4K.



The front-facing selfie camera has also been improved with a new 5-megapixel

sensor, Apple's first upgrade to the front camera since the 1.2-megapixel sensor

of 2012's iPhone 5. The phone will use the screen to mimic a camera flash for

front-facing photos.



The new iPhone can also shoot so-called Live Photos, which capture video and

sound along with a photo for 1.5 seconds each side of the capture event, very

similar to HTC's Zoe feature introduced with its One M7 smartphone in 2013.



Following the apparent bending of the iPhone 6 Plus within user pockets, Apple

has used a new stronger aluminium for the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus frames. The

"7,000 series aluminium" was first introduced with the Apple Watch Sport and is

60% stronger than standard aluminium alloys, according to Apple.



The stronger aluminium should help prevent the iPhone from bending, but could

also increase the smartphone's scratch resistance.



The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will also be available in a new rose-gold colour, the

pink gold will be sold in addition to the gold variant, which was first

introduced with the iPhone 5S in 2013, primarily to appeal to the Chinese

market. Apple claimed 9% of the smartphones shipped in China in the second

quarter of 2015 ranking it third in the country, according to data from Strategy

Analytics.



Tick, tock



Apple's traditional release schedule for smartphones has seen a bigger redesign

every two years - the "tick" in the cycle - with improved processors and a few

new features every other year making up the "tock" in the cycle. Intel and

others also use the tick, tock product cycle, traditionally displaying improved

battery life on the tick.



Related: Why is Apple customers' appetite for its products insatiable?



The iPhone 6 was the tick, which means the iPhone 6S is the tock. Whether a few

improved specifications and a few new features, some of which will come to

2014's iPhone 6 through software updates, will be enough to continue to woo

customers remains to be seen.



Apple is locked in battle with its chief rival Samsung, where only around 20% of

users ever switch between the two manufacturers in the UK. Apple's iPhone 6 and

6 Plus, the company's largest smartphones helped to attract more to switch. They

will hope it has done enough with the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus to continue that

trend.



Apple secured 18.2% of the global smartphone market with 61.2m sales in the

first quarter of 2015, putting it second behind Samsung with 82.4m smartphones

and 24.5% according to data from IDC. Both companies lead Lenovo by some margin,

which sold 18.8m smartphones securing 5.6% of the market and in third place.



The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will cost the same as last year's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus,

£539 and up and £619 and up, respectively. Apple is also rolling out a monthly

instalment plan costing $32 a month in the US.



Both will be available to pre-order from 12 September and will start to be

released in the US, UK and Europe on 25 September, with other markets following

later.



· Apple supersizes its tablet with new 12.9in iPad Pro



· Apple TV upgrade brings App Store into living room



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





