                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                   City A.M.



                            March 31, 2016 Thursday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Apple's little big adventure;

TECHNOLOGY ; Day one review: Does Apple's diminutive new iPhone SE live up to

the hype or does size really matter? We got our hands on an advance unit



BYLINE: Steve Dinneen



SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 945 words





Ifeel like a giant. I feel like a god. My fingers feel as long and slender as a

concert pianist's. My thumbs reach right to the top corner of my phone screen

for the first time in years. I feel alive. Apple today releases the iPhone SE,

which looks almost identical to 2013's diminutive iPhone 5, with its 4" screen

(how tiny!) and chamfered edges. Only little details like the gleaming Apple

logo, matt edges and dual flash allow you to tell them apart by sight alone.



It's a sign that the Cult of Big may be slowing, after three years of solid

growth that's seen the lines between phones, phablets and tablets become

increasingly blurred.



It's nice to see the return of the iPhone 5-style handset; it was a classic,

second only to the iPhone 4. It's like being reunited with an ex you never

stopped thinking about. But don't let the looks fool you: the SE packs almost as

much heat as the top-of-the-line 6s.



WHAT'S IT GOT? Apple has managed to squeeze virtually all of its high-end

gadgetry into this dainty little package. It's got the new A9 processor, which

makes everything work incredibly smoothly (I fired up an old iPhone 5s and the

difference is night and day, although you might not see much difference between

this and the iPhone 6). Boot up a CPU intensive game like Warhammer 40,000:

Carnage and you can see the potential, with high-definition 3D graphics running

as smoothly as it would on a dedicated console.



It has a 12 megapixel camera, the same as the one on the 6s, which is brilliant.

It can record 4K video, which is another great demonstration of what this

handset is capable of, with the ability to zoom into areas of video with little

loss of quality. It has Live Photo, which adds a snippet of video before and

after your snaps (I find it a bit annoying, but you can always turn it off). It

has the Touch ID Thumb Scanner to unlock the phone and access features in some

apps (buying stuff from Amazon, for instance).



WHAT'S IT NOT GOT? First up, it lacks the 3D Touch feature from the iPhone 6s,

which allows you to "half press" and "force press" to bring up extra options and

previews. Is this a biggie? Meh, not really. If you were to look back on my

iPhone 6s review, you'd see I was singing the praises of 3D Touch - and it's

great in theory. For a few weeks, I couldn't get enough of it - touching things

in 2D felt so lame. But after a few months, it hasn't changed the way I use my

phone, largely because it's too costly for app developers to integrate a feature

that will be unavailable for most users. Without apps to reinforce the newly

learned skill, I eventually forget about it.



The SE has a worse front-facing camera than the 6s. Significantly worse, in pure

hardware terms, although software like "Retina flash" helps a bit. If you take a

lot of selfies, this is some-thing you should consider.



If you're used to a large phone, adapting to the smaller keyboard is tough.

Downsizing from the 6s Plus makes it feel like I'm looking down the wrong end of

a telescope, although no doubt that will diminish with use.



Finally, and perhaps less obviously, it's a generation off the beat in terms of

Touch ID - if you're used to the iPhone 6s, you'll notice the difference, with

slower and less reliable thumbprint scanning.



VERDICT While Apple purists lament the passing of the company's monolithic

iPhone offering, it's hard to take umbrage with more choice. To an extent, the

comparisons I've made throughout this review are a little unfair: this phone

isn't really competing with the 6s, it's catering to those people who have been

reluctant to trade up from their iPhone 5s, or from some equivalent Android

phone. If that's you, this is an exceptional handset at an exceptional price

(£359). If you're wavering between the SE and the 6s or 6s Plus, it's really

down to how you plan on using it. Personally, while I can probably live without

the full keyboard, I play too many games and read too many long articles to

compromise on screen size. I'm willing to carry around a phone that pokes me in

the thigh every time I sit down - that's the trade-off. If, however, you're more

interested in checking social media, taking pictures and, you know, making phone

calls, but don't want to get left behind with the latest tech, this is a great

device that will last for years. It's the best little phone in the world.



SIZE MATTERS... HERE ARE THREE OF THE BEST COMPACT SMARTPHONES PHONE: HTC ONE A9

SIZE: 5.0 INCHES This five-incher takes design inspiration from the iPhone 6S,

but this is anything but a knock-off. The all-metal HTC One A9 matches Apple for

build quality and materials, making it a spectacular phone in its own right.

It's the closest you can get to running Android software on iPhone hardware.



PROS: Powerful on board DAC makes it the phone of choice for audio fans.



CONS: Poor battery life.



PHONE: SONY Z5 COMPACT SIZE: 4.6 INCHES Sony's waterproof phone comes in a

slightly smaller size, although it's still a giant compared to the teensy iPhone

SE. This is another solid product from the resurgent Japanese manucaturer; proof

that there is space in the smartphone race for someone other than Apple and

Samsung.



PROS: It's waterproof, it's very nicely built.



CONS: Not actually all that compact.



PHONE: SAMSUNG A3 SIZE: 4.5 INCHES Samsung's Galaxy S7 follows the "bigger is

better" trend, but look to their mid-range handsets and you'll find the tiny

Galaxy A3. Like the HTC across the page, a degree of iPhone mimicry has gone

into the design of this neat one-hander - but it's a sturdy and well built

device.



PROS: Expandable memory and superb battery life.



CONS: Camera quality isn't a patch on the latest range of giant smartphones.



LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: CAM





                            Copyright 2016 City A.M.

                              All Rights Reserved





