                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                      July 1, 2015 Wednesday 09:24 PM EST



iPhone 6S to feature much faster download speeds, report says



BYLINE: Yoni Heisler



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 300  words





Click for image



As a mid-cycle upgrade, the iPhone 6S won't see any drastic, if any, aesthetic

changes compared to the iPhone 6. But under the hood, the iPhone 6S may very

well provide a compelling upgrade proposition



According to a recent report from 9to5Mac, Apple's next-gen iPhone will feature

a Qualcomm LTE chip that promises to deliver a drastic increase in download

speeds at the device level. While real-world usage remains to be seen, the

Qualcomm LTE chip Apple has its eyes set on can, in theory, deliver network

speeds up to twice as fast as current LTE download speeds.



For end users, the most important new feature from the chip will be the

potential for up to 300 Mbps download speeds, doubling the 150 Mbps download

speeds found in the current generation iPhone lineup. The new chip has the same

50 Mbps upload speed limit, however, and real-world performance is likely to be

closer to 225Mbps or lower, depending on the cellular network.



What makes this rumored chip all the more intriguing is that it will supposedly

boast increased power efficiency as well. This should prove to be extremely

valuable, as improved battery life, time and time again, appears to be the

feature iPhone fans are most concerned with year after year. Speaking of which,

9to5Mac's report also relays that the iPhone 6S, thanks to a slightly more

narrow motherboard, may actually feature a slightly larger battery.



As for other iPhone 6S rumors we've seen, Bloomberg recently confirmed that the

iPhone 6S will feature a Force Touch display, the same feature Apple first

introduced on the Apple Watch and later its revamped MacBook. Additionally,

folks planning to upgrade can look forward to a more reliable Touch ID sensor,

2GB of RAM, and, last but not least, what promises to be a blazing fast A9

processor.



LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





