                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 8:09 AM GMT



Apple Event September 2015: new iPhone 6S, iPad Pro, and Apple TV revealed - as

it happened;

The tech giants announced a variety of new products and updates in San Francisco



BYLINE: Ben Travis



SECTION: TECH AND GAMING



LENGTH: 325 words





It's the time that Apple fans across the world await with baited breathevery

year - the September Event which saw the technology company unveil their latest

range of gadgets, software, apps, and more.



Following months of rumours and speculation about what new Apple products and

updates might be unveiled at the San Francisco-based presentation, we finally

got our answer.



The new iPhone 6S and 6S Pluswas the biggest reveal of the night, featuring a

highly developed camera, brand new '3D touch' functionality which offers new

gestures, and a version available in 'Rose Gold' - or, as the rest of us like to

call it, pink.



The new iPhones include an advanced A9 chip, andherald the arrival of iOS9

software. The iPhone 6S and 6S plus will both goon sale in the UK on September

25.



Read more



Apple Event September 2015: new iPad Pro unveiled - in pictures



Apple Event September 2015: iPhone 6s and 6s Plus revealed



Jimmy Iovine talks Apple Music, Zane Lowe, and Taylor Swift



The event also presented the iPad Pro - the most advanced tablet from Apple yet,

with a 12.9" screen that allows two apps to run at once, and "desktop-class

performance" with Microsoft and Adobe software. The screen is 78% larger than

the original iPad, but the unit weighs just 1.57lbs. It is due to arrive in

November.



A new version of Apple TV was also demonstrated. With extensive use of

Siri-enhanced voice control, the entertainment streaming device has received a

complete overhaul and now features additional apps, games, and music

capabilities. It is set to arrive in late October.



Also revealed was a 'Rose Pink' version of the Apple Watch, with updated Watch

OS software available on September 16.



For more details on the Apple Event as it happened, see our live blog below.



LIVE BLOG



-



Please allow a few seconds to load



For more on tech and gaming, click here



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





