

In a first, Apple has decided to offer discount on its latest iPhones in less
than a month of its launch, with the Cupertino-based company initiating a
buyback offer on iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, giving consumers discount of up to '.
34,000 to boost sales.

This is also the first instance when Apple and its distributors are going to buy
back old models under the scheme to ensure that all transactions are genuine and
reduce the burden of the retailer who can push sales further, three senior trade
partners of Apple in India said.

The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus were launched last month in India at ' '92,000 de .
62,000-.pending on memory and

model, but sales were down 15-20% over last year as iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, which
hit the market last year, were . 8,500-9,000.cheaper by ' Ingram Micro, one of
Apple's four iPhone distributors, has just rolled out the buyback scheme in a
handful of Apple stores and multi-brand cellphone retail

chains in South India, which will be subsequently tak

en national.The other three distributors will also follow suit since the US

low suit since the US company wants to achieve its target of trebling sales
during the October-December quarter compared with the same period last year.

"This is the first time a company and its distributors are closely monitoring
buyback

at the retail end to track sales, showing how desperate Apple is to increase
sales in India since it did not expect such a weak launch for the new iPhones,"
a senior executive with one of the leading trade partners said."Earlier
companies offering buyback used to give indirect subsidy to retailers to com
pensate and it was

the retailer's headache to sell the old phone, but this time

the entire process is driven by Apple," he said.

The buyback price of

. 34,000 on the new iPhones is ' against iPhone 6. The company has informed
trade that it will also buy back select highend handsets of rival Samsung. Apple
has also created a separate website for retailers

have to upload details of old handsets against which the new models will be
bought.

The buyback offer comes at a time when the latest iPhones are getting sold at
711% discount since last week in ecommerce marketplaces such as Flipkart,
Snapdeal and Amazon.

Snapdeal's vice-president (category management) Rahul Taneja said various
promotional offers have led to great traction for the new iPhones. "We are
getting orders for iPhone 6s not only from metros, but also from Tier-II
cities," he said. .

Last month, during an analyst conference call, the Apple management had
acknowledged that the higher pricing of iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in India and some
other markets due to foreign exchange fluctuations has had an impact on their
sales.

