                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                            April 14, 2016 Thursday



iPhone SE review: Apple is more clever than you thought



BYLINE: Debashis Sarkar



SECTION: REVIEWS



LENGTH: 654 words





Apple's latest innovation iPhone SE may not be worth queuing up for. Also, it is

exactly not the first iPhone for price conscious consumers in India. But before

you call Apple stupid for pricing the smaller SE more than iPhone 6 and almost

at par with 6S, note that this iPhone may not be targeted at you.



The Cupertino-based tech giant has already acknowledged that smartphones with

big screens are the future. But what happens to those who are unwilling to give

up the comfort of using smaller but powerful phones?



There is hardly any smaller, 'comfortable' and powerful option available, of

late. So, this is Apple's reply.



After using the iPhone SE for some time, here is our review.



Design and display



The iPhone SE is an exact clone of the older 5S. It is difficult to spot the

differences as there's hardly any. However, it is slightly slimmer and lighter.

The comfort of a smaller phone is something only stubborn users of iPhone 4, 4S,

5 and 5S users will reckon. There is still a substantial percentage of such

users in the country and especially globally. Also, there are several iPhone 6

users who wants to go back to the smaller version. For them, the prowess of

latest iPhone 6S in the body of 5S is indeed a special edition. However, this

might put off many first time buyers, especially for the price.



On the display front, again there is no major difference. Everything looks good

in the small screen with a resolution of just 1136 x 640 pixels. 3D Touch is

absent in the iPhone SE. Overall, the display is crisp with good contrast and

viewing angles.



The new Night Shift mode makes a huge difference in darkness. It puts less

strain on the eyes. Night Shift is introduced in the latest iOS 9.3 update, the

feature is not supported on all older 4-inch iPhones. While 5S supports it, 5

and 5C doesn't.



The SE version has a solid build and is sturdier than the newer versions. It is

compact, lightweight and is made exclusively for one-hand usage. It is also

available in Rose Gold colour.



Camera and performance



This segment is a major upgrade for older iPhone users. The iPhone SE has the

camera of the 6S along with Live Photos. The 12MP rear camera is capable of

shooting 4K videos along with slo-mo and time-lapse videos. There is a dual tone

LED Flash at the back and on the front screen flashes to lighten selfies, like

in the 6S.



Under good lighting conditions, the camera shoots good photos, but images shot

under low-light without Flash will leave users desiring for more. While camera

quality is good, it is not at par with the 6S or the older iPhone 6.



The iPhone SE is powered by the latest Apple A9 processor with M9

motion-tracking and PowerVR GT7600 graphics. The device is smooth and here are

no glitches in performance. It might look small but it is not at all 'less

powerful' than the 6S -- all iPhone users will vouch for this at least.



If you are into gaming on small screen, apps like Asphalt 8: Airborne run with

ease. In short, it has the horsepower of the iPhone 6S.



The fingerprint scanner or Touch ID is included in the SE and it is fast. The

phone is backed by a 1,624mAh battery. The battery life is slightly better due

to a smaller low-resolution screen of the SE. Users can squeeze in one day in a

full charge easily.



Verdict



The iPhone SE is the cheapest phone Apple has launched in recent years globally.

However, Rs 39,000 for 16GB version and Rs 49,000 for 64GB variant are obviously

over-priced. While the smaller iPhone makes perfect sense, the current pricing

is a deterrent. Once, the re-imported iPhone 5S goes out of stock in India and

also with the iPhone 7 launch, the prices of SE is bound to drop. The iPhone SE

prices in India will simply help Apple to boost sales of the other existing

iPhones for now.



The SE is just a matter of choice for people who prefer to use small screen and

Apple doesn't want them to use old hardware to run new apps.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





