

After camping outside Apple's Fifth Avenue flagship for 15 days to get the new
iPhone, Jaime Gonzalez had a front-row seat when Pope Francis rode past it
Thursday evening.

So what was the bigger thrill - seeing the pope, or getting the new phone on
Friday morning?

"About the same," said the 38-year-old truck driver from Queens.

The crowd of Apple freaks that queued up at the Midtown store for the iPhone 6s
wasn't quite as big as last year's iPhone 6 launch, according to anecdotal
accounts.

That's despite a prediction from Foursquare that the iPhone 6s will rack up
global unit sales between 13 million and 15 million in its opening weekend - a
hefty increase over last year's 10 million.

Still, FBR & Co. analyst Daniel Ives said demand looked "very strong" early
Friday, noting that the rose-gold versions were being snatched up by more than a
third of shoppers surveyed by the bank.

On Fifth Avenue, emotions ran high among sleep-deprived Apple fans in the
moments before the 6s and 6s Plus models went on sale Friday at 8 a.m.

Miguel Guevara and Anthony Ortiz - who said they landed the fifth and sixth
positions in line when they arrived a week ago - got miffed as they watched a
crowd of customers with online reservations file past them when the doors
opened. (The store, usually open 24/7, closed, as usual before a product launch,
from midnight to 8 a.m.)

"A lot of these people got here four hours ago," the 24-year-old Guevara said,
concerned about snagging a rose-gold, 64-gigabyte version of the 6s Plus. (He
got it, eventually.)

Justina Sicinnaite, 25, from Lithuania, who, along with 22-year-old Haoyu Lin,
led the reserved line, reckoned it was "not possible" that Guevara and Ortiz had
been there a full week.

"Their phones are charged," she pointed out before being ushered inside to
raucous applause from a throng of Apple employees.

Outside, Guevara and Ortiz were left to explain how they took turns eating,
showering and charging each other's phones in their seven-day, around-the-clock
ritual.

Jasper Deweerdt, 20, a student from Belgium, arrived around 1 a.m. Friday to
take his spot in line. He says the ritual was on his "bucket list."

"I wanted to do the line once in my life," Deweerdt said. "It's the most famous
Apple store in the world. Where else would I be?"

jcovert@nypost.com

