                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                      October 8, 2015 Thursday 9:48 AM GMT



iPhones 6s battery life 'varies by up to two hours depending on chip supplier';



TSMC and Samsung make chips for iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, but power consumption

varies markedly, according to user reports



BYLINE: Alex Hern



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 464 words





Two seemingly identical, brand new, iPhones 6s may have a battery life that

differs by up to two hours depending on which of two companies manufactured

their processor, according to reports from owners.



The investigations were sparked by a report from technology news site Anandtech

that Apple is dual-sourcing one of the key components of the new phones. The A9

"system on a chip", the lump of silicon that lies at the heart of the iPhone 6s

and iPhone 6s Plus, is designed by Apple but manufactured by two independent

contractors: Korea's Samsung Electronics and Taiwan's TSMC. The two chips

interact with the rest of the hardware identically, based as they are on the

same designs, but differences in their production is apparently having an effect

on how efficient they are at doing their jobs.



TSMC's implementation of Apple's designs uses a manfacturing process with a

minimum transistor width of 16nm compared to Samsung's 14nm, and results in a

chip that is physically larger by 8.5mm 2. But as well as the physical

difference, the TSMC version of the chip also seems to have markedly better

power consumption, according to user reports shared on sites including Mac

Rumours and Reddit. One user, with two iPhone 6s Pluses with different chips,

reported a difference of two hours in battery life between the phones: the TSMC

chip hit almost eight hours while running a suite of battery-intensive

activities, while the Samsung one managed barely six.



It is tricky to determine which version of the chip is installed in a particular

phone, but some apps such as Lirum Device Info can tell owners. Samsung's chip

shows up as N66AP or N71AP, while TSMC's appears as N66MAP or N71MAP.



This is not the first time Apple has run into trouble dual-sourcing key

components. In 2012, when it launched the Retina MacBook Pro, the company bought

screens from two different suppliers, LG and Samsung. The LG-provided screens

turned out to suffer from significant "burn-in" issues, displaying a ghost of

any image left onscreen for too long. Despite calls for a recall from users, the

company didn't publicly acknowledge the difference in quality, but did

apparently begin replacing the defective laptops if users brought them in to a

store complaining about the quality.



Earlier this year, the Wall Street Journal reported that attempts to dual-source

the new "taptic engine" in the Apple Watch had also led to issues. One of the

two providers of the ground-breaking vibration component, AAC Technologies, was

apparently unable to consistently provide reliable parts, leading Apple to drop

it as a supplier and scrap some completed watches. In the end, the company only

used parts provided by Japan's Nidec, which didn't experience the same problem.



Apple has not responded to a request for comment.



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





