                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                      October 9, 2015 Friday 04:23 PM EST



iPhone 6s now available in 40 more countries



BYLINE: Yoni Heisler



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 270  words





Click for image



The initial phase of Apple's iPhone 6s launch went off without a hitch. Not only

did Apple seemingly conquer the typical type of supply issues that tend to

accompany new releases, but it also set a new sales record in the process.

During the first three days of availability, Apple managed to sell more than 13

million iPhones worldwide, easily eclipsing the previous record by 3 million

units.



Earlier today, Apple began the second phase of its iPhone 6s launch, with the

company's next-gen smartphone arriving in an additional 40 countries.



The full list of new countries set to receive the iPhone 6s treatment include:

Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark,

Estonia, Finland, Greece, Greenland, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Isle of Man,

Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mexico, Monaco,

Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia,

Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Taiwan.



Later this weekend, the iPhone 6s will go on sale in a number of countries in

the Middle East, including Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the

United Arab Emirates. Following that, the iPhone 6s will debut in Israel on

October 15, in India, Kazakhstan, Macedonia, Malaysia, Malta, Montenegro, South

Africa, and Turkey on October 16, and in Belarus, Guam, Moldova, Serbia, South

Korea, and the Ukraine on October 23.



Impressively, this is just the start of what will of course be Apple's widest

and most accelerated iPhone rollout to date. By the time 2015 closes out, Apple

is aiming to bring the 6s to over 130 countries.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





