                             505 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          The Cairns Post (Australia)



                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

                                 Cairns Edition



iWant one too, say fans



BYLINE: Hayden Smith



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4



LENGTH: 269  words





SHOPPERS could have been excused for thinking it was Christmas at Cairns Central

yesterday as the newest Apple products hit the shelves.



The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus were launched at the Telstra Store, and they quickly

became the hottest toys in town.



"It's often a bit tamer at the mid-range launch but it's been a really good

day," Telstra sales consultant Trudi Campbell said. "We've had a lot of people

coming through, there's still a lot of interest about.



"We call it our Boxing Day because it's one of the busiest days of the year." Ms

Campbell said the store "hit the ground running" yesterday as customers waited

to check out the new products, which feature 12-megapixel camera capacity and 4K

video recording.



"We opened the doors at 8am and didn't stop," she said.



Thousands of the new phones, valued at up to $1500 each, have already been sold

across the country.



Core technologies like the touchscreen have been updated, and phones are

constructed from an entirely new material.



The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus are also expected to be more durable than previous

Apple products.



"The only thing that has changed with iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus is everything

- 3D Touch lets users interact with iPhone in entirely new and fun ways, and the

innovative Live Photos brings your pictures to life," Apple executive Philip

Schiller said.



Cairns resident Ryan Williams was one of the first to buy the iPhone 6s and he

couldn't have been happier with his purchase.



"As far as technology goes it's the newest, it's always good to stay up to

date," he said."I always try and keep up to date with the Apple products when

they come out."



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Cairns Post





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





