                             507 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

                                 Delhi Edition



CO INVESTING IN INDIA FOR LONG TERM: COOK Skyhigh Prices may've Brought Apple to

Earth



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: THE ECONOMIC TIMES



LENGTH: 648 words





Apple has acknowledged that the higher pricing of iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in India

and some other markets due to foreign exchange fluctuations has had an impact on

their sales, but said it's investing for long term in the country .



"We've adjusted some prices around the world for the launch of iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus... Obviously when we increase prices around the world, it's normal to see

some impact on sales rates," Luca Maestri, Apple's chief financial officer, said

in response to a query about the currency movement and impact on demand in terms

of volume units and revenues in some regions like India, Japan, and parts of

Europe during the Cupertino-based company's fourth quarter earnings call on

Wednesday . But Maestri also said it was too early to arrive at any conclusion.



"...because the phones have been out there just for four weeks, so it's bit

early to tell. But so far we were encouraged by the response," the Apple CFO

said.



ET was the first to report about lower-than-expected demand for the new iPhones

in the country due to high prices with consumers either buying from the grey

market at substantially lower prices or waiting for a price crash or online

discounts earlier this month.



The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus are selling at Rs 62,000-Rs 92,000 depending on memory

and model, Rs 8,5009,500 more than the last year's launch price of iPhone 6 and

6 Plus and also Rs 14,000-16,000 costlier than their prices in global markets

like the US, Middle East, Singapore and Hong Kong. Apple's trade partners in

India attributed the huge price difference of the new iPhones between India and

many global markets to two factors: depreciation of the rupee against dollar

whereby Apple had hedged the currency exchange rate, and higher tax, with

imported smartphones attracting 11.5% more tax than locally assembled ones while

this difference was just 5% last year.



But Apple remains optimistic about its long-term prospects in India. Its chief

executive officer Tim Cook, in Wednesday's earnings call, said the company was

investing for the long term in a few markets like India where factors like

currency were "transitional kind of thing". "I was really impressed last quarter

with our progress in Vietnam and Indonesia and India among others," he said.



DISCOUNT PUSH



Apple said iPhone sales in South



Asia, including India, during the July-September quarter was up by 35%. Analysts

say sales during this quarter in India were driven by ag gressive online

discount on iPhone's earlier models.



"In India the demand situation is still not vibrant for the new iPhones," the

chief executive offi cer of a leading cell phone retai chain said. "In fact,

there is suffi cient stock in India compared with markets like the US and China

where demand is still more than supply," said the CEO requesting not to be

named.



Most big mobile and consumer electronics retail chains and even large ecommerce

firms said sales of the new iPhones were at best matching last year, while some

re ported 20%-50% lower demand compared with last year's demand for iPhone 6 and

6 Plus. Incidental ly, Apple was targeting a two-to three fold jump in sales of

the new iPhones leading up to Diwali.



Apple Inc on Wednesday reported 63% growth in revenues from emerging markets at

$79 billion, or about Rs 5,12,500 crore, for the fis cal year ended September

2015 Cook said the company achieved this despite "very strong head winds" from

foreign exchange rates. Apple also posted largest ab solute revenue growth ever,

grow ing by 28% at $234 billion, or about Rs 15,18,000 crore.



The company had last month an nounced that it sold more than 13 million units of

iPhones 6s and 6s Plus models in 12 markets includ ing the US and China in just

three days after launch, setting a new re cord for the company .



The company management dur ing the call on Wednesday also said the new iPhones

were selling more than last year's launch.



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





