                             511 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                This Day (Lagos)



                               December 07, 2015



Apple iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus Launched in Nigeria



BYLINE: Emma Okonji



LENGTH: 375 words





Redington, the official distribution company of Apple mobile phones in Nigeria,

in collaboration with Apple, a global Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), has

launched the latest release of Apple iPhones, the iPhone 6s and the iPhone 6s

Plus in Nigeria.



The launch, which was part of a series of launches for the Apple mobile phone

products across various regions of the world, was held last week in Micro

Station's sales outlet at the Computer Village market in Lagos, and it attracted

several people that visited the Computer Village market on that day.



Speaking on the essence of the launch in Nigeria, Marketing Manager, Telco

Africa, Redington Nigeria Limited, Mr. Sunil Pangtey, said: "The purpose of the

launch is to communicate to consumers that iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are now

officially available in Nigeria with warranty. This communication will create

awareness among consumers to buy authentic iPhones in their home country

Nigeria."



According to him, Redington Nigeria would partner with all its key partners like

SLOT, Park n Shop, Pointek, Finet, Dallas communications, DSCL, Kolia Angel,

Micro Station, among others, to increase the availability of iPhones across

Nigeria. We will continue to work towards ensuring that iPhones are available at

every retail store in the country. S peaking on the features of the phone,

Pangtey said "the phones are unique, friendly and attractive to behold and they

are very powerful from inside in terms of specification and rich features."



The phones come with 3D touch, which is the next generation multi touch phones,

and the first time ever done on a smart phone. It will enhance the use of

various apps in a totally different manner. It has A9 Processor, which is the

most advanced chipset ever, and comes in 7000 Series Aluminum alloy body,

Advanced Touch ID for better security and faster Long Term Evolution (LTE) and

Wi-Fi technologies. All these features make the mobile phones the most

irresistible smartphones and the best iPhone ever made, Pangtey said.



He explained that the phones come with a one year warranty, subjected to

clauses, and that the company would soon conduct the Apple certified training

and workshops, which are approved by Apple and would be as per company

guidelines.



LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.

                              All Rights Reserved





