

(AP) -- Apple staked a new claim to the living room as the maker of iPhones and
other hand-held gadgets unveiled an Internet TV system that's designed as a
beachhead for the tech giant's broader ambitions to deliver a wide range of
information, games, music and video to the home.

CEO Tim Cook and other executives also showed off two new iPhone models, a
plus-sized iPad with detachable keyboard and updated software for the Apple
Watch during a two-hour event in San Francisco's Bill Graham Civic Auditorium.

Apple is counting on sales of the new iPhones to maintain its position as one of
the most profitable, and valuable, companies in the world. But it's the new
Apple TV system that some analysts point to as an important step for the company
as Cook attempts to build a business that doesn't rely so heavily on the iPhone.

"Apple is laying the groundwork for a broader living-room strategy" said analyst
Ben Bajarin from the research firm Creative Strategies. Apple wants to make the
already-important TV screen into an essential hub for communication and
entertainment, he said.

"TV plays a huge role in our lives and it occupies an important place in our
homes," Cook said during his presentation. He added that Apple believes "the
future of television is apps" that deliver streaming video, games and other
services.

For now, however, the iPhone is still Apple's most important product. Sales of
the iconic smartphone contributed more than two-thirds of the Cupertino,
California, company's $107 billion in revenue during the first half of 2015.

Apple announced that it will sell two new iPhone models, dubbed the 6s and 6s
Plus, starting Sept. 25. They're roughly the same size and will cost the same as
the record-selling 6 and 6 Plus models introduced last year, which will now sell
for $100 less. The new iPhones will have more memory, faster processors, and a
new 12 mega-pixel camera.

Perhaps the most noticeable upgrade, however, is the addition of "3D Touch," a
feature that uses added screen sensors to detect the difference between a light
tap and extended finger pressure, triggering different menus and functions for
apps made by Apple and outside developers.

Some analysts have questioned how compelling the new features will be. Apple
sold more than 183 million iPhones since the last models were introduced in
2014, which is 40 percent more than it sold in the same period a year earlier.
"That's one big concern about Apple, that it's so dependent on the iPhone," said
Jerry Kim, a Columbia University management professor.

"The smartphone market is headed for a peak, and everyone is going to be feeling
that," said Bob O'Donnell, a veteran consumer tech analyst with Technalysis
Research. "So Apple has got to diversify."

Cook, while insisting there is room for iPhone sales to grow, has begun pushing
into new product categories. In addition to the Apple Watch, introduced earlier
this year, executives spent time showing off the new Apple TV. The new device
has a more powerful processor and updated software for running Internet apps and
games on TVs, along with streaming music and video. It will start at $149 and
will be available in late October.

An integral part of Apple's system is a hand-held remote that can be controlled
with a touch screen and voice commands, allowing users to request information
and search for music, movies or TV shows by using Apple's electronic personal
assistant, Siri.

