                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                          September 10, 2015 Thursday



Apple launches iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus and bigger iPad



LENGTH: 434 words



DATELINE: Lahore







 Mumbai: Kotak Mahindra Group Limited has issued following news release:







  Smartphone maker Apple on Wednesday launched iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the

most advanced iPhones ever, adding a powerful new dimension to iPhone&rsquo;s

revolutionary Multi-Touch interface.







 The gadget maker has also introduced an all-new iPad Pro, featuring a stunning

12.9-inch Retina display with 5.6 million pixels, the most ever in an iOS

device, and groundbreaking performance with the new 64-bit A9X chip, rivaling

most portable PCs. The new larger iPad Pro is thin and light and provides

all-day battery life.



 The new iPhones introduce 3D Touch, which senses force to enable intuitive new

ways to access features and interact with content. iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus

feature Retina HD displays made from the strongest glass on any smartphone and

7000 series aluminum, the same alloy used in the aerospace industry, in gorgeous

metallic finishes that now include rose gold.



 iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus also introduce a transformative new approach to

photography called Live Photos, bringing still images to life by capturing a

moment in motion. Live Photos, 3D Touch and other advancements in the new

iPhones are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip, the most advanced chip ever

in a smartphone, delivering faster performance and great battery life.



 Commenting on new launch, Apple&rsquo;s senior vice president of Worldwide

Marketing, Philip Schiller said, &ldquo;The only thing that has changed with

iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus is everything &mdash; 3D Touch lets users interact

with iPhone in entirely new and fun ways, and the innovative Live Photos brings

your pictures to life.&rdquo;



 &ldquo;These are the most advanced iPhones ever, with 7000 series aluminum,

ion-strengthened glass, the new 64-bit A9 chip, 12-megapixel iSight and

5-megapixel FaceTime HD cameras, faster Touch ID, LTE and Wi-Fi. Customers are

going to love them,&rdquo; Schiller added.



 iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus will be available in gold, silver, space gray and

the new rose gold metallic finishes for USD 0 down with 24 monthly payments

starting at USD 27 and USD 31, respectively, from Apple&rsquo;s retail stores in

the US, Apple.com, select carriers and Apple Authorized Resellers.



 Both models will be available in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany,

Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, Puerto Rico, Singapore, the UK and the US

beginning Friday, September 25, with pre-orders beginning Saturday, September

12.









 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





