                             526 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                            August 23, 2016 Tuesday



iPhone 6s is still faster than a Galaxy Note 7, despite the improvements



LENGTH: 320  words





Despite being announced last year, the iPhone 6s is still faster than the Galaxy

Note 7, which is regarded as the best Android phone to get right now



Perhaps the greatest Android smartphone of 2016 is undoubtedly Samsung's Galaxy

Note 7. Its combination of hardware and unique software features make it one of

the best phones to purchase right now, even though a large portion of your

savings are going to be removed after you end up purchasing it. However, if an

iPhone 6s was tested against a Galaxy Note 7, then you'd quickly change your

opinion on which phone is the fastest one out of them.



In a video test carried out courtesy of YouTube, the Galaxy Note 7 and iPhone 6s

both get taken for a nice little speed spin involving the number of applications

both smartphones can open in succession. Naturally, with the iPhone 6s' upgraded

processor and RAM count, not to mention the improved OS, the 4.7-inch smartphone

opens up apps much faster than a Galaxy Note 7. However, we did forget to

mention that the iPhone 6s features a much smaller resolution, as opposed to the

Galaxy Note 7's QHD display, which will definitely create a performance gap

between the two phones.



However, for a phone that is running 4GB of RAM and a powerful chipset such as

the Snapdragon 820, we were honestly expecting Samsung to gain the victory here.

If you're still discouraged to look at the Galaxy Note 7 as your next purchase,

then you'll definitely want to check out our Galaxy Note 7 review, and while

there aren't much differences between this smartphone and Galaxy S7 edge, the

improvements compared to those present in Galaxy Note 5 are quite extreme.



We are most impressed with the improvements that Samsung has introduced in its

UI, but there's going to be a long way to go before Android can count itself

being in the same league as Apple's iOS.



Read more:



Hands on with Samsung Galaxy Note 7

Galaxy Note 7 vs. Galaxy Note 5



Source



LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2016 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





