

Sept. 26--TUPELO -- Unlike the launch of the iPhone 6 last year, retail stores
started the day with a sizable inventory of the iPhone 6s on Friday.

And that was fine with Bobby Steele of Calhoun City, who was the first customer
in line at Verizon in Tupelo. He was buying two of the new iPhone 6s models.

"I'm trading in the 6 I got last year for a 6s, and I'm getting another 6s for
my grandson," Steele said.

Steele has had an iPhone since the first was launched by Apple in 2007.

"I've been a user from the very beginning and I've upgraded every time a new one
came out," he said with a laugh.

The key feature of the new 6s and 6s Plus models, which share the same size and
shape as last year's versions, is called 3D Touch. The feature can recognize how
hard users are pressing on the devices' screens and display different kinds of
information for different presses.

The new phones also feature more powerful cameras and a faster processor than
last year's models. The rear camera in the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus has a
12-megapixel resolution, up from 8 megapixels previously.

The iPhone 6s starts at $650 without a contract. The iPhone 6s Plus starts at
$750 without a contract.

Last year's models were the first-ever large screen iPhones and sold in record
numbers.

Lori Anne Singleton, a district manager for Verizon, said every iPhone launch
creates interest, and Friday's 6s launch was no different.

"We had several people waiting and we opened early," she said, as a half dozen
other shoppers besides Steele entered the store a few minutes before 8 a.m. "A
lot of customers want to be the first to see and touch the new phone."

Molly Lovorn, the store manager at C Spire on North Gloster Street, had several
customers come in early to check out the new phones, and expected to see a rush
of customers throughout the day.

"It's not quite as hectic as last time, but people are always excited about a
new iPhone," she said. "We had a lot of pre-orders that will be picked up at
this location."

The iPhone 6s is more evolutionary than revolutionary -- it's not a major
change, say from a 4 to a 5 or even a 5 to 6, for example. An iPhone 7 -- likely
to be launched about this time next year, if Apple follows its usual plan --
will likely drum up more excitement.

Still, consumers like Rachel Cortez are ready to try out anything new from
Apple.

"I've had my 5 for way too long, and I knew the 6s would be even better than the
6, so I've waited forever to get a new phone," she said.

dennis.seid@journalinc.com

___ (c)2015 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.djournal.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

