                             545 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                AFP - RELAXNEWS (English International Version)



                            August 29, 2015 Saturday

                                  HOUSE & HOME



What will Apple's next iPhone look like?



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 384 words





Apple looks set to reveal the latest version of its flagship smartphone

Wednesday, September 9 in San Francisco: however many specialized high-tech

sites are claiming that the device's main characteristics have already leaked on

the internet.



The iPhone 6s, relatively familiar



Despite being equipped with an A9 chip, a new and stronger processor, the new

Apple smartphone would remain very similar to its predecessor. Visually, the 6s

will likely look identical to the iPhone 6, with the addition of a 4.7-inch

Force Touch technology touch screen, used on the latest MacBook and Apple Watch.

Force Touch technology allows the screen to detect subtle differences in the

amount of pressure you apply, making it possible to perform a variety of

different functions.



The most exciting modification however, could be found in the iPhone's camera

functions. Equipped with a flash-function FaceTime camera, the 6s can record

1080p video in panorama mode and in slow motion, up to 240 images per second.

The main camera sensor (iSight) will be updated from 8 megapixels to 12

megapixels and offer greater luminosity in dark environments or night shots, an

ongoing iPhone weak spot. Some rumors even suggest the possibility of filming in

4K.



The new smartphone will operate under iOS 9, introduced last spring and that

includes an updated version of Siri, a new information app, new functions for

the Plans and Note apps, optimized battery life and a potential ad-block

download.



Following Apple iPhone logic, the iPhone 6s will most likely be available in an

iPhone 6s Plus version with a 5.5-inch screen and should be put to market soon

after the smartphones launch, probably from September 18.



Any updates on the iPad, MacBook Air or AppleTV?



Apple's keynote announcement may also be the occasion for the brand to reveal

other news and updates regarding a new iPad or even an "iPad Pro". Whether or

not these will be presented along with the iPhone 6s, Apple's next tablets will

be able to display two applications side by side thanks to iOS 9.



As in previous years, the keynote announcement can be watched live online. For

the very first time, it can also be viewed from Window 10 computers via the

browser Microsoft Edge.



To follow the keynote announcement live September 9 go to:

apple.com/apple-events/september-2015



LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: relaxnews.en.





                            Copyright 2015 Relaxnews

                              All Rights Reserved





