                             547 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                        May 18, 2015 Monday 12:27 PM EST



iPhone 6s release may come as early as August



BYLINE: Yoni Heisler



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 372  words





Click for image



While the first few iterations of the iPhone were all released during the summer

months, the iPhone 4s completely turned Apple's iPhone release schedule on its

head. Due to various production problems that resulted in delays, the iPhone 4s

was released in October of 2011. Since then, Apple has adjusted its iPhone

release schedule accordingly, with each new iPhone models now debuting during

the fall.



But now we're hearing word that Apple's next-gen iPhone, prematurely dubbed the

iPhone 6s, might be released sometime in August. According to a recent report in

GforGames, which typically has a decent track record with respect to Apple

rumors, rumblings from Apple's supply chain suggests that Apple doesn't

anticipate any yield issues with its next-gen iPhone and may revert back to a

summer launch schedule.



According to a new report originating from Apple's supply chain, yield for

iPhone 6s and 6s Plus components is so good that it would allow Apple to bring

the release date for this year's iPhone lineup forward to August (from

September, like we've gotten used to).



The insiders who have provided this report are also claiming that Apple has

recently begun to massively increase component orders which, if true, is either

an indication that the company is indeed gearing up for an earlier release or

that it expects to set a new sales record.



This is certainly interesting, not to mention plausible given that the iPhone 6s

upgrade is largely expected to consist of under-the-hood type of upgrades. In

contrast, previous iPhone upgrades have centered on hardware changes that are

more susceptible to manufacturing issues. The iPhone 5, for instance, introduced

a bigger screen. With the iPhone 5s, Apple introduced Touch ID. And with the

iPhone 6 models, Apple introduced larger screens yet again.



The only looming issue here is whether or not Apple might rub some users the

wrong way by releasing a completely new device just 10 to 11 months after the

last model. But given the immense and ongoing demand for the iPhone 6 and 6

Plus, something tells me that won't be much of an issue. Besides, it is 2015,

after all, and consumers should be more than aware by now that life in the tech

space moves extremely fast.



LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





