                             551 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

                                Kolkata Edition



iPhone Launch a Much Bigger Affair This Time



BYLINE: Gulveen.Aulakh@timesgroup.com



SECTION: COMPANIES



LENGTH: 502 words





Apple is roping in top telcos Bharti Airtel and Vodafone India as partners,

pulling out all stops to make its iPhone 6s launch in India a blockbuster and

build on the record 1.7 million unit sales it posted in its last fiscal year in

the world's fastest growing market.



For the first time, the Cupertinobased smartphone giant has begun forging

partnerships with the telcos well in advance of the launch planned for October

16, compared to previous instances when operator plans have come out months

later. The tie-ups, as well the move to start selling in India much earlier that

it usually does after a global launch, underscores the growing importance of a

smartphone market which is set to overtake the US as the world's second largest

by 2017.



According to sources aware of the tieups, both telcos will offer Apple's new

devices on their retail counters and could offer deals such as EMI schemes and

possibly data bundling. The iconic smartphone maker is looking to rapidly add to

the 1.7 million units it sold in its financial year which ended September 2015,

according to Counterpoint Research data. This meant a sharp 55% jump from the

nearly 1.1 million devices it sold in its previous fiscal year. Apple didn't

comment on the data.



"Vodafone India will offer iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the most advanced

iPhones ever, beginning on October 16, 2015," a Vodafone India spokesperson said

and added that customers can pre-register iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus beginning

October 9 on the company's website.



After pre-registration, custom



ers would become eligible for buying the phones through an ecommerce partner or

at Vodafone's retail outlets, depending on the customer's choice, sources added.



Customers buying at retail outlets are likely to be offered data and voice

plans, which can be with or without monthly installments, a second person said.

Vodafone India, however, did not share details on iPhone plans for customers.



The telco had in January announced a tie-up in January this year, around two

months after the then Apple flagship iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were launched in

October 2014. It had introduced tariff plans based on installments for iPhone

4s, iPhone 5c, iPhone 5s and well as the then latest iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.



Bharti Airtel, on its part, is working on a tie-up with Apple which would be

finalized shortly , a company official said.



The country's largest telco which is heavily advertising its 4G services in

India, "would want to offer the 4G (high-speed broadband services) on iPhone6s

and iPhone 6s Plus," the company official added, indicating 4G data schemes

could be offered as part of a bundling package.



"Apart from this we can also expect plans related to device upgrade at the end

of 12 months cycle, as now we have significant user base of Apple in India who

is willing to shift to new iPhones year after year," said Tarun Pathak, senior

analyst at Hong Kong based Counterpoint Research told ET.



Analysts say last year was by far the strongest performance of Apple in India

yet.



LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





