

A new iPhone will be faster, have new shortcuts and a better camera.

But we already knew that, didn't we?

Apple spent more than 40 minutes Wednesday doing a high-intensity sales job on
the new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, which it claimed was the "most advanced" and
"best ever" iPhone.

They always say that. It's just that this year, it didn't seem like Apple had
the goods to prove it. At a press event here to unveil new products, Apple on
Wednesday did a much better job selling the revamped Apple TV than it did in
getting us excited about the new iPhone.

Not that it will matter.

Apple historically has sold more units of each new iPhone than the previous
model, and analysts believe the company will do it again with the 6S and 6S
Plus. Just marginally. Because folks want the newest and latest.

The new edition goes on sale Sept. 25, starting at $199 and $299 for the 6S and
6S Plus, assuming a two-year contract and depending on storage capacity.

In keeping with the off years, when Apple releases new "S" phones that aren't
re-designed,  the new features are welcome but doubtful to be of huge interest
to a worldwide mass audience.

The 3D Touch feature seems nice: Click an app, and hold your finger down, and
you get a drop down menu offering various shortcuts that give you app features
without having to open the app all the way.

I tested the feature in a hands-on demo of the iPhone on Wednesday, and it takes
some getting used to. The harder you press, the more features pop up your way.

The best new feature, and it's hard to describe, is called "Live Photo," which
is basically a video version of a normal photo. Take a picture the normal way on
the iPhone, take a look at it afterward, and motion is added. That photo of your
kid waving to you now includes a moving wave.

The added resolution to what has become the world's most popular camera is very
welcome: 12 megapixel, up from 8 megapixel. Even better, some shutterbugs will
certainly be excited about getting to shoot 4K video.

That's four times the resolution of standard HD, and Apple's demo looked
terrific. They always do.

I've found that serious photographers care about frame rates and higher
resolution, but most consumers don't.

Last year's model was the best iPhone ever. How could you top it?

You don't. As consumers, we just have to come to terms with that.

So for those who want to get excited, see you next September for the iPhone 7.
Here's a new flash: it will be re-designed and described as the "most advanced,"
"best" and "revolutionary" iPhone ever.

Follow USA TODAY tech columnist and #talkingtech host Jefferson Graham on
Twitter, where he's @jeffersongraham, and listen to his daily audio tech reports
on Stitcher and TuneIn.

