                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                           September 11, 2015 Friday



New and Existing Sprint Customers Can Get iPhone 6s for only $15 Per Month with

$0 Down Including a Yearly Upgrade. FOREVER.



DATELINE: Lahore







 Kansas: Sprint Corporation has issued the following Press release:







  The iPhone Forever Revolution continues. Starting on September 25, qualified

Sprint customers can get iPhone 6s for $15 per month and iPhone 6s Plus for $19

per month, making it the most affordable way to get the new iPhones on Sprint.

Customers who choose not to trade in an existing smartphone at time of purchase

can get iPhone 6s for $22 per month and iPhone 6s Plus for $26 per month. And

with the innovative iPhone Forever program, included in the price, Sprint

customers can now get a new iPhone every year.





 iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus bring a powerful new dimension to iPhone&rsquo;s

revolutionary Multi-Touch interface with 3D Touch, which senses how deeply you

press the display, letting you do all kinds of essential things more quickly and

simply. The new iPhones introduce Live Photos, which bring still images to life,

transforming instants frozen in time into unforgettable living memories. Live

Photos, 3D Touch, 12-megapixel iSight camera, 5-megapixel FaceTime HD camera

with Retina Flash and more are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip, the most

advanced chip ever in a smartphone, delivering faster performance and great

battery life. iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are designed from the strongest glass

on any smartphone and 7000 series aluminum, the same alloy used in the aerospace

industry, in gorgeous metallic finishes that now include rose gold.



 &ldquo;iPhone Forever is Sprint&rsquo;s latest and greatest option to get these

amazing new iPhones. It is a revolutionary program that fundamentally changes

the way our customers will get Apple&rsquo;s most iconic devices. For a very low

monthly payment, new or existing Sprint Customers will be able to get iPhone 6s

from Sprint and be guaranteed to get a new iPhone every year. I cannot imagine a

better way to have the latest iPhone."



 Marcelo Claure, Sprint CEO

 In Stores or Direct 2 You on September 25



 Customers can pre-register beginning today, with pre-order available on

September 12. Go to www.sprint.com/iphoneforever to learn more. To celebrate the

availability of iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, Sprint stores will open early at

8:00 a.m. local time on September 25. Customers also can call 1-800-SPRINT1 or

visit www.sprint.com/iphoneforever to place an order or learn more about iPhone

Forever. Sprint also offers a unique and incredibly convenient way for iPhone

fans to avoid the crush of lines and crowds. With Sprint Direct 2 You, customers

can opt to have a wireless expert bring the device to them and set it up,

transferring all content and demonstrating useful features. This one of a kind

Direct 2 You service is available today for free1 in more than 20 markets

nationwide.









 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





