                             560 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            November 9, 2015 Monday

                               Bangalore Edition



A Month into iPhone Launch, Apple Offers Deep Discounts



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 439 words





In a first, Apple has decided to offer discount on its latest iPhones in less

than a month of its launch, with the Cupertino-based company initiating a

buyback offer on iPhone 6s and 6sPlus, giving consumers discount of up to .

34,000 to boost sales.' This is also the first instance



when Apple and its distributors are going to buy back old models under the

scheme to ensure that all transactions are genuine and reduce the burden of the

retailer who can push sales further, three senior trade partners of Apple in



India said. The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus were launched last month in India at '.

62,000-.'92,000 depending on memory and model, but sales were down 15-20% over

last year as iPhone 6 and 6Plus which hit the market last year were cheaper by '

. 8,500-9,000.



Ingram Micro, one of the Apple's four iPhone distributors, has just rolled out

the buyback scheme in a handful of Apple stores and multi-brand cellphone retail

chains in South India which will be subsequently taken national. The other three

distributors will also follow suit since the United States company wants to

achieve its target of trebling sales during the October-Decem



ber quarter over last year.



"This is the first time a company and its distributors are closely monitoring

the buyback at the re



tail end to track sales, showing how desperate Apple is to increase sales in

India since it did not expect such a weak launch for



the new iPhones," a senior executive with one of the leading trade partners

said.



"Earlier companies offering buyback used to give indirect subsidy to retailers

to compensate and it was the retailer's headache to sell the old phone, but this

time the entire process is driven by Apple," he said. The buyback . 34,000 on

the new iPhones price of ' is against iPhone 6. The firm informed trade it will

buy back select hi-end handsets of rival Samsung.



Apple has also created a separate website where retailers have to upload details

of old handsets against which new models will be bought. The buyback offer comes

at a time when the latest iPhones



are getting sold at 7-11% discount since last week in ecommerce marketplaces

such as Flipkart, Snapdeal and Amazon.



Snapdeal's vice-president (category management) Rahul Taneja said various

promotional offers has led to a great traction for the new iPhones. "We are

getting orders for iPhone 6s not only from metros, but also from Tier II

cities," he said. .



Last month, during an analyst conference call, the Apple management had

acknowledged that the higher pricing of iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in India and some

other markets due to foreign exchange fluctuations has had an impact on their

sales.



LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





