

SYDNEY/SAN FRANCISCO: The new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus hit stores yesterday, with
dozens of people - and a robot - queueing in Sydney to kick off a global sales
cycle that will be scrutinised for signs of how much juice Apple's marquee
product has left.

Analysts expect 12 million to 13 million phones to be sold in the first weekend,
up from more than 10 million last year when the hugely successful iPhone 6's
launch was delayed in China, the world's biggest smartphone market.

Among the first to pick up the new iPhone 6s in a cold, rainy Sydney was a
telepresence robot named Lucy, operated by marketing executive Lucy Kelly.

"I obviously have my work and other things to attend to and can't spend two days
lining up so my boss at work suggested I take one of the robots down and use it
to stand in my place," she said via an iPad mounted on top of the wheeled robot.

"I love new gadgets. The new camera is meant to be amazing."

Fans from San Francisco to London to Sydney have camped out for days prior to
the release, and Apple said earlier this month that pre-orders suggested sales
were on pace to beat last year's first-weekend performance.

Apple's flagship iPhones generated nearly two-thirds of the US giant's revenue
in the latest quarter. First released in 2007, the iPhone is Apple's
best-selling device to date.

"The stage is set for Apple to show year-over-year growth over the Herculean
iPhone 6 sales," FBR Capital Markets senior analyst Daniel Ives said.

After a redesign last year in which Apple enlarged the iPhone's screen and added
mobile payments, the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus boast more modest improvements.

The phones, which are the same size as last year's models, feature improved
cameras and 3D touch, a display technology that responds according to how hard
users press their screens.

"Today is like Christmas for pocket film-makers all around the world because the
iPhone 6S Plus is like the newest, greatest toy we have to play with," said
Jason van Genderen, who makes movies on smart phones in Sydney.

"I've never seen anything like it, it's astounding. The camera craft has now
come up to story-telling craft."

Apple executives have said just a fraction of their customers have upgraded to
the iPhone 6, suggesting they have plenty of room to grow this year.

Lacklustre offerings this year from rival smartphone manufacturer Samsung also
will help Apple stand out in the marketplace, analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor
Insights & Strategy wrote in an e-mail. - Reuters

