
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 26 -- The new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus hit stores on Friday, with
dozens of people - and a robot - queueing in Sydney to kick off a global sales
cycle that will be scrutinized for signs of how much juice Apple Inc.'s marquee
product has left.


 Analysts expect a record 12 million to 13 million phones to fly off the shelves
in the first weekend, up from more than 10 million last year when the hugely
successful iPhone 6's launch was delayed in China, the world's biggest
smartphone market.
 Among the first to pick up the new iPhone 6s in a cold, rainy Sydney was a
telepresence robot named Lucy, operated by marketing executive Lucy Kelly.
 "I obviously have my work and other things to attend to and can't spend two
days lining up so my boss at work suggested I take one of the robots down and
use it to stand in my place," she said via an iPad mounted on top of the wheeled
robot.
 Fans around the world have camped out for days prior to the release, and Apple
has said pre-orders suggested sales were on pace to beat last year's
first-weekend performance.
 Sales of iPhones accounted for nearly two-thirds of Apple's revenue in the
latest quarter. First released in 2007, it is Apple's best-selling device to
date.
 "The stage is set for Apple to show year-over-year growth over the Herculean
iPhone 6 sales," FBR Capital Markets senior analyst Daniel Ives said.
 The phones, which are the same size as last year's models, feature improved
cameras and 3D touch, a display technology based on a "Taptic Engine" that
responds according to how hard users press their screens.
 "The rumors are true - the battery capacity is down a bit, and we suspect the
reduced battery size is to accommodate the Taptic Engine," repair firm iFixit,
which opened up an iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, said on its website. (bit.ly/1OxY5xs)
 Apple has said battery life is unchanged in the new phones.
 Lacklustre offerings this year from rival smartphone manufacturer Samsung
Electronics Co. also will help Apple stand out in the marketplace, analyst
Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy wrote in an email.
 "Over the long haul, the 6s will eclipse the 6 as Apple is even more
competitive versus Samsung in emerging regions and is gaining share in
traditional regions," Mr. Moorhead said.
 The iPhone goes on sale in countries including China, , the U.K and the U.S.

