                             576 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                           WeekendPost (South Africa)



                               September 12, 2015



Looking at latest from Apple



LENGTH: 969 words





APPLE is bolstering its money-pumping iPhone line while looking to dive deep

into businesses with iPads and dominate living rooms with Apple TV hardware

tuned to app-loving lifestyles.

 Tricked-out new iPhone 6 models, along with overhauled Apple TV hardware and

iPad Pro tablets with enlarged screens, were major announcements at the

technology titan's media event in San Francisco this week.





 South African iStore marketing coordinator Ashley Da Silva said: "We are very

excited about the products announced by Apple. We are awaiting confirmation on

local availability and will share this ... as soon as we can."

 Weekend Post breaks down some of the biggest announcements.

 iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus

 Apple introduced two updated iPhones to build on the success of large-screen

handsets introduced last year that have dominated the high-end smartphone

market.

 The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have the same overall dimensions as the previous

versions, but with new technologies under the hood.

 A key new feature is "3D touch", which responds to pressure exerted on the

screen to allow users to look inside messages and applications. By responding to

sensing pressure, the phones enable users to dip in and out of content without

losing their place.

 The 6S has the 12cm display of its predecessor and the 6S Plus - which updates

one of the more popular handsets in the "phablet category" - has the same sized

screen.

 But the devices have more powerful processors that allow for improved graphics,

harder glass and a new aluminum body.

 The new iPhone models sport an improved iSight rear-facing camera capable of

shooting 4K video, up to 12MP from the predecessors' 8MP and front-facing 5MP

lens.

 A new feature named "Live Photos" creates a brief animation by extending the

captured moment, stitching several frames together.

 The new models will be shipped in 16GB, 64GB and 128GB versions.

  Both phones keep the sizing conventions of predecessor models the iPhone 6 and

iPhone 6 Plus, at 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches (12cm and 14cm) diagonally.

 Animated backgrounds will also be a new feature.

 ESTIMATED COST: R8845 (iPhone 6S 16GB); R10205 (iPhone 6S Plus 16GB)

 Apple TV

 Apple has unveiled a new gaming- focused version of its Apple TV set-top box in

an effort to challenge Sony and Microsoft's hold on the multibillion-rand gaming

industry.

 The new Apple TV can be controlled through a revamped version of digital

assistant Siri to search for and play films and TV programmes via voice command.



  Apple's music streaming service Apple Music will also be integrated into the

new operating system tvOS, which is based on the iPhone and iPad system iOS.

 Most significantly, tvOS will allow developers to create apps for the Apple TV,

opening up major opportunities for gaming. Netflix, HBO and Hulu apps will all

be available as well.

 "We believe the future of television is apps," Apple CEO Tim Cook said.

 Apple TV comes with a redesigned remote control that can be used for advanced

gaming features, and supports multi-player gaming.

 Games that will be available for it include the new Guitar Hero title, Disney

Infinity, Rayman Adventures, Super Bros Creator and Crossy Road.

 ESTIMATED COST: Starting at R2030

 iPad Pro

 The iPad Pro features a 32cm screen and a far faster processor.

 The device is the third size of iPad, following the introduction of the

original iPad in 2010.

 The iPad Pro also is far more powerful, with a new A9 chip that Apple said made

it 1.8 times more powerful than the most recent iPad Air.

 "iPad is the clearest expression of our vision of the future of personal

computing," Cook said.

 The iPad Pro features a 10-hour battery life and four speakers.

 It is slightly thicker than the iPad Air at 6.9mm compared to 6.1mm.

 ESTIMATED COST: Starting at R10886

 Apple Pencil

 The pencil, which allows users to apply different levels of pressure to the

iPad Pro for different effects when drawing, writing or using other apps, is the

first time Apple has made such an accessory.

 The iPad Pro stylus, called Apple Pencil, was designed for high-precision

illustration and 3D design applications.

 Apple's late founder Steve Jobs, introducing the iPhone in 2007, famously said:

"Nobody wants a stylus."

 ESTIMATED COST: R1349

 Apple Surface iPad Keyboard

 The "Smart Keyboard" is a case that fits around the iPad Pro but also includes

physical keys.

 ESTIMATED COST: R2302

 Hermès Apple Watch

 Alongside new gold and rose gold aluminium versions of the Apple Watch Sport

models, a collaboration with Hermès has resulted in a new selection of Apple

Watches in stainless steel with hand-stitched leather bands in distinctive

styles, comprising the Single Tour, Double Tour and manly Cuff.

 The Single Tour for the 38mm stainless steel case is a classic Hermès design

with a buckle that gives a nod to Hermès' equestrian heritage.

 It will be available in a selection of fauve Barenia, noir box and capucine

Swift leather.

 ESTIMATED COST: Starting at R14987.85

 iOS 9

  Siri, Apple's virtual personal assistant, has been updated for iOS 9 to be

more proactive.

  It will automatically suggest apps to launch or people to contact based on

usage patterns, and notify users when they need to leave for appointments,

taking into account traffic conditions.

 iOS 9 will learn what music you typically listen to in a certain location or at

a particular time of day, so when you plug in your headphones at the gym or get

into the car before work, it will automatically display playback controls for

your preferred app.

 Typed search queries will also deliver results from more categories, including

sports schedules, Netflix movies, photos, videos and information inside apps.

 ESTIMATED COST: Free

 SEEING FUTURE: Apple chief executive Tim Cook introduces the new iPad Pro

during an Apple launch event in San Francisco PHOTOGRAPH: EPA



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Weekend





                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD

                              All Rights Reserved





