                             577 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)



                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

                                National Edition



Iphone 7 may not spark much excitement; Better camera a plus, headphone jack a

minus



BYLINE: Josh McConnell, Financial Post



SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. FP8



LENGTH: 558 words





Just like clockwork, September is here and with it a brand new iPhone line from

Apple Inc. And if this year's iPhone looks suspiciously similar to last year's

iPhone, that's because, well, it is.



Called the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus, the new line marks the first time

Apple has not followed one of its S-series with a design change - a deviation

from its usual two-year design cycle. The dimensions of the new phones are

identical to the previous iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, though the weight is slightly

less.



The Financial Post was one of a few media outlets globally to receive early

review units of both phones to test all of the new features.



On the inside, there is a faster processor that's up to 40 per cent faster than

last year's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, plus there is up to 50-per-cent better

graphics capabilities. The phones feel quicker in simple day-to-day tasks such

as web browsing, switching between apps or restarting. More intensive actions

such as photo or video editing and gaming also load faster or render much more

quickly.



The Home button has also been redesigned, using a taptic engine vibration that

creates



the illusion of the user pressing a button without anything actually moving.

Removing the button helps seal the phones, making them water and dust resistant.



Controversially, Apple has also removed the headphone jack. The company said

this was done to help free up space internally for other technology, like a

bigger battery or the taptic engine. Regular headphones can now be connected

using an adapter, which will retail for only $10, for the device's Lightning

port.



Alternately, music lovers can use Bluetooth headphones, such as Apple's new

EarPods that are releasing in October. The only real usability issue with a lack

of headphone



jack is when you want to charge your phone while listening to music.



The most impressive part about the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is its camera.

The new phones feature a larger aperture, which means improved low-light photos

with better detail and less graininess. The smaller 4.4-inch iPhone is getting

optical stabilization as well, which features sensors that move the lens

slightly to fight against handshake movement and motion blur.



But the real story for this generation, and what Apple is hoping you' ll pay

extra for, is in the larger 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus. Instead of just one

12-megapixel camera, the phone has two. One is set at the usual wide angle of

other iPhones, but the second camera is a telephoto lens that's permanently

closer to subjects. This means you can now "zoom in" optically when taking

photos without losing quality. Software also uses both lenses to create a better

digital zoom up to 10 times, as opposed to the previous five times.



The iPhone continues to be among the best smartphones on the market, but the new

version could be a tough sell for some. The new features seem fairly

incremental.



If you have an iPhone 6s or 6s Plus, you won't see as much of a difference this

year other than the big camera upgrades. But if you have an even older iPhone,

then there is plenty to like about the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.



Both will be available Sept. 16 starting at $899 and $1,049, respectively, off

contract. You can read a comprehensive review at financial-Post.com.



Twitter.com/joshmcconnell !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights

reserved.



LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Marcio Jose Sanchez, The Associated Press; The only real usability

issue with the elimination of the headphone jack in the iPhone 7 is when you

want to charge your phone while listening to music. You won't be able to use

conventional headphones while charging.;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2016 National Post

                              All Rights Reserved





