                             578 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      August 23, 2016 Tuesday 2:26 PM GMT



iPhone 6s smashes Samsung's new Galaxy Note 7 in latest app speed test;

The Galaxy Note 7 may look better on paper, but this test shows the iPhone 6s is

still more responsive



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 321 words





Apple's iPhone 6s is still the fastest smartphone on the market - beating

Samsung's brand new Galaxy Note 7 in a speed test, despite being nearly a year

older.



In a video by YouTube user Phone Buff , the two phones are shown performing a

series of tasks, including launching apps and rendering video.



Both phones go through two laps of the app test under timed conditions.



The iPhone 6s quickly takes the lead, and even ends up "lapping" the Galaxy Note

7, with a finishing time of one 1 minute 51 seconds, compared to 2 minutes 49

seconds for the Samsung handset.



The test results may come as a surprise to some, as - on paper at least - the

Galaxy Note 7 is the superior device.



Samsung's smartphone features a 14-nanometer Qualcomm Snapdragon 820 quad-core

64-bit processor and 4GB RAM - which make the iPhone 6s ' dual-core A9 processor

and 2GB RAM look fairly meagre.



However, as the test proves, specs aren't everything, and the close integration

of Apple's hardware and software appears to give the iPhone a significant

advantage over most of its Android competitors.



In other respects, however, the Galaxy Note 7 has a lot to offer. The new jumbo

smartphone features a stunning 5.7-inch edge-to-edge display, a 12-megapixel

camera, waterproofing, and wireless charging.



It also has an in-built iris scanner, meaning you can open the device from the

lock screen almost instantly by simply looking at its front-facing camera.



Meanwhile, Apple is gearing up for the launch of its iPhone 7 at the beginning

of September.



The new handset is likely to look almost identical to the iPhone 6s. However, it

is expected to feature a dual lens camera , twin external speakers, a

pressure-sensitive Home button and more discrete antenna lines .



Controversially, Apple is also planning to remove the headphone jack , according

to reports, suggesting that users will have to rely on wireless headphones or

buy new ones with a Lightning connector.



LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





