                             579 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                       July 26, 2015 Sunday 02:01 AM EST



iPhone 7 rumor rollup: Solar-powered and worried about looks



BYLINE: Bob Brown



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 423  words





Click for image



Apple might as well just give up on coming out with an iPhone 6S or iPhone 7

after that, uh, devastating quarterly report in which it beat analysts'

estimates, saw earnings rise 38% and boasted of market share gains - only to see

its stock price plummet. But let's assume they're going to keep plugging ahead.



Solar power to the rescue



In of the most breathless posts we've come across in some time, the Express out

of the UK reports that "The Apple iPhone 7 might NEVER need to be recharged"

(their CAPITALIZATION). The secret sauce will be sub-touchscreen solar power

technology, for which Apple just received a patent.



Though by the end of this brief post, the reporter is already tamping down our

expectations, noting that the patent is vague, that such technology is really

not very new and that you just might not want to toss that Lightning cable quite

yet.



MNR Daily also piled on this news bit, and is hopeful that the technology could

address battery life shortcomings in the iPhone and Apple Watch. Though does

note that even if solar charging isn't just around the corner, power-saving

advances will be available in iOS 9 for the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus later this

year.



Speaking of the iPhone 6S...



Slashgear points to a Nowhereelse.fr post about front panels being readied for

the iPhone 6S, as evidence that Apple is definitely planning to introduce new

iPhones this fall. Except it does not that the panels are really the same size

as those of the iPhone 6, so the Nowhereelse.fr photos don't really prove much

of anything.



Back to the iPhone 7



Slashgear, citing an Apple patent filing, reports that the iPhone 7 could

actually look more like the iPhone 4 than the iPhone 6.



Today we're having a peek at the possibility that the iPhone 7 could return to

its slightly more retro "4" roots in look and feel. A refined look that worries

more about fashionability than it does about falling to the ground, breaking

into a million pieces. We're talking about glass on the back of this next iPhone

, not just sides that are (once again) flat.



The patent involves techniques for cutting into "a highly reflective and smooth

surface," presumably on an iPhone.



Latest iPhone 7 concept



Ivo Maric and Tomislay Rastovac dropped their slick iPhone 7 concept design onto

the Internet this week via YouTube, showing off a metal frame, smooth sapphire

glass, 16mp camera, syncing via a new "Apple Dock" and wireless charging

capabilities.



BGR sees the concept as borrowing from both the old iPhone 4 and the new Samsung

Galaxy S6.



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





