                             581 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            November 9, 2015 Monday

                                 Delhi Edition



Apple Offers Discounts Rs 34k to Up Sales Worth



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 498 words





In a first, Apple has decided to offer discount on its latest iPhones in less

than a month of its launch, with the Cupertino-based company initiating a

buyback offer on iPhone 6s and 6sPlus, giving consumers discount of up to '

34,000 to boost sales.



This is also the first instance when Apple and its distributors are going to buy

back old models under the scheme to ensure that all transactions are genuine and

reduce the burden of the retailer who can push sales further, three senior trade

partners of Apple in India said.



The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus were launched last month in India at ' '92,000 de .

62,000-.pending on memory and model, but sales were down 15-20% over last year

as iPhone 6 and 6Plus which hit the market last year were cheaper by '

8,500-9,000.



Ingram Micro, one of the Ap



ple's four iPhone distributors, has just rolled out the buyback scheme in a

handful of Apple stores and multi-brand cellphone retail chains in South India

which will be subsequently taken national. The other three distributors will

also follow suit since the US company wants to achieve its target of trebling

sales during the October-December quarter over last year.



"This is the first time a company and its distributors are closely monitoring

the buyback at the retail end to track sales, showing how desperate Apple is to

increase sales in India since it did not expect such a weak launch for the new

iPhones," a senior executive with one of the leading trade partners said.



"Earlier companies offering buyback used to give indirect subsidy to retailers

to compensate and it was the retailer's headache to sell the old phone, but this

time the entire process is driven by Apple," he said.



The buyback price of



' 34,000 on the new iPhones is against iPhone 6. The company



has informed trade that it will also buy back select hi-end handsets of rival

Samsung. Apple has also created a separate website where retailers have to

upload details of old handsets against which new models will be bought.



The buyback offer comes at a time when the latest iPhones are getting sold at

711% discount since last week in ecommerce marketplaces such as Flipkart,

Snapdeal and Amazon.



Snapdeal's vice-president (category management) Rahul Taneja said various

promotional offers has led to a great traction for the new iPhones. "We are

getting orders for iPhone 6s not only from metros, but also from Tier II

cities," he said. .



Last month, during an analyst conference call, the Apple management had

acknowledged that the higher pricing of iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in India and some

other markets due to foreign exchange fluctuations has had an impact on their

sales.



However, the company's chief executive officer Tim Cook was positive about

India's potential in the long run.The India price is . 14,000-16,000 more than

in ' markets such as the US, Middle East, Singapore and Hong Kong. The poor

sales in India are in stark contrast to the global picture where the new phones

are disappearing very fast from the shelves.



LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





