

Gadget geeks got their hands on the new iPhone 6s which went on sale in
Newcastle's Eldon Square on Friday morning.

The Apple store geared up for a 8am launch as the eagerly-awaited iPhone 6s and
6s Plus hit the shelves of Apple stores across the UK, at suggested retail
prices ranging from £539 up to £789 for the 128GB iPhone 6s Plus model.

Nina Millington one of several students keen to bag their chosen gold, silver,
space grey or new rose gold metallic finish.

Londoner Nina, a 19-year-old starting a biomedical sciences course at Newcastle
University next week, was after the rose gold.

"I've always had Apple products and I've had my phone several years now," she
said.

"From what I've seen the new one is very good and very durable. It can do
everything I need it to do and the university has an app to timetable everything
which I can use."

There was a cup of free coffee for those who wanted it as the queue of up to 40
waited quietly for doors to open at 8am and they were allowed orderly access one
by one.

Among those near the front of the queue was Qingya Zhang, 25, a Newcastle
University banking and finance student, who queued for nearly two hours.

"It's exciting," he said. "I'm really happy because I've been waiting a long
time for this phone.

"This will be much better than my previous one. I want a gold Apple 6s."

Among the happy buyers was a 16-year-old from Gateshead who had borrowed money
from his parents to buy a £619 rose gold 6s which he took immediately out of its
box and Christopher Johnston, a student and part-time worker from Jesmond, who
said he wanted the new 6s because of its extra features and took advantage of a
day off to buy it.

"I considered the rose gold but wasn't sure so got the gold instead," he said.

Most were heading straight off to explore their new buys but Ben McLaughlin, a
product manager from West Allotment, was on his way to work.

"I might have a play at lunch-time," he said. The 36-year-old has also been
among the first to buy new Apple products in the past and this time made his
£750 purchase within 40 minutes of arriving.

He said: "This has been better than previously; it's been more organised."

George Hua, who had gone along with his friend and fellow student Martin Ma to
make purchases, said: "I wanted a phone I can use at least two years and I think
this is the best quality."

"I like the design, it's easy to use and high quality I chose space grey."

Over at the Metrocentre, Gateshead, there were also early plans in place, with
doors of the Red Mall opening at 6am ahead of the launch which saw the iPhone 6s
Plus go on sale nationwide at a suggested retail price of £539 for the 16GB
model, £619 for the 64GB model and £699 for the 128GB model.

The iPhone 6s Plus phones come with a price tag of £619 for the 16GB model, £699
for the 64GB model and £789 for the 128GB model.

