

CHENNAI: Lookup, the messaging app that recently procured $2.5 million funding,
has partnered with Bengaluru-based Sangeetha Mobiles to deliver Apple iPhone 6s
and 6s Plus to its users in Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad.

To make use of the offer, one needs to download the Lookup app, which connects
users to local businesses.

The user will then have to search for Sangeetha Mobiles and chat with the
customer care executives who will guide them through the process of pre-booking
iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus which will be delivered on the day of the launch.

Payment can be made via cash on delivery, EMI payments or with debit/credit
cards. Users will also get a one-year warranty and insurance for the phone.

In case the price of the phones drop, Sangeetha Mobiles will issue a voucher for
the difference.

The offer is available till 12 am midnight on Thursday.

Deepak Ravindran, founder and CEO of Lookup, said, "We have integrated various
on-demand services on Lookup. Treading forward along those lines, on demand
mobile phones seemed like the obvious next step."

Lookup recently obtained Series A funding of $2.5 million in a round led by
Vinod Khosla's personal fund Khosla Impact which also saw participation from
Twitter co-founder Biz Stone, Infosys founder Narayana Murthy's Catamaran
Ventures and Global Founders Capital.

Other participants include Geneva-based ACE & Company, Singapore-based M&S
partners, Newx Look fashion chain founder Tom Singh, Lookout founder Kevin
Mahaffey and LivSpace founder and former Google Local head Anuj Srivastava.

In January this year, Lookup raised a total of $382,000 in its seed round from
Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan, DeNA Japan, Beenos founder Teruhide Sato
and MKS Switzerland SA. They also participated in the current round.

Sangeetha Mobiles has 320 outlets spread all over India with a customer base of
around 7 million people and a turnover of Rs 900 crore.

Chandu Reddy, director of Sangeetha Mobiles, said, "We have always brought in
something new in the market. For us, it is never about the prices but it was
always to add more value to the customers as price protection is necessary.
Price drop is avoided as we are the pioneers in ensuring that if there is a
price drop in a particular product within 30 days of the purchase, we ensure
that the customers don't suffer from this as we refund the excess amount
personally to the customer."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

