                             597 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      January 25, 2016 Monday 10:40 PM GMT



Is this Apple's next iPhone? Leaked photo claims to show 'iPhone 5se' with

4-inch screen;

Apple is rumoured to be working on a new 4-inch iPhone model called the iPhone

5se, for customers who prefer a smaller screen size



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 356 words





A photo of what appears to be Apple's next iPhone has leaked online, with

reports suggesting it could be called the "iPhone 5se".



The picture shows a device that is similar in appearance to the 4.7-inch iPhone

6s and the 5.5-inch iPhone 6s Plus, with curved glass edges and a "Touch ID"

fingerprint reader.



It is pictured next to an iPhone 5 for scale, showing that the new device will

be roughly the same size as its predecessor, with a 4-inch display.



The image was first shared on the Dutch website One More Thing , which has a

history of reliable leaks. The site uncovered pictures of the iPad Air 2 display

two years ago, as well as the iPad Air design the year before.



A separate report by 9to5Mac on Friday claimed that the new device will be

called the iPhone 5se - not the iPhone 6c as previously thought .



Have your say in our comments section below



The "se" suffix has reportedly been described in two ways by Apple employees: as

a "special edition" variation of the 4-inch iPhone screen size, and as an

"enhanced" version of the iPhone 5s.



Other rumoured features include an 8-megapixel rear camera and 1.2-megapixel

front camera, support for Live Photos and Apple Pay, and the same Silver, Space

Grey, Gold and Rose Gold colour options as the 6s lineup.



The iPhone 5se is expected to launch in the Spring of 2016, alongside a new

version of the Apple watch, known as the Apple Watch 2 .



It will sell alongside Apple's existing phones, the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus ,

which launched in September. However, it is expected to be significantly cheaper

, with KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo suggesting a price of between

$400-500 (£250-350).



It will only account for 8-9% of next year's iPhone sales, but it will help

Apple expand its presence in emerging markets, and among consumers on tighter

budgets, according to Mr Kuo.



Apple's iPhone 7 is not expected to arrive until September 2016, but rumours are

already swirling about what features it could include, including a curved screen

and the removal of the "home" button.



Could this be the iPhone 7? Amazing concept video shows new futuristic design



Will you be buying Apple's next iPhone?



LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





