                             599 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)



                             April 11, 2016 Monday

                                 First Edition



At last, the perfect iPhone for people with tiny hands;

WELLS AND TRULY



BYLINE: Peter Wells



SECTION: THE GUIDE; Livewire; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 561 words





Following the recent launch of the iPhone SE and iPad Pro, a friend of mine and

long-time Apple enthusiast described the event as like "Apple's greatest hits,

volume two". I saw that sentiment mirrored several times: this was old tech in a

shiny new box, or in the case of the iPhone SE, a box that was first seen in

2013.



It's easy to dismiss the iPhone SE as the guts of an iPhone 6s in an iPhone 5

case. Even if you view the iPhone SE on that level, I think it's an interesting

and unprecedented move from Apple to release a device that is comparable to its

six-month-old flagship while still costing $500 less.



The last time Apple made a mid-range iPhone, the iPhone 5c, it was clearly

inferior to the rest of the line-up. It had a year-old processor and camera, and

while I loved the candy-coloured cases, for some it screamed "cheap".



Here, Apple has made better compromises to lower the price; we have last year's

Touch ID sensor, the front-facing "selfie camera" is just 1.2 megapixels and

there's no 3D Touch, which brought contextual menus to iOS. But Touch ID is fast

enough, I never take selfies and I rarely used 3D Touch, so for me, these are

the perfect compromises.



Yes, it's an old look, but the iPhone 5s was a great design, and reusing it no

doubt helped Apple keep the price down.



The phone feels solid in the hand, less slippery than the iPhone 6s, and the

boxy design makes it an easier point-and-shoot camera to hold.



And what a camera. Right now, the two best smartphone cameras are found in the

iPhone 6s and the Samsung Galaxy S7. Both are brilliant in their own way. That

the iPhone SE contains the same camera as the 6s makes it a smartphone

photography bargain.



And of course, with a flagship A9 processor inside, the SE is crazy fast. iOS 9

can feel a little cramped - it was clearly designed with larger screens in mind

- but after a few days of missing tap targets I was back into the swing of the

smaller screen.



What I wasn't expecting was the great battery life. After a full day of

tweeting, listening to podcasts, taking photos and generally staring at the

screen, I still had 40 per cent battery at 6pm. Turning on low power mode in iOS

9 removed any fear the SE wouldn't last until it made it back to a charger.

That's the kind of battery performance I would see in the giant iPhone 6s+ and

larger Android phones, and better than I was getting from the 6s.



The iPhone SE will be a niche device. Larger phones are far more popular, the

market has shown. But there's still room for smaller devices, especially one

that is packed with high-end features. I suspect Apple will sell a tonne of

these to enterprise customers and those rare few of us who prefer smaller

devices.



As someone with tiny hands who could never really stretch their thumbs across

the iPhone 6 keyboard, and had no chance with the iPhone 6+, the smaller phone

is a joy to type on. In fact, I've typed most of this review on it, with a quick

edit on an iPad.



The iPhone SE is simply the best smaller phone I've used. It betters its only

real competitor, the Sony Xperia Z5 Compact, thanks to a more reliable camera,

faster performance, and the consistency, simplicity and polish iOS 9 has over

Android. And it's $170 cheaper.



The iPhone SE is not for everyone, but for those looking for a smaller, cheaper

phone with a flagship feel, it's easily the best option available.



LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A little goes a long way with the new iPhone SE. Photo:

Bloomberg



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





