                             601 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Denver Post



                            September 9, 2016 Friday

                              FRI REGIONAL Edition



Apple won't report first-weekend sales of its iPhone 7



BYLINE: By Dow Jones Newswires



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 14A



LENGTH: 285 words





Apple Inc. doesn't plan to disclose first weekend sales of the iPhone 7, in a

departure from its past practice.



Apple has disclosed the figures for its new iPhones the past eight years. Last

year, for example, Apple said it sold 13 million iPhone 6s and 6s Plus phones in

their first three days of availability, up 30 percent from initial sales of the

iPhone 6 models the prior year.



Some analysts and investors have viewed the numbers as a gauge of enthusiasm for

the new phones. Apple said the figures are less relevant than in the past.



Apple is "now at a point where we know before taking the first customer preorder

that we will sell out of iPhone 7," the company said Thursday in a statement.

"These initial sales will be governed by supply, not demand, and we have decided

that it is no longer a representative metric for our investors and customers."



Indeed, although initial orders for the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus exceeded those for

the prior year, that momentum appears not to have been sustained. Apple doesn't

break out sales by model, but iPhone sales have declined in the past two

quarters from a year earlier.



There is another reason why comparisons with past years may not be relevant: The

iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will be available for preorders in 28 countries beginning

Friday, more than double the 12 countries in which the iPhone 6s was initially

available last year.



Apple's initial weekend sales numbers probably do represent supply, said Toni

Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. However, he added, Apple

sometimes provides another count the number of preorders taken in the first 24

hours of sales that was a decent measurement of demand. Apple isn't providing

that number this year.



LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post

                              All Rights Reserved





