                             605 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                    Scotsman



                          September 10, 2015 Thursday



Apple launches new iPad Pro, iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus



LENGTH: 289  words





APPLE has officially announced the launch of a new, bigger tablet computer

called the iPad Pro.



The technology giant also used a live event to unveil the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus,

which come both come with a pressure sensitive screen that uses technology

called 3D Touch where applying more or less pressure to a tap opens new

shortcuts.



They will, as rumoured, come in a rose gold colour finish too.



The new iPhones will go on sale on September 25, with pre-orders for the devices

beginning on September 12, starting at £539 for 6s and £619 for the 6s Plus



The firm's chief Tim Cook called the iPad Pro the "biggest news in iPad since

the iPad" as he unveiled the device on stage at the live event in San Francisco.

The iPad Pro will have a 12.9 inch screen with more than five million pixels.



Mr Cook called it "our vision of the future of personal computing".



The iPad Pro will come with a stylus called the Apple Pencil. This is despite

late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs famously once saying: "If you see a stylus,

they blew it."



A keyboard for the Pro was shown off too, clearly marking the Pro as a major new

rival for Microsoft's popular Surface line of tablets.



A UK price is yet to be confirmed for the iPad Pro but it will go on sale in

November.



A much rumoured revamp of the Apple TV was also confirmed, with Apple's voice

assistant technology Siri now integrated to use in searches.



The Apple TV has also had its interface and software overhauled in order to

compete with the likes of Amazon's Fire TV box and service.



There was also a fashion conscious aspect to the live show in San Francisco, as

Apple introduced a new line of Apple Watch straps, as well as a partnership with

brand Hermes to create a collection of the smartwatches.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: STTS





                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





