                             610 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         The Straits Times (Singapore)



                              April 1, 2016 Friday



iPhone SE launches in S'pore with little fanfare



BYLINE: Lester Hio



SECTION: HOME



LENGTH: 256 words





It was an iPhone launch the like of which has not been seen in recent years: no

snaking queues or rush by consumers eager to be the first one here to get their

hands on the latest model.



The petite 4-inch iPhone SE was released yesterday in 12 countries, including

Singapore.



But unlike previous unveilings of flagship Apple iPhone models, this was a

relatively muted affair, with no overnight queues - despite two out of the three

telcos not offering pre-orders as they have in the past.



Last September's launch of the Apple 6s and 6s Plus saw fans line up a day early

even in the midst of the haze.



Both M1 and StarHub accepted only walk-in sales for the SE yesterday, though

Singtel took pre-orders.



The iPhone SE is a very different phone from Apple's flagship models, being a

mid-range phone with a smaller form.



With a display size of 4 inches, it is much smaller than the 4.7-inch and

5.5-inch displays of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus respectively.



It is also significantly cheaper. The 16GB and 64GB models cost $658 and $828

respectively without telco subsidies, compared with the $1,048 price tag on the

16GB iPhone 6s.



IDC Asia-Pacific Research manager Kiranjeet Kaur attributed the slow response to

the fact that the phone is targeted at a niche segment of users who want a small

phone due to personal preference.



"Everyone has moved on to larger screens," she said.



"Singaporeans are hooked on their smartphones and consuming content like videos

and games. So a small screen is not what fulfils their requirement at this

point."



LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





