


HIGHLIGHT: Latest phone a leap in technology


CRISTIAN Nugent woke up at the crack of dawn to make sure he was the first in
line in Toowoomba to get the latest iPhone.

The iPhone 6s was released yesterday and Apple enthusiasts were queuing at the
Telstra Shop Grand Central from 6am.

Mr Nugent said it was worth the wait to be one of the first people in Toowoomba
to have the new iPhone.

"I've had all the iPhones and the new technology on this phone just looks
awesome," he said.

"I think there is always so much hype around the new phones because people like
to have the latest and best things.

"It's pretty exciting to be one of the first people to own one plus it's cool I
have a pink phone now."

As the first person to walk away with the new iPhone, Mr Nugent received a pair
of Beats Studio headphones, valued at $400.

"I expected to walk away with a new phone but not a pair of headphones as well.
It's been a good morning," he said.

The features of the new iPhone 6s include 3D touch, upgrade to the front-facing
and live photos. It's also faster and has sturdier glass.

Telstra Shop Grand Central store leader Ian Bryant said there were 28 staff
members working to keep up with demand.

"This time of year is iPhone Christmas. The rush starts now and will continue
for up to four weeks," he said.

"There are a lot of people out there who have been waiting for this phone to
come out.

"Every September Apple brings out a new iPhone and at Telstra we have new phone
feeling, which means customers can upgrade every single year without having to
cancel their contract.

"This is an in-between model and normally they only have minor changes but the
iPhone 6s is a huge leap forward in technology.

"It is amazing and all future technology will take after it."

iPhone 6S and 6S Plus

Colours are black, silver, gold and rose gold

3D Touch lets you "peek" by pressing lightly or "pop" by pressing harder.

New 64-bit A9 chip that is 70% faster

Second generation touch ID fingerprint sensor

12 mega pixel iSight camera and a five mega pixel front-facing camera

