                             616 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 The Australian



                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday

                               Australian Edition



Apple's 'peek and pop' won't leave you hard-pressed to master your phone



BYLINE: CHRIS GRIFFITH, TECH REVIEW



SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 12



LENGTH: 625  words





The iPhone 6s makes a quantum leap in several directions



After two weeks with iPhone 6S, I'm already an addict. I'm hooked on its peek

and pop.



Sure, iPhone 6s looks like its predecessor. But this is the most important

iPhone upgrade for years.



The hardware is not spectacularly different, but the 6s changes the way we

interact with phones. With the new 3D Touch feature, many important smartphone

operations are just a tap away.



Peek and pop are the pet names Apple gives to its 3D Touch feature. Accessing

information is radically quicker. You press the display harder than normal to

take a peek at information, then press even harder, until you feel a pop, to

access it.



Peek and pop is everywhere. When I hard press on an email in my inbox, a window

floats above the inbox showing its first lines. If I let go, the floating window

vanishes, and I'm back at the inbox.



Or, with my finger still pressing the display, I can flick left and right to

delete an email, or mark it as read/unread, or flick upwards to access another

menu, which appears underneath. If I press harder again, the window pops and the

email permanently opens. Your prodding finger can obscure text, but the

game-changing benefit is that it just takes a few taps.



Email is just the start. Hard pressing on a text message gives you a quick

reply, a hard press on Apple Maps drops a pin and generates directions to a

destination, its phone number or opens its website.



Browsing in Safari, hard pressing a link previewed its web page, or opened it in

a new tab, or copied the address, and so on.



There are more than 20 Apple apps using this feature, and dozens of third-party

developers won't be far behind.



Its usefulness goes beyond triggering menu options. When I hard press on Apple's

soft keyboard, it turns into a useful trackpad with simple cursor control.



Peeking and popping certainly compress enormous functionality into a couple of

taps. There are also quick actions. Popping gives you new ways of using apps. If

I press hard on the camera icon, I can take a selfie, record a video or slow

motion, or snap a photo.



iPhone 6s introduces live photos, where the camera quietly snaps three seconds

of video when taking a still. Apple is not first here; HTC rolled out a similar

feature called Zoe two years ago.



Phone photography is mostly about social events and conviviality, so a little

video and audio isn't out of place. My live photos of a Sydney rock concert

preserved flashing stage lights and samples of music; it encapsulated the

moment.



Live photos does double your use of storage. Each time I took one, the camera

generated two files: a regular .JPG still and a MOV movie file of 2-3 megabytes.



You can load a live photo as wallpaper on the home and lock screens. I imagine

live photos of wriggling babies will be popular on parental phones. Full

synching of live photos across devices don't seem to work yet. You get the still

image on synched devices but no motion. With Facebook supporting live photos by

year's end, and other apps adopting it, it should prove popular.



iPhone 6s shoots 4K video at 30 frames per second, but you don't switch this

setting on in the camera app. Instead you do a deep dive into "Photos & Camera"

in settings, which seems convoluted. You can zoom and pinch during recording and

during playback.



Other features include higher resolution 12 and 5-megapixel cameras, a faster A9

processor with faster graphics, and a new sensor for Touch ID, which greatly

increases the speed of fingerprint recognition.



The iPhone 6s and big brother iPhone 6s Plus may not seem a radical change, but

peek and pop are truly a quantum leap.More on iPhone 6s in The Australian on

September 29. Chris Griffith travelled to the launch in San Francisco courtesy

of Apple.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





