                             617 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Indian Express



                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday



Apple's best India quarter yet as iPhone shipments cross 800,000



BYLINE: shruti dhapola



LENGTH: 483  words





Apple's October-December quarter for India was its best ever in the country with

iPhone shipments crossing 800,000, according to research firm Counterpoint

Research. This is significant growth if one considers that Apple shipped a total

of 1.7 million iPhones in India for its entire fiscal year 2015, which ends in

October. Apple will reveal results for Q1 of 2016 on January 26.



Counterpoint's senior analyst Tarun Pathak said Apple's sales grew due to

price-cuts and aggressive marketing campaigns, which included EMIs and buyback

schemes. Last quarter, even the latest iPhone 6s series. which launched at a

considerable markup in India, saw rare discounts, unusual for new Apple devices.



Watch our video review of the Apple iPhone 6s Plus

(http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TMU19HBCt4k)



"India saw one of the fastest rollout of Apple's flagship during the quarter.

Though the initial sales were hurt by the steep pricing, and the overall

portfolio pricing wasn't as stable as compared to a year ago, it picked up pace

along the quarter. A wider distribution network than ever before also helped

boost sales; Apple now has five distributors in the country and thus has more

reach," said Pathak.



Counterpoint's data shows that Apple's numbers were also up thanks to the sale

of older iPhone models like iPhone 5s, which saw a massive price-cut and was

retailing at a price-segment of Rs 20,000 during the quarter. Pathak adds that

the price-cuts, coupled with aspirational value attached to the Apple brand,

helped it win over more users.



Must see: Apple iPhone 6s, 6 get discounts: Here are the best deals

(http://indianexpress.com/article/technology/mobile-tabs/apple-

iphone-6s-iphone-6s-plus-price-cut-discount/)



While India's smartphone market is dominated by Android OS with players like

Samsung and Micromax holding on to the top two positions, Apple still generates

considerable buzz. More recently, the company indicated that it is taking the

Indian market much more seriously and will be bringing in Apple Stores to the

country soon.



"India is now one of the high potential market in APAC region beyond China for

Apple, not only in terms of volume, but also the massive scale and opportunity

that lies ahead," says Pathak.



An Apple spokesperson recently confirmed

(http://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-news-technology/apple-stores-i

n-india-soon-company-seeks-govt-approval-for-retail-stores/) that the company

had filed an application with the the Department of Industrial Policy and

Promotion (DIPP) to set up its retail outlets. The development takes place comes

after the government relaxed the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy for

single brand retailing.



Also read: Apple Stores in India soon? Company seeks govt approval for retail

stores

(http://indianexpress.com/article/technology/tech-news-technology/apple-stores-i

n-india-soon-company-seeks-govt-approval-for-retail-stores/)



LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





