                             619 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                South Wales Echo



                          September 30, 2015 Wednesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



ARE THE LATEST APPLE PRODUCTS WORTH A BITE?



BYLINE: Nicholas Fearn



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14



LENGTH: 708 words





THAT time of the year has come and gone www.again.No, I'm not talking about

Christmas or Easter - I'm on about Apple's annual September event.



This year's took place in San Francisco on September 9 and saw the

California-based tech giant announce the longrumoured iPad Pro and iPhone 6S/6S

Plus, as well as a new Apple TV.



Without a doubt, the biggest announcement is the iPad Pro, Apple's rival to the

Microsoft Surface.



The tablet - as the name suggests - is purely aimed at a business to business

audience.



Its 12.9-inch retina display is perfect for typing out important documents and

emails on the go, and if you're in need of extra precision in this department,

you can get yourself a dedicated keyboard cover. But it's pricey, retailing for

$169 (about £110) in the US.



The iPencil is another dedicated iPad pro accessory. The stylus allows you to

jot down notes and doodles within specialist apps, which, of course, is going to

be handy if you're a creative type.



However, again, it's quite expensive. In the US, it costs $99 (about £65).



Anything else cool? The Pro also comes with Apple's powerful, new 64-bit A9X

chip, with third-generation 64-bit architecture, which the company says is

capable of providing desktop-quality processing power and console-quality

graphics.



You get iOS 9 right out of the box, Apple's new mobile operating system, meaning

access to services like the App Store and Apple Music.



While core apps such as Mail, Notes and Siri have been improved, there are a

variety of new features. In the case of the iPad, you have Split View. This

allows you to do two things at once - perfect if you're busy with work on the

train but want to check out your messages.



The iPad Pro will be available in November, along with the accessories mentioned

above - just in time for Christmas.



It'll be available in three metallic finishes: silver, gold and space grey. As

for memory, you'll have to choose between 32GB or 128GB.



Other big announcements include the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. They're identical in

terms of design when compared to their predecessors - the 6 and 6 Plus - but

that's not to say you need to be disappointed.



They carry a number of exciting internal improvements and headline features.

Most exciting of all is 3D Touch, which introduces new ways to use and

experience the iPhone just by adding pressure to the display.



For example, if you press on the iPhone's display lightly, you're able to peek

at emails in your inbox. And if you want to open one, you simply press a little

harder. Awesome, right? The 6S also comes with a 12-megapixel camera, beefed up

from the eight-megapixel offering we saw on the iPhone 6. Features include

geo-tagging, touch focus, simultaneous 4K video and 8MP image recording,

face/smile detection, HDR and "Live Photos". The latter, which is new, allows

you to reveal the moments before and after a photo was taken just by pressing on

it harder than usual.



There's a five-megapixel camera on the front, too. And what's quite neat is that

when you take selfies, you have the ability to use your display as a flash.



Like the iPad Pro, the 6S is powered by Apple's third-generation 64-bit chip,

A9, which is apparently 70% faster CPU and 90% faster GPU performance compared

to its predecessor, the A8.



What does this mean in reality? A faster performance and supposed improved

battery life.



The 6S and 6S Plus are available to purchase now.



You can get both models in gold, silver, space grey and rose grey - with the 6S

starting at £539 and the 6S Plus.



Prices get more expensive as the memory capacity gets bigger.



Last, but certainly not least, is the new Apple TV.



It runs with the new tvOS operating system - based on iOS - and enables iOS

developers to create apps and games for the Apple TV.



These will be available to download in the new Apple TV App Store.



It comes with the new Siri Remote, which allows you to search for content using

Apple's personal assistant.



While Siri is far from perfect, it's still going to be a useful way to find

stuff you want, instead of sifting through content libraries. The remote's touch

surface also makes things easier. With it, you can fluently browse through

films, games and apps.



It'll be available to purchase in 32GB and 64GB models at the end of October.



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: New iPhone 6s models are on display at an Apple store in Tokyo as Apple

launched the sales of the latest models of its popular ¦smartphone in Japan KOJI

SASAHARA



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SWE





                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





