                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  EFYtimes.com



                     October 17, 2015 Saturday 6:30 AM EST



5 iPhone 6S Features That Apple Borrowed From Others



LENGTH: 403  words





The-all-new iPhone 6S does not really bring all-new features!



Saturday, October 17, 2015: Apple recently launched new iPhones in India market.

iPhone 6S and 6S plus bring innovative technology and features to the table.

Every year, iPhone launch creates lot of buzz in media. Apple also pushed latest

iOS 9 software to iPhones. The operating system brings new features to iPhone.

Most of these new features are already available on Android platform. Today we

have listed 5 features in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus that Apple borrowed from others.



1. 3D Touch



3D Touch in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will enable different actions with respect to

different level of force on the screen. If the touch is deeper, it will open up

advanced menu or peek into the content of the folder. Apple has deployed the

same technology in new 12-inch MacBook's touchpad. We have seen the same

technology in BlackBerry Storm 2. BlackBerry had named it as SurePress. Huawei

had introduced similar feature on Mate S smartphone.



2. Live Photo



Apple has implemented a new feature on iPhone called, Live Photo. It lets you

capture some action before and after you press shutter key. It creates an

animated picture, images animate responding to touch. The similar feature is

available on HTC smartphones, it's called Zoe. Microsoft has integrated similar

feature on Lumia smartphones, called Living Image.



3. 4K Video Recording



iPhone 6S and 6S Plus users can finally shoot videos in 4K (3840 x 2160p)

format. However, the same technology is available on many flagship Android

devices. Smartphone manufacturers like LG, Sony, Apple rolled out 4K video

support in 2014.



4. Playback Zoom



iPhone 6S and 6S Plus come with a new feature called playback zoom. Users can

zoom in objects in video while playing them. There is nothing new about this

feature, it's available on number of Android smartphones for years. There are

some third party apps that support this feature.



5. Retina Flash



Apple has upgraded front facing camera in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. The new

powerful camera will enable users to take high resolution selfies. Apple hasn't

integrated front flash on new iPhones. Company has implemented an interesting

solution for selfie flash - Retina flash. The screen goes 3X brighter while

clicking selfie. However, the concept is not entirely new. Many Android devices

have same feature. There are some third-party apps that enable this feature on

Android smartphone.



LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





      Copyright 2015 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





