                             635 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                              liverpoolecho.co.uk



                      December 7, 2015 Monday 11:42 AM GMT



iPhone 7 rumours and what you could expect from the new handset;

The Apple iPhone 6s hasn't been out for long, but rumours are already

circulating about the iPhone 7 and the changes we could see in the new handset



BYLINE: By Georgia Morgan



SECTION: WHAT'S ON



LENGTH: 351 words





Apple could be making huge changes to its next handset in 2016.



And although the iPhone 6s hasn't been out for long, rumours are already rife

about what we can expect from the next mobile phone.



It isn't set to come out until the end of next year if Apple sticks to its

schedule, it should be released around September time.



But that hasn't stopped fans speculating already, just remember to take the

rumours with a pinch of salt!



1. The biggest rumour according to Japanese site MacOtakara is that Apple could

be scrapping the 3.5mm headphone socket, something which has remained consistent

throughout the changes to each handset since the first iPhone model.



This would then allow them to shave 1mm off the phone's casing and create an

even slimmer model than the iPhone 6s which is 6.9mm in total.



2. The same site also say that there are a number prototypes with "ruggedized"

features which could see Apple create its first water-resistant phone.



3. It could have a completely new design as Apple usually overhaul the handset's

look every two years and the iPhone 6s is very similar to the iPhone 5.



This means that the screen, camera and features could all be different. One

rumour around the changes to the screen is that Apple will change from an LCD

display to an OLED one, which is what Samsung uses on many of its phones.



4. The iPhone 7 is set to have iOS10 software and an upgraded processor which

should have more power and better efficiency.



5. Apple's new iPhone could also include a built-in panic button feature that

locks the gadget and transmits a warning signal to the emergency services.



The rumours are that the home button could also serve as a potential panic

button which could make the iPhone inaccessible to anyone other than its owner.



Other features that could also be part of the panic button addition include

switching on the camera and microphone to record who is using the phone and in

the event of a theft, recordings could be sent to the police to help them find

the stolen handset.



6. It's expected to cost around the same as the iPhone 6S which is currently on

sale starting from £539.



LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV





                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





