                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Contra Costa Times (California)



                           September 25, 2015 Friday



Apple's new iPhones hit store shelves



BYLINE: By Troy Wolverton twolverton@mercurynews.com



SECTION: BREAKING; News; Business



LENGTH: 198 words





The new iPhones are hitting store shelves Friday morning.



Consumers can buy the latest models of Apple's smartphone, the iPhone 6s and the

jumbo-sized iPhone 6s Plus, at the company's retail stores. They can also find

them at the stores of the major wireless carriers and some other major

electronics retailers.



The key feature of the new models, which share the same size and shape as last

year's versions, is something Apple calls 3D Touch. The feature can recognize

how hard users are pressing on the devices' screens and display different kinds

of information for different presses.



The new phones also feature more powerful cameras and a faster processor than

last year's models. The rear camera in the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus has a

12-megapixel resolution, up from 8 megapixels previously.



The iPhone 6s starts at $650 without a contract. The iPhone 6s Plus starts at

$750 without a contract.



Last year's models were the first-ever large screen iPhones and sold in record

numbers. Financial analysts who follow the company generally expect the growth

in the Apple's iPhones sales to fall from its recent torrid pace.



Contact Troy Wolverton at 408-840-4285. Follow him at Twitter.com/troywolv .



LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Customers line up as they wait for the release and sale start of the

new Apple iPhone 6S at an Apple store on Chicago's Magnificent Mile, Friday,

Sept. 25, 2015, in Chicago. (AP Photo/Kiichiro Sato)

Customers Makiko Maeda, left, and Naoki Tsukamoto react after they purchased new

iPhone 6s at an Apple store in Tokyo Friday, Sept. 25, 2015. Apple is counting

on sales of the new iPhones to maintain its position as one of the most

profitable, and valuable, companies in the world. (AP Photo/Koji Sasahara)

A new Apple iPhone 6S is displayed at an Apple store on Chicago's Magnificent

Mile, Friday, Sept. 25, 2015, in Chicago. (AP Photo/Kiichiro Sato)

Lucy an Atomic 212 Robot with an image of owner on Facetime stands third in the

line to purchase the new iPhone 6S, outside the Apple Store, in Sydney,

Australia, Friday, Sept. 25, 2015. The robot, controlled via the 4G network

allows owner Lucy Kelly of Sydney to finalize her purchase of a new iPhone 6S

remotely. Apple is counting on sales of the new iPhones to maintain its position

as one of the most profitable, and valuable, companies in the world. (AP

Photo/Glenn Nicholls)

More than 50 people brave adverse weather conditions while camping on the street

outside the Sydney Apple Store to be among the first to purchase the new iPhone

6s in Sydney, Australia, Friday, Sept. 25, 2015. (AP Photo/Glenn Nicholls)

New iPhone 6s models are on display at an Apple store in Tokyo as Apple Inc.

launched the sales of the latest models of its popular smartphone in Japan

Friday, Sept. 25, 2015. Apple is counting on sales of the new iPhones to

maintain its position as one of the most profitable, and valuable, companies in

the world. (AP Photo/Koji Sasahara)



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers

                              All Rights Reserved





