                             642 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

                                Kolkata Edition



CO INVESTING IN INDIA FOR LONG TERM: COOK Skyhigh Prices may've Brought Apple to

Earth



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: THE ECONOMIC TIMES



LENGTH: 344 words





Apple has acknowledged that the higher pricing of iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in India

and some other markets due to foreign exchange fluctuations has had an impact on

their sales, but said it's investing for long term in the country .



"We've adjusted some prices around the world for the launch of iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus... Obviously when we increase prices around the world, it's normal to see

some impact on sales rates," Luca Maestri, Apple's senior vice-president and

CFO, said in response to a query about the currency movement and impact on

demand in terms of volume units and revenues in some regions like India, Japan,

and parts of Europe during the Cupertino-based company's fourth quarter earnings

call on Wednesday .



But Maestri also said it's too early to arrive at any conclusion. "...because

the phones have been out there just for four



weeks, so it's bit early to tell. But so far we were encouraged by the

response."



ET was the first to report about lower-than-expected demand for the new iPhones

in the country due to high prices with consumers either buying from the grey

market at substantially lower prices or waiting for a price crash or online

discounts earlier this month.



The iPhone 6s and 6s Plus are selling at Rs 62,000-Rs 92,000 depending on memory

and model, Rs 8,500-9,500 more than the last year's launch price of iPhone 6 and

6 Plus and also Rs 14,00016,000 costlier than their prices in global markets

like the US, Middle East, Singapore and Hong Kong.



Apple's trade partners in India attributed the huge price difference of the new

iPhones between India and many global markets to two factors: depreciation of

the rupee against dollar whereby Apple had hedged the currency exchange rate,

and higher tax, with imported smartphones attracting 11.5% more tax than locally

assembled ones while this difference was just 5% last year.



But Apple remains optimistic about its long-term prospects in India. Its chief

executive officer Tim Cook, in Wednesday's earnings call, said the company was

investing for the long term in a few markets like India.



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





