

NEW DELHI: Prices of the Apple's much awaited phones - the iPhone 6s and iPhone
6s Plus - will begin from Rs 62,000 for the lowest storage variant of 16 GB,
going up to Rs 92,000 for the highest. The prices are far higher than those
available in markets such as US or Singapore, and may deter buyers, especially
those upgrading from present iPhone6 and iPhone6 Plus.

The latest phones, which have been selling for astronomical prices on websites
such as eBay India, Quikr, Olx and Flipkart since the US launch on September 25,
will be available for pre-registration at the company's local distributor
websites including Brightstar, besides online portals Paytm and Snapdeal.

ET was the first to report the prices last week, which have now been confirmed.
The iPhone 6s 16 GB will be sold for Rs 62,000, the 64 GB variant for Rs 72,000
and the 128 GB version for Rs 82,000. The iPhone 6s Plus 16 GB is priced at Rs
72,000, the 64 GB at Rs 82,000 and the highest, 128 GB variant will cost a
consumer Rs 92,000.

"Although globally pricing remained similar to last year models, but a strong
dollar led to increase in pricing in certain regions this year," said Tarun
Pathak, senior analyst at Counterpoint Research. "Since India being not a high
volume country for Apple, the increase in pricing might be a result of weak
Rupee and rise in duty compared to last year," he added.

The pre-booking option from Snapdeal is open to customers in Bangalore, Chennai,
Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai, online retailer Snapdeal said in a
statement Thursday.

"Customers can pre-book for the iPhone6s starting tomorrow, following which a
link to purchase will be sent to their pre-booking ID on 14th October," the
Gurgaon-based company said, assuring delivery on the first day of the phone's
India launch on October 16 to its pre-booked customers who complete payment by
October 15, 4 pm.

Paytm, on the other hand, will begin flash pre-booking for Rs 2,000 for every
iPhone 6s, every day from 12pm to 6pm for a limited number of units. The
Noida-based company which has got nearly $1 billion from Chinese e-commerce
giant Alibaba, will also run attractive cashback offers to give buyers
additional benefit.

Customers who have pre-booked iPhone 6S on Paytm till October 13, would be sent
an email or SMS the next day with link to make the remaining payment and
complete the booking. Customers who have completed the full payment will receive
the store location to pick up the phone on the launch day.

Brightstar company Beetel Teletech added that pre-registrations that assure a
customer gets a phone from the day of launch were now open across India and the
iPhone 6s and iPhone6s Plus will be available for purchase at over 3500 retail
locations.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

