                             657 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                             April 11, 2016 Monday



Seven reasons not to buy Apple's new iPhone SE



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 448 words





The latest addition to Apple's iPhone portfolio, iPhone SE, has launched in

India. According to the Cupertino giant it is the world's most powerful 4-inch

iPhone. However, the brand new iPhone may not be the best iPhone to buy for some

people.



-The price



The biggest problem with iPhone SE is the price tag it comes with. While many

expected the small-screen iPhone to be priced around Rs 33,000, it came as a

shocker when Apple priced it at Rs 39,000. This price tag not only puts iPhone

SE out of the reach of a large number of buyers in India but also makes it a

direct competitor to iPhone 6S as well as powerful Android smartphones like

Google Nexus 6P and Sony Xperia Z5.



-A very small screen



Another major problem for iPhone SE is its 4-inch screen, which is likely to be

too small for most Indian buyers, as phablets are dominant in India. Considering

that other models in the price bracket feature much larger display sizes, iPhone

SE may find struggle to find some love in India.



-No 3D Touch



iPhone SE, despite being the newest smartphone in Apple's lineup, does not have

the headlining feature of iPhone 6S and 6S Plus: 3D Touch. The lack of 3D Touch

means that iPhone SE users will not be able to use the new app navigation tool

Apple has integrated into its top smartphone. This becomes an even bigger miss

when you see than iPhone 6S with 3D Touch can be purchased to a little over Rs

40,000 on e-commerce sites.



-16GB storage



16GB storage for Rs 39,000 seems like a joke, but that's what Apple is offering

with iPhone SE. Users will get approximately 11-12GB to store their data, which

usually leads to 'Out of Storage' messages popping up on the screen after a few

months of use. Moreover, Live Photos and 4K videos take up too much space, so

buyers will have to be very conservative while taking photos too.



-Low battery life



iPhone SE is expected to deliver the same battery life as iPhone 5S, which needs

to be charged twice a day to keep running. This may be a deal-breaker for a lot

of buyers, especially power-users who need their phones to not run out of juice

at critical moments.



-Old design



iPhone SE sports the same design language as iPhone 5 and 5S, but features matte

finish on the chamfered edges and comes in a rose gold colour option. So unless

you buy the rose gold colour option, it will be indistinguishable from the

three-year-old iPhone 5S.



-No standout feature



For the first time, Apple has held an event for an iPhone that does not have any

feature that separates it from the rest. Instead, iPhone SE features design and

hardware found in earlier iPhone models, like the processor and camera of iPhone

6S and design of iPhone 5S.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





