


HIGHLIGHT: Sales of Apple's new iPhones were on pace to beat the 10 million unit
sales it logged during the first weekend of sales last year, the company said on
Monday.


Sales of Apple's new iPhones were on pace to beat the 10 million unit sales it
logged during the first weekend of sales last year, the company said on Monday.

Apple did not disclose the specific number of preorders it received. Analysts
had expected the company to log about 4.5 million preorders during the first 24
hours, in comparison with 4 million during the first day last year.

The company said demand for the iPhone 6S Plus, the larger phone, exceeded its
forecasts for the preorder period.

The iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus will begin shipping Sept. 25. The phones
feature improved cameras and 3D touch, a display technology that responds
differently depending on how hard users press their screens. FBR Capital Markets
senior analyst Daniel Ives said the preorders suggested a strong trajectory for
the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus. Ives said he was encouraged by the response in
China, where Apple's website showed particularly long wait times for the phones.
"It shows that they are off to a white-hot start, with China really being front
and center as a main driver of initial demand," he said. The company's stock has
sunk in recent weeks on concerns about how it will fare amid the downturn in the
Chinese economy. "Hopefully this can start to turn the negative tide that's been
overhanging the stock," Ives said. Last week Apple announced the phones, as well
as a new TV set-top box that responds to voice commands, but the new products
underwhelmed many social media commentators and investors. The new phones come a
year after Apple rolled out iPhones with larger screens, touching off a sales
frenzy in which revenue in the latest quarter increased 32.5 percent from a year
earlier. Shares of Apple were up 2.3 percent at dollar 116.77 in trading before
the market opened. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie

