

The iPhone 6s's new 3D Touch feature will foster loyalty among existing Apple
users, making it less likely they will defect to -Android, technology research
firm Telsyte has said.

On Saturday, Apple will begin selling iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus whose
signature features -include pressing harder on the display to access new
functionality. Apple calls the gesture 3D Touch and has built new smartphone
displays capable of detecting different levels of pressure as users press it.

Telsyte managing director Foad Fadaghi said features such as Force Touch might
not cause iPhone users to upgrade their phones, but it would help keep users
loyal to Apple.

"It's these kind of features that make the platform even more sticky for users.
It (the iPhone) is a game changer because it solidifies Apple's users on their
own platform. It's making it less likely for a user to switch to Android because
it just doesn't have that feature." Third-party developers already have
announced they will implement 3D Touch and another new feature on iPhone 6s,
live photos, in new versions of their apps. With live photos, the iPhone camera
shoots a short three-second video clip as it takes a photo.

Instagram, Pinterest, Sky Guide, Dropbox, Facebook, Getty Images, PixelToys,
ZORG, WeChat and Weibo are among apps that will issue updated versions to
support the new features. Facebook told The Australian it would implement both
features. "We are excited to explore options for using the new iOS 3D touch so
people can quickly and easily take actions on Facebook like updating their
status and taking photos," a Facebook spokesman said.

Mr Fadaghi said that based on consumer surveys and its assessment of the
smartphone market, Telsyte estimated Apple would sell about 1.9 million handsets
in Australia in the second half of this year. That figure included all models,
not just the new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.

About 4.5 million handsets of all types would be sold in that period overall.
"While Apple's repeat purchase intention is still the highest in the industry,
it has come down a few points in the last survey that we did; instead of being
in the 80 per cents, it's in the 70s now," he said. Cost was likely to be one
reason.

In the US, meanwhile, Apple chief executive Tim Cook is reported to have offered
a 17-year-old US high school footballer a free iPhone and a summer internship at
Apple headquarters after he publicly praised Apple Watch for saving his
life.After experiencing chest and back pains after training, Paul Houle measured
his heart rate on Apple Watch, which recorded it at 145. He immediately went to
a hospital and was diagnosed with heart, liver and kidney failure.

