                             660 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)



                            February 1, 2016 Monday



Mondy patrons win shopping spree in Milan and iphone 6s



LENGTH: 383 words



DATELINE: Sri Lanka





Sri Lanka, Feb. 1 -- Leading female fashion retailer Mondy, rewarded two lucky

patrons for their loyalty with a Trip to Milan plus a US$ 1,000 shopping

allowance and an iphone 6s. The competitions were held from December 11, 2015

till January 15, 2016, where the social media Selfie contest for the iphone 6s

garnered the interest of the tech-savvy customers and the all expenses paid Trip

to Milan offered the dynamic businesswomen a chance to unwind and indulge

themselves in the global fashion capital of Milan.



The winner of the iphone 6s Nirosha Heart exclaimed her delight at being

selected and expressed her thanks to Mondy saying she has been a longstanding

Mondy customer. To win the iphone 6s, in the "I Pose I Win" contest, contenders

had to snap a selfie in front of the bright red backdrop at the flagship store

in Dharmapala Mawatha, post it on the Mondy facebook page with the hashtag

#iposeiwin and gather the most number of likes to win. Shenali Perera was the

winner of the coveted "Trip to Milan raffle" with the US$ 1,000 shopping

allowance and she conveyed her gratitude to Mondy Brand manager Theruni

Wijeweera and the team.



The commencement of the competitions were marked at the Mondy Resort Wear

Collection launch where the leading retailer hosted an elegant High Tea at its

flagship store in Colombo. The new Mondy Loyalty Card was also introduced at the

event with a series of seasonal deals that drew long lines of eager customers.



"Over the years Mondy has gathered a dedicated following of discerning females

who have placed their trust in us to provide them chic clothing that keeps them

in style and empowers them. It is with great pleasure that we recognise their

long standing loyalty and introduced the Mondy Loyalty Card to continue to

reward our patrons," said Theruni Wijeweera, Brand Manager - Mondy. Positioning

itself as an elegant, clear-cut and sophisticated fashion label that celebrates

feminine beauty, Mondy offers all-occasion clothing and an especially empowering

collection for the corporate woman that has created a dedicated female

following.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





