                             663 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               walesonline.co.uk



                    September 30, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM GMT



Are the new Apple products worth a bite?;

Our columnist has checked out the new iPad Pro, iPencil and iPhone 6 and 6S.

Safe to say he's a fan.



BYLINE: By Nicholas Fearn



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 759 words





That time of the year has come and gone. No, I'm not talking about Christmas or

Easter - I'm on about Apple's annual September event.



This year's took place in San Francisco on September 9 and saw the

California-based tech giant announce the long-rumoured iPad Pro and iPhone 6S/6S

Plus, as well as a new Apple TV.



Without a doubt, the biggest announcement is the iPad Pro, Apple's rival to the

Microsoft Surface. The tablet - as the name suggests - is purely aimed at a B2B

audience.



Its 12.9-inch retina display is perfect for typing out important documents and

emails on the go, and if you're in need of extra precision in this department,

you can get yourself a dedicated keyboard cover. But it's pricey, retailing for

$169 in the US.



The iPencil is another dedicated iPad Pro accessory. The stylus allows you to

jot down notes and doodles within specialist apps, which, of course, is going to

be handy if you're a creative type. However, again, it's quite expensive. In the

US, it costs $99.



Anything else cool? The Pro also comes with Apple's powerful, new 64-bit A9X

chip, with third-generation 64-bit architecture, which the company says is

capable of providing desktop-quality processing power and console-quality

graphics.



You get iOS 9 right out of the box, Apple's new mobile operating system, meaning

access to services like the App Store and Apple Music. While core apps such as

Mail, Notes and Siri have been improved, there are a variety of new features. In

the case of the iPad, you have Split View. This allows you to do two things at

once - perfect if you're busy with work on the train but want to check out your

messages.



RELATED: iOS 9 update: What to expect from Apple's latest upgrade (including new

emojis)



The iPad Pro will be available in November, along with the accessories mentioned

above - just in time for Christmas. It'll be available in three metallic

finishes: silver, gold and space grey. As for memory, you'll have to choose

between 32GB or 128GB.



Other big announcements include the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. They're identical in

terms of design when compared to their predecessors - the 6 and 6 Plus - but

that's not to say you need to be disappointed. They carry a number of exciting

internal improvements and headline features.



Most exciting of all is 3D Touch, which introduces new ways to use and

experience the iPhone just by adding pressure to the display. For example, if

you press on the iPhone's display lightly, you're able to peek at emails in your

inbox. And if you want to open one, you simply press a little harder. Awesome,

right?



The 6S also comes with a 12-megapixel camera, beefed up from the 8-megapixel

offering we saw on the iPhone 6. Features include geo-tagging, touch focus,

simultaneous 4K video and 8MP image recording, face/smile detection, HDR and

'Live Photos'. The latter, which is new, allows you to reveal the moments before

and after a photo was taken just by pressing on it harder than usual.



There's a 5-megapixel camera on the front, too. And what's quite neat is that

when you take selfies, you have the ability to use your display as a flash.



RELATED: 34 magical pictures that prove Autumn in Wales is as beautiful as

anywhere in the world



Like the iPad Pro, the 6S is powered by Apple's third-generation 64-bit chip,

A9, which is apparently 70% faster CPU and 90% faster GPU performance compared

to its predecessor, the A8. What does this mean in reality? A faster performance

and supposed improved battery life.



The 6S and 6S Plus are available to purchase now. You can get both models in

gold, silver, space grey and rose grey - with the 6S starting at £539 and the 6S

Plus. Prices get more expensive as the memory capacity gets bigger.



Last, but certainly not least, is the new Apple TV. It runs with the new tvOS

operating system - based on iOS - and enables iOS developers to create apps and

games for the Apple TV. These will be available to download in the new Apple TV

App Store.



RELATED: The apps and gadgets aimed at making home life easier



It comes with the new Siri Remote, which allows you to search for content using

Apple's personal assistant. While Siri is far from perfect, it's still going to

be a useful way to find stuff you want, instead of sifting through content

libraries. The remote's touch surface also makes things easier. With it, you can

fluently browse through films, games and apps. It'll be available to purchase in

32GB and 64GB models at the end of October.



ALSO BY NIC: What's it like to run a tech start-up in Wales?



WalesOnline iOS app plug (strip) September 2015



LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM





                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror

                              All Rights Reserved





