                              6 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                           September 11, 2015 Friday



Apple iPhone 6S, 6S Plus: 10 things to know



SECTION: MOBILES



LENGTH: 803 words





NEW DELHI: iPhone 6S Plus features a 5.5-inch Full HD screen, 12MP with a new

64-bit A9 chipset that is 70% faster at carrying out processes than the one seen

in last year's iPhones.



Apple's new iPhones are here. The tech giant unveiled the two updated iPhones --

iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus -- at an event in San Francisco's mega Bill Graham

Civic auditorium. Talking about the new smartphones, Apple CEO Tim Cook said,

"They look familiar, but we have changed everything about these iPhones."



One of the key new features of the new iPhones is the new touch capability

called 3D Touch which allows the screen to sense multiple types of pressure.



Here are 10 things you need to know about Apple's latest iPhones:



3D Touch



Most smartphone users are accustomed to 'multi-touch' -- the ability for phones

to recognize touches from multiple fingers, enabling such capabilities as

pinching to zoom. With new iPhones, Apple brings in 3D Touch.



Pressing down hard on the new iPhones will launch additional capabilities. For

example, you can get quick access to tasks such as taking a selfie or getting

directions home. From a message, 3D Touch will give you a preview of a web link

without launching the browser. Similarly, press for a few seconds on a document

icon, and a preview pops out. Press on an address in an email, and a map opens

up. On some video apps, the pressure determines how quickly you forward or

rewind.



12MP rear camera



After being stuck with an 8MP camera sensor since iPhone 4S, the iPhone range

has finally received a substantial megapixel upgrade. iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S

Plus sport a 12MP rear camera, with 50% more focus pixels to ensure faster

autofocus.



Apple says that the new iPhones' camera will deliver more detailed photos than

ever before. It can also capture panorama shots in 63MP resolution and capture

videos in 4K (movie hall quality) resolution.



5MP selfie camera



The selfie camera has also got an upgrade this year, jumping from 1.2MP in

iPhone 6 and 6 Plus to 5MP in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.



Though it is not backed by a front-facing LED flash, Apple has used a technology

called Retina Flash to deliver brighter selfies. This feature increases the

brightness of the screen by three times, which Apple claims is comparable to

that of its rear dual-LED flash



The front camera also gets an upgrade. It'll be 5MP FaceTime HD camera that uses

the phone's Retina display for a flash for "detailed selfies." Apple claims that

the new capabilities will now let the display light up 3-times brighter for a

flash that's comparable to that of the TrueTone flash on the back.



Apple has also debuted a feature called Live Photos in the camera app, which

will capture a 1.5-second video before and after you click the shutter in order

to create animated GIFs.



A new colour



The new iPhone 6S Plus will also come in a rose gold colour, as well as the

standard silver, gold, and space gray hues.



More durable body



Though the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus look the same as their respective predecessors,

they are made of stronger material. Apple has used aircraft-grade 7000 aluminium

alloy, which is less dense and lighter than standard metals used in smartphones,

but is up to 60% stronger.



Apple has also said that the glass used in the touchscreen this time is stronger

than ever before.



Faster processor



The new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus pack the new 64-bit A9 chip with integrated M9

motion coprocessor under the hood, which processes apps 70% faster and graphics

90% faster according to Apple.



Faster fingerprint sensor



Apple says that the TouchID fingerprint sensor used in iPhone 6S and 6S Plus is

twice as fast as the one used in previous iPhones and iPads.



Improved 4G and Wi-Fi performance



Apple has upgraded the wireless chips in iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus too, which

can download/upload data twice as fast compared to last year's models. The two

iPhones now support up to 23 4G LTE bands.



Price



Apple said the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will cost the same as their predecessors;

iPhone 6S' 16, 64 and 128GB variants will cost $199, $299 and $399 on contract,

while the iPhone 6S Plus' three variants have been priced at $299, $399 and $499

respectively.



iPhone 5S has become the new entry-level model and will be available free on

contract in the US, whereas iPhone 6 and 6 Plus (16GB variants only) will cost

$99 and $199, respectively.



The unlocked iPhone 6S Plus will cost $649, $749 and $849 for the 16, 32, and

64GB variants. Similarly, iPhone 6S Plus unlocked will cost $749, $849 and $949

for the three storage options.



Availability



Pre-orders for iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus start on September 12 in the US, the

UK, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong and Japan. The

smartphones will hit the stores on September 25. There is no word yet on the

India launch of the new models.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





