                             706 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                        June 27, 2016 Monday 5:25 PM GMT



iPhone 7 rumours: Will Apple finally change the one thing that winds people up

MOST about the iPhone?;

Rumours suggest Apple has made one very important decision about its entry-level

iPhone 7



BYLINE: By Sophie Curtis



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 396 words





The launch of the iPhone 7 in September could see Apple finally change the thing

that annoys people most about the iPhone.



Rumours suggest that Apple is planning to ditch its pitifully small 16GB storage

option in favour of a more generous 32GB base model.



The current iPhone 6s and 6s Plus lineup offers customers a choice of 16GB,

64GB, or 128GB storage options.



However, supply chain investigations by Kevin Wang, director of market research

at respected analyst firm IHS Technology, suggest the iPhone 7 base model will

come with with 32GB of storage.



Although the 16GB model is £80 cheaper than the the 64GB version, and £160

cheaper than the 128GB version, many claim it is inadequate for today's digital

storage demands.



Both the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus are capable of recording 4K video, yet customers

with the entry-level 16GB model are only able to record 45 minutes of 4K footage

before hitting capacity.



With apps, music and photos also taking up space, it can be very difficult for

iPhone users to manage their storage.



It is not clear whether raising the amount of storage from 16GB to 32GB would

result in a price hike for the base model iPhone 7.



However, Apple announced its first ever drop in iPhone sales last month, so

increasing the starting price would be a potentially risky move.



Apple was rumoured to be ditching the 16GB model with the launch of the iPhone

6s in 2015, but eventually decided against it.



Read more: Short of storage on your iPhone? This bizarre trick will

automatically free up more space



Phil Schiller, the company's senior vice president of worldwide marketing,

defended the decision, claiming that many users now store their music, photos

and video in the iCloud.



"The most price-conscious customers are able to live in an environment where

they don't need gobs of local storage, because these services are lightening

fast," he said during an episode of The Talk Show podcast.



Other rumours suggest Apple is planning to remove the physical Home button from

the front of the iPhone 7, as well as the headphone jack, forcing people to use

headphones with a Lightning connector.



The new device is also expected to be waterproof, and feature a dual-lens

camera.



Read more: iPhone 7: Release date, price, features and specs - the latest

rumours about Apple's smartphone for 2016



For all other Apple handsets, see our pick of the best iPhone deals this week.



LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





