                             713 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                      DNA



                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday



Want the latest iPhone? Pay Rs1 lakh;

On the sly | Customs officials seize as many as 200 smuggled handsets of iPhone

6S and 6S plus at airport



BYLINE: Shahkar Abidi



LENGTH: 336  words





On the sly | Customs officials seize as many as 200 smuggled handsets of iPhone

6S and 6S plus at airport



With iPhones 6S and 6S plus yet to be launched in India, the city airport is

witnessing a spur in smuggling of the phone for sale in the grey market, where

it is sold for a premium of over Rs1 lakh. As many as 200 handsets of the above

models have been seized from passengers in the past few days by the air

intelligence unit (AIU) of Air Customs.



Customs officials claim that since these phones are not officially launched in

the country and its value is greater than the allowed permissible limit, it is

illegal to carry it in India. Therefore, any passenger bringing it along with

her/him from a foreign country will be held and action taken against her/him as

per the Provisions of Customs Act, 1962. Passengers carrying such phones in

commercial quantities are also liable to be arrested, the customs officials

added.



According to APS Suri, principal commissioner of customs (airport), most of

these phones have been seized from fliers coming from Singapore, Istanbul,

Bangkok, Hong Kong, London, Dubai and Johannesburg. "Therefore, screening of the

check-in bags, and hand bags and profiling of the passengers has increased,"

said Suri, in a statement sent to dna.



The initial questioning done on those accused reveal that many of these phones

are finding their way into grey market areas like Heera Panna, Crawford Market

in south Mumbai and Indraprasth in Borivli. The phones are being sold at over

Rs1 lakh to iPhone lovers, who cant wait for the launch.



According to reports, India, which is the seeing a smartphone revolution, is all

set to overtake US as the world's second-largest smartphone market by the year

2017.



Apple has reportedly tied up with major telecom companies in India for the

official launch planned on October 16, when it expects to see tremendous

response. Pre-booking of the phone has already been allowed on selected online

market portals.



LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),

                           distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





