                             716 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday

                               Bangalore Edition



Fliers Must 'Voluntarily' Declare iPhones to Customs on Arrival



BYLINE: Gulveen.Aulakh@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BRANDS & COMPANIES



LENGTH: 356 words





Those waiting for Apple's latest phones from overseas via the grey market route

may not get them. And those planning to bring them from outside India without

paying duty might need to do a rethink as they could be fined. Smugglers of the

newest iPhones may even face arrest.



Noticing a massive spurt in smuggled iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus models through

Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai customs authorities have

issued a press release informing fliers to "voluntarily declare iPhones to

customs on arrival."



They warned that passengers picked up after passing through the green channel

will be liable to pay a fine, penalty and customs duty. According to the

release, duty will be levied even on a single phone since the value of the

device exceeds the 'free allowance.' Passengers carrying iPhones in commercial

quantity are liable to be arrested.



Additional Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai Airport, Milind Lanjewar confirmed

the developments to ET and said the rules already exist and are being reiterated

to travelers.



"For goods above '. 45,000, technically passengers have to declare but most

people are not aware of it. A duty of 36% is levied on the amount above this

limit," he said.



Even if a single iPhone brought from overseas exceeds the free allowance value,

it would have to be declared and



duty would have to be paid.



The cheapest iPhone 6s, which comes with storage of 16GB, is listed on Apple's

website as costing $649 (. '42,350) while the same model on its Singapore

website can be purchased for '48,000).S$1,048 (.



When the value of undeclared goods rises above ' . 20 lakh, the authorities

proceed with arrests, Lanjewar added.



The Mumbai Airport Customs authorities have seized about 200 of the latest

iPhone models valued at ' . 1.23 crore over the past two weeks. The phones were

brought into India by fliers coming from Singapore, Hong Kong, London, Dubai and

other countries. Authorities have since increased screening of checked-in and

hand baggage, besides profiling of passengers.



Apple will launch the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus in India on October 16 and is

yet to release the official pricing.



LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





