                             719 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               The Economic Times



                           September 11, 2015 Friday



Get new Apple iPhone for Rs 1 lakh within 2 days of US launch



BYLINE: Writankar Mukherjee & Sagar Malviya



SECTION: PANACHE



LENGTH: 531 words





KOLKATA | MUMBAI: Diehard iPhone devotees in India will be able to lay hands on

the latest models in the grey market within two days of the US launch on

September 25 by shelling out Rs 1 lakh. However, the grey market will be able to

command a premium only for a short period because in a sign of India's growing

importance as an iPhone market, Apple is expected to officially start selling

the new devices here by October 11-15.



Grey market sellers in Mumbai's Heera Panna Market and Crawford Market, Delhi's

Gaffar Market and Kolkata's Air-Conditioned Market and Fancy Market said there

have been several enquiries about the new iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, which

were unveiled by Apple in San Francisco on Wednesday, and some of them have even

started taking pre-orders.



The newly launched rose gold colour variant has turned out to be the most in

demand, and is commanding a premium.



"The price will be around Rs 1 lakh initially, but it will come down after the

company announces the official launch date. We have started getting enquiries,"

said a mobile store owner at Mumbai's Heera Panna Market.



The average price at most of these sellers will be Rs 70,000-80,000 for iPhone

6s and between Rs 80,000 and Rs 90,000 for iPhone 6s Plus. The rose gold colour

model is likely to be available at an additional premium of Rs 10,000-15,000,

six sellers in the grey market hubs of the country said. The sellers said their

agents in the US will place requests at Apple stores when the company starts

pre-bookings from Saturday and will ensure the first lot reaches within 2-3 days

of the launch. They will also start receiving supplies from Singapore, Hong Kong

and similar markets, which are nearer to India and where the new iPhones will be

launched in the first phase of rollout.



INDIA IGNORED INITIALLY



Apple launched the iconic iPhone way back in 2007, but for a long time chose to

ignore India. In the past few years, the company has increased its focus on the

country and in the last quarter iPhone sales grew by 93% in India. Absolute

sales volume, however, remain low and the company sold 0.5 million handsets in

the country in the previous quarter compared with 13-14 million in China.



In the past, Apple used to launch iPhone models in India months after they were

introduced in the US and other major markets. However, over time, this period

has shrunk. And this time, the trade expects Apple to begin selling here 15-20

days after the global launch. It is estimated that Apple will price the iPhone

6s 16GB model at Rs 65,000 and the iPhone 6s Plus 16GB variant at Rs

70,000-72,000.



The price of the 64GB and 128GB models will be much higher. The company is,

however, yet to officially announce its India pricing and launch date. A seller

in Kolkata's Air-Conditioned Market said the unofficial price premium will exist

only for the first week or so after the US launch, and will subsequently come

down. "However, the rose gold colour model may continue to command a premium, as

it has generated a lot of demand and supplies will be limited," he said.



A dealer in Delhi's Gaffar Market said the new iPhones will be available by the

end of this month.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





