                             722 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               New Indian Express



                             April 2, 2016 Saturday



Apple's Short Stories



LENGTH: 559 words



DATELINE: Chennai





Chennai, April 2 -- iPhone SE (4-inch; from Rs 39,000)



Two years ago, the company introduced a bigger screen by launching the iPhone 6

and the iPhone 6 Plus. While the former had a 4.7-inch screen, the latter got a

5.5-inch screen.



With the iPhone 6S and its bigger sibling last year, the company continued with

the big screen sizes. However, there are customers who love sleek and small

screens, so keeping them in mind, Apple has launched a special edition of the

4-inch phone set inside the body of the iPhone 5S.



The SE comes in four colours -gold, space grey, silver and rose gold, the same

as the 6S. Even inside, it is as powerful as the 6S, running on the same 64-bit

A9 chip supported by M9 motion co-processor. On the back, you will find a

12-megapixel iSight camera.



Just like the 6S, this camera comes with true tone flash and is capable of

recording 4K video along with live photos, making it the most powerful camera on

the market on a 4-inch phone. But one major difference between the 6S and the SE

is the absence of the 3D Touch feature, which lets you press on the touch screen

with varying levels of pressure to access different menus.



This absence means features like live photos are accessed through a long press.

The Retina Flash feature, where the screen works as a flash when you try to make

selfies in low light conditions, also makes the leap from the 6S to the SE. The

powerful features like hands-free 'Hey Siri' makes the new phone similar to the

costly 6S, albeit in a smaller body. And the big news here is the price. While

the flagship iPhones start at $600, the SE, which is in effect a smaller 6S in a

beautiful aluminium body, starts at just $400.



Available in 16 and 64GB variants, the starting price in India will be Rs

39,000, but expect retailers to price it very competitively.



iPad Pro(9.7-inch, from Rs 49,900)



Last September, Apple surprised the customers by not releasing a normal iPad.

Instead, it came out with a iPad Pro, with a 12.9-inch screen. It is quite

useful for the graphic designers, artists and photographers. Now, with the

9.7-inch iPad Pro, the tech giant is bringing all the power and functionality of

the bigger beast within 9.7-inch.



With a Retina display in an aluminium unibody that comes with the usual colours

of silver, space grey, gold and rose gold, the display features a new technology

called the True Tone.



It uses new four channel sensors to dynamically adjust the white balance. It

means the display will automatically adjust to the lighting conditions around

you so that you get a natural, accurate, paper-white experience.



That body, for the first time ever on an iPad, features a four-speaker audio

system. On the back, there is a familiar but ugly camera bump, which is usually

found on the 6 line-up of iPhones. However, it has a powerful 12-megapixel

camera embedded within, and it is capable of shooting both Live Photos and 4K

video. Inside, the iPad packs the latest 64-bit A9X processor. This also

supports both the Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard accessories, making sketching

or typing super easy. Available in 32 GB, 128 GB and 256GB configurations,

prices start from Rs 49,900.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.

                              All Rights Reserved





