                             727 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               The Sun (England)



                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

                                   Edition 1;

                                    Ireland



13m go crazy for the i of 6;

NEW APPLE RECORDBUSTER



BYLINE: AOIFE FINNERAN



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8



LENGTH: 298 words





KER-CHING! That's the sound of 13million new iPhones ringing through shop tills

around the world.



Yesterday's hotly anticipated launch of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus kicked off a

bumper weekend of sales for tech giant Apple.



Analysts are predicting that records will tumble, with the clamour surpassing

the launch of the iPhone 6 last year, when 10million units were snapped up in

the first weekend.



Unfortunately for Irish customers, if you can't order online you'll have to wait

several weeks for the mobiles to go on sale in stores.



But as a consolation prize, Apple served up an alternative tech fan treat

yesterday in the form of its first wearable device, the Apple Watch.



The coming months will see the US tech giant attempt to tighten its grip on the

premium market, with a watch tie-up with fashion label Hermes and the launch of

a larger iPad Pro.



Competition for smartphone dominance is certainly hotting producer Huawei

unveiled its Apple and Samsung slayer in the shape of its pressuresensitive Mate

S. Eye-watering price-tags aren't putting us off either.



The sim-free 16GB version of the iPhone 6s will set you back (EURO)649, with the

64GB version costing (EURO)759. The larger 6s Plus starts at (EURO)759 for the

16GB version and (EURO)869 with 64GB memory.



Yet iconic iPhones still shift at a rate of 34,000 per hour, or 74.5million

every three months.



Are these shiny little boxes of tech magic worth all the hype? And has anything

really changed since the first iPhone was released in 2007? Earlier this month,

US talk show host Jimmy Kimmel got a surprising answer. He invited people to

assess the iPhone 6S - but handed them the original, now defunct iPhone. The

result? Unsuspecting critics heaped praise on the dinosaur model for its

"sharper" resolution and "sleek" new design.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: OBJECT OF DESIRE ... iPhone 6sQUEUE-i ... punters wait to get hands on

new phone in London yesterday



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: SUN





                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              All Rights Reserved





