                             730 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                             March 25, 2016 Friday

                                 FIRST EDITION



First impressions of SE: It's cute, it's more than capable;

And Apple's new, smaller iPhone has a familiar feel



BYLINE: Ed Baig, ebaig@usatoday.com, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B



LENGTH: 499 words





As a guy who is fully invested in phablet-sized phones, including my own iPhone

6 Plus, I'm not the ideal candidate for the iPhone SE, which Apple started

taking pre-orders for Thursday.  If you missed it, the $399 and $499 SE model

have a 4-inch display just like the iPhone 5s, and a similar design.



I plan to spend a bit of time living with a smaller form-factor iPhone again,

but now that I've got one in my hands here are a few quick thoughts:



The SE will appeal to people who don't like the phablet size. I've suspected as

much ever since Apple announced its new phone Monday, but the SE got a quick,

positive reaction from the people I showed it to around my office. OK, so it's

not a scientific study. But one editor who's not into gadgets and who still

carries around an iPhone 3G -- yes, with its 3.5-inch display, it's actually a

device she'd be moving up in size from -- told me that she'd actually consider

buying this one. Her first reaction to the SE: "Whoa!"



Aside from size, how does the SE differ from the 6S or 6S Plus with which it

shares most specs? The SE brings most of the advanced capabilities of the

state-of-the-art iPhone 6S or 6S Plus, including Apple's robust A9 processor, M9

motion processor, 12-megapixel rear camera with the ability to capture "Live

Photos" (a snippet of video comes before and after still images) and capture 4K

video.



What it lacks is 3D Touch, the pressure-sensitive technology that leads to

different outcomes depending on how hard you press against the display. That's a

nice, if non-essential, feature.



Meantime, there are two settings on the 6S and 6S Plus that are missing on the

SE simply because they're not necessary given the size. One is called

Reachability. On a larger iPhone when you gently double-tap the home button the

top portion of the display moves down toward the bottom, which lets you better

handle the bigger display with one-hand.



The second missing feature is the Display Zoom setting that lets you choose

either standard size on-screen icons and controls or, given the more generous

screen real estate, a larger-zoomed view.



Cuteness counts. The baby iPhone is, well, like an adorable baby. You want to

pick it up and hold it, and when you do you get that warm and fuzzy feeling.

While I've already indicated that I'll more than likely stick with a larger

phone -- for starters, I can see what's on the screen better -- somehow my

comparatively ginormous "Plus" model is nowhere near as cute.



The new iPhone is a familiar iPhone. The only accommodation in the SE is the

size, and if you have a 5s there will be virtually no adjustment. Everything

else is familiar, from setting up the device to running (all the same) apps.



If you're counting on new features -- water resistance, say, or fast wireless

charging as on the Samsung Galaxy S7 -- you'll have to hold out for an iPhone 7

or whatever Apple chooses to call its next device. If all goes according to the

usual plan, we won't see anything of the sort before the fall.



LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Julie Jacobson, AP



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





