                             731 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                       October 5, 2015 Monday 1:55 PM GMT



iPhone glitch renders apps useless as zoomed-in display ruins Apple Pay and

applications you use every day;

The rogue software bug causes apps on iPhone 6S to appear much larger than usual

on screen, pushing buttons off the edge of the display



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 271 words





Apple's latest iPhone 6s has been hit by an irritating glitch that renders some

everyday apps unusable.



The glitch appears to have affected people who upgraded from an iPhone 5, 5s or

5c and causes some apps to appear zoomed-in on the larger display.



The bloated display means that some buttons are pushed off the side of the

screen, ruining the functionality.



Apps that are affected include Wallet, Weather, Watch, Health and Caluclator.



Those that have been hit appear to have used Apple's iCloud backup to transfer

their settings and content across from the older iPhones.



"I can't activate any cards since the button to input the activation codes is

seemingly cut off. So Apple Pay is useless with this bug, it's not just

cosmetic," wrote one disgruntled user on Apple's discussion forum .



Another added: "Apple's QC on usability issues is just getting dismal. I really

hate to say it (because I got sick of people saying it years ago), but I believe

Steve would have had heads rolling for crap like this by now. Really getting

tired of this stuff."



While Apple hasn't commented on the bug, according to Macrumors is believed to

be aware of the issue and is working on an update to fix it.



To avoid the issue completely requires setting your new iPhone 6s up as a brand

new device. Unfortunately, you'll lose data from your older iPhone.



The existence of the bug doesn't appear to have hurt Apple's credibility too

much though.



It was announced this morning that the company is the world's most valuable

brand for the third year running and is worth an estimated £112 billion.



A first look at the iPhone 6s



Have you bought an iPhone 6s?



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





