

Apple is heavily rumoured to reveal the iPhone 6s in under a week's time.

The invitations have been sent out and the internet rumourmill has gone into
overdrive.

There are a few things we can be reasonably certain of before CEO Tim Cook takes
to the stage next Wednesday.

Firstly it's unlikely that we'll see a fully-formed iPhone 7.

Apple re-shaped its flagship handset in a big way last year, making the iPhone 6
bigger and slimmer than any previous phone.

What's more likely is that the company will reveal an iPhone 6s upgrade - with
improved specs but an appearance that stays roughly the same.

As in previous years, we expect Apple to reveal two versions of the new iPhone
at the same time.

Like it did with the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus, we could see two different
sizes to appeal to two different types of customer.

Apple is hardly alone in this approach - Samsung has recently launched two new
super-sized smartphones for those who like their phones a little bigger.

Apple's Force Touch feature was developed for the Apple Watch and works as a
wholly new type of input method.

You press down on the screen with a little more force, and it activates a
different action.

It's heavily tipped to be the standout new feature of the iPhone 6s.

So far, this hasn't been widely implemented - but with an arrival on the
iPhone's big screen developers could find some unique usages for the new
feature.

Tantalizing glimpse of iPhone 6s or 7 leaked online

Apple has continuously updated the processors in its new phones and this year is
likely to be no exception.

Many rumour sites are suggesting Apple has built an "A9" processor that would
give the new iPhone the same power as the iPad Air 2.

Meanwhile, battery life will be improved as well. Apple is reportedly using
contoured, layered battery stacks to squeeze as much power into the body of the
new phone as possible.

Once paired with the company's efficient new iOS 9 software, the length of usage
time should be much improved over the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.

Apple largely stays out of the camera arms race that other manufacturers follow.
That being said, the new iPhone is expected to boast a 12-megapixel rear facing
camera.

That will be a big step up considering all the iPhones going back to the iPhone
4s have used 8-megapixel cameras.

Another expectation is that the front-facing camera will, for the first time,
shoot 1080p high definition footage.

Apple brought out a rose gold version of the Apple Watch and, according to
pictures leaked onto the internet, will be doing the same with the iPhone.

Apple isn't in the habit of making us wait ages to get our hands on their newest
releases.

The company usually has its latest wares out in the shops in under a month,
meaning we could all have our hands on a new iPhone before October rolls around.

That is, if we can brave the massive queues.

Are you desperate for the latest iPhone?

