                             739 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                           September 16, 2016 Friday

                               Bangalore Edition



Vodafone Joins Airtel, Idea to Give Rel Jio more Interconnect Points



SECTION: BRANDS & COMPANIES



LENGTH: 496 words





Vodafone India is the latest incumbent telecom operator to agree to increase the

points of interconnect (PoIs) with Reliance Jio Infocomm.The company on Thursday

said it will increase the number of PoIs to three times what it is providing to

Jio at present.



The company's statement comes within days of rivals Bharti Airtel and Idea

Cellular agreeing to augment the PoIs with Jio to service 1.5-crore customers

and 65-lakh customers, respectively. The incumbent telcos, which were initially

defiant, agreed to provide additional PoIs to Jio after the Telecom Regulatory

Authority of India (Trai) called a meeting of all the four parties last Friday.



Jio complained that 75 out of 100 calls made on its network were failing because

the incumbents didn't provide it additio



nal PoIs -these are required to take calls made on one network to another. The

company said it registered a cumulative failure of '52 crore calls made from its

.



network to those of the top three -Airtel, Vodafone and Idea -because of this.



Vodafone said it always provided PoIs to other operators for all their fair,

reasonable and legitimate requirements and would continue to do so.



\x93Following guidance from Trai and clarifications from Jio regarding its

commercial launch,



Vodafone India has decided to in crease the points of intercon nect between the

two operators by thrice and accordingly incre ase the capacity to connect,\x93

the company said in the statement.



The statement said Vodafone was hopeful that all issues that it had raised with

Trai and Jio wo uld be duly considered and re solved at the earliest. It didn't

elaborate. But incumbents in the recent past have asked Trai to reconsider the

call termina tion rate, given the imbalance in the flow of calls. Idea, while on

Monday announcing that it wo uld give additional PoIs to Jio, had said it was

incurring incre asing costs due to asymmetry of traffic. The asymmetry was 14.5

times between Idea and Jio.



It said the cost of termination was much higher than the current interconnect

settlement charge of 14 paisa per minute and that this induced traffic

asymmetry, unless controlled, could exacerbate losses.



Apple Slashes iPhone 6s, 6s Plus Prices by up to Rs 22,000



NEW DELHI In what may prove to be happy news for iPhone 6s and 6s Plus lovers,

US tech giant Apple has slashed the prices of these devices by '22,000, market

sources said. Apple iPhone 6S (128GB variant), which was earlier priced at

'82,000, will now be available at '60,000 after a price drop of '22,000. With

the same price cut, the iPhone 6s Plus (128GB variant) will now be available at

'70,000, the sources said here, though there was no official confirmation from

Apple. Apple's 4-inch smartphone iPhone SE, which was launched in March this

year, also got a price cut. The 64GB version of iPhone SE, available for

'49,000, will now be available at '44,000. Recently, Apple's iPhone 6s was rated

as the world's top-selling smartphone model in the second quarter of 2016.



LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





