                             742 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                            November 6, 2015 Friday



Getting social media savvy with the iPhone 6S;

New models open up a world of apps and opportunities.;

SO SOCIAL



BYLINE: By Scott Kleinberg



SECTION: ; Pg. SA4



LENGTH: 501 words





Now that the new iPhone 6S is available, maybe you're looking for ways to show

it off via Twitter, Facebook and the like. Or maybe this is your first new

mobile since 1998 and you just can't believe you can do social media on a phone.



You can. You really can, and you'll be amazed at what you can do. I'm writing

this column right now on my iPhone 6 Plus, and even for someone like me who is

immersed daily in this kind of stuff, it never gets old.



The ability to take your social media wherever you go isn't new, but I'm always

surprised at how many people aren't taking full advantage of the latest

technology.



So here are six things to keep in mind as you get social on your shiny new

iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.



? If this is your first iPhone 6, you'll love the bigger screen.



The regular iPhone 6S has a 4.7-inch screen, while the 6S Plus covers 5.5

inches. While 4.7 inches doesn't seem much different from 4 inches, you'll

really notice it when you see that extra row of icons. Yep, a bigger screen

means more icons, and if you're anything like me, you'll obsess endlessly over

which social media apps go where.



? These are the first phones with 3D Touch



It's not clear how each app will take advantage of the new technology, but the

opportunities seem exciting. You're used to swiping and pinching, but 3D Touch

makes it possible to press, and different levels of pressing, soft and hard,

will determine how the phone responds. That means a hard press to send a tweet

is not out of the question.



? The new iOS 9 comes preinstalled



Apple says there are all kinds of noticeable improvements in the latest iPhone

operating system, from better security to better battery life to an even smarter

Siri. All of those things can be important whether you're tweeting, Facebooking,

Instagramming or Snap-chatting.



? Update your apps right away



Some of you have your iPhones set to do this automatically, but if you don't,

you'll want to make sure you have the latest and greatest to take advantage of

the new operating system.



? Search the social networking section of the App Store



If you haven't looked at what's new in a while and only have Twitter and

Facebook downloaded, you might be in for a pleasant surprise. Live-casting apps

such as Periscope and Meerkat are a joy to use on these large screens, and it's

fun to draw and add emojis in messaging apps such as Snapchat.



? Always be careful



New technology can entice the wrong crowd, so please watch your surroundings.

Don't unbox your new iPhone on the sidewalk and start fiddling with it in a

place where you could be vulnerable. There are people out there who would rather

steal yours than preorder or wait in a long line. So while a new iPhone with new

social media choices is exciting, always use common sense before tweeting and

sharing.



I won't be upgrading this time around, but I'm sure we'll still discover new

things together. Share your experiences, and your questions, with me on Twitter.



What questions do you have



about social media? Tweet



them to @scottkleinberg



LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





