                             743 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)



                           February 4, 2016 Thursday



iPhone 5se, smaller 4-inch Apple smartphone, to be revealed in March



LENGTH: 302 words



DATELINE: Bangladesh





Bangladesh, Feb. 4 -- Apple is planning a media event for next month, during

which it will unveil a new iPhone, iPad and Apple Watch bands, according to

reports.



9to5mac's Mark Gurman, who has a good track record of reporting accurate leaks,

cites anonymous sources as saying a date is set for Tuesday March 15. The

primary purpose of the event would be to unveil a new, smaller iPhone that keeps

some of the features of later models but reverts to the form factor and design

of the iPhone 5s, he says, according to a report by

www.juneesoutherncross.com.au Believed to be called the iPhone 5se (for '5

special edition' or '5s enhanced'), the phone with a 4-inch screen would be

significantly smaller than the 4.7-inch iPhone 6s or 5.5-inch 6s Plus, but would

supposedly keep the A9 processor, improved camera and Apple Pay capabilities of

those phones. Some new features, including 3D Touch, are less likely to make the

backwards leap. Gurman believes the 5se would replace the 5s - which Apple still

sells - and retain its retail price, which in Australia is $749 for the 16GB

version and $829 for the 32GB. The iPhone 6s Plus currently starts at $1229. The

event would reportedly also see the introduction of the iPad Air 3, which is

tipped to roll the upgrades of the iPad Pro - a beefy quartet of speakers, Smart

Connector and Apple Pencil support - into the familiar 10-inch form factor. New

bands and software for the Apple Watch are likely as well. The March event would

be Apple's first since its September 2015 conference, where it unveiled the iPad

Pro, new Apple TV and the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2016 The Financial Express

                              All Rights Reserved





