                             745 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               India Retail News



                        June 3, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST



Apple Pay Coming to Grubhub's Customers



LENGTH: 292  words





June 3 -- Grubhub, the nation's leading online and mobile food-ordering and

delivery platform, today brings its customers Apple Pay, which is transforming

mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way to pay that's fast and

convenient.



"We're always looking for ways to make it easier for our diners to find and

order the type of food they want, when they want it, from their favorite local

restaurants," said Sudev Balakrishnan, SVP of Product for Grubhub. "We're

thrilled to bring the ease of use of Apple Pay to our diners. It offers another

quick and convenient way for them to pay for their meals, whether they're at

home or on the go."



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benets offered by credit and debit cards. In stores, Apple Pay works

with iPhone SE, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and

AppleWatch.



Online shopping in apps accepting Apple Pay is as simple as the touch of a

finger with Touch ID, so there's no need to manually fill out lengthy account

forms or repeatedly type in shipping and billing information. When paying for

goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is compatible with iPhone SE, iPhone

6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini

4 and iPad Pro.



Security and privacy is at the core of Apple Pay. When you use a credit or debit

card with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device, nor

on Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted

and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each transaction is

authorized with a one-time unique dynamic security code.



For more information on Apple Pay, visit: http://www.apple.com/apple-pay/



Source: Grubhub



LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





