

Sprint offering iPhone 6s leasing plan for $1 a month

OVERLAND PARK, Kan. - A new iPhone for $1 a month?

That's what Sprint is charging for the iPhone 6s. The larger Plus version goes
for $5 a month. T-Mobile, meanwhile, will charge $5 a month for the iPhone 6s
and $9 for the Plus.

The catch: You must have last year's iPhone 6 or 6 Plus and trade that in. You
lose whatever you've already paid for that device. In addition, these offers are
for leases, so you have to turn the new phone in once your lease ends, or pay
more to keep it.

At Sprint, customers who trade in an iPhone 5s can get the iPhone 6s for $10 a
month, while those trading in other smartphones will pay $15 a month. Without a
trade-in, T-Mobile charges $20 and Sprint $22.

Asian Development Bank doubles climate change funding

STOCKHOLM - The Asian Development Bank says it will double its funding to fight
climate change to $6 billion by 2020.

The Manila, Philippines-based ADB says that means its spending on tackling
global warming will rise to about 30 percent of its overall financing.

The bank said Friday it will dedicate $4 billion to lowering greenhouse gas
emissions "through scaling up support for renewable energy, energy efficiency,
sustainable transport, and building smart cities."

The remaining $2 billion will be spent on efforts to help vulnerable countries
adapt to climate change, including "through more resilient infrastructure,
climate-smart agriculture, and better preparation for climate-related
disasters."

The announcement comes as the U.N. prepares to discuss sustainable development
goals in New York and ahead of an envisioned global climate pact in Paris in
December.

U.K. energy firm Drax pulls out of carbon-capture project

LONDON - British power company Drax Group PLC says it is abandoning a project to
capture and store carbon from a coal-fueled power plant, a major setback for the
technology in Britain.

The White Rose project would have seen most emissions from the power station in
northern England stored permanently under the North Sea.

Drax said Friday it was scrapping the project after two years because of "a
drastically different financial and regulatory environment." Falling commodity
costs have driven down wholesale electricity prices, and the British government
has reduced or ended subsidies for renewable and low-carbon energy.

Drax operations director Pete Emery said the company was "confident the
technology we have developed has real potential, but have reluctantly taken a
decision not to invest any further in the development of this project."

S&P upgrades Cyprus as economy, budget improve

NICOSIA, Cyprus - Ratings agency Standard & Poor's has upgraded Cyprus'
government debt rating by one notch to BB- after the country eliminated limits
on money transfers and following improvements in the economy and budget.

The agency on Friday also gave Cyprus a positive outlook, meaning it could raise
its rating again in the next year if the economy continues to perform well and
banks' assets continue to improve.

Cyprus imposed controls on money flows in March, 2013 when a $11.15 billion
rescue deal forced a seizure of uninsured deposits in the two largest banks.

S&P said Cyprus' economy will grow 1.5 percent this year, but banks may need to
take tougher action on their high number of bad loans, which amount to over half
of all loans.

