                             747 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                          The Daily Telegraph (London)



                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Apple's newest phones expected to set worldwide sales records



BYLINE: James Titcomb



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 460 words





APPLE'S new iPhone models are set to become the fastest-selling smartphones of

all time after the company said it was on track to exceed last year's

recordbreaking opening weekend.



"We are on pace to beat last year's 10 million unit first-weekend record when

the new iPhones go on sale [on] September 25," Apple said. "Customer response to

iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus has been extremely positive and preorders this

weekend were very strong around the world."



Pre-orders of the next generation of iPhone opened on Saturday after Apple

unveiled the new devices last week, and many models are already sold out in

certain parts of the world, with consumers already facing weeks of delays for

online orders to be dispatched.



Last year's iPhones, the 6 and 6 Plus, became the fastest-selling smartphones of

all time, selling 4m units in their first 24 hours. In the UK, new orders of the

iPhone 6s Plus - the larger of the two models Apple unveiled last week - are not

expected to be released for up to four weeks. In China, the world's biggest

smartphone market and a key target for Apple, all models of the new handset face

a backlog of at least two weeks. This is the first time Apple is taking

pre-orders in China at the same time as the rest of its major markets.



Shares opened 2.3 per cent higher on Monday in response to the positive news.



still listed as being available from September 25, the official date that the

new iPhones go on sale. That is except for the new "rose gold" model, new orders

of which will be dispatched in up to three weeks. Apple introduced the pink-ish

hue for the first time this year, in what is seen as an attempt to appeal to

customers in China.



"While there are still unknowns about inventory levels, we note that China

demand in particular looks very strong out of the gates and is a positive sign

that the white-hot momentum out of this region shows no signs of abating despite

macro headwinds out of China," said Daniel Ives, technology specialist at US

investment bank FBR Capital.



Apple is launching iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in 12 countries this year. That is

bigger than the iPhone 6 launch, which debuted in nine countries and did not

include China.



Human error Google opts for computers to pick songs



Google's Eric Schmidt has suggested that Apple's music streaming service is a

decade behind the times by opting to enlist human DJs rather than artificial

intelligence to pick songs. The chairman of Alphabet, Google's parent company,

said using software to recommend songs to listeners was "less elitist" and "much

more democratic".



Mr Schmidt did not mention Apple Music by name, but his comments come just a few

months after Apple Music, Apple's to Spotify and other streaming services, was

launched. Apple Music uses human editors.



LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Demand for Apple's newest iPhones is expected to outstrip that of

previous models, such as the 4S, launched in the UK in 2011 (above)OLI

SCARFF/GETTY IMAGES



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DTL





                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





