                             748 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                      August 10, 2015 Monday 12:17 PM GMT



Apple's iPhone 7 to be revealed next month? Latest rumours hint at a specific

date;

The next version of Apple's iPhone and iPad gadgets could be here in less than a

month, according to the latest rumours



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 201 words





If you're desperate to get your hands on an iPhone 6S or iPhone 7 then you might

not have long to wait.



According to new rumours, Apple is set to reveal its next version of the iPhone

and iPad on September 9th, 2015 - less than a month away.



As ever, the next-generation gadgets are shrouded in secrecy, but some believe

the iPhone 6S (as it's likely to be called) will be thicker than the current

iPhone.



However, it is expected to feature the same "force touch" technology that Apple

developed for the Apple Watch.



Last year's iPhone announcement was held on September 9 and, according to

sources speaking to BuzzFeed, the company is planning a repeat performance.



"The company intends to hold a special event the week of Sept. 7, with Wednesday

the 9th being the most likely date," wrote BuzzFeed's John Paczkowski.



Alongside the iPhone 6S, Apple is also expected to reveal the iPhone 6S Plus and

potentially an iPhone 6C.



The company could also show off a giant, 12-inch iPad that industry watchers

have dubbed the "iPad Pro".



Apple has declined to comment on the rumours.



Historically, the company waits until a few weeks before its announcement to

send out cryptic invitations.



Are you going to get an iPhone 7?



LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





