                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                   Arab Times



                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday



Ooredoo Kuwait announces benefits for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus packages



LENGTH: 384 words





Move to improve competency of workforce

ABK signs MoU with KOSAC



Hot on the heels of Ooredoo Kuwait's iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus official

launch at the Ooredoo Tower last weekend, Kuwait's fastest growing telco, has

raised the bar again, offering fantastic benefits for customers.



Ooredoo Kuwait, which is a member of the international Ooredoo Group, held a

star-studded launch on Friday evening with the new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus

literally dropping into Kuwait by parachute.



Today, Ooredoo Kuwait offered a range of special offers to partner the new

iPhones which include unlimited talk-time, unlimited messages and unlimited

access to four popular messaging applications from as little as KD 35 per month.



Mijbil Alayoub, Director of Corporate Communications at Ooredoo Kuwait said: "If

our customers thought we couldn't beat the excitement of Friday's launch event

then they will be pleasantly surprised with our fantastic new packages. Inspired

by the iPhone 6s, we have attempted to change everything once again, with six

super benefits for Ooredoo customers.



"Our customers have really busy and exciting lives, and we are delighted and

grateful to support them. Our launch event and our amazing new packages show our

clear intent to live up to, if not exceed their expectations." Ooredoo Kuwait is

offering customers a choice of three great packages. For KD 35 per month Ooredoo

customers can get an iPhone 6s or 6s Plus 16GB with 500 GB of data, a KD 80

voucher against a future device purchase and Ooredoo Passport roaming packages

valid for two subscriptions.



The iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus 64GB devices are available at the rate of KD 45

per month with Ooredoo increasing the data allowance to 750GB, with three

subscriptions to the Ooredoo roaming passport. The top of the range 128GB

devices are available at the rate of KD 60 per month includes unlimited mobile

internet, four Ooredoo roaming passports and a KD 200 voucher against a future

device.



All packages include unlimited calls and SMS, a free router, a free data SIM and

unlimited usage of WhatsApp, Viber, Tango and Skype. The new iPhone 6s and

iPhone 6s Plus are now available from Ooredoo stockists and retail partners.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/326/1143/91/144534807865.jpg



Move to improve competency of workforce ABK signs MoU with KOSAC



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1143





                 Copyright 2015 Arab Times Kuwait English Daily

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





