                             755 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)



                           September 11, 2015 Friday

                                 First Edition



Apple unveils new iPhones, iPad and TV;

Technology- Aussie designer at launch



BYLINE: Hannah Francis



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10



LENGTH: 452 words





Apple has announced updates to its smartphones, iPad and digital set-top box,

the Apple TV, at an event in California on Wednesday (US time), which saw the

Australian maker of the hit mobile game Crossy Road grace the stage alongside

Apple chief executive Tim Cook.



As expected, Apple showcased the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, which visually

resemble their predecessors but have improved cameras, processors and a new

feature called "3D Touch" which reads different levels of screen-touch pressure

to give extra functionality, similar to the "right click" function on a desktop

computer.



Thanks to the low Australian dollar the new iPhones will cost more than last

year's bestselling iPhone 6 models, ranging from $1079 for a 16GB iPhone 6s to

$1529 for a 128GB iPhone 6s Plus.



The handsets will be available in Australia on September 25 in silver, grey,

gold and rose gold, with pre-orders starting this Saturday.



They will arrive with the latest Apple mobile operating system, iOS 9, which

will also be rolled out as an update to existing iPhone and iPad models. The new

software will feature intelligent search features and, for iPad, "advanced

multi-tasking".



The iPhone remains Apple's most important product category by a large margin,

driving nearly two-thirds of the company's $US49.6 billion ($70.3 billion) in

revenue in the most recent quarter.



The revamp to Apple TV brings a new operating system, tvOS, which integrates

with Apple's voice-activated personal digital assistant, Siri.



Siri will respond to casual spoken commands such as "Show me that Modern Family

episode with Edward Norton" by fetching the episode from your library or

streaming service; or she will rewind to what you were watching a few seconds

ago if you ask "What did she say?"



Australian game designer Andy Sum, from Hipster Whale, was invited to showcase a

new version of his studio's hit game, Crossy Road, demonstrating the potential

for tvOS to bring new apps made especially for the big screen.



Mr Cook said the new Apple TV, priced at $US149, but with Australian prices yet

to be announced, was the future of television.



Apple also revealed a new 12.9-inch iPad at the event, the iPad Pro, which it

says is up to 1.8 times faster than previous models and has 10 hours of battery

life. Mr Cook said it was as powerful as a desktop computer. Former rival

Microsoft, and Adobe Systems, partnered with Apple on the new product.



For the first time Apple is also releasing its own optional keyboard and a

stylus, called the "Pencil". Both are compatible with the iPad Pro but not with

previous iPad models.



Also announced was a partnership with French luxury goods maker Hermes, which is

working on a new line of Apple Watch.



with agencies



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2015 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





