

Cupertino, California, Mar 22 (IBNS) Apple on Tuesday introduced iPhone SE, a
powerful phone for business use offered at the cheapest ever price.

The device features a four-inch display, in a compact aluminium design that has
been updated with matte-chamfered edges, a colour-matched stainless steel Apple
logo, and four metallic finishes, including rose gold. iPhone SE offers
exceptional performance with the same 64-bit A9 chip offered in iPhone 6s and
iPhone 6s Plus for fast speeds, longer battery life, faster wireless, a
12-megapixel iSight camera featuring Live Photos and 4K video. iPhone SE will be
available in space grey, silver, gold and rose gold metallic finishes in 16GB
and 64GB models starting at MRP INR 39,000 in India from Apple Authorised
Resellers and select carriers. iPhone SE is an exciting new idea we started with
a beloved, iconic design and reinvented it from the inside out.

The result is the most beautiful and powerful phone with a four-inch display in
the world, said Philip Schiller, Apples senior vice president of Worldwide
Marketing. iPhone SE is packed with a stunning four-inch Retina display,
advanced 64-bit A9 chip with M9 motion co-processor, longer battery life,
12-megapixel iSight camera with True Tone flash, Live Photos, 4K video, faster
LTE and Wi-Fi. Everyone who wants a smaller phone is going to love iPhone SE.
iPhone SE takes a beloved iPhone design and reinvents it from the inside out,
giving customers a powerful, full-featured iPhone no matter which model they
choose. The 64-bit A9 chip, introduced in iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, offers
iPhone SE customers two times faster CPU and three times faster GPU performance
compared to iPhone 5s, all with gains in energy efficiency for improved battery
life. M9, Apples next-generation motion coprocessor, is integrated into A9
allowing more features to run all the time at lower power, including Hey Siri
without having to pick up the iPhone, and a range of fitness tracking
capabilities like measuring steps and distance. iPhone SE users can browse,
download and stream content even faster with Wi-Fi up to three times and LTE up
to 50 percent faster than iPhone 5s.* iPhone SE also includes more LTE bands for
better worldwide roaming and supports Voice over LTE and Wi-Fi calling for
high-quality wideband calls. With an easy-to-use interface, amazing features,
and security at its core, iOS 9 is the foundation of iPhone SE and brings
powerful built-in apps like Messages, FaceTime, Photos, Music and Maps to iPhone
users. iOS 9 also brings more intelligence to iPhone SE with proactive
assistance, powerful search, improved Siri features, and a new Night Shift
feature that uses your iPhone SEs clock and geolocation to automatically adjust
the colours in the display to the warmer end of the spectrum after dark. iPhone
SE has an advanced 12-megapixel iSight camera featuring Focus Pixel technology
for fast focusing, an Apple-designed image signal processor, advanced noise
reduction, third-generation local tone mapping and better face detection, all
resulting in sharper, more detailed photos like the ones shot on iPhone 6s. With
Live Photos on iPhone SE, customers can go beyond snapshots to capture moments
in motion and relive unforgettable memories with sound. Live Photos are
beautiful 12-megapixel photos that, with just a touch, reveal the moments
immediately before and after the shot was taken, so users can enjoy a living
memory rather than an instant frozen in time. The ability to shoot HD video with
support for 4K at a resolution of 3840 x 2160. After capturing 4K video,
customers can edit on a Mac, PC or iPad, and with the latest version of iMovie
on iPhone, can even edit two simultaneous streams of 4K on iPhone SE. Retina
Flash, which momentarily makes the display three times brighter with True Tone
lighting technology, for wonderfully bright selfies in low light with the
FaceTime HD camera. Features introduced with iPhone 6s, including up to
63-megapixel panorama photos, video capture up to 60fps for 1080p video and
240fps for slo-mo, time-lapse with video stabilisation and cinematic video
stabilisation. Customers in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, Japan, New Zealand, Puerto Rico, Singapore, the UK, US Virgin Islands and
the US will be able to order iPhone SE beginningThursday, March 24, with
availability beginningThursday, March 31. iPhone SE will be available in early
April in Albania, Andorra, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Croatia,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Guernsey, Jersey, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Kosovo, Kuwait, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Maldives, Malta, Monaco,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey and UAE. Apple-designed
accessories including leather cases in black andmidnightblue will be available
for MRP INR 2900 and Lightning Docks in colour-matched metallic finishes are
currently available for MRP INR 3700

