                             762 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                        July 18, 2016 Monday 1:59 PM GMT



Alleged iPhone 7 leak shows exactly how Apple's new gadget measures up against

the iPhone 6s;

A video supposedly showing a finished version of the iPhone 7 matches it up to

Apple's existing handset - and it looks like little will change



BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 241 words





Excitement for the next version of the iPhone 7 is increasing with each new

"leak" appearing on the internet.



The latest example is a video obtained by French tech site Nowhereelse.fr that

matches up the new iPhone 7 with last year's iPhone 6s flagship.



Dedicated Apple followers will be well aware of the rumours surrounding the next

handset. Supposedly it will have a larger camera lens and a USB Type C

connection at the bottom that will double up as the new headphone slot.



iPhone 7: Release date, rumours, leaked images, price and all the latest news

about Apple's next iPhone



Samsung Galaxy Note 7 UK release date to be revealed at exclusive launch event

in August



The model obtained in the video appears to closely match these rumours. There's

certainly no 3.5mm headphone port on the base of the handset.



It also has the repositioned antenna on the corners of the handset rather than

across the back.



Finished iPhone 7 PICTURED for the first time? Viral photo is clearest image yet

of Apple's next gadget



But in terms of size and design, the alleged iPhone 7 looks very similar to the

existing iPhone 6s .



Many tech fans felt the design change from the iPhone 5s to the iPhone 6 (and

then 6s) was a hugely positive step - praising the thinner body and larger

screen.



How to download US iPhone and iPad apps on your UK device - get Pokémon GO game

TODAY



But do we expect more from Apple this time around? Have your say in the comments

section below.



LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





