

Apple fans and speculators eyeing a quick buck from resales of the new devices
turned out in force in Hong Kong yesterday.

But resales of the new iPhone 6S were initially lacklustre near Apple's flagship
store at the IFC Mall in Central.

Traditionally, resellers have lined up for days in Hong Kong every time a new
iPhone is released, hoping to cash in from tech-loving mainlanders who would not
be able to buy the gadget at home for weeks. This time, however, the phone was
released on the mainland on the same day as in Hong Kong.

One speculator with a couple of the new smartphones to resell lamented that the
latest models were no longer as appealing.

"[Business] is no good. No one likes this phone. There are no new features,"
said Sushil Kumar, of the device.

He hoped to sell the iPhone 6S for HK$6,500 and the bigger iPhone 6S Plus at
HK$7,000. They retail at HK$5,588 and HK$6,388 respectively.

Nevertheless, the price of the phones fluctuated throughout the day, depending
on colour, storage capacity and size.

"It's impossible to tell you a fixed price. It changes every minute," said an
employee at G-World Mobile in Sin Tat Plaza in Mong Kok.

By 3pm, ePrice, an electronics website, reported prices of some new iPhones had
recovered in the plaza, especially rose gold ones, which were highly sought
after by speculators and buyers. A 64GB pink iPhone 6S Plus, which cost
HK$7,888, could fetch up to HK$8,600.

On the same day that the iPhone 6S was released on the mainland and Hong Kong,
high-grade knock-offs were already selling for under US$100 - about one-eighth
of the cost of the original - in Shenzhen and Guangdong province.

In the grey market at Shenzhen's Huaqiangbei they could be had for between 580
yuan (HK$703) and 630 yuan.

"These are the first batch the factories have cloned according to Apple's
advertising pictures," said Tang Shouquan, a trader selling counterfeit Samsung
and Apple gadgets at Mingtong Digital City in Huaqiangbei.

"They will get the genuine model from Hong Kong today and immediately adjust the
colour and shape to make the second batch even better."

The fake iPhones were not yet available in rose gold, a newly introduced colour
rumoured to have been added specially to appeal to Chinese customers, who now
make up a significant share of Apple's revenue.

"We expect to have a rose gold version in a few days," Tang added.

Already hard to distinguish from the real deal, the knock-offs run on an Android
operating system made to look like an Apple interface. They even have Apple-like
icons on the home screen.

The phones come with a dual core processor, have a built-in 8GB SD memory card
and - for the first time - can use an iPhone lightning cable to charge.

Tang said most counterfeits would be sold to customers in second- or third-tier
cities across the country, which includes the capital cities of many provinces.

"There is a huge market for fake iPhones in the Chinese hinterlands," Tang said.

"People there dream of possessing world-class products but for most people who
come from rural areas that's all it is - a dream. They can't afford to buy
them."

