

Apple has finally unveiled its long-awaited iPhone 7, and most of the rumours
and leaks ahead of the launch have turned out to be true.

The new device is indeed waterproof, and the larger model comes with an
impressive dual-lens camera capable of of all kinds of photographic wizardry.

Controversially, Apple has removed the headphone socket from the bottom of the
device, meaning you may have to rethink your headphone choices.

Apple has also ditched the 16GB and 64GB models, and introduced a new 256GB
model - which has the same amount of storage as Apple's top-of-the-range iPad
Pro.

Here's everything you need to know about Apple's New iPhone 7:

Apple unveiled the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus at an event in San Francisco on September
7.

Customers in the UK will be able to pre-order the new phones from Friday,
September 9, and the new devices will be available in shops from Friday,
September 16.

In the UK, the iPhone 7 will be available from a starting price of £599 for the
cheapest 32GB option. The 128GB version costs £699 and the 256GB version will
set you back a whopping £799.

The larger iPhone 7 Plus will be even more of a wallet buster than it's smaller
sibling.

The cheapest (32GB) iPhone 7 Plus costs £719, followed by a 128GB model at £819,
and then a 256GB variant costing an astonishing £919 in the UK.

All of the UK mobile operators will of course be offering contract deals, so
we'll update this article once we know more.

How much do the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus cost - and is the iPhone 6s any
cheaper?

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are almost identical in appearance to their
predecessors, the iPhone 6s and 6S Plus.

The smaller iPhone 7 has a 4.7-inch Retina HD display, while its larger sibling
has a 5.5-inch display.

The bodies of the phones are made from aluminium and come in five colours -
silver, gold, rose gold, black, (which has a matte appearance), and "jet black".
(which has a high-gloss look).

The new jet black finish will be offered exclusively on the 128GB and 256GB
models.

One noticeable design change is that Apple has removed the plastic antenna lines
from the back of the device.

In previous models, these lines have allowed radio signals to pass through the
metal casing and reach the antennas. However, it looks like Apple has redesigned
the case to get around this restriction.

Apple has redesigned the Home button on the iPhone 7 - presumably in order to
make the device waterproof.

The new "solid-state" Home button is designed to be durable and responsive, and
work in tandem with the new Taptic Engine to provide "more precise and
customisable tactile feedback".

In other words, even though the button doesn't "click" in the same way as the
old handset, it provides haptic feedback when you touch it.

Perhaps the most controversial thing about the new iPhone is that it doesn't
have a headphone socket.

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will ship with a pair of wired headphones that plug into
the charging port on the bottom of the device, as well as an adaptor for people
who want to hang onto their old headphones.

Apple has also launched a pair of wireless headphones, called AirPods, which are
available to buy for an additional £159.

These can connect to both the iPhone 7 and Apple Watch 2 with just a tap,
according to Apple, and switch "seamlessly" between entertainment and calls.

In place of the old headphone jack, Apple has added a second speaker, so sound
is two times louder than iPhone 6s, and you will be able to listen to your music
in stereo with increased dynamic range.

The iPhone 7 comes with a new A10 chip, which is extremely efficient, meaning
the iPhone 7 can run up to three times faster than the iPhone 6 at as little as
half the power.

This means that the iPhone 7's battery lasts up to 2 hours longer than iPhone
6s, according to Apple, and the iPhon 7 Plus' battery lasts up to 1 hour longer
than iPhone 6s Plus.

Graphics performance is also more powerful, so it can support a new level of
gaming and professional apps.

Apple has effectively doubled the storage capacity of all its iPhones. So rather
than offering 16GB, 64GB and 128GB models, the iPhone 7 comes in 32GB, 128GB and
256GB.

Both the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus have upgraded cameras.

The iPhone 7 has a 12-megapixel wide angle camera, which Apple claims is 60%
faster and 30% more energy-efficient than previous models, and has 4 LEDS in the
flash.

The iPhone 7 Plus has an additional telephoto camera, which together with the
standard 12-megapixel wide angle camera offers optical zoom at two times and up
to 10 times digital zoom for photos.

Apple said the camera software would be updated later this year, allowing the
iPhone 7 Plus camera to capture depth-of-field, and separate the background from
the foreground to achieve amazing portraits.

In other words, you could soon be filling your Instagram with some seriously
arty photos that were once possible to create only with DSLR cameras.

Both the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus have an IP67 rating, which means they are totally
protected against dust and can be immersed in water to a depth of 1 metre.

That means it will survive a dip in the sink or down the loo, and it won't break
if you pour a drink over it, but you probably don't want to take it swimming.

