                             770 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                THE KOREA HERALD



                             July 14, 2016 Thursday



Samsung Galaxy outsells Apple iPhone in US for first time



LENGTH: 245 words





[THE INVESTOR] Samsung Electronics' flagship smartphone Galaxy S7 has managed to

outsell Apple's iPhone 6S in the US for the first time.



According to market research firm Kantar Worldpanel, 16 percent of American

consumers purchased Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge for the three-month period ending in

May, while 14.6 percent chose an iPhone 6S or 6S Plus during the same period.



Samsung Galaxy S7 (left) and Apple's iPhone 6S



Even though the Samsung phones are newer handsets by half a year, Apple's

iPhones have been defeating the Korean rival on its home turf.



With the new iPhone coming only in September, Kantar predicted more declines in

the iPhone share in the meantime.



In the overall US market, Kantar found, Samsung had the biggest share with 37

percent to Apple's 29 percent. Apple still boasts a higher loyalty rating, with

88 percent of current customers intending to stay loyal. But the figure for

Samsung is almost equal at 86 percent.



"When we look at where these brand purchases are coming from, just 5 percent of

Samsung purchases came from people moving away from Apple, while 14 percent of

Apple buyers came from those switching from Samsung," said Lauren Guenveur,

consumer insight director for Kantar Worldpanel.



"The majority of sales were from customers repurchasing and upgrading within

their preferred brand. Among those intending to change devices in the next year,

88% of current Apple users and 86% of current Samsung users intend to stay

loyal."



By Lee Ji-yoon (



LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald

                              All Rights Reserved





