                             771 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                               Evening Chronicle



                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Scores queue to get their hands on the new iPhone



BYLINE: Barbara Hodgson



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11



LENGTH: 372 words





GADGET geeks got their hands on the new iPhone 6s which went on sale yesterday.



The Apple store in Newcastle's Eldon Square geared up for the 8am launch as the

eagerlyawaited iPhone 6s and 6s Plus hit the shelves at prices ranging from £539

up to £789.



Nina Millington was one of several students keen to bag their chosen gold,

silver, space grey or new rose gold metallic finish.



Londoner Nina, a 19-year-old starting a biomedical sciences course at Newcastle

University next week, was after the rose gold.



"I've always had Apple products and I've had my phone several years now," she

said.



"From what I've seen the new one is very good and very durable. It can do

everything I need it to do and the university has an app to timetable everything

which I can use." There was a cup of free coffee for those who wanted it as the

queue of up to 40 waited for doors to open.



Among those near the front was Qingya Zhang, 25, a Newcastle University banking

and finance student, who queued for nearly two hours.



"It's exciting," he said. "I'm really happy because I've been waiting a long

time for this phone."



Among the happy buyers was a 16-year-old from Gateshead who had borrowed money

from his parents to buy a £619 rose gold 6s.



And Christopher Johnston, a student and parttime worker from Jesmond, who said

he wanted the new 6s because of its extra features . "I considered the rose gold

but wasn't sure so got the gold instead," he said.



Most were heading straight off to explore their new buys but Ben McLaughlin, a

product manager from West Allotment, was on his way to work.



"I might have a play at lunch-time," he said. The 36-year-old has also been

among the first to buy new Apple products in the past and this time made his

£750 purchase.



He said: "This has been better than previously; it's been more organised."



George Hua, who had gone with his friend and fellow student Martin Ma to, said:

"I wanted a phone I can use for at least two years and I think this is the best

quality."



At the Metrocentre, Gateshead, the Red Mall opened at 6am ahead of the launch

which saw the iPhone 6s Plus go on sale nationwide.



The iPhone 6s Plus phones come with a price tag of £619 for the 16GB model, £699

for the 64GB model and £789 for the 128GB model.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Customers queue outside the the apple store in Eldon Square, Newcastle

to buy the new iPhone



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NEC





               Copyright 2015 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





