                             775 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                          China Daily - Africa Weekly



                               November 13, 2015



Chinese lawyer sues iPhone seller



LENGTH: 236  words





A Chinese lawyer is suing an iPhone seller for what he believes to be misleading

statements in the company's advertising for the new iPhone 6s products.



BEIJING - A Chinese lawyer is suing an iPhone seller for what he believes to be

misleading statements in the company's advertising for the new iPhone 6s

products.



Lawyer He Ganlin from Guangzhou bought a 128 gigabyte iPhone 6s for 6,858 yuan

(1076 U.S. dollars) from the dealer, the Guangdong branch of China Mobile, after

seeing an advertisement declaring that, "The only thing that's changed is

everything."



Online media outlet "The Paper" reported that after using his new gadget, He

found that "everything had not changed" as the advertisement claimed. Compared

with the iPhone 6, the 6s is almost identical in its appearance, nor has it

changed much in functionality, He said.



The lawyer also argues that the words "only" and "everything" contravene China's

new Advertising Law, which forbids definitive or absolute terms like "best",

"perfect" and "national level".



The lawyer is demanding compensation of 20,000 yuan, three times the price of

the phone, and according to the report, a court in Guangzhou has accepted the

case.



The defendant is yet to respond.



China is Apple's most successful market. During this year's Singles' Day online

shopping spree earlier this week, Chinese customers bought more than three

million smart-phones on Alibaba's Tmall platform.



LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1497





                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





