                             784 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                         The Phnom Penh Post (Cambodia)



                            November 16, 2015 Monday



Delayed shipment puts iPhone on hold



LENGTH: 354  words





The opening weekend for the official launch of two new iPhone models in Cambodia

hit a few bumps when the Kingdom's two authorised iPhone resellers faced

supply-side issues.



Telecom company Smart, one of the two licensed resellers, was forced to turn

away customers who had pre-booked the new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus handsets after

its shipment of Apple smartphones did not arrive in time for Friday's highly

anticipated release.



Because of a shipment delay, the iPhone release has been delayed too, said a

customer service representative at a Smart branch in central Phnom Penh. It

could take a week to come in, but if it comes in earlier we will call and inform

our customers.



One Smart subscriber who had pre-ordered an iPhone 6S and paid a deposit said he

was deeply disappointed when he arrived at a Smart branch only to find the new

smartphone was not there.



Customer service called me on November 11 to pick up my iPhone on November 13,

said Sa Hang Lam. I am disappointed that I did not receive my phone, but even

more so because I wasted my time coming here as they did not inform me.



He said Smart customer service representatives told him on that he might have to

wait a week or longer until the first shipment arrives.



Over at iOne, the Kingdom's other licensed iPhone reseller, some customers who

pre-registered to purchase a phone were able to pick up their handsets.



Kao Damaityma, marketing manager of iOne, said the company's branch on Mao Tse

Tung Boulevard opened at 6am on Friday for pre-registered customers.



There were no lines, as was the case with the release of the iPhone 6 last

November, but by early afternoon the branch had run out of certain colours and

configurations.



A shipment will come next week to meet the demands of those who pre-registered,

who are mostly seeking the new rose-gold model, Damaityma said.



She added that walk-in customers who had not pre-registered were able to queue

and purchase iPhone 6S and 6S Plus handsets at the company's branch in Canadia

Tower.



More than 100 handsets were sold before stocks ran thin.



It went better than last year and customers were happy, said Damaityma.



LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2015 The Phnom Penh Post

                              All Rights Reserved





