                             787 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                     October 8, 2015 Thursday 02:37 PM EST



Quick iPhone 6S case review: Ballistic Tungsten Tough



BYLINE: Bob Brown



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 478  words





Click for image



I risked carrying around my new iPhone 6S for a week before finally stopping by

Best Buy to pick up a case: the Ballistic Tungsten Tough model.



I was looking for something of a tough and rubbery nature, like the trusty

Nuguard KX that helped to keep my iPhone 5 safe over the past 2 years (I

reviewed that iPhone case here).



I initially shopped around online but wanted to get a real feel for the case.

Plus, I was a little nervous about whether cases initially designed for the

iPhone 6 would really fit the iPhone 6S, which Apple says is just a smidgen

taller, wider, thicker and heavier. After all, who knows what that fancy new 3D

Touch feature might do to a phone's girth.



The first thing I noticed about the iPhone 6S cases at Best Buy is that many of

them had fresh new stickers on their cases to cover up the iPhone 6S designation

on the original packaging. Thus, my concerns about size comparisons were

rekindled.



But upon fitting my phone into the case, it felt fine.Tim Greene, NW



Hey what do you know, it's Network World's mobile website on my

Ballstic-protected iPhone 6S.



Indeed, the case I chose is rubbery, though actually has two parts, as seen in

the photo at the top of this review. Overall, it weighs .55 ounces.



In addition to the rubber casing, which fits around the sides of the phone and

bumps out a bit on the corners, a combination metal/silicone piece fits over the

rubber to toughen up the back and 2 sides of the case. The rubber part does

actually cover the buttons for volume and power, though I found them to continue

working naturally. The hole that allows access to the ring/silence switch is

just a tad tricky to negotiate with bigger fingers.



It took a little finagling to get the hard shell on, to the point where I

actually looked for instructions to make sure I wasn't going to crack my

4.7-inch Retina Display screen while trying. No instructions were to be found,

but I did jiggle the entire case around the phone eventually. I've also taken

the shell off since then; it's on snug enough that's it's not going to fall off,

but it is removable when pressure is applied.



The packaging for the case assures me that it's been tested for a 7-foot drop. I

decided not to try replicating that for your pleasure and my possible

displeasure.



The phone overall now is a bit heftier than some might like, especially if

you're upgrading from the smaller iPhone 5, but I prefer a little military grade

in my gadgets (Ballistic touts its case as having met or exceeded military

standards.)



Online, Best Buy sells the case for about $40, though I got mine for under $30

between it being on sale and using a 20% off coupon. Supposedly, this case is

sold exclusively at Best Buy. My case is black, with a gray metallic-looking

back, though Best Buy also offers blue, gray and brown models.



MORE: My Firefly music festival iPhone survival kit



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





