                             789 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                          The Cairns Post (Australia)



                           September 11, 2015 Friday

                                 Cairns Edition



Fresh byte of the Apple



BYLINE: Rod Chester



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18



LENGTH: 425  words





Hoping to reinvent the way we communicate, Apple has unveiled its latest gadgets

in what it called the biggest innovation since the iPad. Rod Chester reports.



APPLE yesterday promised a day of "monster" announcements and delivered it with

a giant iPad, a revamped smarter Apple TV and two new iPhones that are smarter,

faster and tougher than ever.



In one of its biggest days of hardware announcements in recent years, Apple CEO

Tim Cook unveiled the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, the 12-inch iPad Pro and a revamped

Apple TV which, with its own app store, is Apple's push to grab a slice of the

US$34 billion games console market.



In what is likely to be the last Apple event in a year that began with the

launch of the Apple Watch, the launch of two new iPhones also got lost in the

crowd of Apple announcements headed up by Apple's promise to bring "innovation"

to TVs through a TV app store. The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus look the same on the

outside as last year's models, with a 4.7-inch screen for the 6S and a 5.5-inch

screen for the bigger phablet.



But under the hood the new iPhones have significant improvements, including a

tougher aluminium body and glass to avoid the problems of "Bendgate" in which

some people reported bending their iPhone 6 Plus smartphones.



The new phones have 3D Touch, which lets you quickly access features of the

phone by applying extra force as you touch the touchscreen, plus a 12 megapixel

camera which is a big jump from the 8 megapixel camera in the iPhone 6.



Selfie fans will appreciate their own faces even more with an upgrade to the

front-facing camera to 5 megapixels plus the ability to use the glow of the

touchscreen as a front-facing flash. Apple made a push into productivity

yesterday with an iPad Pro, a 12-inch tablet that lets you view apps

side-by-side in split-screen, that it hopes is a step towards reviving a

stagnate tablet market.



While Steve Jobs was said to be dismissive of the need for any stylus other than

a finger, Apple launched the Pencil along with a fold-up keyboard giving the

big-screen iPad Pro features to battle the appeal of Microsoft's Surface tablet.



Potentially the biggest announcement of the event was the launch of a new Apple

TV, with an app store that will allow third-party app makers to transfer popular

games, news, entertainment and lifestyle apps from mobile devices to television

screens.



Rod Chester travelled to San Francisco as a guest of Apple.



Read the full reviews of what's new from Apple and see video of the new features

and devices at www.advertiser.com.au/technology



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Cairns Post





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





