                             791 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)



                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

                                 Final Edition



New iPhone features nice, but fairly modest



BYLINE: Josh McConnell, Vancouver Sun



SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. B2



LENGTH: 511 words





If it's September, there must be a brand new iPhone line from Apple Inc. And if

this year's iPhone looks suspiciously similar to last year's iPhone, that's

because, well, it is.



Called the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus, the new line marks the first time

Apple has not followed one of its S-series with a design change - a deviation

from its usual two-year design cycle. The height, width and depth dimensions of

the new phones are all identical to the previous iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, though

the weight is slightly less.



The Financial Post was one of a few media outlets globally to receive early

review units of both phones to test all of the new features.



On the inside, there is a faster processor that's up to 40 per cent faster than

last year's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, plus there is up to 50 per cent better

graphics capabilities.



The phones feel quicker in simple day-to-day tasks such as web browsing,

switching between apps or restarting. More intensive actions such as photo or

video editing and gaming also load faster or render much more quickly.



The Home button has also been redesigned, using a taptic engine vibration that

creates the illusion of the user pressing a button without anything actually

moving. Removing the button helps seal the phones, making them water and dust

resistant.



Controversially, Apple has also removed the headphone jack. The company said

this was done to help free up space internally for other technology, like a

bigger battery or the taptic engine. Regular headphones can now be connected

using an adapter, which will retail for only $10, for the device's Lightning

port.



Alternately, music lovers can use Bluetooth headphones, such as Apple's new

EarPods that are being released in October. The only real usability issue with a

lack of headphone jack is when you want to charge your phone while listening to

music, which requires a separate adapter.



The most impressive part about the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is its camera.

Both models have 12-megapixel cameras, as did the iPhone 6s and 6 Plus. But the

new phones feature a larger aperture, which means improved lowlight photos with

better detail and less graininess.



The smaller 4.4-inch iPhone is getting optical stabilization as well, which

features sensors that move the lens slightly to fight against handshake movement

and motion blur.



But the real story for this generation, and what Apple is hoping you'll pay

extra for, is in the larger 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus. Instead of just one

12-megapixel camera, the phone has two. One is set at the usual wide angle of

other iPhones, but the second camera is a telephoto lens that's permanently

closer to subjects. This means you can now "zoom in" optically when taking

photos without losing quality. Software also uses both lenses to create a better

digital zoom up to 10x, as opposed to the previous 5x.



The iPhone continues to be among the best smartphones on the market, but the new

version could be a tough sell for some. The new features seem fairly

incremental. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Marcio Jose Sanchez, The Associated Press; The new iPhone 7 features a

Lightning port but no headphone jack. The company said this was done to help

free up space internally for other technology, like a bigger battery.;



DOCUMENT-TYPE: News



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                          Copyright 2016 National Post

                              All Rights Reserved





