                             793 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                US Official News



                           September 18, 2015 Friday



Sprint adds 33 more destinations to Sprint Open World - unlimited free texting,

great rates on calls and high-speed data



LENGTH: 585 words



DATELINE: Lahore







 Kansas: Sprint Corporation has issued the following Press release:









 OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), September 17, 2015 - Whether you are

island-hopping through the Caribbean, escaping to Fiji or touring France, your

world just expanded with Sprint. Thirty-three destinations have been added to

the free Sprint Open World add-on service, giving customers unlimited free

texting and great rates on calls and high-speed data.





 Sprint Open World





  For customers traveling frequently to Mexico, Canada and 12 countries across

Latin America, Sprint Open World includes free calling and text, plus 1GB of

free data. The Latin American countries are Dominican Republic, Argentina,

Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,

Nicaragua, Panama and Paraguay. Sprint offers free calling in more international

destinations than any other carrier. T-Mobile offers free calling in two

countries. AT&T and Verizon do not offer free international calling.



  In more than 50 other destinations, including those just added to the Sprint

Open World plan, texting is free, calls are just $0.20/minute, and high-speed

data is only $30/GB.



  The new Sprint Open World destinations include France, Anguilla, Antigua and

Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands,

Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Fiji, Gibraltar, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guyana,

Haiti, Jamaica, Martinique, Montserrat, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Seychelles, St.

Barthelemy, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, St. Vincent & The Grenadines,

Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, and Vanuatu. For

a full list of destinations visit, www.sprint.com/openworld.



  Qualified Sprint customers on domestic plans with compatible phones may add

Sprint Open World to their Sprint plan simply by visiting

www.sprint.com/openworld or go to your local Sprint store.1



 &ldquo;When our customers are vacationing in the Caribbean or traveling abroad,

we know they want to be able to communicate with friends and family free from

worry about surprising costs to text, make a call home or send a photo,&rdquo;

said Kevin Crull, chief marketing officer, Sprint. &ldquo;We are continuing to

add more destinations and enabling our customers to stay connected virtually

wherever they go.&rdquo;





 Sprint Global Roaming

 Customers whose international travel does not frequently include Mexico, Canada

or Latin America may opt instead for the Sprint Global Roaming free add-on

service. With Sprint Global Roaming, customers get free unlimited 2G data,

unlimited text messaging, and calls for $0.20 per minute. For a complete list of

Sprint Global Roaming destinations, visit www.sprint.com/globalroaming.

 Open World and Global Roaming are available on iPhone 6s

 Both Open World and Global Roaming are available for free on the iPhone 6s, as

well as other iPhones and smartphones from Sprint. Starting on Sept. 25,

qualified Sprint customers can choose iPhone Forever2 to get iPhone 6s for $15

per month and iPhone 6s Plus for $19 per month, making it the most affordable

way to get the new iPhones on Sprint. Customers who choose not to trade in an

existing smartphone at time of purchase can get iPhone 6s for $22 per month and

iPhone 6s Plus for $26 per month. With the innovative iPhone Forever program,

included in the price, Sprint customers can now get a new iPhone every year.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please

contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com







LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH





              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





