                             795 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  t-break Tech



                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday



Upcoming iPhones will not be featuring Intel's LTE modems



LENGTH: 306  words





Looks like Apple will be sticking to its previous partnership



By tbreak Staff -



It was reported that the upcoming iPhones will be sporting Cat 6 LTE modems from

Qualcomm. However, there were rumors suggesting that Apple was going to

dismantle the partnership with the leading mobile chipset maker and turn its

attention towards a partnership with Intel for the company's LTE modems. Turns

out that the rumor was nothing more than a fluke because the upcoming iPhones,

which are expected to be officially announced next month are going to sport

Qualcomm's LTE modems.



According to a report, Intel was out of luck in securing a partnership with

Apple for the company's upcoming iPhones. However, that in no way means that the

leading processor manufacturer for desktops, laptops and servers is going to get

kicked out of the equation immediately because the source reports that iPhone 6c

could be sporting the company's LTE chips, which have been fabricated on the

28nm process. While iPhone 6c will feature the same FinFET chips as its iPhone

6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the device will still perform lower compared to the

flagship duo.



This is perhaps the only reason why Intel's low cost LTE modems could be

incorporated in the company's lesser performing iPhone. In addition to this, it

is also possible that Intel secures a billion dollar deal with Apple for the

company's iPhones that are going to be released in 2017. For the remaining two

years, Apple will be using Qualcomm's chips mainly because they have been

processed under TSMC's 20nm process.



The smaller the lithographic process, the better the efficiency these chips will

show, along with better performance. Both iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are going

to be announced next month, and like always, Apple is going to have a few

surprises under its belt so stay tuned for more details.



LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: 814





                          Copyright 2015 TBREAK MEDIA

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





