                             796 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                     September 28, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST



iPhone 6S Finally Available To Customers



BYLINE: Peter Jenkins



LENGTH: 303  words





Gadget lovers or the entire world has been eyeing Apple's new handsets i.e.

iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus and now the tech giant has finally unveiled the new

iPhones and has finally made it available to public.



This year's release is the second generation to feature the 4.7-in and 5.5-in

displays. As per gadget experts these new handsets are slightly larger and

heavier, but look very similar to their predecessors.



This year the company has launched a new color for the iPhones i.e. the 'Rose

Gold' color. Apart from their appearance, the iPhone 6S models are very

different from the once previously launched by the company.



The company in the new models has used of a new 7000 Series aluminum alloy to

help create a sturdier, less bendable casing to updated cameras, a faster Touch

ID system, and pressure-sensitive multitouch display.



Apple has said that it hopes that early sale of its new handsets will break past

records. They said that the new iPhonesare faster due to the improvements in

custom-built A9 processor and the increase from 1GB of internal memory to 2GB.



Apple says the new chip is 70% faster than last year's, and graphics are 90%

faster. It certainly feels like it in routine use. The pressure-sensitive

display, one of the real advances in this year's models is supported by clever

software built into iOS 9, which allowed Apple to introduce 3D Touch.



Apart from usual swiping and tapping on the screen there is much more in this

year's handsets. A light press brings up one set of options; a firmer press

'Pop' opens even more options.



Business: Technology (http://nycity.today/business/technology)Region: United

States (http://nycity.today/location/united-states)Company: Apple

(http://nycity.today/company/apple)



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





