                             797 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              The Pioneer (India)



                           September 19, 2016 Monday



App-driven car rides



LENGTH: 486 words



DATELINE: India





India, Sept. 19 -- While technology zooms ahead with experimentation, it's

raining some sweet deals too



When you book a Uber on your phone, the car might just drive up to your pick-up

location by itself thanks to advancements in self-driving technology. While this

is still far from becoming a reality in India, Uber has begun piloting

self-driving cars in Pittsburg, USA. A majority of accidents worldwide happen

due to human error and self-driving technology can surely reduce fatal accidents

and save lives. But what's still uncertain is if machines can respond

effectively to road conditions such as traffic, pedestrians and bad drivers like

a typical human would. Google has been talking a lot about self-driving cars and

has been testing them, too, on US roads. Tesla cars, too, have an autopilot

feature. The future of cars is surely going to be interesting for the passenger

and less so for the driver.



Apple price cuts



While the Apple iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are coming to India on October 7, starting

at Rs 60,000 for the iPhone 7 32GB and Rs 72,000 for the iPhone 7 Plus 32GB,

it's a great time to pick up an iPhone 6S or 6s Plus right now as it has got

huge price cuts in India. The iPhone 6S 128 GB version now retails for Rs

60,000, down from the earlier Rs 82,000 MRP. The iPhone 6S Plus 128 GB version

with a larger display, bigger battery and optical image stabilisation in the

camera now retails for Rs 70,000 down from the earlier Rs 92,000 MRP. Apple has

released the much awaited iOS 10 software update for iPhones, iPads and iPod

touch devices. The watchOS 3 update for the Apple Watch is also available. This

software update gives a new lease of life to your existing devices with host of

new features including visual tweaks, performance improvements, upgrades to Siri

and iMessage. It might be a good idea to take a backup of your device before

proceeding with the update.



No more headphone jack



Apple finally axed the commonly used 3.5mm headphone jack on the iPhone7 but it

is not just the Cupertino giant. LeEco, formerly known as LeTV, was in fact the

first to launch a phone without the 3.5 mm jack and decided to use the USB

type-C port for both charging and audio output. Motorola, too, decided to drop

the port in the Moto Z device in favour of the USB type-C port. While Apple is

shipping a pair of lightning earpods, LeEco and Motorola are shipping USB-type C

based earphones. We might see more handsets players join the bandwagon soon.

Although dropping a very old port for packing more advanced features in a

smartphone is understandable, it is definitely going to be painful initially.

There has never been a better time to invest in a pair of wireless headphones

for a hasslefree audio experience.



Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with

respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor

at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com



LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





