                             803 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)



                           November 5, 2015 Thursday

                                 First Edition



iPhones the bright light in lacklustre retail sales;

Sales



BYLINE: Mark Mulligan



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23



LENGTH: 316 words





Apple's latest iPhone launch appears to have helped keep retail trade ticking

along in September, according to the latest data from the Australian Bureau of

Statistics, with a surge in electronic goods sales compensating for weakness in

other segments.



The ABS said on Wednesday that total retail turnover in the month grew at 0.4

per cent, seasonally adjusted, in line with forecasts and the same as in the

previous month.



Out of this, electrical and electronic goods sales rose 2.2 per cent, compared

with 0.8 per cent in August.



Capital Economics said the electronics spike was "perhaps related to the release

of the iPhone 6s towards the end of the month".



Apple sold more than 13 million new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus devices worldwide in

the first weekend of their launch, in the final days of September.



The company said then it was a record for first-weekend sales, up from the 10

million iPhones that flew off the shelves last year over the same period.



In contrast to the iPhone and other electronic devices, furniture, floor

coverings and houseware were either out of favour or heavily discounted in

September, with turnover down 0.8 per cent, seasonally adjusted.



"In seasonally adjusted terms, there were rises in household goods retailing,

cafes, restaurants and takeaway food services, food retailing, other retailing

and clothing, footwear and personal accessory retailing," the ABS said.



"Department stores fell 2 per cent," it said.



Spending in cafes, restaurants and on catering was up 0.9 per cent for the

month, as was turnover in takeaway food, the ABS said.



By state, turnover in the Northern Territory climbed by 1 per cent, whereas

Victoria and Tasmania were up 0.8 per cent, and Western Australia by 0.5 per

cent.



Turnover growth in New South Wales, South Australia, Queensland and the

Australian Capital Territory was below the national average, with the last two

recording a contraction.



LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: iPhone 6s had a record first weekend of sales.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2015 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





