                             805 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  The Guardian



                    September 29, 2015 Tuesday 12:20 AM GMT



Apple's iPhone 6S breaks record as China boosts sales to 13m;

Latest iPhone outsold previous model by 3m to 4m units, analysts reportWeekend

release in China was not delayed by regulators as it was last year



BYLINE: Sam Thielman in New York



SECTION: TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 289 words





Related: iPhone 6S: bent, scratched, dropped and dunked in water - how durable

is it?



Enthusiasm in China drove sales of Apple's latest iPhone to a record 13m units

last weekend, topping last year's record of 10m, when the manufacturer's popular

phone was held up in China by regulators. Analysts put sales in China at between

3m and 4m units, leaving sales elsewhere essentially flat year-over-year.



The company allowed 16 days for its presale period (last year it gave itself 10)

and the phone officially went on sale 25 September. It will continue to roll out

around the world through October.



"Sales for iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus have been phenomenal, blowing past any

previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history," wrote Apple CEO Tim

Cook, in a press release.



The devices' success is a testament to the reliability of Apple's user base,

said Ramon Llamas, a mobile market analyst for International Data Corporation

(IDC).



"The fact that this is an S version and not a whole new body type version speaks

to how much clout Apple has with end-users out there," Llamas said. "People

usually wait for the new version, but there's a sizable number that says: 'No,

we'd rather have the incremental version and move forward.'"



The popularity of the devices is also likely to make for greater Apple Watch

adoption, Llamas said - or at least to remove a barrier to Apple Watch adoption,

since the watch only works with iOS devices.



The phone's major upgrades include what Apple is calling 3D touch, in which the

touchscreen responds not solely to touch but to pressure, as well, and the

standard camera megapixel and processor improvements. Llamas said he expects to

see the "home" button disappear before long.



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS





  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





