                             809 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               dailyrecord.co.uk



                     September 25, 2015 Friday 11:27 AM GMT



iPhone 6S launch: Apple fans queue round the clock and round the building for

this year's must-have tech;

THE iPhone 6S is now available from stores with four colours to choose from, 3D

Touch and Live Photos.



BYLINE: By Tony McGuire



SECTION: NEWS,SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY



LENGTH: 293 words





HAPPY iPhone launch day y'all.



Today is the day Apple fanatics in their thousands will pour into Apple Stores

and other selected retailers to pick up the latest generation of iPhone - the

6S.



On September 9, Apple announced their 2015 flagship handset will feature the new

3D Touch input and be available in the rose gold colour for the first time.



The much-anticipated 3D touch function measures how deep users press into the

screen, ascribing different functions to each, while live photos capture short

moments of video to make photos spring to life.



Store stock is usually low come launch day, as so many handsets have already

been snapped up by keen aficionados getting in their pre-orders from September

12.



Still, that's not stopped Apple aficionados swamping their favourite stores in

their droves, all hoping to pick up the latest and greatest mobile creation

courtesy of Tim Cook and Cupertino.



There's now a new 13MP iSight camera on the rear, a 5MP selfie cam on the front

and the screen now acts as a super-bright dual-tone flash so those gloomy club

selfies with total strangers will take on a whole new lease of life.



Last week, Apple updated its mobile operating system iOS to the ninth version

and it's available on everything from the latest iPhone 6S and iPad Mini 4 all

the way back to the iPhone 4S.



Will you be getting the iPhone 6S?



Apple WatchOS2 was also released after some nasty bugs were squashed.



In Glasgow, customers were queuing round the corner and round the clock to get

their hands on this year's handset - but will it be worth the wait?



To get in the mood for iPhone launch day, hype yourself up for picking yours up

later or just to laugh at people queuing like sheep in the rain.. check out the

gallery above.



Quick Quiz: News 24/09/15



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





