                             826 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       San Jose Mercury News (California)



                           September 28, 2015 Monday



New iPhone 6S impresses buyers but not Wall Street



BYLINE: By Pete Carey pcarey@mercurynews.com



SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local; Business



LENGTH: 483 words





CUPERTINO -- The iPhone's ability to draw crowds of eager buyers is

undiminished, as sales of two new versions illustrated their first three days on

the market, but the Cupertino smartphone giant is less able to impress

investors.



A record 13 million of the new phones were sold over the weekend, Apple

reported, a 30 percent increase over last year's debut of the iPhone 6. Yet

skeptics prevailed on Wall Street, sending Apple's shares down nearly 2 percent

to $112.44 at the end of trading Monday, a day the market tumbled.



CEO Tim Cook said sales of the new smartphones "have been phenomenal" and are

"blowing past any previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history."



"The problem is the stock is not reflecting that at all," said analyst Trip

Chowdhry of Global Equities Research. "Investors have zero confidence in Apple's

management" due to issues unrelated to the popular smartphone, such as stock

buybacks, debt and tax issues, he said.



First weekend iPhone sales are viewed as a barometer of how Apple will do in the

next quarter. If the weekend rush is a guide, it should do well, with strong

holiday season sales. Even with a new Apple watch, iPad and Apple TV, the iPhone

is Apple's biggest source of its revenue.



The iPhone 6 was not sold on the first weekend in China, while the just released

6S and 6S Plus were, but even without China sales, the new phones beat out last

year's first weekend sales by 5 to 10 percent, according to Daniel Ives, a

technology analyst with FBR Capital Markets.



"The company continues to defy skeptics as they deliver a home run," Ives said.

"It's a high-wire act and they have almost become a victim of their own success

in terms of street expectations, but we view this launch as a major step in the

right direction for Apple's growth trajectory."



JMP Securities is predicting that Apple could reach sales of 80 million iPhones

in the next quarter ending in December, besting its record 74.5 million in the

same quarter of 2014.



Apple "has put to bed the notion you need a cheap phone in order to grow," said

Alex Guana of JMP. "They're proving that the smartphone is part of modern life,

and you don't compromise on that experience unless you have to."



The new phones have improved on the 6 with 3D Touch, which senses pressure

variations on the display; a 12-megapixel camera that takes "live" photos that

include a few extra video-like frames for each shot; greater battery life; and a

"rose gold" case.



Apple has a new installment plan that allows customers to pay a monthly fee for

the phone over two years, with an option to upgrade by renewing the contract for

two more years. The phone is unlocked, so customers can pick their own carrier.



The phone rolls out in 40 more countries Oct. 9 and will be available in more

than 130 countries by the end of the year, Apple said.



Contact Pete Carey at 408-920-5419. Follow him at Twitter.com/petecarey .



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces the new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus during an

Apple media event in San Francisco, California on September 9, 2015.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News

                              All Rights Reserved





