                             849 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





              The Northern Star and Rural Weekly (New South Wales)



                            November 2, 2015 Monday



There's a lot to love



SECTION: Pg. 31



LENGTH: 608  words







HIGHLIGHT: The iPhone 6s raises the Apple experience yet again





LOOKING at it from the outside, it appears not a lot has changed with the new

iPhone 6s.



But appearances can be deceptive.



The addition of 3D touch, a much better camera with 4k video capability, and a

faster engine means the Apple experience has risen another notch.



3D Touch, using Apple's clever taptic engine, offers a new way to interact with

your phone.



Press icons on your screen harder and you are given quick options, whether it be

directions home from your map, sending your location or searching for things

nearby.



Do the same within your email app and you can have a peak at what's inside an

email without having to open it.



Hard click on your calendar and you can quickly add an event or be reminded of

what's coming up in the next couple of days.



Do the same with your camera icon and you can quickly take a selfie, record a

video, a slo-mo or just take a normal photo.



The benefit of Peek and Pop, as Apple calls it, is that you can quickly delve

into things without losing your place. It's something that will appeal to those

who get lost in the maze of apps.



A better camera and 4k video



One of the coolest new features of the iPhone 6s is 4k video capability - about

four times the resolution you would see on your average HD TV screen.



We shot some video on the beach and then played it back on a new 27-inch iMac.

The results were pretty amazing - a "take you there'' video experience. You

literally could see through the water as it washed over the rock.



Even on the iPhone itself you can notice the difference - particularly as you

are now able to pinch and zoom on your video on the phone itself to reveal the

high level of detail.



The 4k video supports video stabilisation, continuous autofocus, face detection,

and the ability to take an 8MP still while recording.



The slo-mo feature now allows 1080p at 120fps or 720p at 240fps.



The time-lapse video mode offers new video stabilisation - something which will

appeal to those whose hands are not so steady.



The large iPhone 6 Plus offers optical image stabilisation which uses both

hardware and software to capture beautiful low-light photos and videos.



The newest version of iMovie allows you to edit 4k video and share it on YouTube

at 4k resolution. The app is super easy to use and offers a great variety of

templates - including cool movie trailer formats for punchy family productions.



Apple says the 6s is powerful enough to edit two streams of 4k video to create

effects like picture-in-picture and split screen - a challenge for many home

computers.



The new 12 megapixel iSight camera promises less noise and truer colours while

the five megapixel Facetime HD camera offers a much better flash for selfies.



The iSight camera has a new signal processor and advanced pixel technology.



The camera works better in low light while in bright light it uses "multi-band

noise reduction'' to de-noise smooth areas while preserving textures and edges.



On the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, you can take amazing panoramas, up to 63

megapixels in size. They look stunning on the big screen iMac.



One of the coolest features is Live Photos which captures the moments just

before and after a photo is taken.



You can catch your child making silly faces just before the family photo or the

sound of the waves breaking on the beach as the tide comes in.



Powering the iPhone 6s is the third generation A9 chip with 64-bit architecture

which Apple says improves overall CPU performance by up to 70% compared to the

previous generation.



The graphics performance is said to be up 90%, something which should appeal to

gamers.



Overall, there's a lot to love about the new iPhone, especially if you're an

Apple devotee.



LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: LNS





                    Copyright 2015 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





