

DEVICES: The hype around Apple unveiling a smaller iPhone this month is as much
about why it's choosing to do this, as what the phone will be like.

On March 21, Apple is tipped to announce an iPhone with the same 4-inch display
size as the iPhone 5 range. Predictions of a name include iPhone SE (for special
edition), iPhone 5SE or iPhone 6c.

At the same event, Apple might refresh iPad Air 2, taking in some features of
iPad Pro. It may have the Pro's more powerful A9X processor, and a smart
connector that powers a keyboard.

The leaking of covers made ahead of the launch for Air 2 suggests the smart
connector and possible branding of the tablet as a smaller iPad Pro.

A set of Apple Watch straps and a refreshed MacBook range with possibly a larger
15-inch MacBook Air would round out a low-key launch. Of course, rumours are
just that.

Apple is a creature of habit when it comes to launch dates and in my memory they
don't usually occur on Mondays. But the following day Apple and the FBI do
battle in the US Federal Court and senior Apple staff at the launch may have to
be present there, too.

Internally, the new phone is expected to have iPhone 6s features such as a fast
A9 processor, a 12-megapixel rear camera instead of 8mp, as with iPhone 5s,
touch ID, and the live photos feature introduced with iPhone 6s. Near-field
communication (NFC) is a no-brainer as Apple will want to promote Apple Pay with
consumers. It needs NFC.

3D-touch, where you exert different levels of pressure on the display to access
different functions, is not tipped among likely features.

As a result, Apple's smartphone range will be three sizes: a 4-inch iPhone SE, a
4.7-inch iPhone 6 and 6s, and a larger 5.5-inch iPhone 6 plus and 6s plus. Views
are split on whether Apple will retain iPhone 5s as a cheap entry-level handset.

As for iPhone 7 - another leaked case is firming rumours that when it is
released later this year, it won't have an audio jack, leaving the lightning
port and Bluetooth devices such as wireless earpods as the way to connect to
music.

Kantar Worldpanel ComTech analyst Carolina Milanesi said there were users who
preferred a smaller 4-inch phone size and Apple wanted to keep them aboard. The
other factor was cost. "It's about getting a price point that allows them to
appeal to that part of that market," she said. "The larger form factors are very
popular in China but in other parts, small still works. It's an opportunity for
them to go out with a more aggressively priced device that has capabilities
around Apple Pay and allows consumers not to be behind from a software
perspective." She said Apple would be partly motivated by a change in US
carriers away from offering subsidised phones with small price points. While the
high-end market was still growing "the mid range is the one that obviously has
been growing the most so there is an opportunity there".Figures last week by
Kantar Worldpanel ComTech show iPhone 6s ahead in global smartphone sales over
the last three months of 2015 with a 16.5 per cent share. Next were iPhone 6
(7.1%), Samsung Galaxy S6 (5.7%), iPhone 5s (4.3%) and Galaxy S5 (3.9%).

