                             867 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 irishmirror.ie



                    September 17, 2015 Thursday 11:12 AM GMT



Sperm bank offers 'free iPhone 6s' to men willing to volunteer due to donor

shortage;

Technology giants Apple are set to release their iPhone 6s  - and sperm banks

are capitalising on its popularity



BYLINE: By Kirstie McCrum



SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS



LENGTH: 243 words





Men hoping to get their hands on an iPhone 6s have been given a chance to do so

- by donating at a SPERM BANK .



The marketing technique has caught the eyes of students in the country, who may

be thinking seriously about checking in for the intimate deal.



The sperm banks, in China, sent out WeChat messages to followers that offered

potential donors just short of the cash equivalent of the latest Apple gadget.



The users of the social network received a message called ' New ways to get an

iPhone 6s ' with an image of the much sought-after phone.



It read: "The bank is seeking donors aged 22 to 45, each to receive £503, while

the iPhone 6s is priced at £535 on the mainland."



Hubei Human Sperm Bank in central China sent out their message on Monday,

followed by Shanghai Human Sperm Bank at Renji Hospital, the latter of which has

been read more than 400,000 times.



According to China Daily , a student named Li said that his roommate was

tempted, while another, called Wang, felt like it wasn't a bad idea, just a new

tactic.



A Dr Zhu from Hubei's sperm bank, said they'd been struggling to get new donors

and the marketing is a new trick, but he says they're targeting adults who can

make their own decisions.



China's rules on sperm banks mean there's only one in each province, and all 18

are struggling to attract new donors.



Apple iOS 9 fans FURIOUS as thousands left unable to download latest iPhone

update



iPhone launch live: FIRST LOOK at the new smart phone



LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS





                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.

                              All Rights Reserved





