                             877 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)



                           September 11, 2015 Friday

                               GoldCoast Edition



Apple's bid to be phabulous



BYLINE: ROD CHESTER



SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17



LENGTH: 283  words





APPLE yesterday promised a day of "monster" announcements and delivered it with

a giant iPad, a revamped smarter Apple TV and two new iPhones that are smarter,

faster and tougher than ever.



Apple executive Tim Cook unveiled the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, the 12-inch iPad

Pro and a revamped Apple TV which, with its own app store, is Apple's push to

grab a slice of the $US34 billion games console market.



In what is likely to be the last Apple event in a year, the company promised to

bring "innovation" to TVs through a TV app store.



The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus look the same on the outside as last year's models,

with a 4.7-inch screen for the 6S and a 5.5-inch screen for the bigger phablet.



But under the hood the new iPhones have significant improvements, including a

tougher aluminium body and glass after some people reported bending their 6 Plus

phones.



The new phones have 3D Touch, which lets you quickly access features of the

phone by applying extra force as you touch the touchscreen, plus a 12 megapixel

camera which is a big jump from the 8 megapixel camera in the iPhone 6.



Selfie fans will appreciate an upgrade to the front-facing camera to 5

megapixels plus the ability to use the glow of the touchscreen as a front flash.



Apple made a push into productivity with an iPad Pro, a 12-inch tablet that lets

you view apps side-by-side in split-screen, that it hopes can revive a stagnant

tablet market.



While Steve Jobs was said to be dismissive of the need for any stylus other than

a finger, Apple launched the Pencil along with a fold-up keyboard giving the

big-screen iPad Pro features to battle the appeal of Microsoft's Surface

tablet.Rod Chester travelled to San Francisco as a guest of Apple.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin





                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





