

DESIGN - SAME BUT DIFFERENT

Despite being a full upgrade from 6 to 7 without any "S" suffix, the iPhone 7
and 7 Plus look almost like the previous two generations of iPhones.

In fact, both iPhones share the same physical dimensions as their immediate "S"
predecessors. Thickness, length and width are the same, with the same display
size and pixel resolution. However, they are up to 5g lighter than their direct
predecessors.

But both new iPhones are rated at IP67, which means they are dust resistant and
water resistant (they can be immersed in depths of up to 1m for 30min).

You can practically wash the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus after the phones get dirty or
smudgy.

The big news is the phones' lack of a headphone jack. In its place is another
set of speakers (more on the iPhones' audio later).

If you choose one of the two new black models - black or jet black - you can
hardly see the antenna bands.

The other three colours - silver, gold and rose gold - have the familiar white
fronts, while the black models have both their front and back in black.

The back of the black and jet black versions are finished in matte black and
glossy black, respectively. Both finishes picked up a fair share of smudges, but
the jet black model is more susceptible to fingerprints and scratches.

I know I am definitely going for a black iPhone 7 Plus, but I am still undecided
on which one.

TECH SPECS

APPLE iPHONE 7 PLUS

PRICE: $1,248 (32GB), $1,418 (128GB), $1,588 (256GB); available on Sept 16

PROCESSOR: A10 Fusion chip with 64-bit architecture with embedded M10 motion
co-processor

SCREEN: 5.5-inch Retina HD display with 3D Touch; 1,920 x 1,080 pixels

CAMERAS: 12-megapixel rear dual cameras (wide-angle f/1.8; telephoto f/2.8),
7-megapixel front camera f/2.2

WEIGHT: 188g

RATING

FEATURES: 5/5

DESIGN: 5/5

PERFORMANCE: 5/5

BATTERY LIFE: 4/5

VALUE: 4/5

OVERALL: 4/5

TECH SPECS

APPLE iPHONE 7

PRICE: $1,048 (32GB), $1,218 (128GB), $1,388 (256GB); available on Sept 16

PROCESSOR: A10 Fusion chip with 64-bit architecture with embedded M10 motion
co-processor

SCREEN: 4.7-inch Retina HD display with 3D Touch; 1,334 x 750 pixels

CAMERAS: 12-megapixel rear camera f/1.8, 7-megapixel front camera f/2.2

WEIGHT: 138g

RATING

FEATURES: 4/5

DESIGN: 5/5

PERFORMANCE: 5/5

BATTERY LIFE: 4/5

VALUE: 4/5

OVERALL: 4/5

NEW HOME BUTTON

Another design change you cannot see but can feel is the new Home button. It is
no longer a physical button but a touch-capacitive button.

Using a new Taptic Engine, the Home button gives haptic feedback when you press
it.

You can customise the strength of the haptic feedback. I put it to the highest
strength.

It takes a little while to get used to it, as you need to press slighty harder
to unlock the phone rather than merely touching the previous Home button. Other
than that, it is still the same Home button you use for Touch ID, Apple Pay,
taking screenshots and Siri.

However, to reboot the iPhone now, you have to press the volume down button
(instead of the Home button) and On/Off button together.

CAMERA AND DUAL-CAMERA

The iPhone is the world's most popular camera, according to photo-sharing site
Flickr. And Apple has improved on the camera of the new iPhones.

Although it has the same 12 megapixels as its predecessors, the iPhone 7's rear
camera now comes with a larger f/1.8 aperture (up from f/2.2) that allows up to
50 per cent more light into the improved image sensor for more details.

Both new iPhones also feature a quad-tone flash, instead of the previous
dual-tone, for more natural skin tones.

Previously, only the iPhone 6s Plus' rear camera had an optical image stabiliser
(OIS). But now, both the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus' rear cameras have OIS.

Present in the iPhone 7 Plus only is a dual-camera system, whereby one
12-megapixel camera uses a wide-angle 28mm focal length and the other
12-megapixel camera uses a telephoto 56mm focal length. This translates to a 2x
optical zoom, but the telephoto camera lacks OIS.

Both the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus deliver sharper images with greater details, even
in the darker image areas, than their predecessors.

Auto white balance is spot on, and the camera does not produce over-vivid and
too-contrasty photos.

Image quality is equally top-notch for the 2x zoom lens.

Selfie lovers will like that the front-facing camera has been upgraded to seven
megapixels from five megapixels previously, and images appear much sharper too.

Using the quad-tone flash under incandescent lighting, I found the skin tones in
the images to be more natural than those of the iPhone 6s Plus.

SPEED

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are both armed with the new A10 Fusion chip that
features a four-core processor design. It consists of two high-performance cores
and two high-efficiency cores for up to 40 per cent faster performance than the
iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.

The iPhone 7 scored 3,364 (single-core) and 5,314 (multi-core) points in the
GeekBench 4 benchmark test, while the iPhone 7 Plus scored 3,322 (single-core)
and 5,315 (multi-core) points. This is an increase in performance ranging from
25 per cent to 49 per cent, compared to the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus respectively.

Graphics-intensive games, such as Implosion and Infinity Blade 3, displayed
great texture and played smoothly without any lag. It will certainly be more
than enough for your Pokemon Go hunts.

In addition, the storage capacities of the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus have been doubled
from those of their predecessors. So, I can finally get a 256GB iPhone for my
growing photo collection, which is reaching breaking point.

AUDIO

Like the iPad Pro, the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus deliver great stereo output from
their built-in stereo speakers. You can easily tell which end of the phone the
sound is emanating from, or when you switch the orientation of the iPhone.

But the headphone jack is gone. I rarely listen to music on my iPhone, as I have
an iPod touch for that purpose. So it is not much of a loss to me.

However, out of the box, you get Apple's EarPods with Lightning connector and a
Lightning-to-3.5mm headphone jack adapter. So, you can still use all of your old
headphones.

Listening to the EarPods with Lightning connector and the old EarPods using the
adapter on an iPhone 7 Plus, I found that the Lightning EarPods have slightly
sharper vocals and a tad more bass.

Unfortunately, the Lightning EarPods do not work with my iPhone 6s Plus and iPod
touch. So do not buy a set thinking you can use it with your current iOS
devices.

Plus, the new iPhones do not support wireless charging. I see that as an issue
with some users who want to charge and listen to music at the same time.

BATTERY LIFE

To stress-test the battery, I looped a 720p video at full brightness and full
volume, and with Wi-Fi on.The iPhone 7 lasted 7hr 40min, while the iPhone 7 Plus
lasted 8hr.

This means that both the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus lasted 50min more than their
respective predecessors, which is no mean feat.

Under normal use, which includes regularly checking Facebook updates and
e-mails, both phones should easily last through a full working day - unless you
are playing Pokemon Go all the time.

·Verdict: The Apple iPhone 7 and 7 Plus might not have the bells and whistles or
spanking new design of their competitors, but they are still undoubtedly some of
the best smartphones on the market. Personally, the dual-camera of the iPhone 7
Plus is enough reason for me to upgrade my iPhone 6s Plus. Question is, black or
jet black'

