                             881 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Daily Mirror



                             October 2, 2015 Friday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



APPLE IPHONE 6s From £539 [...];

TICKET Games



BYLINE: KEVIN LYNCH



SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 48



LENGTH: 564 words





APPLE IPHONE 6s



From £539  *****



As is the norm with Apple, odd-ending years see the release of an 's' model

iPhone, a refined version of the one from the year before, but often doing more

than just bridge the gap until the next brand new handset.



The 6s is pretty much identical in size and design to the iPhone 6 but feels

slightly weightier. This is partly due to its new aircraft-grade aluminium

chassis that should put an end to the 'bendgate' issues that caused its

predecessor's case to warp.



The extra heft, however, is primarily down to the handset's key new feature - a

3D touch screen. Similar to Force Touch on the Apple Watch and the new Macbook

trackpad, the touchscreen now detects force, allowing you to interact with the

smartphone in new ways. Comparable to pressing the left mouse button when using

a PC, it allows for faster access to app features. For example, a deep press on

the camera app icon will quickly give you the option to take a video or a selfie

before the app opens.



Elsewhere, the 'Peek And Pop' feature will let you preview mail or web pages

with a quick tap on the message or link, while a deeper press will open it.



While some may argue it messes somewhat with the purity of the iPhone's now

wellestablished interface, the new functionality soon becomes second nature and

adds to the feeling of the device's lightning responsiveness. It will, of

course, really come into its own when third party developers - particularly

games makers - start to incorporate it.



In general, things seem more rapid with the 6s. Apps open faster thanks to a

doubling of RAM to 2GB, while the Touch ID fingerprint detector is now

noticeably quicker at recognising your fingers.



Always the strong point of the iPhone, the rear-facing camera has been given a

significant overhaul with a boosted 12MP sensor and the ability to shoot 4K

video. It also copes far better in low lighting scenarios.



Selfie fans will appreciate the major improvement to the front-facing camera

from the previously weedy 1.2 megapixels to the now very capable 5MP. That is

aided by the screen now acting as a fairly effective flash by throwing out a

burst of light. Elsewhere, the new Live Photos mode automatically captures 1.5

seconds of footage both before and after you press the shutter, but this feels

more of a gimmick than a useful feature.



As always, there are a few missing features which point to what we can expect in

next year's model. For example, the excitement of having the capability to shoot

4K video with the new camera is diminished slightly when you realise you can

only play back footage on the device at 1080p. This is because the display

hasn't been upgraded from the Full HD one on the iPhone 6. With the likes of

Sony's Xperia Z5 Premium sporting an ultra high-res screen, you can put money on

the iPhone 7 upping the ante here.



Also, despite some clever new powersaving features in iOS9, the 6s's battery

lacks stamina in comparison to most other premium smartphones.



Some will argue that the new refinements only bring the iPhone into line with

its highend Android rivals, it is the way the 6s marries its new tricks with

Apple's slick and stable operating system that sets it apart from

Google-sporting rivals.



There's not enough here to fully recommend an upgrade for iPhone 6 users, but

for anyone else wanting a new smartphone, this is the most complete handset on

the market.



LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DMR





                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





