                             887 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              China Business News



                      July 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST



Tap & Go will Bring Apple Pay to Customers



LENGTH: 281  words





July 20 -- Tap & Go, a mobile payment service operated by HKT Payment Limited, a

wholly-owned subsidiary of HKT, will bring its customers Apple Pay, which

transforms mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way to pay that's

fast and convenient.



Security and privacy is at the core of Apple Pay. When you use a credit or debit

card with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device, nor

on Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted

and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each transaction is

authorized with a one-time unique dynamic security code.



Mr. Alex Arena, Group Managing Director of HKT, said, "As a genuine mobile

payment service provider in the market, we will enable our customers to enjoy

Apple Pay which is a more convenient and secure way to pay. Through Apple Pay,

Tap & Go customers will soon be able to make purchases in stores at MasterCard

contactless acceptance points or online within apps."



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benefits offered by credit and debit cards. In participating stores,

Apple Pay works with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone

SE and Apple Watch.



Online shopping in apps accepting Apple Pay is simple, without needing to

repeatedly fill out lengthy account forms or type in shipping and billing

information. When paying for goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is

compatible with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone SE,

iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.



For more information on Apple Pay, visit: http://www.apple.com/hk/en/apple-pay/.



Source: PCCW



LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





