                             896 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday

                                 FIRST EDITION



3D Touch, great camera add up to tempting upgrade;

iPhone 6S, 6S Plus look like predecessor but come with significant new features



BYLINE: Ed Baig, ebaig@usatoday.com, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 923 words





Ironclad, two-year subsidized cellular contracts are rapidly becoming a thing of

the past, tempting you to upgrade your smartphone more frequently.



That temptation has been on the minds of iPhone owners ever since Apple CEO Tim

Cook announced the 6S and 6S Plus, even those who sprung for the 6 or 6 Plus

models within the last year.



Apple's marketing spiel is that these are the most advanced iPhones ever, and

there is truth behind the hype.



The odd-year "S" releases of the iPhone sometimes get a bad rap, with people

thinking such models are only marginally better. Yet looking back, it was the 4s

that introduced the iPhone crowd to Siri, and the 5s brought the Touch ID

fingerprint scanner.



The most significant new feature on the 6S and 6S Plus that I've been testing

ahead of their arrival Friday is 3D Touch. Similar to the force touch technology

on the Apple Watch, 3D Touch builds on multitouch to sense how hard you press

down against the display. 3D Touch is baked throughout the new iOS 9 operating

system with the amount of pressure you apply leading to different possible

outcomes.



For instance, gently pressing against the Camera app icon summons a shortcut

menu for taking selfies, recording video or capturing a regular photo. A light

press against the Reminders app lets you quickly add items to your to-do lists.

Or by pressing against Maps you might mark your location or seek directions.



Inside apps,  3D Touch can exploit what Apple calls Peek and Pop; the idea that

you can dip in and out of content without losing your place. In the Mail app,

lightly pressing against message in your inbox and without lifting your finger

lets you peek at the message. Press harder when you want to want to pop into the

actual message to respond.



In the Safari browser you can gently press against a link to view the underlying

content and slide up to open the link in a new tab. If you instead press with

more force, you can pop into that page.



Apple is opening 3D Touch to several third-party developers. On the Pinterest

app, you can use 3D Touch to search pins, create a board or see what's trending.

On Dropbox, you can view your most recent file, jump to offline files, upload a

photo or search. On Facebook, you'll be able to quickly update your status.



3D Touch is something I think you'll ultimately embrace, but don't expect to

master it immediately. Other  highlights:



Camera and photos. The phones have outstanding 12-megapixel rear cameras and

5-megapixel front shooters. I was generally  pleased with the sharpness and

color on pictures I took in all sorts of lighting.



The clever, new (if not entirely unique) Live Photos feature is fun. Shoot

pictures like normal, but when Live Photos is turned on (as it is by default),

you're automatically capturing about a second-and-a-half of video and sound

before and after you press the shutter button. That means you can touch the

picture to make it move, on your phone, on other Apple devices (such as the

Apple Watch) and eventually in your Facebook news feed.



You can share these on other devices as regular still photos.



Live Photos works with the front and rear cameras. I took several goofy Live

Photos of my family, of waves crashing in on a Jersey beach and a selfie with a

waterfall behind me, which I turned into lock screen wallpaper with a cool,

little special effect.



Apple says Live Photos take up about the same amount of space as two photos with

the Live Photos feature turned off, so storage shouldn't be an  issue.



Speaking of selfies, the 6S and 6S Plus turn the front display into a flash by

lighting up for a moment three times brighter than usual. Also clever.



Aspiring filmmakers will be jazzed about the ability to shoot 4K video on the

phones. The feature is turned off by default since most people still don't have

a way to play back 4K video and such videos gobble up lots of space, roughly 375

MB per minute at the highest resolution. You can edit 4K video on the latest

free iMovie app that is available for the phones.



But I expect you to be more than satisfied with the HD videos you shoot,

especially on the 6S Plus, which gets optical image stabilization to help ensure

smooth video. A quibble: I wish you could switch from shooting 4K to HD videos

directly in the Camera app, rather than have to dig into the phone's settings.



Design. The latest iPhones are dead ringers for their immediate predecessors,

but they're a little heavier. The phone is faster, too, including the Touch ID

fingerprint reader. Older cases I tried fit fine. Handsets are made of a solid

aluminum grade used by the aerospace industry. Apple says the glass  is stronger

but not so strong  it can survive asphalt.



iOS 9. Though not a dramatic upgrade, iOS 9 collectively adds a gaggle of useful

features, notably a smarter Siri, proactive search, an improved Notes app, a

Maps app with public transit directions (at least in a few cities) and a new

News app. There's also a low power battery mode that promises to extend battery

life when you're running out of juice.



Apple has introduced a monthly installment program  for the 6S and 6S Plus that

includes a warranty. You'll be eligible for a new phone after making 12

payments. You can pick your carrier (among AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile or Verizon)

and can switch if you wish.



A tempting arrangement for a very tempting phone.



THE BOTTOM LINE



iPhone 6S and 6S Plus



Pricing varies by carrier; Apple installment plan starts at $32 and $37 monthly.



Pro: 3D Touch, Splendid camera. 4K video, Live Photos, iOS9.



Con: 3D Touch has a learning curve.



LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Chris Goodney, Bloomberg



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





