                             898 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                         The Evening Standard (London)



                           January 6, 2016 Wednesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Cut in iPhone 6s output rocks shares in Apple and its suppliers



BYLINE: Nick Goodway



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 41



LENGTH: 229 words





SHARES in the world's most-valuable company, Apple, and those in many of its

component suppliers, tumbled today on claims that it is cutting production of

its latest iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus by 30% for the next three months.



Apple shares closed down 2.5% at $102.71 (£70.16) in after-hours trading on the

Nasdaq market in New York following the report by Japan's Nikkei Asian Review.

It said stocks of the 6s were piling up with retailers, particularly in

developed smartphone markets like Europe and China.



The shares of London-listed Apple suppliers suffered knock-on effects with chip

maker ARM down 3.1%, Imagination Technologies down 1.5%, and Laird off 1.7%. Far

Eastern suppliers of parts for iPhones like Japan Display, LG Display and TDK

Corp saw their shares fall between 3% and 4%.



"This is an eye-opening production cut which speaks to the softer demand that

Apple has seen with 6s out of the gate," said Daniel Ives, senior analyst at FBR

Capital Markets. "The street was bracing for a cut, but the magnitude is a bit

more worrisome and speaks to a soft March quarter on the horizon."



Apple declined to comment on the report but one Taiwanese supplier pointed out

that the main iPhone assembler, Foxconn, was allowing workers time off at

Chinese New Year in February whereas it used to pay them overtime to keep

production running through the holiday. @NickGoodway



LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Wrong number: stocks of the 6s are reported to be piling up with

retailers in Europe and China



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: EST





                   Copyright 2016 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





