                             900 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                 Network World



                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 08:46 AM EST



iPhone 6s and iPad Pro last-minute rumors



BYLINE: Yoni Heisler



SECTION: NEWS



LENGTH: 244  words





Click for image



It's showtime, folks. Today is undoubtedly Apple's biggest event of the year.

Not only is Apple planning to introduce two new iPhone models, but we'll also be

seeing new iPad models and an arguably game-changing Apple TV.



Earlier this morning, a few last-minute rumors surrounding two new Apple

products emerged.



First up, we have the iPhone 6s. While we've already covered many of the

features we can expect to see in Apple's next-gen iPhones (4K camera, more RAM,

etc.), AppleInsider adds that the device's "Hey Siri" prompt will work without

having to have the iPhone plugged in.



"Referred to as "hotwording," the upcoming iPhone 6s function will work much

like Android's "OK Google" service, which enables hands-free Web searches,

message composition, voice calls, control of general device functions and more,

according to a reliable source familiar with the matter. Apple's Siri provides

similar capabilities, but the device must be connected to a power for "Hey Siri"

voice activation to work.



With the iPhone 6s, "Hey Siri" functionality will always be at the ready.



As for the iPad Pro, well, expect Apple's 12.9-inch iPad to be on the expensive

side. According to 9to5Mac, Apple's upcoming new iPad model will start at $799

with 32GB of storage and no LTE connectivity. At the high end, a 128GB model

with LTE connectivity will set you back $1129, making it more expensive than a

MacBook Air and slightly more affordable than Apple's new MacBook.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





