                             907 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                           Investor's Business Daily



                                 July 25, 2016



Apple iPhone 7 Release Targeted For Sept. 16, Report Says



BYLINE: PATRICK SEITZ



SECTION: CLICK



LENGTH: 552 words





http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/CLICK02_appl_072516_ap.jpg



Apple[ticker symb=AAPL] is looking to release its 10th-generation iPhone on

Sept. 16, prominent mobile phone news leaker Evan Blass said Saturday.



Apple was widely expected to launch its iPhone 7 in September, but the

VentureBeat reporter was the first to put a specific date on the release. Apple

usually holds a press event to announce its latest iPhone the week before its

release.



The iPhone 7 is seen as an incremental upgrade to the current iPhone 6S series

handsets. Apple is reportedly saving its big leap forward in innovation for next

year's iPhone 8, which will likely use an OLED screen and have a different

external design.



IBD'S TAKE: Apple has been a laggard on the stock market of late. The consumer

electronics manufacturer has an IBD Composite Rating of 28, which puts it in the

lower third of publicly traded companies in key metrics. More information on

Apple is available at the IBD Stock Checkup.



The iPhone 7 is already in production, and leaked photos show that it will come

in three models: the 4.7-inch iPhone 7, and two versions with 5.5-inch displays

-- the iPhone 7 Plus and iPhone 7 Pro. The new high-end Pro model has a

dual-lens rear camera and Smart Connector, which allows connected peripherals to

simultaneously share power and data, Forbes reported. Other Apple watchers

believe the Cupertino, Calif.-based company might decide to release just one

5.5-inch model iPhone 7.



The iPhone 7 series is expected to be thinner than the current iPhone 6S models

because Apple is removing the analog headphone jack. People who want to use

headphones with the iPhone 7 will have to use either Bluetooth wireless headsets

or ones that connect to the digital Lightning port, according to media reports.



Apple stock ended the day down 1.3% to 97.34 on the stock market today, near 97

and testing its 50-day moving average.



[ibdchart symbol="aapl" type="daily" size="quarter" position="leftchart" ]



Apple's chief rival Samsung hopes to upstage its foe by launching its

next-generation phablet several weeks earlier. South Korea-based Samsung is

scheduled to unveil its Galaxy Note 7 on Aug. 2. Samsung's last Note smartphone

was the Galaxy Note 5, released last August.



Samsung is skipping the Note 6 and jumping right to the Note 7 to bring its

phablet naming in line with its flagship Galaxy S smartphone portfolio, the

company said.



Slow Smartphone Demand A Headwind



Overall sluggish smartphone demand remains a headwind for both Apple and

Samsung.



UBS analyst Steven Milunovich on Monday said a June survey of 4,168 North

American consumers by 451 Research found smartphone buying interest at its

lowest level since 2008.



"The weakness likely extends globally," he said in a research report. Sales

channel checks in China have indicated a further slowdown in handset sales in

the June quarter and relatively weak 4G subscriber additions, Milunovich said.



The iPhone 7 could perform like the iPhone 6S in the U.S., he said.



The 451 Research survey found interest levels in the iPhone 7 similar to last

year's iPhone 6S. Only 8% were "very likely" and 17% "somewhat likely" to buy

the iPhone 7. That compares with a survey in June 2015 where 8% of respondents

were "very likely" and 16% "somewhat likely" to buy the iPhone 6S.



LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





