                             912 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              Publishers Newswire



                           March 8, 2016 6:30 AM EST



iMyfone Upgrades iPhone Data Recovery Software with Kik Messages Recovery

Support



BYLINE: Angela Polchat-Ferris



LENGTH: 440  words





iMyfone, one of the world's leading software vendors, announced the new upgrade

of iMyfone D-Back iPhone Data Recovery with Kik Data Recovery supported. With

the latest version of iMyfone D-Back Data Recovery for iPhone, you can find and

retrieve deleted kik messages on iPhone (iPhone 6s/6s plus included). iMyfone

D-Back iPhone Data Recovery is the world's No.1 program that recovers Kik

messages for iPhone users.







With four recovery modes, iMyfone D-Back iPhone Data Recovery Expert can scan

your iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch, iTunes backups or iCloud backups thoroughly to

detect and restore your lost files, including text messages, iMessages, photos,

videos, contacts, call history, notes, WhatsApp messages, Kik messages, Skype

messages and more. In this upgrade, iMyfone optimizes the program to recover

lost Kik messages from iPhone to meet customer's needs.



"As an iPhone Data Recovery Expert, we have been dedicated to providing better

data recovery for iPhone service to our customers. And today we are thrilled to

bring the new version with Kik recovery supported and stability improvements,"

said Dean Huang, iMyfone's CEO. "With the new version, people can finally get

their lost Kik messages back."



The updated iMyfone D-Back iPhone Data Recovery Mac can support 22+ file types

recovery on all iOS devices that running on iOS 7 or later.



What's New in the latest iMyfone D-Back Data Recovery for iPhone:



1. Supports to recover lost/deleted Kik messages;



2. Added Germany interface;



3. Optimized the recovery process;



4. Fixed some minor bugs;



Key features of iMyfone D-Back Data Recovery for iPhone:



1. Four recovery modes: Smart recovery, recover from iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch,

recover from iTunes backup and recover from iCloud backup;



2. Support to recover 22+ files types like text messages, iMessages, photos,

contacts, WhatsApp messages, Kik messages, WeChat messages etc.;



3. Recover various files from all models of iPhone including the latest iPhone

6s, iPhone 6s Plus etc.



4. Both Windows and Mac version are available.



Pricing and Availability:



The updated iMyfone D-Back iPhone Data Recovery Expert is available today

through iMyfone official store (www.imyfone.com). The original price is $69.95,

now you can get it for $39.95 only with the new upgrade promotion.



About iMyfone:



iMyfone Technology is a vibrant professional software developer that specializes

and focuses on developing useful mobile utility software which offers relevant

help to users of iOS devices. iMyfone Technology offers approved products and

services for their customers.



For more information, please visit iMyfone homepage: http://www.imyfone.com/.



Twitter: @imyfone



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





         Copyright 2016 Publishers Newswire, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





