                             915 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                            January 7, 2016 Thursday



Apple losing its 'edge' as iPhone sales nosedive



BYLINE: Gao Yuan



LENGTH: 529  words





Less than six months after Apple debuted its latest series of iPhones, the

company is cutting production because of lackluster sales.



An iPhone 6s buyer at the Apple Inc retail outlet in Zhengzhou, capital of Henan

province.[Photo/China Daily]



Less than six months after Apple Inc debuted its latest series of iPhones, the

United States company is cutting production because of lackluster sales.



Analysts said iPhone shipments in China, Apple's biggest market, are set to fall

in the coming months.



James Yan, a Beijing-based smartphone analyst with IDC China, said shipments for

January will face "a significant slump" in the country compared with a year ago,

when the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were the flagship devices.



"The first quarter shipments will be greatly lower than a year ago as well," Yan

said, adding buyers are already looking to the next-generation device.



Yan's comments came after a Nikkei report said that Apple is reducing output of

the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus models by about 30 percent in the first quarter

compared with its original plans. Though retailers will get a chance to clear

out pending inventories, suppliers may see steep cuts in orders.



Stocks of Apple and its major suppliers, such as Sharp Corp and Pegatron Corp

fell on Wednesday while Chinese mainland suppliers stayed afloat as the

country's stock market advanced.



Apple did not comment on the matter.



Nicole Peng, director of Canalys China based in Shanghai, said the scale back

will have a limited impact on Chinese suppliers as many of them have tied up

with local smartphone companies.



"The production cut will hurt the confidence of the channel and supply chain ...

But (many Chinese suppliers) are already partners with firms such as Huawei

Technologies Co Ltd and vivo Mobile Communication Technology Co Ltd which are

focusing on high-end products," Peng said.



"2016 will be a challenging year (for Apple)," she said.



Apple was the biggest smartphone vendor in China during the first quarter of

last year, shipping 14.5 million devices thanks to the strong adoption rate of

the iPhone 6 series that were compatible with the newly launched

fourth-generation telecom technology. Its market share was quickly eroded by

Huawei and Xiaomi Corp as the Chinese firms released cheaper, but good-quality

handsets.



Weaker-than-expected iPhone 6S and 6S Plus sales saw Apple jostling with smaller

local vendors such as vivo and OPPO in the third-quarter of 2015 while Xiaomi

and Huawei clinched the top two spots, according to IHS Technology, another

research firm.



The US company is opening bricks-and-mortar stores in smaller Chinese cities and

announced plans to introduce mobile payment service Apple Pay to China in a bid

to lift its presence in the market.



But rapid advance of local players in the above 3,000 yuan ($457) segment pulled

down Apple's market share.



According to data from China Academy of Telecommunications Research, overseas

smartphones accounted for just 17 percent of the total handset shipments in

China during November. Apple and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd were the only big

foreign firms in the list.



http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/69/145213428628.jpg



f8bc126d980d17f7e87803.jpg



LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





