                             916 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                The Toronto Star



                          September 26, 2015 Saturday



First impressions of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus;

Identical in size to last year's, these new models are speedy but have smaller

batteries



BYLINE: Raju Mudhar Toronto Star



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1



LENGTH: 537 words





Like clockwork, September brings lineups at the Apple Store as the company

launches its latest iPhones. With the addition of the "S" to the newest phones

signalling that this year's model offers incremental improvements as opposed to

revolutionary changes, and with many under the hood changes and the new addition

of the 3D-Touch feature, there's plenty of interesting new things in Apple land.



Here are five first impressions after getting the new phones up and running:



1. The I stands for identical: Other than the new rose gold colour, both new 6s

and 6s Plus are almost identical to last year's models. The phones are slightly

heavier as well and, while the inner components have been given an overhaul,

from outer appearances everything remains the same. The one knock on the body

design is that the rounded edges make it fairly slippery and, like last year's

models, these iPhones absolutely require cases. Although, if you are upgrading

from last year's phones, your cases will still fit.



2. Speed kills, man: I have never thought of my iPhone 6 Plus as slow, but in

side-by-side comparison, the upgraded processor and other components show the 6s

Plus is definitely faster in opening up apps and refreshing information, such as

Twitter or Facebook's news feed. To be honest, compared to last year's phone, it

is often a few seconds faster, but if you are upgrading from an older phone,

this might be the single best overall - and impressive - improvement.



3. You got the touch: I was skeptical about 3D touch from Apple's launch

presentation but, along with iOS 9 improvements, it is an extremely handy new

input method. Basically, the new phones' screens can tell if you press harder on

the screen, and when you do, Apple has put in some new commands.



It works well in Apple apps such as mail, messages and Safari, but will be

showing up in third party apps now that the new devices have launched. If you

hold down, it provides a preview of the email or webpage referred to as "peek."

You can them "pop" it to full screen. There are usually other commands if you

slide to the right or left. It sounds confusing, but it really is quite

intuitive to use.



4. Apple reinvents the GIF: Live Photos are also a new edition to the phones. If

you enable it in the camera, it will automatically record a second of time after

you take the shot, creating a slightly animated photo that people have been

saying is reminiscent of the magic photos in the Harry Potter books. The one

drawback is that photos tend to be twice the size. I initially thought it's a

bit goofy, but kids will love it and I can't wait to try it in a setting with

cool action, such as a sporting event.



5. Smaller batteries: While I generally prefer the smaller size of the 6 and 6s,

I had issues with the battery. It wouldn't last a day and I was always lugging

around a charger. Both the 6s and 6s Plus have smaller batteries than last year.

The numbers seem negligible - the 6 has 1810 mAh compared to the 6s 1715 mAh,

and the 6 Plus has 2915 mAh battery versus the 6s Plus 2750 mAh. The smaller

batteries were reportedly necessary to fit in other components, but if battery

life is really important to you, it is still better to go with the bigger phone.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                 Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited





