                             920 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                           Sutton Coldfield Observer



                           November 19, 2015 Thursday



SECTION: FEATURES:OTHER; Pg. 42-43



LENGTH: 432  words





T he iPhone regained its supremacy in the smartphone world in 2014 with its

sleek and slick '6' model (its seventh iteration). And usually this gadget

inspector's take is to skip the 's' version in alternate years. The 's' iPhones

have an upgraded processor here, a better camera there, but they are largely to

the same design as their predecessor, with little to justify a swap.



But with the iPhone 6s, Apple has delivered tangible upgrades to its flagship

device, including a feature you simply won't find elsewhere.



The 6s introduces 3D Touch - like Force Touch on the Apple Watch - allowing

different levels of interactions depending on how hard you press. Take the Phone

app, a light tap opens it as normal but a deeper press gives options to quickly

tap a contact and start dialling or create a new contact. With Mail you can

select your email box, VIP contacts, search or go straight to writing a new

email. Neat interactions that  save time, making the iPhone more immersive.



The 6s sports the same design as the 6 but it is a fraction higher, wider and

deeper and weighs a noticeable 10 per cent more. It has the same 326 PPI screen

and a faster A9 chip,  speedier than the 6's A8.



A noticeable upgrade is the fingerprint scanner - it was so quick that I

wondered if I'd entered any security settings!



The cameras have also been given a pixels boost - the rear-facing snapper is now

12MP (from 8), with slightly smaller pixels, meaning  low light performance

isn't quite as good. The new phone is  capable of taking Live Photos - which

record 1.5 seconds of video either side of your still image - 'bringing photos

to life' but gimmicky. The front-facing camera has had a huge upgrade from 1.2MP

to 5MP, pleasing selfie snappers (like this one!). The screen now also acts as a

makeshift flash too. The iPhone 6s sports Apple's new iOS 9 software with a new

News app, improved Notes (to rival Google's Keep) and more functionality to

voice assistant Siri. Oh it also now comes in Rose Gold! The battery, although

fractionally smaller than the 6's, lasts about the same time.



Pros:· 3D Touch, better cameras (bar pixel size), faster fingerprint scanner.



Cons:· Screen resolution still falls behind the 6s' flagship opposition.



Verdict: iPhone 6s is less of an iterative upgrade and more of  a seminal one

with 3D Touch adding an extra layer of interactivity, a pixels boost aiding

photography (most of the time) and the finest smartphone software, with just the

screen sharpness falling behind rivals. Price from free on contract & £539 to

£699 16GB to 128GB. www.apple.com/uk



LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                           Copyright 2015 Localworld

                              All Rights Reserved





