                             921 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Stock Watch



                     September 29, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



Apple's New iPhone 6S has 90% Faster Graphics than Its Predecessors, says Apple



BYLINE: Joseph Garcia



LENGTH: 262  words





Apple, the American multinational technology company on September 9 launched its

latest iPhones i.e. the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. The handset made available to

customers for purchase on Friday has 90% faster graphics, said Apple.



This year's release is the second generation to feature the 4.7-in and 5.5-in

displays. As per gadget experts these new handsets are slightly larger and

heavier, but look very similar to their predecessors.



This year the company has launched a new color for the iPhones i.e. the 'Rose

Gold' color. Apart from their appearance, the iPhone 6S models are very

different from the once previously launched by the company.



The company in the new models has used of a new 7000 Series aluminum alloy to

help create a sturdier, less bendable casing to updated cameras, a faster Touch

ID system, and pressure-sensitive multitouch display.



Apple has said that it hopes that early sale of its new handsets will break past

records. They said that the new iPhonesare faster due to the improvements in

custom-built A9 processor and the increase from 1GB of internal memory to 2GB.



Apple says the new chip is 70% faster than last year's, and graphics are 90%

faster. It certainly feels like it in routine use. The pressure-sensitive

display, one of the real advances in this year's models is supported by clever

software built into iOS 9, which allowed Apple to introduce 3D Touch.



Apart from usual swiping and tapping on the screen there is much more in this

year's handsets. A light press brings up one set of options; a firmer press

'Pop' opens even more options.



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





