                             925 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              Indian Banking News



                       June 14, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



HSBC Brings Apple Pay to Hong Kong Customers



LENGTH: 314  words





June 14 -- HSBC will bring its Hong Kong customers Apple Pay, which transforms

mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way to pay that's fast and

convenient, this summer. HSBC Visa and MasterCard cardholders will be able to

make payments conveniently using Apple Pay.



Greg Hingston, Head of Retail Banking and Wealth Management, Hong Kong, HSBC

said, "Innovative technology is bringing a wide range of benefits to retail

banking customers, changing the ways that they use banking services. We are

excited to be among the first banks in Hong Kong to enable our customers to use

Apple Pay, which provides customers with a fast, easy and secure way to complete

everyday shopping. As always, we are committed to providing simpler, better and

faster services for our customers, and offering Apple Pay is a great example of

that commitment."



Security and privacy is at the core of Apple Pay. When you use a credit card

with Apple Pay, the actual card numbers are not stored on the device, nor on

Apple servers. Instead, a unique Device Account Number is assigned, encrypted

and securely stored in the Secure Element on your device. Each transaction is

authorised with a one-time unique dynamic security code.



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benefits offered by credit cards. In participating stores, Apple Pay

works with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone SE and

Apple Watch.



Online shopping in apps accepting Apple Pay is simple, without needing to

repeatedly fill out lengthy account forms or type in shipping and billing

information. When paying for goods and services within apps, Apple Pay is

compatible with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone SE,

iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini 4 and iPad Pro.



For more information on Apple Pay, visit: www.apple.com/hk/en/apple-pay/



Source: HSBC



LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





