                             931 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                          The Daily Telegraph (London)



                            March 23, 2016 Wednesday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



A cheaper deal may be what's needed to get tills ringing too



BYLINE: MADHUMITA MURGIA



SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5



LENGTH: 345 words





APPLE has launched its cheapest-ever iPhone, the SE - with a 4in screen. Bucking

a growing market trend of "bigger is better", the Cupertino giant is betting

that its new iPhone will pack as much of a punch as its flagship 4.7in iPhone 6S

and 5.5-in 6S Plus, albeit in a more compact package.



It would seem that Apple is flying in the face of what current smartphone trends

dictate. According to analytics company Nielsen, the market share for "phablets"

- large phone-tablet hybrids - was just 5.6pc of all non-Apple phones in early

2014, but doubled to 13.7pc in 2015. Meanwhile, research firm Canalys estimates

that devices with screens smaller than 4.5in make up less than 10pc of worldwide

smartphone shipments, less than half of what it was in 2014. So why is Apple is

regressing to the design of its small 2013 iPhone 5S? The key lies at the core

of Apple's business: iPhone sales, which account for about two-thirds of the

company's revenue. In January, despite a record set of results for the last

quarter of 2015, the company predicted the first ever decline in iPhone sales.

The latest iPhone model, last year's 6s, featured less-significant improvements

than its predecessor, and buyers have not been as interested in upgrading.



In fact, Apple chief executive Tim Cook revealed in January that 60pc of iPhone

owners in September 2014 - when the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus launched - have not

upgraded to the iPhones 6 or 6S. That means millions of people own a

three-year-old iPhone and could buy a new one. The steep price drop of the £359

iPhone SE will likely appeal to exactly this audience.



It's clear that Apple is also trying to expand its reach, particularly in

pricesensitive markets. In January, Apple announced that iPhone sales in India

rose 76pc year-on-year and it is now opening stores. Apple's Chinese market is

second only to the US by revenue, and Apple holds a third of the country's

competitive smartphone market. The iPhone SE will be an attractive high-end

option for several first-time smartphone users, who Apple will hope to convert

to upgrades.



LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: DTL





                  Copyright 2016 Telegraph Media Group Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





