                             933 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            The Times of India (TOI)



                             June 23, 2016 Thursday



iPhone 7 will be similar to iPhone 6s in design: WSJ



SECTION: TECH NEWS



LENGTH: 431 words





NEW DELHI: Recently some online reports stated that Apple would be refreshing

its iPhone design with the launch of the iPhone 7 this year. The speculations

were supported by the logic that Apple changes the design of its smartphones

every two years. However, according to a new report from The Wall Street

Journal, the iPhone 7 is likely to sport the same design as that of iPhone 6 and

the iPhone 6s models.The report, which cites 'people familiar with the matter',

adds that the rumoured iPhone 7 will be arriving in two variants with 4.7-inch

and 5.5-inch displays.



The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s models too come in same screen sizes.The major design

change is expected to arrive in next year's iPhone model. Next year would also

mark the 10th anniversary of the original iPhone. Rumours suggest the 2017

iPhone to feature an edge-to-edge OLED display along with a fingerprint sensor

built over the display. The Home button is said to be completely removed, said

industry sources to the journal. It has also been revealed that one of the

features such as curved screens aren't ready for this year's iPhone model.

However, Apple CEO Tim Cook last month in an interview to CNBC said there is

"great innovation" in the pipeline for the upcoming iPhone devices. "We are

going to give you things that you can't live without that you just don't know

you need today," he said.The industry sources in the report add that Apple's

head of design Jony Ive's desire has been to shrink an iPhone to a single sheet

of glass. The 2017 iPhone design ideas are supposed to move the smartphones in

the same direction.Confirming previous rumours, the report also says that iPhone

7 models will be ditching the 3.5mm headphone jack completely. Users would have

to settle for a lightning connector port, which will also be used to charge the

device. This might not be a welcome change for users as they would either be

able to listen to music or charge their handsets. Doing both simultaneously may

not be possible. Nonetheless, the absence of the 3.5mm headphone jack may result

in a thinner iPhone. KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo has predicted the

iPhone 7 will be 1mm thinner than the previous model.A separate report by the

Macotara website says that the Cupertino-based tech firm is planning to add a

Navy Blue colour variant in the iPhone lineup. Some concept images have also

been posted on social media websites. In addition, Apple might remove the Space

Gray colour from the series as well. The firm brought Rose Gold colour variant

along with the iPhone 6s.



For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com



LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





