                             948 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)



                              June 17, 2016 Friday



OtterBox phone cases designed by Dom Streater of 'Project Runway';

Borders are raised to help protect screens, but these two designs skew a bit

feminine.;

PHONE CASE DESIGN



BYLINE: By Ronnie Gill



SECTION: ; Pg. SA2



LENGTH: 300 words





OtterBox Symmetry Series iPhone 6/6S case in Pink Swirl, designed by Project

Runway: All Stars winner Dom Streater.



NAME: OtterBox Dom Streater limited-edition phone cases



COMPATIBLE WITH: iPhone 6/6s and 6 Plus/6s Plus, and Samsung Galaxy S7



COST: $33.96 for iPhone 6/6s and Galaxy S7, $42.46 iPhone 6 Plus/6s Plus



WHAT'S HOT: "Project Runway" fans should recognize the designer of these cases.

Streater was the winner of Season 12, as well as the winner on the recently

concluded fifth season of "Project Runway: All Stars." The native Philadelphian,

who has a natural flair for designing with patterns, won the "All-Stars"

print-on-print challenge. Her reward: the opportunity to design for OtterBox.

Two "signed" Streater cases are now available, in similar but different

geometric floral designs, called pink swirl and green diamond. The border of

each case, which is slightly raised to help protect the screen from scratches

and breaks, features the accent hue used in the pattern, providing a pleasing

pop of color around the display. Aside from making your phone fashionable, the

sturdy case provides protection against drops, bumps and scratches without

adding much bulk, and its rubberized border affords a secure grip. Also

available in the Symmetry Series are three cases designed by "Project Runway"

judge and Marie Claire magazine creative director Nina Garcia, who was the guest

judge on the Otter-Box challenge. These are available for the same iPhone models

and the Galaxy S5 with similar pricing.



WHAT'S NOT: Because of its rigid construction and snug fit around the phone when

in place, we struggled a bit getting the case on and off. The floral motifs make

Streater's designs veer feminine, so these cases might not appeal to those

desiring a more unisex look.



AVAILABLE FROM: otter-box.com



LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.





