

Apple's move to sell its newest iPhones on an installment plan is the latest
blow to the smartphone pricing used and frequently reviled by consumers for
years: the two-year cellphone contract.

When Apple unveiled its new smartphones Wednesday, it said the iPhone 6S would
start at $199 with a new two-year contract and the 6S Plus would cost $299 on
contract. That was the simple way to describe it, as for years Americans were
accustomed to signing a two-year contract with a wireless carrier in exchange
for a discount on the upfront price.

But at the same time, executives introduced installment and leasing plans that
acknowledge most telecom carriers are abandoning these contracts tied to deeply
discounted phones.

The result is a scenario that sounds a lot like a plan you get from an auto
dealer.

By buying directly from Apple, a consumer can pay $27 to $31 a month for 24
months for the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. At the end of those two years, the
consumer would own the phone outright. Cellphone service fees, of course, come
on top of that.

Apple also introduced, and is displaying prominently on the Apple.com store, a
new iPhone Upgrade program. You can purchase the iPhone 6S on a monthly payment
plan starting at $32.41 for the 16GB model or $36.58 for the 16GB 6S Plus (going
up by a little more than $4 a month if you want more storage).

The pricier plan includes the ability to upgrade to a new iPhone after 12
months. You'd continue to pay the installments on the new phone and would just
be "restarting the clock," having to pay the monthly fee for another two years
before you would own the newer phone. In this way, the customer is essentially
leasing the phone from Apple.

The iPhone would be sold unlocked in the Upgrade program and can be used with
any carrier. And, much like the warranty sold on a car, the monthly payment plan
also includes Apple Care+, which would normally cost $129 for a second year. It
also includes the ability to replace a broken iPhone at a discount ($99 for up
to two incidents).

The transition from two-year contracts, and the deep phone discounts tied to
them, reflect the maturing of the smartphone market and the pressures facing
telecom carriers.

When Apple launched the original iPhone, it was far more expensive than most
cellphones used by consumers. It made the steep cost palatable to consumers by
linking with a carrier, AT&T, which offered the phone for a more moderate price
in exchange for a multiyear contract.

Under this system, a phone that would cost $649 without a contract would cost
$199 with one, with the carrier then charging an extra fee on top of service to
make up the difference (and a profit) over the next 24 months. So instead of
paying $15 a month for service, you would be paying $40 in addition to the $199
upfront.

Over the past few years, the carriers have begun getting rid of contracts in
favor of monthly payment plans. Carriers say these plans are better for them
because they more accurately reflect the true price of the phones.

All the major national carriers offer monthly payment plans today as they phase
out contract options. T-Mobile stopped offering contracts two years ago, and in
August, Verizon said it was no longer planning on offering two-year contracts.
Sprint announced it would stop offering contracts by the end of the year. Only
AT&T has yet to fully renounce contracts.

Apple's installment plans are pricier than previous iPhone installment plans
offered by carriers, though under those plans the iPhone isn't necessarily sold
unlocked and does not benefit from an extra year of warranty protection. AT&T,
Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile have yet to release their new pricing for the
phones, though T-Mobile is welcoming Apple's new way to sell phones.

"We love this," says T-Mobile COO Mike Sievert in a statement given to USA
TODAY. "Anything that gives customers total choice is a win for them and it is a
win for T-Mobile. Unlocked phones give consumers the freedom to try out any
carrier. That is a fantastic thing for T-Mobile too."

The carriers have yet to reveal pricing, promotions or trade-in offers for the
new iPhones.

