                             954 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                  China Daily



                              April 1, 2016 Friday



Apple introduces iPhone SE, awaits consumer reaction



BYLINE: Liu Zheng



LENGTH: 699  words





The iPhone SE arrives, with some worried about market potential while others say

it will help shift Android users to the Apple product.



Many have described iPhone SE as a retro-designed phone with some of the latest

technology existing on the flagship iPhone 6s. "An iPhone 5s with a heart of

iPhone 6s," some joked online after the launch of the device.



We shot an un-boxing video in time lapse mode by iPhone 6, to give you a little

taste of the new gadget. Of course, the new 9.7-inch iPad Pro also appears on

the camera.



Media coverage shows that some are worried about the market potential while

others believe that the new phone will become an efficient iOS shifter for

Android phone users.



"In previous years, special meetings will be held to discuss marketing, sales

and stocking with distributors, but this time things seems to be bit quiet, no

meetings have been held so far," according to Tencent technology channel, citing

a director of one of the brand's distributors. He also pointed out that the

report from foreign media claiming that the pre-order volume of Chinese market

has reached 3.4 million is only a pre-order figure. The real performance will be

seen on the actual sales volume.



According to reports, as of February, 1,333 models belonging to variety of

brands were available in Chinese market. Screen sized at 5.1-inch to 5.5-inch

have grabbed the most attention at 39 percent. The display size of 5.5-inch or

larger enjoy 4.3-percent or more share. By comparison, only 3.8 percent of the

attention went to 4-in or smaller-sized display phones.



Apple Vice President Greg Joswiak introduces the iPhone SE during an event at

the Apple headquarters in Cupertino, California March 21, 2016.[Photo/Agencies]



According to consulting company Kantar Worldpanel ComTech, as of January,

Apple's iOS continued to grow share in urban China, though the rate of that

growth was the slowest since late 2014. Apple also remained the most popular

brand, capturing 25 percent of smartphone sales.



"Looking at the three months individually, January was the weakest month for

Apple in China as more price-sensitive consumers might have been waiting to see

what promotions Chinese New Year would bring in early February," said Carolina

Milanesi, chief of research at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. "In the rest of the

world, smartphone platform dynamics remained pretty stable period-over-period,

with no surprises."



Tamsin Timpson, strategic insight director at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech Asia

said: "In urban China, iOS share continued to grow year-over-year, albeit at a

slower pace, as iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus and iPhone 6 were the best-selling

smartphones in the region." "Huawei continued its momentum and is closing the

gap with its nearest competitor, Apple, capturing 24.3 percent of sales. Xiaomi,

which announced its Mi 5 at the recent Mobile World Congress, maintained a

distant third, as it dropped 10.2 percentage points over the same period in

2015."



The new iPhone SE is seen on display during an event at the Apple headquarters

in Cupertino, California March 21, 2016. [Photo/Agencies]



US e-commerce data analysis website intelligence.slice.com revealed online sales

figures for the iPhone SE on March 28, which confirm that "while fewer people

rushed online to get the latest iPhone than they did for the most recent

launches, those who did were more likely to be new to the iPhone".



According to the research, the early data indicates that the iPhone SE may help

Apple grow its maturing iPhone consumer base.



"Only 35 percent of iPhone SE buyers purchased an iPhone online in the past two

years, and 16 percent of them were previously Android users. By comparison, 49

percent of iPhone 6S buyers upgraded from a previous iPhone, and 10 percent

replaced an Android device they bought online within the past two years.



To sum up, we'd like to say happy birthday to Apple as the tech behemoth turns

40 on Friday. That's right, four decades ago, on April Fool's Day, Apple

Computers, Inc was founded by college dropouts Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in

Cupertino, California, who later brought to the new company a vision of "think

different" and forever changed the way people viewed computers.



LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: 1493





                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.

                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





