                             956 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                             Yorkshire Evening Post



                          September 10, 2015 Thursday



If you see a stylus, they blew it': What we know about Apple's iPhone 6s and

iPad Pro



BYLINE: David Behrens



LENGTH: 425  words





Apple has officially announced the launch of a new, bigger tablet computer

called the iPad Pro.



The technology giant also used a live event to unveil the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus,

which come both come with a pressure sensitive screen that uses technology

called 3D Touch where applying more or less pressure to a tap opens new

shortcuts.



They will, as rumoured, come in a rose gold colour finish too.



The new iPhones will go on sale on September 25, with pre-orders for the devices

beginning on September 12, starting at £539 for 6s and £619 for the 6s Plus



The firm's chief Tim Cook called the iPad Pro the "biggest news in iPad since

the iPad" as he unveiled the device on stage at the live event in San Francisco.

The iPad Pro will have a 12.9 inch screen with more than five million pixels.



Mr Cook called it "our vision of the future of personal computing".



The iPad Pro will come with a stylus called the Apple Pencil. This is despite

late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs famously once saying: "If you see a stylus,

they blew it."



The new Apple Pencil can read pressure and stroke types, making it possible to

shade, draw and carry out subtle movements associated with a traditional pencil.



This, along with the keyboard that clips to the Pro, places the device in direct

competition with the Microsoft Surface, which uses similar accessories.



A UK price is yet to be confirmed for the iPad Pro but it will go on sale in

November.



A much rumoured revamp of the Apple TV was also confirmed, with Apple's voice

assistant technology Siri now integrated to use in searches.



The Apple TV has also had its interface and software overhauled in order to

compete with the likes of Amazon's Fire TV box and service.



There was also a fashion conscious aspect to the live show in San Francisco, as

Apple introduced a new line of Apple Watch straps, as well as a partnership with

brand Hermes to create a collection of the smartwatches.



Kent German, from consumer technology site CNET, said: "The new iPhone 6s and 6s

Plus will no doubt win a sizeable number of new customers, but an unchanged

design and few feature changes from last year's model follow the company's

pattern for S' models.



"What's more, Apple is facing a smartphone market where sales are slowing as

consumers feel the need to upgrade less often. Getting them excited enough to

pay for a new phone, especially when last year's model is good enough, is

increasingly challenging.



"If iPhone sales slow, the company will need to lean on revenue from other

products. The new iPad Pro and Apple TV may be an answer."



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: NLEP





                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc

                              All Rights Reserved





