                             962 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                    Trak.in



                      April 14, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST



Apple iPhone SE, 6 & 6S Now Available At Rs. 999 per month Under Corporate

Leasing Plan



BYLINE: Anand Karwa



LENGTH: 385  words





We all were expecting Apple iPhone SE to be a budget iPhone priced under Rs.

30,000, but when Apple launched it with a price tag of Rs. 39,000 then all hopes

were dashed to the ground. Apple was widely criticized for being too outrageous

for its pricing policies, which in my opinion is nothing new.



Now in order to catch up with the lost sales momentum that it lost due to its

poor pricing decision, Apple has announced iPhone leasing plan for corporate

users. With this plan corporates would be able to lease the latest iPhones

starting at Rs. 999/month.



Rs. 999 p.m. Leasing Plan for iPhone SE, iPhone 6 & iPhone 6s



According to the reports, corporate users would be able to buy iPhone SE (16

GB), iPhone 6 (16 GB), and iPhone 6s (16 GB) by paying Rs. 999/month,

1,199/month, and Rs. 1,399/month for 2 years.



This translates to Rs. 23,976 for iPhone SE when bought under the corporate

plan.



Apple has not yet revealed who will be classified as corporate customers. Is it

the individuals working at corporates or corporate houses ordering iPhone in

bulk? It is also not clear whether the corporate users would have to pay any

down-payment for taking the iPhones on a 2 year lease programme. Hopefully,

Apple will clear the air on these doubts very soon.



iPhone SE is targeted at those who either want the goodness of iPhones in a

small form-factor or can't shell out a fortune for trying the iOS ecosystem.

Whatever be the case, this corporate leasing plan aims to offer iPhones at a

very affordable monthly price just like what it offers in partnership with

telecom operators in the western countries.



Also the users enrolled in this corporate plan can easily switch between

different iPhone models by paying the difference in the amount at any given

point of time.



Now, this can either be a huge success or just another failure of a marketing

plan of a big MNC depending upon Apple's T&Cs for this corporate plan. This

corporate plan would maintain its appeal if Apple allows individual salaried

people to buy it without any down payment. I would certainly ditch my Android

phone and go try the iPhone 6s. Would you?



I was joking. I know for sure that Apple won't make its iPhone so affordable in

India. It will introduce something or the other to dissuade the masses from

trying out the iPhones. What do you think?



LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





               Copyright 2016 Trak.in, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





