

The Chinese debut of the prior models, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, was delayed last
year as the company awaited approval from regulators. Many analysts say China is
poised to overtake the US as Apple s biggest market.

Searching for signs of whether Apple can top its 2014 performance, investors
were initially encouraged by the company s remarks but later tempered their
enthusiasm.

Apple shares were up 0.7% in afternoon trading after rising as much as 2.3%
earlier in the session.

Apple did not disclose the specific number of advance orders it received for the
new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus. Analysts had expected about 4.5m for the first 24
hours, compared with 4m during the first day last year.

Apple began taking orders on Saturday for the phones, which will begin shipping
on September 25.

The company said it was working to catch up to demand for the iPhone 6S Plus,
the larger of the two new phones, which exceeded its forecasts for the pre-order
period.

Pre-orders this weekend were very strong around the world,  Apple spokeswoman
Trudy Muller said in a statement.

BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis said the company had always had a burst of
sales of new phones from die-hard fans and customers who are due for an upgrade.

Will these phones have the same staying power as the iPhone 6?  he asked.  It s
still going to be a challenge.

The exclusion of the Chinese market last year set a low bar Apple to clear with
pre-orders this year, he said.

However, John Jackson of IDC said the 6S and 6S Plus  strong early performance
dampened concerns on Wall Street.

Apple has this track record of outperforming its own out-performance, but the
iPhone 6 looks like an extraordinarily tough act to follow,  he said.

FBR Capital Markets senior analyst Daniel Ives said he was encouraged by the
response in China, where Apple s website showed particularly long wait times for
the phones.

Last week, Apple announced the phones, as well as a new TV set-top box that
responds to voice commands, but the new products underwhelmed many social media
commentators and investors.

Apple relies heavily on the sale of its flagship iPhones, which generated nearly
two-thirds of its revenue in the latest quarter.

Reuters

