                             973 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)



                            December 14, 2015 Monday

                                 Mumbai Edition



iPhone 5s at Half the Price in 3 Months



BYLINE: Writankar.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com



SECTION: BUSINESS OF BRANDS



LENGTH: 443 words





Apple has slashed prices of its Indian bestseller iPhone 5s for the third time

in three months, bringing them down to almost half of September levels, in a bid

to shore up sales as demand for flagships iPhone 6s and 6s Plus has nosedived

after Diwali.



iPhone 5s prices now start at . 24,999, down from ' ' . 44,500 in September.

This makes Indian price of iPhone 5s one of the lowest globally, despite the

depreciating rupee and higher import taxes making India among markets where

Apple products cost the most, retailers and analysts said.



"iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sale has again dampened after a brief period of pick up

during Diwali, which prompted Apple to successively bring down price of iPhone

5s," a senior executive with a leading retail chain said. "This is interesting

since iPhone 5s has been their best seller in the Indian market and companies

seldom drop prices such frequently for popular models," he said.



Retailers say iPhone 5s accounts for almost 50% of total iPhone sales in India.

Apple had lowered the price of iPhone 5s during Dussehra in October and then

again before Diwali in November.



An email sent to Apple did not elicit any response as of press time Sunday .



According to trade sources, the US tech giant's latest move is triggered



by its plans to double India sales in the crucial October-December quarter, a

high sales period for Apple globally as it's the launch period of new iPhones.



Analysts said Apple's price cut of iPhone 5s is part of its strategy to build a

stronger portfolio in the midsegment smartphone market, which is one of the

fastest growing in India.



"The $250-400 (.'16,000\xAD27,000) price band is where Apple wants to focus its

energies in India since they want to lock in more consumers into their

eco-system which would build up a base for upgradation when newer iPhones are

launched and also since Indian consumers find the latest iPhone model prices

higher," said Tarun Pathak, senior telecom analyst at Counterpoint Research.



Pathak said this price band is one of the least competitive and where Indian

consumers typically look for the brand factor in purchase. He said the total

number of consumers in India in the iPhone 5 series was 1.2 million until

September 2015, of the total number of 3.5 million iPhone users who either own

the older or latest model.



Retailers said the price cut would help Apple compete better with top smartphone

maker Samsung.



"Samsung's A and E series smartphones are operating in this price band, but the

Korean firm has not yet launched any newer models in these segments, hence Apple

can significantly gain share this quarter," a senior executive with a leading

cellphone chain said.



LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





