                             974 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)



                              May 16, 2016 Monday

                                 First Edition



Nexus and iPhone go head-to-head on photo quality;

IMAGING



BYLINE: Terry Lane



SECTION: THE GUIDE; Livewire; Pg. 9



LENGTH: 622  words





After a couple of happy years with the iPhone we have switched to Android and

bought a Google Nexus 5X. We made the change with some trepidation, concerned

that the camera in the Nexus might not be up to the stellar performance of the

iPhone 6s.



The world arbiter of smartphone camera performance is DxOMark Mobile and they

give the Nexus 6P - a bigger phone with the same camera module and image

stabilisation added - a higher ranking than the iPhone 6s and equal to the 6s

Plus. We were sceptical.



Both the iPhone and the Nexus 5X shoot 4K video, and we know from experience

that the iPhone video is superb. Could a phone costing less than half the price

of the Apple device possibly produce video as good? The answer is yes. The Nexus

5X doesn't have stabilisation and neither does the iPhone 6s but if you have a

steady hand this is not a problem. We got smooth video from both.



Both the iPhone and the Nexus - made by LG - have high-definition displays with

good colour right. The iPhone comes with iMovie installed for editing, and on

the Nexus there is a video-editing function that is rubbish. The free Adobe

Premiere Clip works but is no match for iMovie.



There is no problem connecting the Nexus to iMacs or MacBooks. Airdroid does it

wirelessly and Android File Transfer does it from USB-C on the phone to USB-A on

the Mac. Android to Mac connectivity is easier than iPhone to Mac because it

doesn't involve either the awful iTunes or buying a third-party application. And

for Windows the Nexus simply shows up as an external drive under MyComputer.



Comparing still photographs, both produce sharply focused, well exposed, colour

correct images. On the iPhone the Photos app is both a gallery and an editing

program. In Google Photos the gallery function is similar but the editing module

is not as fully featured as Apple Photos. Snapseed or Lightroom Mobile give a

wider range of controls on the Nexus. Both Photos apps sync automatically in the

background with Mac or Windows.



For the 16GB models there is a $500 price difference that we couldn't justify.

The iPhone is more beautiful and comes with bragging rights but it's a lot to

pay for a brand.



REVIEW



FUJIFILM X-Pro2



Price: $2400 body only



THE LOWDOWN



This is Fujifilm's top camera with a new 24 megapixel X-Trans sensor in a tough,

beautifully made magnesium body. It has a version of Fujifilm's hybrid

viewfinder - it can be a straight-through optical bright line finder or an

electronic viewfinder, or combinations of both. There is even an electronic

simulation of a split image range-finder for manual focus. Aperture priority is

set with an old-fashioned lens ring and the shutter speed with a body-top knob.

Set them both to A and it is the equivalent of P on a conventional camera. The

shutter button has a threaded socket for a mechanical cable release. There are

dual SD card slots. ISO speeds go up to 12800 and, yes, it is usable.



LIKE



The image quality is excellent even at high ISO speeds. The outstanding quality

of Fujifilm lenses is almost enough to justify the purchase of the camera. The

classic aperture ring/shutter speed knob selectors is how it should be done.



DISLIKE



The camera is unnecessarily large and heavy. It is heavier than the X-T1 which

has the same size (lower resolution) APS sensor. And placing the viewfinder at

the extreme left of the body makes for awkward handling. And the LCD doesn't

swivel. In 2016?



VERDICT



The Fujifilm X-Pro2 will appeal to the brand fans who own lenses and like the

retro design and the overall feel that this is a camera designed by thoughtful

photographers, combining the best of classic camera design and function with the

advantages offered by digital. For newcomers to the category the excitement may

be muted.



LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cheaper than an iPhone 6, but for photographers every bit as

good.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                Copyright 2016 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd

                              All Rights Reserved





