                             982 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                 standard.co.uk



                     September 25, 2015 Friday 8:09 AM GMT



City morning headlines: More directors to go at VW as iPhone 6S goes on sale



BYLINE: Clare Hutchison



SECTION: BUSINESS



LENGTH: 342 words





The Volkswagen saga is rumbling on, with its news boss set to be unveiled and

more senior company members expected to leave the firm over the emissions

scandal.



But at least their story might not be the main focus of today for some. The

iPhone 6S goes on sale today and is expected to break sales records in its

opening weekend.



Here's a look at those stories and what else is making headlines today:



These stories are breaking and may develop throughout the day. Keep checking the

Standard's business pages for the latest.



Volkswagen changes at the top



VW will name its new boss, with Porche chief Matthias Muller the frontrunner.



As he comes in, other directors are set to leave as the German auto giant

reveals more details about the emissions scandal, including which models were

involved.



India has now decided to test all diesel cars in response to the controversy.



Apple's iPhone 6S ready to break records



As usual with the release of an Apple device, loyal fans started queuing and

even camping in the early hours to ensure they were first to get their hands on

the latest versions of the iPhone - the 6S and the 6S Plus.



Analysts reckon sales of the new smartphones could hit12 million this weekend -

a record for the company.



There's no stopping Nike



What China slowdown? The US sportswear giant saw profits jump a staggering 51%

in China, pushing total profits up 23% in the last quarter.



Investors lapped up the results, sending shares up 8%.



In China though, shares are down again, with Shanghai dropping almost 2%.



Companies news highlights:



Waitrose



reports beer sales up 16% andPringles up 150% as fans hit sofas to watch the

Rugby World Cup. At



John Lewis



sales are up 6%, withOxford Street buoyed by Charlotte Tilbury make-up launch.



Just Retirement



and



Partnership Assurance



launch a £150 million fundraising ahead of their merger.



The Government's stake in



Lloyds



fallsbelow 12% after a 1% stake sale, givinganother £520 million back to the

taxpayer.



The boss of hire firm



HSS



Chris Davies steps down and willbe replaced by chief operating officer John

Gill.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication



JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES





                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





