                             983 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                               Irish Independent



                            April 23, 2016 Saturday

                                   Edition 1;

                                National Edition



Apple's new pocket rocket is a handy crowd pleaser;

iPhone SE Price: (EURO)499 or from free with operators Rating: ???? HHHH



BYLINE: TECH Adrian



SECTION: REVIEW;NEWS; Pg. 26



LENGTH: 599 words





When I unboxed Apple's new iPhone SE at home, there were squeals of delight. Not

just at the 'classic' flat-sided iPhone form factor (apparently still very

popular) but at the 'rose gold' colour adorning the back of the device. By

comparison, my first reaction when holding it was something more akin to:

"janey, it's small".



In fact, I worried that it would simply be too small.



Like lots of other people, I have become very used to large-screen phones that

let me watch video for extended periods.



And in the two weeks I've been using it, that more or less sums up the aesthetic

reaction to Apple's latest iPhone.



If you really liked the form factor of the iPhone 5S, you'll love this. If you

can't go back to small videos, this may not be for you.



There is one logical question that fans of the iPhone 5S look and feel might

ask. Seeing as you can still generally get the cheaper 5S (for the next few

weeks at least), why buy the SE? In my view, it's a no-brainer to choose the new

SE, for a few reasons.



Whereas the iPhone SE is Apple's new 'entry level' handset, the phone has been

packed with the company's latest top-end tech. Its camera is the most obvious

example of this. The SE's 12-megapixel lens is identical to the high-resolution

snapper on the iPhone 6S, which means that it's one of the best cameras you can

get on a phone.



As well as being able to shoot 4K video (which is starting to matter), the

camera also has elements such as the iPhone's 'Live' photo feature, which

records a second or so of video each side of you pressing the shutter button.

And it uses a screen flash for selfies. The slomo facility is also boosted to

240 frames per second over the 5S's 120fps.



In my daily use, this camera definitely beat the 5S model's 8-megapixel camera.



Power and battery life are two other strong reasons to opt for the newer model.

The SE uses the same A9 chip as the iPhone 6S, meaning it's between two to three

times faster than the iPhone 5S.



Aside from applications you already use now, this will start to make a real

difference in year two of you having the phone.



And the battery life is, on balance, better than the earlier models. I have

generally gotten a full day out of the phone and I would default toward the

heavier end of usage (video, email, social media).



That's not to say that the iPhone SE's battery life is perfect, or the best on

the market. There are some phones (among them the iPhone 6S Plus) that will give

you slightly better battery life. But this is generally adequate and

significantly better than the iPhone 5S.



While the SE doesn't have the 3D Touch feature of the iPhone 6S models, it does

incorporate Apple's Touch ID fingerprint sensor. For those who still haven't

used it, this is useful as an alternative to passcodes for unlocking your phone

or making App Store purchases.



For the budget-conscious, the SE has the benefit of fitting older 5S accessories

such as cases. The SE streams stuff considerably faster over wifi and 4G than

the 5S, too.



There is still the issue of the phone's size.



For me, it's a challenging transition to go from something the size of a 6S Plus

to a screen around half the size. I will say this, though: the SE is the first

phone in a while that I've been able to use one-handed in comfort.



It is true that video, social media and web browsing are a different proposition

on a four-inch screen than on a 5.5-inch one. But that's the life of someone who

uses a phone for general computing issues more than a laptop or a tablet.



If you're at the lighter end of video use but still want a top-end camera, the

iPhone SE is hard to beat.



LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper



JOURNAL-CODE: IIN





             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited

                              All Rights Reserved





