

KIWIS are in line to be the first in the world to get the new iPhones after they
were unveiled in San Francisco yesterday.

Apple announced its iPhone 6S (a 4.7-inch model) and 6S Plus (5.5-inches) with
New Zealand in the first group of countries to get the devices, thanks to the
timezone working in our favour.

The new iPhones will look the same as the current models but have several new
features.

The biggest Apple highlighted was 3D touch. This means instead of tapping a
screen, you press, giving an extra set of options.

It's a new way to navigate around and within apps to make it faster to do things
and access features.

Another big change Apple has made is replacing the camera with the ability to
take 4K video and 12MP photos.

The company has also upgraded the front-facing camera to 5MP and it can now use
the screen as a flash.

Another feature is "live photos" which takes images before and after you
actually take a photo to give a video-like experience to pictures.

The new devices will go on sale on September 25 in New Zealand, with pre-orders
available from September 12.

There is a new colour, rose gold, along with the standard silver, gold and grey
and both models will come in three storage sizes.

Prices for the iPhone 6S are: 16GB ($1199), 64GB ($1399) and 128GB ($1599). For
the 6S Plus, they are: 16GB ($1399), 64GB ($1599) and 128GB ($1799).

Apple also announced a 12.9-inch iPad Pro, a significant boost from the 9.7-inch
display on current models.

It has followed Microsoft by introducing a dedicated keyboard for the iPad Pro.
Also, it has what it calls an Apple Pencil, a stylus. A surprising move since
Apple co-founder Steve Jobs often mocked them.

The iPad Pro will have a 10-hour battery life and has four speakers.

The company hinted that the iPad Pro may end up replacing laptops, with Apple
chief executive Tim Cook describing it as "the vision of the future of personal
computing".

The iPad Pro is 6.9mm thick, compared to the MacBook Air which is 6.1mm.

It will be released in New Zealand in November, though no local prices have been
announced. US prices start at US$799 (NZ$1270) for the 32GB model.

The company also revealed a revamped Apple TV device which relies heavily on
voice control. The new device appears similar to the current model but has been
supercharged with the ability to use Siri, Apple's digital assistant, to find
what you want to watch. However, there is no 4K ability, which will disappoint a
lot of people.

The device will now also be able to play games, with iPads or iPhones being used
as controllers.

There is no detail on app availability in New Zealand. Hopefully, Lightbox and
Neon will join Netflix on the device to make it useful for Kiwi users.

The new Apple TV units will be released in October and should be in New Zealand
by the year's end. US prices start at US$149 for the 32GB model.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The latest iPhones - Apple's new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus - will go on sale in the
United States on September 25.

Picture: REUTERS

