

KOLKATA: Apple has slashed prices of its Indian bestseller iPhone 5s for the
third time in three months, bringing them down to almost half of September
levels, in a bid to shore up sales as demand for iPhone 6s and 6s Plus has
nosedived after Diwali.

iPhone 5s prices now starts at Rs 24,999, down from Rs 44,500 in September. This
makes Indian price of iPhone 5s one of the lowest globally, despite the
depreciating rupee and higher import taxes making India among markets where
Apple products cost the most, retailers and analysts said.

"iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sales has again dampened after a brief period of pick up
during Diwali, which prompted Apple to successively bring down price of iPhone
5s," a senior executive with a leading retail chain said. "This is interesting
since iPhone 5s has been their best seller in the Indian market and companies
seldom drop prices such frequently for popular models," he said.

Retailers say iPhone 5s accounts for almost 50% of total iPhone sales in India.
Apple had lowered the price of iPhone 5s during Dussehra in October and then
again before Diwali in November. An email sent to Apple did not elicit any
response as of press time Sunday. According to trade sources, the US tech
giant's latest move is triggered by its plans to double India sales in the
crucial December quarter, a high sales period for Apple globally as it's the
launch period of new iPhones. Analysts said Apple's price cut of iPhone 5s is
part of its strategy to build a stronger portfolio in the mid-segment smartphone
market.

"The $250-400 (Rs 16,000-Rs 27,000) price band is where Apple wants to focus its
energies in India since they want to lock in more consumers into their
eco-system which would build up a base for upgradation when newer iPhones are
launched," said Tarun Pathak, senior telecom analyst at Counterpoint Research.

Pathak said this price band is one of the least competitive and where Indian
consumers typically look for the brand factor in purchase. He said the total
number of consumers in India in the iPhone 5 series was 1.2 million until
September 2015, of the total number of 3.5 million iPhone users who either own
the older or latest model. Retailers said the price cut would help Apple compete
better.

"Samsung's A and E series smartphones are operating in this price band, but the
Korean company has not yet launched any newer models in these segments, hence
Apple can significantly gain share this quarter," a senior executive with a
leading cellphone chain said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

