                             989 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                              The Hartford Courant



                              July 31, 2016 Sunday

                               Statewide Edition



Cases To Juice Up Your iPhone Battery



SECTION: SMARTER LIVING; D; Pg. 3



LENGTH: 335  words





Mophie Juice Pack Plus for iPhone 6/6S



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The Mophie Juice Pack Plus more than doubles your iPhone's battery

life. An indicator light helps you keep tabs on power levels, and its burly

plastic construction protects against drops.



The bad: The case is pricey and its matte finish attracts fingerprints.



The cost: $119.95



The bottom line: Mophie's backup battery case remains one of the best in the

biz, but it's pricier than others, so consider it an investment.



Trianium Atomic S Battery Case for iPhone 6/6S



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The inexpensive Trianium Atomic S Battery Case has a simple, unfussy

design and charges your iPhone in a relatively short time.



The bad: The large opening in the back of the case is no deal breaker, but it

does look jarring.



The cost: $38.13 to $38.99



The bottom line: Affordable and well designed, the Trianium Atomic S Battery

Case is the top iPhone battery case for its price range.



OtterBox Resurgence Power Case for iPhone 6/6S



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The OtterBox Resurgence Power Case powers up your iPhone to nearly a

full charge, all while protecting it from rough drops and bumps.



The bad: The accessory takes some wrangling to attach and detach, and it isn't

as elegant-looking as other battery cases. After a fall, the case can pop apart.



The cost: $36.73



The bottom line: The OtterBox Resurgence Power Case is a good choice for power

and protection, but if you don't need that much durability, consider something

with a sleeker design.



Incipio Offgrid Express for iPhone 6/6S



CNET rating: 4 stars out of 5 (Excellent)



The good: The Incipio Offgrid Express will fully charge the iPhone once and

powers up your phone's battery just as well as more expensive chargers.



The bad: The case has a few inelegant open seams that look unattractive and

awkward.



The cost: $43.09



The bottom line: The Incipio Offgrid Express has some design flaws, but get this

over the pricier Mophie Juice Pack.



LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company

                              All Rights Reserved





