                             993 of 1000 DOCUMENTS







                                   The Hindu



                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday



iPhones, more gold seized at Delhi airport



LENGTH: 379  words



DATELINE: NEW DELHI





NEW DELHI, Oct. 14 -- Just three days before its official launch in India,

Apple's latest iPhone 6s is turning up at the strangest of places. On Monday

night, 22 iPhone 6s were found inside a toilet at the arrival area of Delhi

airport's Terminal 3.





 The craze of showing off the latest iPhone is so high in Delhi that there are

people who are willing to pay a premium to own one of these and smugglers are

cashing in on the demand. On October 5, customs officials at the Indira Gandhi

International Airport had detained seven youths who were carrying 182 iPhone 6s.



 On Monday, the 22 iPhone 6s were found lying inside one of the terminal's

toilets by personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). The CISF

handed over the phones to the Customs department and investigations are on, said

Vinayak Azaad, Additional Commissioner, Customs.

 Mr. Azaad said that the Customs department has been keeping a close watch on

travellers frequenting places such as Hong Kong and Singapore, from which such

gadgets are usually smuggled in.

 Sources at the airport said that it could be either a passenger bringing in

these phones who panicked and left them at the toilet or perhaps some ground

handler who has been trying to pick these up but could not.

 The Customs department also seized nearly four kilogramof gold worth more than

Rs.1 crore on Tuesday.

 In one, the officials caught a family of three - husband, wife and daughter -

that was trying to bring in a total of about 600 gram of gold from Dubai. While

the husband had concealed a gold plate weighing 88 gram in mini speakers, the

wife was wearing six gold bangles studded with artificial stones weighing 382

gram. Their daughter was wearing two gold bangles weighing 133 gram. The family

had arrived from Dubai in a SpiceJet flight. The gold items were seized.

 In another instance, Customs officials seized almost 3.3 kg of 24 carat gold

biscuits from a passenger who had arrived in a domestic flight from Chennai.

"The aircraft had earlier come from Dubai to Chennai. The accused got on the

plane from Chennai and picked up the consignment on the domestic sector," Mr.

Azaad said.

 On Monday, the 22 iPhone 6s were found lying inside one of the terminal's

toilets by personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper





            Copyright 2015 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.

                              All Rights Reserved





