                             995 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                   USA TODAY



                            August 18, 2016 Thursday

                                 FINAL EDITION



Apple's iPhone buzz fades as old models keep ticking;

Some analysts say Apple may wait until 2017 for big upgrade



BYLINE: Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY



SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B



LENGTH: 653 words





For half a decade, the launch of an Apple iPhone triggered the same kind of

global hysteria once reserved for beloved music groups -- customers camping for

days in front of a store, often in Apple-themed costumes.



That may be changing. Low expectations for major changes to the next upgrade,

and data showing consumers are holding onto their smartphones longer, suggest

the Apple buzz is fading.



Apple has reached the point where "the phone is so good, I'm just not as stoked

to get the new version," says Blake Rose, who recently moved west from

Kettering, Ohio. He owns the iPhone 6S, released last September.



Sales of Apple products dropped more than 20% at Target Corp. during the

retailer's quarter ended July 30, Target CEO Brian Cornell said Wednesday,

contributing to a 7% drop in total sales.



Apple historically introduces new iPhones shortly after Labor Day, and if it

follows past years' patterns, it would launch a phone with a major redesign and

upgrade, say the iPhone 7.



This fall, however, some analysts, including Tim Bajarin of Creative Strategies,

expect Apple to hold off on a major upgrade, waiting for 2017 and the 10th

anniversary of the phone instead.



"I wouldn't be surprised if next year, Apple skips 8 and 9 and introduces the

iPhone 10, for the anniversary," Bajarin says.



Apple didn't respond to USA TODAY's request for comment.



Analysts expect three key new add-ons for the next iPhone:



A dual-camera sensor that is designed to dramatically improve low-light images

and make it easier to zoom in on photos.



More internal storage, at 32 gigabytes, up from the standard 16 GB.



Removal of the headphone jack port, which will require consumers to plug their

phones and earbuds into the Lightning charging port. This will probably cause

them to buy new headphones and buds.



How does Apple sell a new edition with minimal new features? If the camera is

really good, "consumers will respond," Bajarin says. "It depends upon the

quality."



Sales for the latest iPhone, the 6S and 6S Plus, didn't catch fire with

consumers like previous models. Apple has reported slumping sales for the

previous two quarters, a first for the company, which sent revenue down 15% for

the June quarter. iPhone unit sales fell to 40.4 million in the recent quarter,

down 15% year over year.



Earlier this year, Apple introduced the smaller iPhone SE, which introduced no

new features but carried a lower price in a smaller body. While Apple says sales

have been strong for the SE, they haven't been enough to push iPhone unit

numbers higher than previously.



The last major re-design for the iPhone was in 2014's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus

models, which remain Apple's best-selling iPhone models. Consumers loved the

larger screens and improved camera.



But 2015's 6S and 6S Plus failed to impress in an equal way, with new features

such as 3D Touch shortcuts and the ability to add short seconds of video clips

to your photos.



"They don't really change anything except the camera and speed," Lala O'Malley,

of Los Angeles said. "It ended with the 4S."



For the next version, Maya Borski of Riverside, Calif., doesn't mind losing the

headphone jack.



"Now you'll only have to worry about one hole in the phone getting wet instead

of two and ruining the whole phone," she says.



Many of the consumers we spoke to here on Ocean Front Walk said they would love

to see a 100% waterproof iPhone -- such as the new Samsung Galaxy Note 7,

unveiled this week.



"Where's Apple with that?" Rose asks.



But even though the innovation from Apple over the past few years has slowed,

Apple fans are still out there.



Ryan Seron of Boynton Beach, Fla., says he'll be "standing online" on opening

day to get the latest iPhone.



"Everyone always wants the newest thing," he said.



And O'Malley, though she seemed ho-hum about a new iPhone's prospects, admitted

that she, too, will probably opt for the new model. How often does she get a new

one? "Sadly, every year," she says.



LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: photo Spencer Platt, Getty Images



PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER





                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved





