                             997 of 1000 DOCUMENTS





                                  Techtree.com



                        May 10, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST



Apple Pay Now Available to Canadian MasterCard Cardholders



BYLINE: Team TechTree



LENGTH: 407  words





Safe, simple and secure way to pay.



MasterCard has announced that it will bring its cardholders Apple Pay, which is

transforming mobile payments with an easy, secure and private way to pay that's

fast and convenient. MasterCard credit cardholders banking with Royal Bank of

Canada (RBC), Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC), Canadian Tire Bank and

ATB Financial can pay with Apple Pay starting today, and cardholders who bank

with BMO Financial Group (BMO) will be able to use Apple Pay in the coming

weeks.



"We're excited to work with Apple to bring a new way to pay that eliminates

something many of us dislike: carrying a bulky physical wallet. Apple Pay allows

consumers to pay with their iPhone - an item most of us wouldn't think to leave

home without," said Jason Davies, Vice President of Digital Payments for

MasterCard Canada. "Thanks to our contactless footprint, our cardholders can tap

their Apple devices to pay across the country. This innovation is part of our

commitment to offer Canadians convenient, fast and secure payment options."



Apple Pay leverages MasterCard's safe and secure platform, MDES (MasterCard

Digital Enablement Service), which uses the most advanced payment technologies -

EMV, tokenization, cryptography and biometrics - to ensure the integrity of

cardholder information. When you use your MasterCard with Apple Pay, the actual

card numbers are not stored on the device, nor on Apple servers. Instead, a

token is created when you load your MasterCard into your device. The token, an

alternate 16-digit number linked to the device, will only ever be used when

paying with that device.



"At the heart of mobile payments is the peace of mind that comes with knowing

transactions are protected with the highest level of security. Consumers want

the same peace of mind when using Apple Pay that they've enjoyed for years with

their plastic MasterCard. With the mobile security measures built into Apple

Pay, cardholders can be assured that they're fully protected," said Davies.



Apple Pay is easy to set up and users will continue to receive all of the

rewards and benefits offered by credit cards.In stores, Apple Pay works with

iPhone SE, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and Apple Watch.

When paying for goods and services in-store and in-app, Apple Pay is compatible

with iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad Air 2, iPad mini

3, iPad mini 4, iPad Pro and Apple Watch.



LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2016



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication





            Copyright 2016 Techtree.com, distributed by Contify.com

                              All Rights Reserved





