

Apple's iPhone 7 and 7 Plus models entered the Chinese market on Friday with
pre-orders of the 7 Plus, and the iPhone 7 in jet-black color, already sold out.

People wait to buy iPhone products in front of an Apple store in Jinan, Shandong
province, Sept 16, 2016. The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is released in China
beginning from Sept 16. [Photo/IC]

Apple's iPhone 7 and 7 Plus models entered the Chinese market on Friday with
pre-orders of the 7 Plus, and the iPhone 7 in jet-black color, already sold out.

Customers lined up outside the Apple store in Beijing's Sanlitun shopping area
early in the morning, waiting to collect their pre-ordered mobile phones.

One customer who declined to be named said, the most attractive parts of the new
iPhone are the double lenses and the water-proof funtion.

"Many of my friends are Apple enthusiasts who like to be the first to try new
products. Others are turning from the iPhone to cheaper domestic smart phones,"
he said.

Starting on September 14, Chinese customers can download Apple's new iOS 10
operating system, featuring an anti-crank calls function based on data provided
by Internet companies.

Apple's Q3 Greater China revenue was $8.85 billion, down 33 percent year on
year.

The company's stock has surged 11 percent over the past four trading sessions,
since the release of the new iPhone models.

Apple store staffs greet customers who have been waiting in line to purchase
Apple's new iPhone 7 and 7 Plus at the Apple Store in Jinan, Shandong province,
Sept 16, 2016. [Photo/IC]

Apple customers wait in the rain outside an Apple store in Shanghai, Sept 16,
2016. The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is released in China beginning from Sept
16. [Photo/IC]

People wait to buy iPhone products in front of an Apple store in Shanghai, Sept
16, 2016. The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is released in China beginning from
Sept 16. [Photo/IC]

A man shows Apple's new iPhone 7 after purchasing the device at an Apple store
in Jinan, Shandong province, Sept 16, 2016. The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is
released in China beginning from Sept 16. [Photo/IC]

