

Click for image

With September steadily approaching, we're inching ever closer to the grand
unveiling of Apple's iPhone 7. While the iPhone 7 likely won't introduce a
radical new redesign or futuristic features, the device will undoubtedly carry a
number of internal enhancements, along with much-improved cameras on both the
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus models.

Last week, we detailed how Apple's iPhone will likely hit store shelves on
Friday, Sept. 16. And now comes word via Bloomberg that the device will
officially be unveiled on Wednesday, Sept. 7.

So, based on what we know, and relying upon Apple's track record with respect to
older iPhone models, here's how Apple's iPhone 7 release schedule is shaping up.

Sept. 7 - Apple to hold a special media event where it will introduce the iPhone
7.

Sept. 9 or 10 - Pre-orders for the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will likely begin.

Sept. 16 - iPhone 7 will officially go on sale.

While nothing is ever official, of course, until Apple officially sends out
formal invitations, it stands to reason that the above schedule is what Apple
has in store for us with respect to its next-generation smartphone.

iPhone 7 features

As for specific features we can expect to see, it's widely believed that the
iPhone 7 will completely do away with the traditional 3.5mm headphone jack, a
controversial design decision-to put it mildly.

Aside from that, the home button on the iPhone 7 will not be a mechanical button
as its been with every previous iteration of the iPhone. Instead, the iPhone 7
home button will sit on top of sensors that will vibrate when pressed, thereby
creating the illusion of a mechanical home button. If this at all sounds
familiar, it's because Apple already uses a similar scheme with the trackpad on
its revamped MacBook line.

One tidbit also worth mentioning is that the entry-level iPhone 7 will likely be
a 32GB device, thereby alleviating a longstanding concern that iPhone users have
had-not nearly enough storage. Certainly, 16GB of storage was more than adequate
back in, say, 2010-but in 2016, when Apple encourages us to take high-res photos
and 4K quality video, eating up 16GB of storage can happen shockingly fast.

And lastly, for anyone who thinks Apple has lost its innovative spirit, we
should point out that Apple's 2017 iPhone-a device that may be called the iPhone
8-is said to feature an edge-to-edge OLED display.

