

Apple launched its newest iPhones in San Francisco last week and fans here
couldn't wait to get a byte too, writes Aiman Maulana

IT'S almost a tradition. For the past three years, Apple had always released its
latest iPhones in September.

Whether you love it or hate it, one has to admit to being a little curious about
new iPhones.

Will there be a brand new feature to blow us away? Will the screens be bigger?
Will there be an improvement in the battery department?

MORE POWERFUL

The new iPhone 7/iPhone 7 Plus will be powered by Apple's new A10 Fusion chip.
Apparently, this is so powerful that it is capable of console-level gaming. It
is said to be 40 per cent faster than the previous A9 chip in the iPhone 6S,
iPhone 6S Plus and iPhone SE. It's also 50 per cent faster than the A9 chip in
graphics performance.

The A10 Fusion chip is a 64-bit quadcore processor consisting of two high
performance cores and two energy-efficient cores.

The energy-efficient cores are designed to help improve battery life, while the
high performance cores will ensure smooth operations throughout.

GLOSSY GLORY

If you think the new iPhone 7 looks awfully familiar, I can't blame you.
However, instead of the matte metal finish that we're so familiar with, the
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus have a glossy, mirrored design. Something else that's
very hard to miss is that it appears to have quite a bump on the camera, much
like Huawei Nexus 6P.

iPhone 7 also comes in a new colour, Jet Black, that is darker and richer than
Space Black.

Apple will also be releasing the new iPhones in standard black colour as well as
gold, silver and rose gold.

Aesthetics aside, Apple has confirmed that the new iPhones are IP67
water-resistant. I still wouldn't take a bath with it though.

IMPROVED CAMERA

The camera in the new iPhone 7 has been upgraded to include optical image
stabilisation and a bright f/1.8 lens which is said to allow 50 per cent more
light than the f/2.2 lens in iPhone 6s. It still has a 12-megapixel sensor but
is now 60 per cent faster and 30 per cent more efficient. This means shooting
photos will bemore convenient. The front camera has been upgraded to 7
megapixels, along with automatic image stabilisation for better selfies and
video recording.

The biggest upgrade is in the iPhone 7 Plus which features a dual-camera system
with 2x optical zoom. One of the lenses is a 28mm wide angle lens while the
other is a 60mm telephoto lens. With an upcoming software update, you can use
both lenses on the iPhone 7 Plus to mimic a shallow depth of field, similar to
what you can get with DSLRs.

However, due to the camera's sensor size, subjects would have to be close to the
camera for it to work.

REDESIGNED HOME BUTTON

The iPhone's signature home button is also new. It is pressure-sensitive and no
longer clicks. It does simulate the click via vibration, similar to the
ForceTouch trackpad on Macbooks. The home button has the Taptic Engine haptic
feedback system from the Apple Watch, which can provide different vibration
feedbacks for specific types of notifications.

AU REVOIR HEADPHONE JACK!

Rumours have been circulating for quite some time about the removal of the
headphone jack on the iPhone.

It's true. In its place is a secondary speaker, which effectively means that the
new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus have stereo speakers. To utilise the headphones,
you will need to connect it via the Lightning port, which is a good thing as it
means that Apple is moving towards digital audio with the iPhones, which means
better audio quality.

Along with the new iPhone, Apple announced a new set of wireless headphones
known as the AirPods.

It looks like the old earpods but is wireless and uses sensors to detect when
plugged into your ears. You can use it to activate Siri. If you want to use
headphones which utilises the standard stereo jack, the iPhone 7/iPhone 7 Plus
comes with a Lightning adapter for it. Yes, this means you can't listen to music
on your earphones when charging the device.

BEST BATTERY LIFE YET

The iPhone 7 will have approximately two hours more battery life than iPhone 6S,
while the iPhone 7 Plus has an extra hour compared to the iPhone 6S Plus. This
may not seem like much but a little improvement is still better than nothing.

MORE STORAGE

What is probably the best news is that there will no longer be a 16GB version
for the new iPhones. The lowest storage capacity is now 32GB. There will also be
128GB and 256GB variants.

HOW MUCH

The iPhone 7 is priced from USD649 (about RM2,626) and the iPhone 7 Plus is
USD769 (about RM3,100).

( END )

