
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 14 -- Zee Media Bureau
 This festive season would be more than merrier for Indian consumer if news
reports are to be believed.
 Apple iPhone has always been a craze among smartphone users. However the
exorbitant price of the gadget has dented the aspirations of many who want to
use the iPhone.


 MUST READ
 Apple iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus pre-order begins; these countries can book it
 As per media reports, you can get Apple's latest iPhone 7 at just Rs 1,700.
 Reports say that if you have Aadhar card, you can buy the iPhone 7 at a down
payment of Rs 1,700 while the remaining part can be paid in installments.
 Apple is reportedly in talks about the feasibility of this scheme with the
Indian banks.
 Apple enthusiasts in India will be able to get their hands on the latest iPhone
7 from October 7.
 MUST READ
 With iPhone 7, Apple eyes long festival season in India
 Last week, Apple launched two smartphones - iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus -
yesterday at an event in San Francisco.
 The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB
storage variants in silver, gold and rose gold colours. The new Jet Black colour
variant will come only in 128GB and 256GB variants.
 While the 32GB phone will be available for Rs 60,000, the pricing of the other
models was not disclosed.
 IPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch display with 3D touch, while iPhone 7 Plus has a
5.5-inch Retina HD display with 3D touch. Both the smartphones are powered by a
new quad-core Apple A10 Fusion processor, which it claims is 40 per cent faster
than the previous generation.
 The iOS 10-powered iPhone 7 sports a 12MP iSight camera and 4K video recording.
The iPhone 7 Plus has dual 12MP rear cameras - one wide-angle and a telephoto
lens.
 Both iPhones have a similar 7MP Facetime camera, which is bumped up from 5MP on
the iPhone 6S. The handsets come with IP67 rating signifying the fact that it is
water and dust resistant, a first for the Apple smartphone.
 The models also have a new home button which is now touch sensitive and uses a
new Taptic engine for better response.

