

Apple iPhone 7 pictures have been leaked to fans across the world. This has led
to rumours about the highly sought after product's look, specifications and
features.

However, to get the exact details, we have to wait till September 7, which is
the date Apple has scheduled for the launch of this smartphone. This Cupertino,
California based company has sent out invitations with a tagline 'See you on the
7th'. The fans will meet at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, San Francisco at
10 AM local time.

We bring you a compilation of all we could find out till now.

What is in the name

There are two opinions about the name of Apple's latest smartphone. The first
group says that it will be Apple iPhone 7 while the other group strongly
believes that it would be called nothing but Apple iPhone 6SE.

Size matters!

The Apple iPhone 7 is expected in two variants. One of them would have a
4.7-inch display and just be called the iPhone 7, while another would be a
5.5-inch display and is likely to be named the iPhone 7 Plus. As per reports,
the rumoured phone with the 6-inch display may not see light of day.

'Jack' of all trades

In what appears to be a complete shift from its previous design, Apple is set to
remove its 3.5 mm headphone jack from this offering. Design experts claim that
Apple may save up to 1mm of thickness by removing the jack. The leaked pictures
have shown only one rectangular jack placed between the speakers at the bottom
of the phone. As per claims, Apple will replace the jack with a Lightning port.
Therefore, the big deal is that, either Apple iPhone 7 will have a common port
for both charging and headphone or Apple will launch iPhone 7 with an adapter.
So, if you like to listen to music or talk using the headphone, you will have a
new companion with your new iPhone - the adapter.

The leaked pictures have shown only one rectangular jack placed between the
speakers at the bottom of the phone.

'Screen' it

It's disappointing. Apple iPhone 7 is not coming out with an OLED screen and it
will stick with the old LCD screen until next year, when it will celebrate the
10th anniversary of the launch of the iPhone. Although, some reports suggest
that Apple is in talks with Samsung for the OLED panel, yet there is no official
confirmation on this.

Paint it more

Moving beyond the traditional colours, Apple iPhone 7 will come with more
variants. As per the leaked images, apart from the existing colours, Apple has
added 'Metallic Blue', 'Space Black' and 'Nextgen Silver' colours to its latest
portfolio.

'Space' it all

There is no clarity on the memory of the iPhone 7. Leaked reports have left us
with no choice as different reports claim that iPhone 7 will come with 32 GB
memory as its base option and will also be available in 64 GB, 128 GB and 256
GB. Too many options? Wait for Sept 7th for confirmation.

'Home' is where...?

As per rumours, Apple has done away with its iconic home button. Another rumour
is that it is not ditching the home button but it is revamping it. No one knows
which of these versions is true. However, pictures suggest that the former may
be true. Leaked images of the iPhone 7 have no home button. The iPhone 7 will
use pressure-sensitive technology from Macbook computers to replace the home
button, claimed Bloomberg Technology.

'Click' it more

The leaked images of the iPhone 7's cases and the body have revealed that the
Apple iPhone 7 will feature a dual-lens camera that will provide a 'DSLR'
quality image. But some pictures also suggested that the phone will come with
the single but enhanced lens, which will be larger than its previous models. The
camera may be packing 21 megapixels.

Apple has sent out invitation with a tagline 'See you on the 7th'. (Image:
Twitter)

What else?

The Apple iPhone 7 will feature iOS 10 supported with a more powerful processor.
Reports claim that it will be a 16nm Apple A10 processor and the RAM will range
between 2 GB and 3 GB depending on the model.

Some reports claim that the iPhone 7 will have bigger batteries than its
predecessors. It may be that the iPhone 7 will come with 1,960 mAh battery and
2GB RAM while iPhone 7 Plus will feature 2,910 mAh battery and 3GB RAM. Some
reports also claim the phone to be water proof and that it may not feature a
metal body but may be made with some other material instead.

'Pocket' crunch

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are expected to be priced between Rs 60,000 to Rs
80,000 depending on variants.?

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

