

Apple has unveiled the new iPhone 7, having made the phone water resistant for
the first time and removed the headphone jack.

The tech giant's chief executive Tim Cook announced the phone at an event in San
Francisco, though a social media glitch saw the firm's Twitter account - only
recently activated - accidentally reveal the news early.

A new version of the Apple Watch, called the Series 2 and with greater focus on
health and exercise tracking, was also announced, including a special Nike+
version for runners.

The Watch, iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will go on sale on September 16, with
pre-orders for the devices beginning on Friday.

Instead of the traditional headphone connection, iPhone packages will now come
with earphones that fit into the phone's Lighting port, currently used for
charging and data transfer.

However, Apple also revealed new wireless earphones, called AirPods, that will
connect to both iPhone and Apple Watch remotely.

An adaptor that enables traditional headphones to continue to plug into the
iPhone will also be included in the box.

The iPhone 7 has also had its camera completely redesigned, with a much-rumoured
second lens being added to the larger iPhone 7 Plus that will enable users to
capture more zoomed images without losing picture quality.

The lenses across the two phones now contain a 12 megapixel sensor.

Mr Cook said of the smartphone: "It has become the industry gold standard.

"iPhone is the phone by which all others are measured and it has become a
cultural phenomenon."

The features of the iPhone 7 split the technology industry, impressing some, but
leaving others feeling underwhelmed.

Geoff Blaber from analyst firm CCS Insight said that Apple had arguably exceeded
expectations with the 7 and 7 Plus.

"In the context of a smartphone market that is firmly in an innovation drought,
there's a strong argument that the iPhone 7 is more than an iterative update,"
he said.

"Upgrades are all important to Apple and for consumers coming from an iPhone 5s
or iPhone 6, the iPhone 7 will feel like a considerable step up."

However, smartphones expert Ernest Doku from comparison site uSwitch said the
iPhone 7 would fail to grab the attention of many.

"Despite being touted as a credible numbered sequel, it was difficult to escape
the feeling that the iPhone 7 is very much an iterative device rather than the
step change needed to allay concerns of falling fortunes," he said.

"Having said that, the device nailed the key features consumers look for in a
flagship smartphone, from an improved display and increased resilience to water
and dust, to an improved camera and better battery life.

"Only time will tell if this is the model to help Apple to break away from
Samsung, who is aggressively biting at their heels with a strong line-up in the
Galaxy S7 and Edge."

The controversial decision to remove the headphone jack from the two iPhones
could also prove pivotal to the iPhone 7, it was claimed.

"The removal of the headphone jack will be the spark for widespread innovation
in accessories and a meaningful revenue opportunity for Apple," Mr Blaber said,
also praising the news that the 7 is water and dust resistant for the first
time.

"Twelve months from now, the removal of the headphone jack will be viewed as an
Apple masterstroke," he added.

"iPhones have had a poor reputation when it comes to accidental drops and water
damage.

"The IP67 rating on the iPhone 7 will be welcome news for careless owners and
will doubtless hurt some of the numerous repair shops that have appeared on
every high street."

