

It's back to school week - and for Merseyside Apple fans, that means new iPhone
week , with the technology giant widely expected to unveil its next flagship
smartphone on Wednesday.

The internet is rife with rumours and predictions from industry analysts and
tech media experts, along with several supposed leaked images.

Many show the casing or materials that are believed to be in the new smartphone.

Here's a round-up of the latest rumours and predictions:

Well-connected analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI Securities has issued a new research
note, claiming that the iPhone 7 will include one very useful feature for photo
fanatics.

The phone will reportedly have four LED flash lights - two in cool colours, and
two in warm colours - and an ambient light sensor.

While the iPhone 6s ' camera is widely praised, it still struggles to take good
photos in low-light situations. These additions should theoretically improve
image quality.

It is unclear whether the new features will appear on the 4.7-inch iPhone 7 or
just the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus, which is also expected to feature a dual-lens
camera capable of taking SLR-quality photos.

A photo claiming to be of the iPhone 7 Plus has surfaced on Chinese website
Bastille Post , fueling rumours that the smartphone will feature a dual-lens
camera.

The picture shows a protruding, pill-shaped enclosure - which differs from the
two separate circular camera openings depicted in some other online renderings.

iPhone 7 - Release date, rumours, leaked images and all the news on Apple's next
iPhone

Apple has sent out invitations for an event, where it is widely expected to
unveil the iPhone 7 .

It is taking place at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco on
Wednesday, September 7, at 10am local time, (6pm BST).

It carries the tagline "See you on the 7th" - which may allude to the name of
the iPhone 7, as well as the date.

Apple often likes to include a hidden message in its invitations, but this one
gives very little away.

But its latest features a number of translucent coloured dots outlining the top
portion of Apple's logo - which some are think could be a hint about new
coloured handsets.

There have been rumours about a deep metallic blue, while others predict the
iPhone will come in five colours - silver, gold, rose gold, dark black and
"piano black".

OnePlus 3 smartphone release date, price and everything you need to know

It's unlikely that Apple's main iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than
past variants.

Tech site igyaan claims to have leaked a full price list of all iPhone 7
handsets in Chinese Yuan.

The low spec handset for the 32GB version will reportedly cost around £595 with
the highest spec phone - the iPhone 7 Plus with 256GB - being priced at almost
£900.

While most people expect Apple's next iPhone to be called the iPhone 7, some
leaks suggest that Apple may opt for the name "iPhone 6SE" instead.

The rumour comes from German tech news site Apfelpage , which spoke to Chinese
supply chain sources who claim to have seen finished packaging and labels with
the new name.

The name iPhone 6SE would make sense, given that most of the rumours point to
Apple's next iPhone being an iterative update rather than a major design
overhaul.

The next iPhone is expected to look largely identical to the iPhone 6s, but
rumours point to a number of key changes.

As with last year's flagship, the iPhone 7 will probably come in two sizes - one
with a 4.7-inch display, and one with a 5.5-inch display (which will be known as
the iPhone 7 Plus).

These will both have the same aluminium body as the iPhone 6s. However, a video
obtained by French tech site Nowhereelse.fr shows that the white plastic antenna
lines across the back will be removed.

These lines currently allow radio signals to pass through the metal casing and
reach the antennas. However, it looks like Apple may be planning to redesign the
case to get around this restriction.

There are persistent rumours that anyone who buys the next iPhone will need to
use wireless headphones or use a converter.

In January, a Chinese website reported that the 3.5-inch headphone jack will not
be included.

Recently, these rumours have been fuelled by images of a case for the new phone
that apparently show no hole for the headphone wires.

Tech experts reckon that by removing the headphone socket, Apple engineers will
be able to shave 1mm off the thickness of the phone, and possibly add a second
speaker with an audio amplifier.

One suggestion is that the iPhone 7 will ship with wireless headphones, called
AirPods, which will connect to the new iPhone using Bluetooth.

This one has also been doing the rounds a lot online - will Apple's next iPhone
could be completely waterproof?

According to a report in the China-based Commercial Times , Apple is working on
a new "compound material" that repels water for use in its forthcoming iPhone.

This new material will also reportedly remove the need for the two strips of
plastic that run across the back of the current generation of iPhones to allow
mobile signals to reach the antennas.

Another rumours suggests the iPhone 7 will be waterproof to a depth of one metre
for up to 30 minutes - a rating known as IPX7, which is the same as the Apple
Watch.

