

Features

archive

By Barry Eitel

SAN FRANCISCO

Apple chief executive Tim Cook debuted the new iPhone 7 on Wednesday, explaining
that the latest smartphone is water resistant, includes two cameras that work as
one and features no headphone jack.

The lack of a headphone input is probably the largest change from the current
version of the famed phone, the iPhone 6S. Every iPod, iPhone and iPad has
included a headphone jack, but now Apple is throwing its support behind wireless
headphones.

Phil Schiller, the company's senior vice president of worldwide marketing said
the company had the "courage to move on" in removing the jack. New earbuds can
plug into the input also used to charge the iPhone 7, and an adapter for older
headphones and earbuds will be included with each new iPhone. Apple believes the
future of music is bending toward wireless headphones, though, and the company
debuted a new pair of cordless earbuds called AirPods.

"It is the best iPhone we have ever created," Cook said at the keynote, echoing
similar statements he has made about other iPhones in the past at the annual
event.

In terms of design, the iPhone 7 and the larger iPhone 7 Plus are very similar
to the iPhone 6S, featuring a slim body and rounded edges. However, Apple's
iconic "home button" at the bottom of the iPhone 7 has been redesigned to be
more sensitive to pressure, similar to the trackpads used in Apple's MacBook
laptops. The device is also available in a new "jet black" color that is darker
than previous iterations.

The iPhone 7 also includes a faster processor and a better camera than older
models. The phone's two cameras can function as complementary focal lengths, one
wide-angle and the other telephoto, and can work in concert for better-rendered
out-of-focus areas.

The new iPhones officially launch in 28 countries Sept. 16, and the iPhone 7
starts at $649. Notably, the base version is 32 gigabytes, not 16GB of most
other iPhone releases.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/148/400/63/147328646421.jpg

Apple unveils iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus

