

Apple's much awaited popular phone models iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, launched
last week in the world's major markets, would officially appear in Pakistan in
the first week of November, a market source told The News.

An authorised dealer of Apple in Karachi, who did not want to be named, told The
News that the much awaited mobile phone would be launched in the Pakistani
market in November.

He could not provide the answer why iPhone 7 would be late by around two months
in Pakistan, compared to other countries in the world.

However, Apple had earlier announced that initial production of its iPhone 7
models was already sold, and it arrived in the world markets on September 16.

So far, the dealer said, no pre-booking was going on, as selling price in the
country was not yet confirmed.

"No selling price in Pakistan has been set yet for the different iPhone 7 models
having different built-in memory," he said.

The dealer could not comment on any pause on sale of different models of iPhone
6, which were still on display. iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus have several
advantages on the previous models.

However, the number of potential buyers was increasing as they had been visiting
an authorised store in the town.

iPhone 7 is expected to receive response from the selfie enthusiasts, as Apple
has enhanced the front cameras to seven megapixels for the first time, along
with adding optical zoom in the iPhone 7, first of its type in the iPhone 7
series.

Previously, majority of iPhone models had a two-megapixel front camera.

The new iPhone 7 is water and dust resistant, which is also a new feature.
However, it is not new for other cell phone users in the world. Sony pioneered
this feature by introducing a water resistant model few years back. Samsung
followed it earlier this year with Samsung Galaxy S7.

Stronger iOS 10, operating system for iPhone 7 is seen as a big enhancement with
added features for Siri,

the virtual assistant and manager.

Both the iPhone 7 models also have increased battery capacities. People were
expecting Apple to also enhance the RAM, which is two gigabytes (GB), but Apple
fans believe that iPhone 7's RAM should not be and could not be compared with
any other OS including Microsoft and Android, as Apple's applications required
lesser space than any other operating system, and performed better even at lower
RAM.

One visitor of the authorised shop in Karachi said he would love to have the
iPhone 7 as early as possible, as

it has been much awaited, he said.  He rejected the notion that people in town
were not buying such expensive phones because of street snatchings. "Now
snatching has declined, but even during the high crime rate a couple of years
back, people in the city loved to buy expensive mobiles," he added.

