

Rumours about the next iPhone have been doing the rounds for a long time, and
after what looks to be a media event by Apple to launch the iPhone 7,
speculations are rife. Apple has confirmed that it will have a media event on
September 7, 2016. Apple will most likely unveil the iPhone 7 and 7S with better
camera features and upgraded hardware but the design will almost be the same as
iPhone 6 and 6S. The company does not reveal its plans before announcing its
products, the date of the media event is an indication of the new device and
quite possibly it will be named iPhone 7. Now since the release is imminent,
speculations about the design are bound to happen. From Steve Jobs to Tim Cook,
let us see how Apple has changed the design of the iPhone over the
'generations'.

The biggest highlight of the latest launch will be that the iPhone 7S will
supposedly have a dual camera. Though it will not be the first phone with dual
cameras, it is the first from Apple. The dual camera will aid in having
different types of focal ranges and better zooming capabilities. Users can even
click a single picture with both the cameras which will help in getting a more
detailed image and with lesser noise. The biggest drawback which looks to be
present in the iPhone 7 will be the lack of a headphone jack. Instead of the
headphone jack, Apple will provide dual speakers, which is not a bad thing given
iPhone speakers have always been a low point. iPhone users will have to get
lightning headphones or have to buy Bluetooth headphones.

Comparing with the first generation of iPhone, the first thing that comes to
mind is the size. It is amazing that how much bigger iPhone has gotten since it
was first launched, and even back then it was considered quite a big phone. When
it comes to width, mockup trials according to reports suggest that the iPhone 7
will have a width of just below 7 millimetres while the 1st iPhone was more than
11 millimetres. Interestingly, even the first iPhone had issues in the headphone
jack, as it could not fit all kinds of earphones. They are both aluminium builds
and the basic design hasn't changed much. Comparing with the iPhone 3G and
iPhone 3GS, again the first thing that comes to mind is that 3G was a tiny
phone. Apple also changed the look and feel of it by making a plastic body, for
the first time. There were many users who termed it as 'feels cheap'.

Now comes the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S, one of the most popular generations of the
device. It had a very simple and classy design, with a metal strap going around
the body sandwiched between two sheets of glass. The only problem was the two
antennae on the side which caused signal problems when covered, but apart from
that the design holds up today. But it's 3.5-inch screen is too small for this
generation. The iPhone 5 and iPhone 5S were a continuation of the previous
design, except the fact that Apple added a metal at the back of the body. Though
the cheaper version, iPhone 5C was kind of an odd one out as it had an all new
plastic shell.

Now, when it comes to the iPhones which the 7 is going to succeed, iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6S, it seems that the look is not going to get changed much. The cameras
will be different according to the speculations on the specifications. Since the
iPhone 7 will have a bigger camera, it will use a bigger sensor which might make
the phone wobble when kept flat on the table. This is because the other parts of
the body are very slim. According to the mockup phones, the antennae lines look
less noticeable. But the biggest change that is expected is the 'Home' button,
as it will possibly be touch sensitive this time, just like the 3D touch or
Force touch on the Mac computers.

