

Apple is expected to unveil the next version of the iPhone on Wednesday.

The tech giant teased the new release earlier this month, by sending cryptic
invites to a number of tech websites.

Although nothing is ever certain where Apple is concerned - the California tech
giant does usually unleash their new iPhones in early September so it can see
out the end of the year on a high.

Some of the latest rumours circulating the internet suggest Apple could be
releasing a new 'piano black' handset, as well as including wireless headphones
- because the handset will lack a normal headphone socket.

Will Apple's iPhone 7 be waterproof? All the latest rumours about the new
smartphone

Tech experts around the world have said they're "almost certain" it will be an
iPhone 7 that's revealed - and the rumour mill is in overdrive ahead of
Wednesday's announcements.

So what's the latest rumour?

Well-connected analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI Securities has issued a new research
note, claiming that the iPhone 7 will include one very useful feature for photo
fanatics.

The phone will reportedly have four LED flash lights - two in cool colours, and
two in warm colours - and an ambient light sensor.

While the iPhone 6s ' camera is widely praised, it still struggles to take good
photos in low-light situations. These additions should theoretically improve
image quality.

It is unclear whether the new features will appear on the 4.7-inch iPhone 7 or
just the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus, which is also expected to feature a dual-lens
camera capable of taking SLR-quality photos.

Apple iPhone launch date CONFIRMED after months of speculation

Either way, Apple is clearly stepping up its photography capabilities in the
face of growing competition from the likes of Samsung, Sony and Huawei.

Apple has sent out invitations for an event in San Francisco on September 7,
which will take place at 10am local time (6pm BST).

They have previously given away secret messages in their invitations - but this
one is giving away very little.

It carries the tagline "See you on the 7th" - which some have speculated could
allude to the name of the iPhone 7, as well as the date.

The invitation also uses a photographic technique known as 'bokeh' - when lights
are pictured out of focus to give the appearance of coloured bubbles.

Some claim this is a hint that Apple are introducing new colours to its lineup,
while others say this is a hint at a high-quality, SLR-style camera.

While others say the dots could also be water droplets, which could hint that
they're launching a water resistant handset.

Although the launch will take place on September 7, there is usually a gap
between Apple unveiling its latest iPhone and the device going on sale.

Notorious leaker Evan Blass claims to have pinned down the release date to
Friday, September 16 - although he has cited no source for the information.

Apple ordered to pay Ireland 13 billion euros after EU ruling on tax deal

September 16 would be in keeping with Apple's normal timetable, allowing the
company to start taking pre-orders a week earlier, on Friday, September 9.

Apple's handsets are known for good quality - but it always comes at a price.
And the iPhone 7 is not expected to be any easier on the wallet than past
iterations.

Tech site igyaan claims to have leaked a full price list of all iPhone 7
handsets in Chinese Yuan.

The low spec handset for the 32GB version will reportedly cost around £595 with
the highest spec phone - the iPhone 7 Plus with 256GB - being priced at almost
£900.

While most people expect Apple's next iPhone to be called the iPhone 7, some
leaks suggest that Apple may opt for the name "iPhone 6SE" instead.

The rumour comes from German tech news site Apfelpage , which spoke to Chinese
supply chain sources who claim to have seen finished packaging and labels with
the new name.

The name iPhone 6SE would make sense, given that most of the rumours point to
Apple's next iPhone being an iterative update rather than a major design
overhaul.

However, the latest rumours suggest Apple is going with iPhone 7, "to avoid
confusion" - and the tagline on the invitation backs up this theory.

While the iPhone 7 is expected to look largely identical to the iPhone 6s,
rumours point to a number of key changes.

Many tech fans felt the design change from the iPhone 5s to the iPhone 6 (and
then 6s) was a hugely positive step - praising the thinner body and larger
screen.

As with last year's flagship, the iPhone 7 will come in two sizes - one with a
4.7-inch display, and one with a 5.5-inch display (which will be known as the
iPhone 7 Plus).

These will both have the same aluminium body as the iPhone 6s. However, a video
obtained by French tech site Nowhereelse.fr shows that the white plastic antenna
lines across the back will be removed.

It also shows that there will be no 3.5mm headphone port on the base of the
handset, suggesting that iPhone 7 users may have to rethink their headphone
choices.

Another video shows an iPhone 7 Plus mockup in a deep metallic blue tone -
suggesting the tech giant may be planning to expand its range of colours for the
iPhone 7 range.

Kuo claims that the iPhone 7 will come in five colours - silver, gold, rose
gold, dark black and "piano black".

The glossy piano black variant could be limited in availability, so Apple is
expected to focus on large-storage models for that shade.

The home button has become one of Apple's most iconic design features. And while
some rumours say Apple will ditch the home button, others suggest it's getting a
revamp.

According to Bloomberg Technology, the new iPhones will use pressure-sensitive
technology from Macbook computers for the home button.

"Current home buttons are switches that physically press into the phone, but the
new models will have a pressure-sensitive button that provides feedback to the
user via a vibrating haptic sensation rather than a true physical click,"
explains the site.

"This mechanism is similar to that of the trackpads on the latest MacBook line."

Kuo also claims that the iPhone 7 will have a redesigned pressure-sensitive
click-less Home button, that will provide haptic feedback to mimic a clicking
sensation when the button is pressed.

The misery of dropping your iPhone down the toilet could soon be over as the
latest rumours suggest Apple's next iPhone could be completely waterproof.

According to a report in the China-based Commercial Times , Apple is working on
a new "compound material" that repels water for use in its forthcoming iPhone.

This new material will also reportedly remove the need for the two strips of
plastic that run across the back of the current generation of iPhones to allow
mobile signals to reach the antennas.

This suggests that the body of the next iPhone may not be made from metal at
all, but some other kind of material that allows radio waves to pass through it.

Industrial designer Herman Haidin has taken a stab at predicting the next
version of Apple's handset and reckons the American tech giant could use a
material known as 'liquidmetal'.

Apple acquired a patent for liquidmetal back in 2010 and uses it to make the
small SIM ejector tool that comes in each iPhone box.

The material itself is a type of alloy that's tougher and more water-resistant
than typical aluminium.

While the theory would explain the changes to the antenna lines on the back of
the device, liquidmetal seems like too drastic a change for this update, but it
may be one to look out for in 2017.

