

NEW DELHI: US-based tech giant Apple has launched its latest phones-iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus and will be available in more than 25 countries beginning Friday,
September 16. And both will also be available to customers in India beginning
Friday, October 7.

The both phones will be available in silver, gold, rose gold and the new black
finish in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB models starting at Rs 60,000 and the new jet
black finish will be offered exclusively on the 128GB and 256GB models from
Apple Authorised Resellers and select carriers.

"iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus dramatically improve every aspect of the iPhone
experience, reaching a new level of innovation and precision to make this the
best iPhone we have ever made," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice
president of Worldwide Marketing.

"The completely redesigned cameras shoot incredible photos and videos day or
night, the A10 Fusion chip is the most powerful chip on any smartphone while
delivering the best battery life ever in an iPhone, and an entirely new stereo
speaker system provides twice the sound, all within the first water and dust
resistant iPhone," added Schiller.

" The 12-megapixel camera includes optical image stabilisation on both iPhone 7
and iPhone 7 Plus, and a larger /1.8 aperture and 6-element lens enable
brighter, more detailed photos and videos, and a wide colour capture allows for
more vibrant colours with more detail. iPhone 7 Plus features the same
12-megapixel wide angle camera as iPhone 7 and adds a 12-megapixel telephoto
camera that together offer optical zoom at two times and up to 10 times digital
zoom for photos," the statement said.

Coming later this year, the dual 12-megapixel cameras also enable a new
depth-of-field effect, using both cameras on iPhone 7 Plus to capture images,
while sophisticated technology including Machine Learning separates the
background from the foreground to achieve amazing portraits once possible only
with DSLR cameras.

Additional Camera Advancements Include:

New Apple-designed Image Signal Processor, which processes over 100 billion
operations on a single photo in as little as 25 milliseconds, resulting in
incredible photos and videos;

New 7-megapixel FaceTime HD camera with wide colour capture, advanced pixel
technology and auto image stabilisation for even better selfies; and

New Quad-LED True Tone flash that is 50 percent brighter than iPhone 6s
including an innovative sensor that detects the flickering in lights and
compensates for it in videos and photos.

More Performance & Battery Life

Both phones include support for up to 25 LTE bands, for the best worldwide
roaming in the industry, and LTE Advanced for three times faster data rates than
iPhone 6 at up to 450 Mbps.1

The new iPhone comes with EarPods with Lightning connector to deliver incredible
sound, as well as a 3.5 mm headphone jack adapter that allows customers to use
old headphones and accessories.

"New AirPods, Apple's innovative new wireless headphones, weave simplicity and
technology together to reinvent the wireless experience making headphones easy
to use. Featuring the new Apple W1 chip, AirPods have extremely efficient
wireless communication for a better connection, improved sound and
industry-leading battery life. AirPods harness the power of Siri, allowing you
to access your favourite personal assistant with just a double tap," it said.

"iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come with iOS 10, the biggest release ever of the
world's most advanced mobile operating system. iOS 10 introduces a huge update
to Messages that delivers more expressive and animated ways to message friends
and family, the ability for Siri to do more by working with apps, new ways to
interact with apps and even more places to use 3D Touch, beautifully redesigned
Maps, Photos and Apple Music, and the Home app, delivering a simple and secure
way to manage home automation products in one place. iOS 10 also opens up
incredible opportunities for developers with Siri, Maps, Phone and Messages
APIs, allowing customers to do more than ever with the apps they love to use,"
it added.

Pricing & Availability

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in silver, gold, rose gold and the
new black finish in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB models starting at Rs 60,000 and the
new jet black finish will be offered exclusively on the 128GB and 256GB models
from Apple Authorised Resellers and select carriers.

Customers will be able to order iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus beginning Friday,
September 9, with availability beginning Friday, September 16, in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, UAE, the
UK, US Virgin Islands and the US.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in Andorra, Bahrain, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece,
Greenland, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, Isle of Man, Jersey, Kosovo, Kuwait,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Slovenia beginning Friday, September
23. iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will also be available to customers in India
beginning Friday, October 7.

The new Apple-designed wireless AirPods including charging case will be
available for MRP INR15,400 beginning in late October. All iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus models will include EarPods with Lightning Connector and a Lightning to 3.5
mm Headphone Jack Adapter, also sold separately for MRP INR 2,500 and MRP INR
900, respectively.

Apple-designed accessories including leather and silicone cases in a range of
colours will be available starting at MRP INR 2,900 and iPhone 7 Smart Battery
Case will be offered in black and white for MRP INR 8,900. Lightning Docks in
several colour-matching metallic finishes will also be available for MRP INR
3,700.

1 Data plan required. LTE is available in select markets and through select
carriers. Speeds vary based on site conditions and carrier. For details on LTE
support, contact your carrier and see apple.com/iphone/LTE.

2 iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are splash, water and dust resistant and were
tested under controlled laboratory conditions with a rating of IP67 under IEC
standard 60529. Splash, water and dust resistance are not permanent conditions
and resistance might decrease as a result of normal wear. Do not attempt to
charge a wet iPhone; refer to the user guide for cleaning and drying
instructions. Liquid damage not covered under warranty.

4 In most countries.

Apple revolutionised personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh
in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, Mac,
Apple Watch and Apple TV. Apple's four software platforms - iOS, macOS, watchOS
and tvOS - provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower
people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple
Pay and iCloud. Apple's 100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best
products on earth, and to leaving the world better than we found it.

