

After months of speculation, Apple have finally unveiled the iPhone 7 - and one
of the major rumours proved true.

The new unit no longer features a headphone jack - with users asked to plug
their headphones into the lightning charging port.

"The reason to move on really comes down to one word: courage," said Apple's
Phil Schiller, speaking of the jack's removal.

"The courage to move on and do something new that benefits all of us."

Read more

Apple iPhone 7 launch date, UK release date and price revealed

But while all iPhone 7 units will ship with a headphone adapter, some users are
worried about the development.

Disgruntled iPhone users took to Twitter to complain about the lightning
connection - which will meant some cannot charge their phone and use their
headphones simultaneously.

Ok wait so the iPhone 7 uses the Lightning input for headphones, does that mean
that I can't charge my phone while my headphones are in???

- MaryAnn Victoria (@maryannvictoria) September 7, 2016

Sooooo I can't listen to music with headphones and charge my iPhone at the same
time unless I get the wireless headphones Apple common

- Stephh (@Stephslife_) September 7, 2016

Unless if you have bluetooth headphones, you can't use your headphones if your
iphone 7 is charging.

LMAO

- David Norman (@tyavid_FlaherD) September 7, 2016

HOWEVER... now if you wanna use wired headphones while traveling, you can't
charge your iPhone at the same time lol So... Lame #AppleEvent

- Christian (@DrChiz) September 7, 2016

Another pointed out that the latest iPhone ear buds therefore won't be
compatible with the Apple Macbook.

So you can't unplug the headphones provided with the iPhone 7 and plug them into
your MacBook Pro. Unless something else is coming...

- Neil Bennett (@NeilBennett) September 7, 2016

However, Apple did unveil a new product - AirPods, an advanced set of wireless
earphones that can be used to controle the iPhone.

Read more

Apple iPhone 7 unveiled early in Twitter blunder- with waterproof design

Apple's iPhone 7 launch: Release date, price and all the latest news and rumours

iPhone 7: Apple set to unveil latest smartphone as host of new features expected

The buds include a microphone and can be tapped to answer phone calls.

The AirPods will ship separately from the iPhone 7, releasing in October for
approximately £119 ($159).

The iPhone 7 is launching on September 13.

