
DATELINE: Bangladesh


Bangladesh, March 7 -- Consumer electronics customers all over the world have
been eagerly awaiting the next range of iPhone releases, and it now seems that
the names for these mobiles have been confirmed by Apple internally. Leaked
sketchings of the smaller four-inch iPhone unit seem to suggest that the next
handset from the consumer electronics giant will be be referred to as the iPhone
SE.

It had previously been reported that Apple would brand this smartphone as the
iPhone 5SE, with the SE part of the name standing for Special Edition. This new
device is certainly a departure from the standard iPhone fare considering that
it is significantly smaller than the premium iPhone handset, reports
http://www.valuewalk.com

9to5Mac suggests that the next generation affordable iPhone unit will launch in
March alongside a smaller iPad Pro tablet with a 9.7-inch display. As has been
expected, both will be unveiled at a special March 15 event, alongside new
colors and band designs for the Apple Watch smartwatch.

Another rumor this week has caught Apple-following media on the hop, and
indicates that the corporation is considering effectively releasing a second new
iPhone Product line. Reports from close to the Apple supply chain suggest that
the premium iPhone 7 Plus device, that had already been predicted to feature
dual cameras, could ultimately be dubbed the iPhone Pro.

This is very much speculative at the time of writing, as it has emanated from
the Chinese website MyDrivers. But Apple is reportedly considering this
distinctive name in order to separate the device from the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus, with both of the standard units to feature single-lens cameras.

KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo had suggested previously that Apple is
beavering away internally on producing two separate versions of the iPhone 7
Plus. And Kuo indeed noted the differing camera technologies as being central to
this ethos.

Some analysts have suggested that this information is questionable, as there
seems to be very little incentive for Apple to effectively splinter its iPhone
lineup. But the murmurings from China and the insistence of the world's most
prominent Apple analyst and soothsayer must make this report a distinct
possibility.

So by the end of 2016 it could be possible for consumers to choose from four
separate new iPhone units. The first will be the iPhone SE, which will emerge in
April according to the most recent reports. And then three iPhone units will all
presumably arrive in the early weeks of the fourth quarter of the year, as is
usual procedure for Apple. The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be accompanied by
this new iPhone Pro unit, and it seems natural for Apple to release the three
simultaneously.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

