

Last night Apple unveiled grand plans for its latest handset, the new iPhone 7,
in an event which was streamed live across the world.

The tech giant revealed its shiny new phone, which can be pre-ordered from
tomorrow, from San Francisco.

What's new? Well, the headphone jack is gone , the phone is finally waterproof
and there's also a new colour, 'jet black'.

iPhone 7 colours: Apple adds new 'Jet Black' shade to iPhone lineup - but
there's no blue option

More brooding iPhone fans have always had 'space grey' as a dark alternative to
the white handset, but this one is much darker and glossier.

However, eagle-eyed web users have noticed a disclaimer on Apple's frequently
asked questions which might put them off buying it.

iPhone 7: Release date, price, images and key features of Apple's new iPhone

It turns out that the high-gloss finish of the new colour phone is more prone to
showing up scratches.

Apple explains: "Its surface is equally as hard as other anodised Apple
products, however, its high shine may show fine micro-abrasions with use.

"If you are concerned about this, we suggest you use one of the many cases
available to protect your iPhone."

When is the iPhone 7 coming out in the UK? How to pre-order the new Apple
smartphone

So it might look pretty and shiny to begin with but could soon look scruffy
after being scratched a bit in your bag.

This means you'll have to hide your shiny new jet black phone away in a case
anyway.

It sports the same aluminium design, rounded edges but this time without the
iconic antenna lines and a high-gloss finish.

But the key feature in the iPhone 7 Plus is that, as expected, it is the first
to offer a dual lens camera.

That means there's now two 12MP cameras built in to the device; one has the wide
angle 12MP lens while the other is a telephoto lens.

How much do the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus cost in the UK - and is the
iPhone 6s any cheaper?

Super Mario is coming to the iPhone App Store

This means users can create a zoom feature, via the camera app as before, but
now witha new 1X button above the shutter.

With this button you can just tap it and the photo jumps to a 2X optical zoom.

You can put your finger on to drag across to zoom from 1x to 10x, with much
better zoom quality than seen on the iPhone 6S.

Apple unveiled its new wireless earpods, which connect wireless to the iPhone or
Apple Watch automatically with one tap.

Forget the iPhone 7 launch - experts say wait for the iPhone 8

Another one of the iPhone 7 Plus' most exciting feature is the iPhone's new
enclosure which is both water and dust resistant thanks to 'IP67 protection
standard' meaning it will be safe from water or dust if "the worst happens".

As for the display, Apple has made the iPhone 7 Plus 's Retina HD display 25%
brighter than on the iPhone 6S Plus, while retaining the 3D Touch capability.

The iPhone 7 Plus also features a new home button that is more simple but more
powerful and customisable, Apple said. It's been re-engineered so it is now
"force-sensitive", meaning it works together with a new haptic engine to be more
responsive and creating a better feel, giving users unique haptic feedback
depending on how you're using it.

Carry on reading more about the iPhone 7 here .

