

Apple is due to finally unveil its iPhone 7 today, and the internet is awash
with rumours about the new handset's key features.

One question that many people are asking is what colours the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus
will be available in.

The current iPhone 6s model comes in gold, silver, space grey and rose gold, but
various leaks have pointed to new colours for the iPhone 7.

According to well-connected analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI Securities, who issued a
new research note on Saturday, the iPhone 7 will come in five colours - silver,
gold, rose gold, "dark black" and "piano black".

iPhone 7 last-minute leak claims Apple's new iPhone will come in five colours
and include one killer feature for photo fanatics

Huo's prediction has been backed up by a photo reportedly taken in a Foxconn
factory, and leaked to Japanese site MacOtakara , which appears to show iPhone 7
SIM trays in five colours.

iPhone 7 and Apple Watch 2 launch LIVE: Dual-lens camera and NO headphone jack
expected at Apple event 2016

iPhone 7: Release date, price, leaked pictures, and all the latest news and
rumours about Apple's new iPhone

The glossy piano black variant could be limited in availability, so Apple is
expected to focus on large-storage models for that shade.

However, other leaked photos suggest that Apple is also preparing to launch a
blue iPhone 7, which may mean a sixth colour option is on the cards.

Unbox Therapy has hands-on video, which is claims to show a prototype version of
the iPhone 7 Plus in a vibrant blue colour.

Meanwhile, a photo leaked to TrustedReviews by mobile accessories retailer
MobileFun.co.uk shows a lighter blue - or "space blue" - shade.

MobileFun.co.uk referenced "confirmed reports" that that Apple would launch a
blue iPhone 7.

The video above, from Tech Sathvik , also appears to show a blue colour variant,
as well as a matt black handet.

The iPhone 7 is expected to be unveiled at an Apple event later today in San
Francisco.

For all the latest rumours, check out our full round-up here , and you can
follow the announcement as they happen on our iPhone 7 launch live blog .

