

Apple has unveiled its latest smartphone - the long-awaited iPhone 7 .

As with anything surrounding the California-based tech giant - the internet was
full of rumours ahead of the launch, but this time most of them turned out to be
true .

The new handset is waterproof , and the 'plus' model comes with an impressive
dual-lens camera - which is capable of taking SLR-style photographs. A new
version of iOS will also launch soon.

Another rumour which turned out to be true is the controversial decision to drop
the iPhone's headphone socket - meaning you'll now have to use
lightning-connected headphones or bluetooth headphones instead.

They've also waved goodbye to the 16gb and 64gb models - introducing a new 256gb
model.

Apple unveiled the iPhone 7 on September 7 at an event in San Francisco.

UK customers will be able to pre-order the new phones from Friday, September 9
and the new devices will be available in shops from Friday, September 16.

It's no secret that Apple devices cost a pretty penny - and the iPhone 7 isn't
going to be the one to buck the trend.

Here are the prices for buying the phone outright:

iPhone 7

32gb option - £599

128gb option - £699

256gb option - £799

iPhone 7 plus

32gb option - £719

128gb option - £819

256gb option - £919

Of course - most people buy the phones on a contract, which means they pay it
off monthly. There's been no word on contract prices from around the UK yet.

Both the iPhone 7 and 7 plus have an IP67 rating, which means they are protected
against dust and can be immersed in water up to a depth of 1m.

That means your phone will be fine if you spill a drink on it or drop it down
the loo - but you can't go swimming with it.

It is the first time Apple has ever released a water-proof phone, after rivals
Samsung introduced them to their lines.

The most controversial announcement from yesterday's event is the lack of
headphone socket .

Both new models will ship with a pair of wired headphones that plug into the
charging port on the bottom of the device, as well as an adaptor for people who
have shelled out on expensive analogue headphones.

If a lightning-connected set of headphones doesn't sound like your bag - then
Apple also unveiled Airpods.

Airpods, which are essentially wireless headphones, connect via bluetooth to
stream your music and calls.

They come in a wireless charging box, which will charge the Airpods for 24hrs
without needing to connect them to a mains adaptor or USB port.

You can also charge the Airpods and their charging box at the same time.

Just don't come crying to us when you splash out £159 on new Airpods and then
lose them.

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus look very much like Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 plus - but
there are subtle differences.

New colours have been introduced to the line up, meaning the iPhone now comes in
silver, gold, rose gold, black (matte) and 'jet black' which has a high-gloss
look.

The jet black model will only be available on the 128gb and 256gb models.

The body of the phones are made from aluminium, and come with a 4.7" retina HD
display, and a 5.5" display.

Everton fans may be disappointed - as the speculated blue coloured iPhone did
not make an appearance at the keynote.

One major gripe with the iPhone range is the battery life - but Apple is hoping
to solve that with the iPhone 7.

The iPhone 7 range comes with an extremely efficient A10 chip - meaning the
phone runs 3x faster than the iPhone 6 and uses just half the power.

It means that the battery life on the iPhone 7 lasts up to two hours longer than
the iPhone 6s, and the iPhone 7s plus' battery up to an hour longer than the
iPhone 6s Plus.

Selfie lovers will be pleased to know that the iPhone comes a new camera system.

The iPhone 7 will have a 12-megapixel wide angle lens, which Apple claims is 60%
faster and 30% more energy-efficient than previous models.

The 'truetone' flash has four LEDS.

If, however you prefer your phone a bit larger, the iPhone 7 plus comes with TWO
cameras.

It has a telephoto camera - which means it can use optical zoom - as well as a
standard 12-megapixel wide angle camera.

A software update due later in the year will mean the iPhone 7 camera can
capture depth-of-field photos, which separate the background from the foreground
to achieve amazing portraits.

Your Instagram feed will be on fleek.

