

The iPhone 7 has landed on Malaysian shores, and as befitting one of the world's
most eagerly anticipated mobile devices, it was greeted by a palm-waving,
confetti-laden red carpet procession bearing all manner of regalia.

Well, perhaps not quite in those exact terms, but readers will surely have
experienced some of the hype surrounding the iPhone 7.

Malaysia's four major telecommunication providers, in no particular order,
namely Celcom Axiata Bhd, Maxis Bhd, DiGi.Com Bhd and U Mobile Sdn Bhd, brought
their A-game to ensure die-hard iPhone fans could get their hands on the product
last Friday, the day of its launch, or in some cases even the night before.

Maxis ran a 24-hour free delivery service for all preordered iPhones across some
100 locations nationwide, for the third year in a row.

DiGi held a sales party last Thursday night, complete with food and festivities,
allowing customers to purchase the phone at the first stroke of midnight.

Celcom gave away seven iPhones for RM7 each to its first seven customers in
line.

Meanwhile, a queue had formed outside of U Mobile's Sunway Pyramid outlet before
10am last Friday.

By noon, a similar, albeit much longer line had snaked around the front of Apple
reseller machines, located in the same mall.

Celcom CMO Zalman Aefendy Zainal Abidin said the telco was expecting positive
numbers for its iPhone 7 sales.

"We will most likely have more buyers for the iPhone 7 than the iPhone 6, as it
is common for new models to outperform previous models," he told the media at
the official launch last Friday.

"We received close to 1,000 pre-orders for the new iPhone models prior to the
launch on Friday," Zalman added.

Should one be interested in purchasing an iPhone 7 or 7 Plus through Celcom, the
telco has made available the FIRST iPhone 7 plan with 12GB of Internet data at
RM98 monthly and the FIRST Platinum plan with 18GB of data at RM128 monthly.

Maxis is offering the iPhone 7 through its MaxisONE Plan 128 with 10GB of data,
unlimited calls and SMS, followed by the MaxisONE 158 with 15GB of data and the
MaxisONE 188 with 20GB of data. The telco also allows for data pooling between a
primary line and its supplementary lines.

Meanwhile, DiGi offers the iPhone 7 through the DiGi Postpaid 98 and DiGi
Postpaid 148 plans, with 12GB and 15GB of data respectively.

As for U Mobile, customers can purchase the iPhone 7 via the U Mobile i90 and
i130 plans which offer 7GB and 10GB of data respectively.

Alternatively, the phone can also be bought directly from Apple stores, with
prices starting at RM3,199 for the iPhone 7 and RM3,799 for the iPhone 7 Plus.

Among the new features of the iPhone 7 include a dust and water resistant
design, an allnew advanced camera system, stereo speaker system and the A10
fusion chip.

The seventh edition of the mobile device has also rather controversially omitted
the presence of a 3.5mm earphone jack in favour of a wireless future.

