

Apple iPhone 7 launch today: Tim Cook took to the stage today with the world
abuzz about what Apple will unveil this time. After launching the new Apple
Watch, Tim Cook announced the launch of the iPhone 7. The colours the smartphone
will be available is in black, silver, gold and piano black. Also, there will be
two 12MP cameras (dual-cameras) built-in - one a wide-angle and other 56mm
telephoto. Schiller said "We are saying is this is the best camera we've made in
an iPhone." Not just the iPhone 7, Apple has also launched the iPhone 7 Plus, as
was widely expected to happen. According to Cook, "The reason Apple moved on was
staying ahead of the competitors and to do something novel." The iPhone battery
has approx 5 hours life on a single charge. That looks quite short.

The new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are water-resistant and have a force
sensitive home button. They have a A10 Fusion processor, with 4-core processor
with 3.3 billion transistors.

In one of the most eagerly awaited events from Apple, CEO Tim Cook launched the
Apple Watch 2 Nike+ and priced it at $369. At the same time, he said the
previous model will get a new Series 2 processor and will be called Apple Watch
Series 1 and its price will be cut to $269.

John Hanke, CEO of "Pokemon" creator Niantic Labs, says the idea is to allow you
to focus more on your surroundings and not the phone while playing. It's coming
later this year. He revealed that the game has been downloaded more than 500
million times, and those who have played it have collectively walked 4.6 bn kms.

The iPhone jack has been migrated to the Lightning port now and will no longer
have the old system. This was done to make the handset slimmer as well as
waterproof it. After getting rid of the headphone jack, Apple has provided an
adapter for those buyers who love their older headphones and don't want to move
to the new. In fact, Apple said that the intention always was to move to the
Lightning port as it was designed, in the first place, for digital audio. Also,
Apple unveiled new wireless headphones and named them 'AirPods' and these will
replace the lovable old ear-buds. No price was revealed for the same though.
Also, Apple has slapped stereo speakers on each side of iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus. The thing is that this has made the port longer. If you want to listen to
music, you can't charge, presumably.

As far as India is concerned iPhone 7 and iPhoen 7 Plus will launch on October
7. PRICE IN INDIA: Simply converting currency gives a sum of Rs 43,067 for
iPhone 7 and Rs 51,030 for iPhone 7 Plus - however, the pre-event price being
bandied about was Rs 62,500.

PRICES WORLDWIDE: While iPhone 7 is priced at a starting $649 for 32GB, iPhone 7
Plus has a starting price of $769 for 32GB variant and the others made available
are 128GB and 256GB. Pre-orders from September and shipping from September 16.
The new AirPods are quite costly at $169.

Apple Inc. COO Jeff Williams discussed the Apple Watch during a media event in
San Francisco, California, US.

What has also been revealed is that the Mario video game is coming to Apple
iPhones. The game was not part of Apple's repertoire. The price was not
revealed. The reason behind the missing game was that Nintendo itself was
unwilling to take to cell phones.

As far as the markets are concerned, the stock is quite flat as the markets have
not reacted so far.

