

Apple's forthcoming iPhone 7 will correct two of the iPhone 6's most irritating
design flaws, according to a new report.

When Apple first unveiled the iPhone 6 in 2014, some customers complained that
the camera lens, which sticks out from the back of the device by around a
millimeter, prevented the device from lying flat on a table.

Apple claimed that the protruding camera was a necessary trade-off, allowing
Jony Ive's team of designers to cram advanced optics into the iPhone 6, making
it the "best smartphone camera ever".

As a result, the same design flaw was carried over to the iPhone 6s, which
launched in 2015.

But now MacRumors is reporting that the camera on the upcoming iPhone 7 will sit
flush with the rear casing, thanks to a thinner camera module, citing "a source
who has provided reliable information in the past".

This means there will no longer be a camera "bump" on the back of the device.

Recent rumours suggest that Apple is planning to equip the 5.5-inch iPhone 7
Plus with a dual-lens rear camera, while the 4.7-inch iPhone 7 will include a
more traditional camera.

MacRumours also reports that, for the iPhone 7, Apple is planning to remove the
white plastic bands across the back of the the current generation of iPhones,
reinforcing previous rumours.

Some customers complain that these white bands ruin the aesthetics of the
iPhones, which are otherwise entirely encased in aluminium and glass.

However, they are necessary because radio waves struggle to penetrate metal, so
the plastic strips allow mobile signals to reach the antennas.

Read more: Latest release date, news and price rumours on Apple's iPhone 7

Could this be the iPhone 7? Amazing concept video shows new futuristic design

The rumoured removal of these bands suggests that the body of the next iPhone
may not be made from metal at all, but some other kind of material.

The iPhone 7 is not expected to be unveiled until September 2016, but there are
already plenty of rumours that give hints about what Apple is planning.

Other rumours suggest that the iPhone 7 will be waterproof and dustproof, and
feature a higher resolution display, faster processor, and wireless charging.

It has also been suggested that Apple might ditch both the 3.5mm headphone jack
and the iconic Home button, to make more room inside for a bigger battery, while
keeping the device as slim as possible.

Losing the headphone jack would be a particularly contentious move, as it would
force users to abandon potentially expensive headphones in favour of those with
an Apple-approved Lightning connector.

Will you buy an iPhone 7?

See our pick of the best 5 contract deals on the iPhone 6 here , plus find out
how to buy a second-hand handset, or sell your current device for more.

Life hacks for your iPhone

