

Apple iPhone 7 Launch: Apple will launch it's latest smartphone iPhone 7
tomorrow on September 7. The event will be hosted by Apple in San Francisco at
the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium.

Apple will launch the latest smartphone iPhone 7 tomorrow on September 7. The
event will be hosted by Apple in San Francisco at the Bill Graham Civic
Auditorium. The latest iPhones will likely be called the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus. Apart from the smartphone, Apple may also launch the new Apple Watch, but
its name is yet not disclosed. There have been many reports and rumours about
the new iPhone for a long time, and when Apple announced the event date, there
were subtle hints answering the speculations about the launch of the new iPhone
7.

It is unlikely that the tech giant will showcase anything related to the latest
MacBooks, though they haven't been refreshed for a while. Apple is expected to
unveil the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus with improved camera features and hardware
upgrades yet the design will likely be the same as in iPhone 6 and 6S. Here are
all the answers to the queries like: When to watch the iPhone event live, where
to watch, what time does the event start in India and which devices can you
watch it on.

September 7, that is tomorrow, is the date when Apple will launch its iPhone 7.
The event will start at 10.00 PDT or Pacific Daylight Time. In India, the time
of the event will be around 10.30 pm, and might go late into the night.

Viewers having an Apple device can watch the key events live on its official
website Apple.com. For the website, Apple uses an HTTP Live Streaming (HLS)
technology. People who have any of the company's devices like the iPhone or iPad
among others will be able to live-stream and watch on its Safari browser but
only if the device runs iOS 7.0 or later.

For Mac users, Safari browser needs to be 6.0.5 or above or OS X v10.8.5 or
above. Users of Apple's television, the Apple TV, will be able to stream the
event directly on the screen. Software 6.2 is needed for Apple TV 2nd and the
3rd generation or will have to have the Apple TV 4th gen.

Apple has decided to lo longer be exclusive to the iOS or the Mac platforms. One
can watch the event on the Microsoft Edge browser on their PCs or Mobile
devices, that have the Windows 10 OS. Although Youtube does not show the event
live, but Apple uploads the whole event at a later time.

Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco will host the launch event. Not
everybody can enter the event as it will be an invite-only event, which includes
the media and other attendees whom the company has invited.

There have been many speculations about Apple's launch of the new iPhone. The
new smartphones are expected to be called- iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus. there
have been minor rumours and leaks about Apple's decision to name the phone as
iPhone 6SE which will be a special edition as they might not have changed much
from the previous versions. Apple will likely unveil the new variant of the
Apple Watch. The Watch will run on WatchOS 3, along with a GPS support and
improved power. According to the leaks, new versions of the MacBook Air might
also be unveiled but the chances are less.

There are some notable features in the Apple's new iPhone including a dual
camera at the rear end on the costlier Plus version. There will be no headphone
jack according to reports and instead, will have an extra set of speakers. The
new iPhone will likely come in the 32 GB, 128 GB, and 256GB variants according
to the leaks. More developments are expected in the Force Touch Display as well.
There might also be a change in the Home button. And as usual is the case, Apple
might bring in some surprising new features.

There have been no leaks or rumours on this, and as India is generally not among
the first countries to get the iPhone, we might have to wait for a while, at
least for another month.

