

"iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus dramatically improve every aspect of the iPhone
experience, reaching a new level of innovation and precision to make this the
best iPhone we have ever made," said Philip Schiller

Apple, on Wednesday introduced iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, the best, most
advanced iPhone ever, packed with unique innovations that improve all the ways
iPhone is used every day. The new iPhone features new advanced camera systems
that take pictures like never before, more power and performance with the best
battery life ever on an iPhone, immersive stereo speakers, wide colour system
from camera to display, two new beautiful finishes, and is the first water and
dust resistant iPhone. iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in more than
25 countries beginning Friday, September 16.

"iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus dramatically improve every aspect of the iPhone
experience, reaching a new level of innovation and precision to make this the
best iPhone we have ever made. The completely redesigned cameras shoot
incredible photos and videos day or night, the A10 Fusion chip is the most
powerful chip on any smartphone while delivering the best battery life ever in
an iPhone, and an entirely new stereo speaker system provides twice the sound,
all within the first water and dust resistant iPhone," said Philip Schiller,
Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus take the world's most popular camera and make it even
better with entirely new camera systems. The 12-megapixel camera includes
optical image stabilisation on both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, and a larger
/1.8 aperture and 6-element lens enable brighter, more detailed photos and
videos, and a wide colour capture allows for more vibrant colours with more
detail. iPhone 7 Plus features the same 12-megapixel wide angle camera as iPhone
7 and adds a 12-megapixel telephoto camera that together offer optical zoom at
two times and up to 10 times digital zoom for photos.

Coming later this year, the dual 12-megapixel cameras also enable a new
depth-of-field effect, using both cameras on iPhone 7 Plus to capture images,
while sophisticated technology including Machine Learning separates the
background from the foreground to achieve amazing portraits once possible only
with DSLR cameras.

The new custom-designed Apple A10 Fusion chip features a new architecture that
powers these innovations, making it the most powerful chip ever in a smartphone,
while also getting more time between charges with the longest battery life ever
in an iPhone. The A10 Fusion's CPU now has four cores, seamlessly integrating
two high-performance cores that run up to two times faster than iPhone 6, and
two high-efficiency cores that are capable of running at just one-fifth the
power of the high-performance cores. Graphics performance is also more powerful,
running up to three times faster than iPhone 6 at as little as half the power,
enabling a new level of gaming and professional apps.

Both phones include support for up to 25 LTE bands, for the best worldwide
roaming in the industry, and LTE Advanced for three times faster data rates than
iPhone 6 at up to 450 Mbps.1

New stereo speakers offer amazing and immersive sound that is two times louder
than iPhone 6s, offering increased dynamic range of sound and a higher quality
speakerphone. The new iPhone comes with EarPods with Lightning connector to
deliver incredible sound, as well as a 3.5 mm headphone jack adapter that allows
customers to use old headphones and accessories.

New AirPods, Apple's innovative new wireless headphones, weave simplicity and
technology together to reinvent the wireless experience making headphones easy
to use. Featuring the new Apple W1 chip, AirPods have extremely efficient
wireless communication for a better connection, improved sound and
industry-leading battery life. AirPods harness the power of Siri, allowing you
to access your favourite personal assistant with just a double tap.

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come in a gorgeous design in silver, gold and
rose gold finishes and introduce two all-new black finishes, a beautiful black
finish that has an anodised matte appearance, and an innovative jet black finish
that has a deep, high-gloss look. The new jet black finish is accomplished
through an innovative nine-step process of anodisation and polish for a uniform,
glossy finish. An entirely reengineered enclosure results in a water resistant
iPhone offering protection like never before against spills, splashes and dust.2

The new iPhone features the brightest, most colourful Retina HD display ever in
an iPhone, now with a wide colour gamut for cinema-standard colours, greater
colour saturation and the best colour management in the smartphone industry. An
all-new, advanced, solid-state Home button on iPhone 7 is designed to be durable
and responsive, and working in tandem with the new Taptic Engine, provides more
precise and customisable tactile feedback.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come with iOS 10, the biggest release ever of the
world's most advanced mobile operating system. iOS 10 introduces a huge update
to Messages that delivers more expressive and animated ways to message friends
and family, the ability for Siri to do more by working with apps, new ways to
interact with apps and even more places to use 3D Touch, beautifully redesigned
Maps, Photos and Apple Music, and the Home app, delivering a simple and secure
way to manage home automation products in one place. iOS 10 also opens up
incredible opportunities for developers with Siri, Maps, Phone and Messages
APIs, allowing customers to do more than ever with the apps they love to use.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in silver, gold, rose gold and the
new black finish in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB models starting at MRP INR 60,000 and
the new jet black finish will be offered exclusively on the 128GB and 256GB
models from Apple Authorised Resellers and select carriers.

Customers will be able to order iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus beginning Friday,
September 9, with availability beginning Friday, September 16, in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, UAE, the
UK, US Virgin Islands and the US.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in Andorra, Bahrain, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece,
Greenland, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, Isle of Man, Jersey, Kosovo, Kuwait,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Slovenia beginning Friday, September
23. iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will also be available to customers in India
beginning Friday, October 7.

The new Apple-designed wireless AirPods including charging case will be
available for MRP INR15,400 beginning in late October. All iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus models will include EarPods with Lightning Connector and a Lightning to 3.5
mm Headphone Jack Adapter, also sold separately for MRP INR 2,500 and MRP INR
900, respectively.

Apple-designed accessories including leather and silicone cases in a range of
colours will be available starting at MRP INR 2,900 and iPhone 7 Smart Battery
Case will be offered in black and white for MRP INR 8,900. Lightning Docks in
several colour-matching metallic finishes will also be available for MRP INR
3,700.

