

Apple's mega event to launch the new iPhones and other products is to take place
on Wednesday, September 7 at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, San Francisco. To
ensure a wider public can tune in, Apple will live stream the event on its
website. From colour of the iPhone 7s to their waterproof status, all of them
have been speculated about, but the picture has been drawn too clearly by the
tech giant to leave any clues behind. Though with the time of the launch
nearing, speculations are running wild about the specifications and the new
upgrades in the phones. The new set of iPhones is most likely to be called the
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

The iPhone 7 could be a significant upgrade and it would help Apple gain market
share across countries. Data from Strategy Analytics shows the Cupertino, the
California-based giant has been losing market share to Samsung over the last
three-quarters. A report by Kantar Worldpanel shows Samsung was leading the
market in the US with a 16% share in the premium segment to Apple's 14.6%. Some
of that could change if the iPhone 7 turns out to be a hit; while the iPhone
6Plus had a new form factor, some of the models were only incrementally better
than the previous ones.Though the battery hiccups faced by the Samsung Note 7 is
most certainly an unexpected boost for the company. Meanwhile, Youtube Channel
EverythingApplePro has gone viral due to its regular updates about the Apple
event and the products that are to be launched. Everything ApplePro, on
September 4, reported that KGI analyst Ming-Chi Cow was back from a hiatus just
before the biggest tech event of the year and provided some very valuable
information. According to EverythingApplePro, the iPhone 7 will have the same
design as its predecessors; the camera bulge, the lack of antenna bands but more
importantly the headset jack is said to be missing. The new iPhone will be much
thinner and would have an actual speed of 2.4 GHz A10 chip, which is quite and
impressive speed in terms of numbers. There has been growth in previous iPhones
too, with every upgrade. For instance, there has been a growth of 65 bits in
multicores, but as far as GHz upgrades are concerned, this is the biggest
upgrade from an older phone to a new phone. we are looking a 550 MHz increase
from the Apple iPhone 6s to an iPhone 7.

Yes, the iPhone 7 would bring you a little close to having a DSLR in the pocket.

There are also two different rumours flying about two similar things; the
lightening earpods and the lightening airpods. It seems that it comes as a part
of the package but has to be selected while ordering the iPhone on the site.
there will also be an adapter in the package for the wired earpods.

It also clarified rumours about Dual speakers by saying that the other one might
just be for the show. We are definitely getting better sound but from just one
speaker. however it might also be an improved forced controller, so there might
be an entire sensor in that spot to improve the 3D touch on the display. So we
might be getting a 2nd generation 3D touch. A new proximity sensor might also
come in with the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus which would help to recognise
hand gestures.

The new iPhones have i PX 7 rating, which makes them somewhat water resistant,
though they are yet to achieve Samsung's level. Though the phone would not have
any dust resistance. Though it must be noted, that Apple never reveals any of
its specifications before the official launch, and so users will have to wait
for a little while longer.

