

A video claiming new iPhone 7 owners can find a "hidden" 3.5mm headphone jack by
drilling into the bottom of their £600 smartphone has caused worldwide outrage.

The professional looking video which has received nearly 10 million views in
less than a week has caused havoc with iPhone owners across the world, as many
are assumed to have fell victim to this social media trick.

YouTube user Taras Maksimuk of TechRax seems to have tricked many people into
believing the headphone jack can still be found on the phone, if you drill a
3.5mm hole into the space which is now occupied by the iPhone's speakers.

The video shows Maksimuk putting his new iPhone 7 into a vice before taking to
the phone with a power drill and then "proving" his technique works by playing
music after plugging in his headphones.

The Californian based YouTuber is well known for 'Technological Pranks' in which
he 'destroys technology for the pleasure of others'. His other video's include
'Can the iPhone 7 survive in liquid nitrogen for 5 minutes?' and 'What happens
if you microwave an iPhone 7.'

Watch: Inside the new Apple store in Birmingham

The iPhone is the first edition of Apple's smartphone which doesn't feature the
3.5mm headphone jack, causing outrage of its own after the phone's reveal on
September 7.

Despite having a 3.5mm jack adapter with the phone at purchase, many seemed to
have gone through with the handset ending DIY.

AppleCare, the insuring company for iPhone's, has said they will not cover
drilled holes into their gadgets, leaving owners up to £800 out of pocket if
they choose to fall for the trick played by Maksimuk.

The comments section of the 'Secret hack to get headphone jack on the iPhone 7'
video, makes quite an entertaining read, littered with comments from people who
claim to have attempted the YouTuber's technique.

YouTube user peanutsz, is one who has claimed Maksimuk's video has lead him to
destroy his mothers iPhone:

"I DID THIS TO MY MOM'S PHONE AND IT BROKE! SHE HAS IMPORTANT BUSINESS ON HER
PHONE AND NOW SHE'S GONNA SUE YOU!!! STUPID A******"

Another user, Some Dude, said:

"WTF??? F*** you! My screen turned black the moment I started drilling and now I
can't even open it."

iPhone 7 Plus and jet black iPhone 7 sold out to pre-order customers

User SuperWhitelizard has some strong wishes towards Maksimuk after apparently
performing the act on his phone too:

"You b******! Because of you, my new iPhone is broken now! You are such a
terrible human being, I lost so much money believing your video! I hope karma
finds you and you go to hell!"

The prank is the latest in a long line of iPhone user 'trolls' which has seen
software and hardware ending results.

1. iOS 7 update will make your phone waterproof.

Many fell for believing that a software update would turn the iPhone itself
waterproof, again, this wasn't covered by AppleCare once people dropped their
phone into a bucket of water.

2. Microwaving your iPhone 6 will extend your battery life.

Another iPhone ending prank which saw people put their iPhone into a microwave
with hope it would extend their battery life.

3. crashsafari.com

Not an iPhone ending joke, but crashed a many people's iPhone's back in January.
Social media links hiding the URL crashsafari.com would crash people's iPhone's
after making them exit their Facebook or Twitter app and redirecting them to
Safari, Users would have to turn their handset off before regaining control of
their phones.

4. Happy New Year, 1970.

A software ending bug which caused havoc again in early 2016. Setting an
iPhone's date to January 1, 1970. The date and time change would send the
software into a 'brick' state. The iPhone would crash rendering it completely
unusable and requiring a full factory reset from Apple, losing all the data on
the iPhone.

5. AppDestory for iOS

Installing this App through the App Store claimed users would be able to cut
their iPhones with a knife and it wouldn't leave a scratch. Needless to say,
those who underwent the kitchen-knife surgery on their phone had damaged
handsets which were refused repair by the end of it.

Have you got an iPhone 7? What do you think of it? Let us know in the comments
below

