
DATELINE: Bangladesh


Bangladesh, June 28 -- Apple fans have to choose between not two but three new
iPhones in this September.

According to rumours, courtesy a tipster on Chinese social networking website
Weibo, Apple will be launching a 'Pro' version of iPhone 7.

First spotted by Pocketnow, the rumoured iPhone 7 Pro will be premium version of
the smartphone. It is said to be $150 more expensive than the other two new
models.

This essentially means that Apple will be launching iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus and
iPhone 7 Pro this fall.

However, there are no details available about what extra features that iPhone 7
Pro may have. Rumours suggest that the model may come with dual-camera set-up
and wireless charging via smart connector (similar to the one in iPad Pro).

Some analysts are linking this to the three models that the company has for its
iPad tablets -- iPad mini, iPad Air and iPad Pro.

Recently, a report in The Wall Street Journal claimed that iPhone 7 is likely to
sport the same design as that of iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6s models.

The report, which cites 'people familiar with the matter', said that the
rumoured iPhone 7 will be arriving in two variants with 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch
displays. The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s models too come in same screen sizes.

The major design change is expected to arrive in next year's iPhone model. Next
year would also mark the 10th anniversary of the original iPhone. Rumours
suggest the 2017 iPhone to feature an edge-to-edge OLED display along with a
fingerprint sensor built over the display. The Home button is said to be
completely removed, said industry sources to the journal.

The industry sources in the report add that Apple's head of design Jony Ive's
desire has been to shrink an iPhone to a single sheet of glass. The 2017 iPhone
design ideas are supposed to move the smartphones in the same direction,
according to news agencies.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

