

Apple has announced it will be holding a big event next month - sparking
speculation that the tech giant will reveal the iPhone 7.

Websites across the world have announced that Apple is holding one of its famous
conferences on September 7, but bosses at Apple are keeping tight-lipped about
what it entails.

Historically, Apple has announced new iPhone models in September - sending the
rumour mill into overdrive.

Although this is by no means a definite - tech websites from around the world
have been invited to an Apple event at their HQ in California on September 7.

For the past five years running Apple has used September events to launch new
products - so those of you holding out for a new phone had best wait until then.

It's unlikely that Apple's main iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than
past models.

But its launch could see Apple finally change the thing that annoys people most
about the iPhone.

Rumours suggest that Apple is planning to ditch its 16GB storage option in
favour of a more generous 32GB base model.

The current iPhone 6s and 6s plus lineup offers customers a choice of 16GB,
64GB, or 128GB storage options.

However, supply chain investigations by Kevin Wang, director of market research
at respected analyst firm IHS Technology, suggest the iPhone 7 base model will
come with with 32GB of storage.

If true, we could expect other models with larger storage - 64GB and 128GB most
likely - to stick with the £619 and £699 prices.

While most people expect Apple's next iPhone to be called the iPhone 7, some
leaks suggest that Apple may opt for the name "iPhone 6SE" instead.

The rumour comes from German tech news site Apfelpage, which spoke to Chinese
supply chain sources who claim to have seen finished packaging and labels with
the new name.

Other rumours suggest the next iPhone will have a larger camera lens and a USB
Type C connection at the bottom that will double up as the new headphone slot.

The model obtained in an online video appears to closely match these rumours and
there's no 3.5mm headphone port on the base of the handset.

It also has the repositioned antenna on the corners of the handset rather than
across the back.

But in terms of size and design, the alleged iPhone 7 looks very similar to the
existing iPhone 6s.

One online mock-up comes in a deep metallic blue tone - so could Apple be
planning to expand its range of colours for the iPhone 7 range?

Designer Martin Hajek has created several 3D renders of what he thinks the
iPhone 7 could look like.

Rather than the traditional Space Grey colour, Hajek has taken the Space Black
finish from the Apple Watch and applied it to the phone.

His realistic-looking renders also show how many of the iPhone 7 rumours might
look if they were implemented in a finished product.

Apple issues global IOS update after iPhone spyware alert

The most persistent of rumours is that Apple will remove the headphone jack from
the new iPhone and use the newer USB-C connection instead.

Martin Hajek has added a pair of USB-C capable headphones in one of his shots to
illustrate what that may look like.

Meanwhile an insight coming from Deutsche Bank analysts, by way of Business
Insider, suggests that Apple will include a special adaptor along with the
iPhone 7 instead of a pair of headphones.

"A Lightning-to-audio dongle included with the iPhone 7 - not a pair of
Lightning headphones," reports the tech site.

That would mean instead of plugging your headphones directly into the phone, you
have to carry around an adapter with you everywhere you go. Or, use wireless
headphones.

We tried the new UberEXEC - and here is how it went

Because the new iPhone will likely arrive with Apple's iOS 10 software and an
upgraded processor, it will offer even more power and better efficiency.

Likely to be boasting a processor called the A10 chip, the iPhone 7 will surely
pack more power - although it's anyone's guess as to how much this will
translate into actual usage.

According to Korean site ETNews, Apple is currently in discussion with
arch-rival Samsung over supplying OLED screens for its next phone.

This would shift the display over from the current LED model to a much more
vibrant OLED screen. Such a move would likely make for better colour
reproduction for videos and games, but might hamper battery life.

5 things we learned from Apple's launch event including the iPhone SE, iPad Pro
and Apple Watch

A photo claiming to be of the iPhone 7 Plus has surfaced on Chinese website
Bastille Post, adding fuel to rumours that the smartphone will feature a
dual-lens camera.

The picture shows a protruding, pill-shaped enclosure - which differs from the
two separate circular camera openings depicted in some other online renderings.

Meanwhile, a video claiming to show the flagship iPhone 7's transparent case has
been uploaded to YouTube by Unbox Therapy, showing a large cut out for the rear
camera.

The advantage of a dual camera is that it could allow iPhone users to snap SLR
quality photos and 3D images on a smartphone.

Last year, Apple bought an Israeli smart camera company called LinX
Computational Imaging, which builds smartphone and tablet cameras with sensors
that provide depths of field.

The technology also allows for high quality images to be captured in low-light
conditions.

The misery of dropping your iPhone down the toilet could soon be over as the
latest rumours suggest Apple's next iPhone could be completely waterproof.

According to a report in the China-based Commercial Times, Apple is working on a
new "compound material" that repels water for use in its forthcoming smartphone.

This new material will also reportedly remove the need for the two strips of
plastic that run across the back of the current generation of iPhones to allow
mobile signals to reach the antennas.

This suggests that the body of the next iPhone may not be made from metal at
all, but some other kind of material that allows radio waves to pass through it.

Industrial designer Herman Haidin has taken a stab at predicting the next
version of Apple's handset and reckons the American tech giant could use a
material known as 'liquidmetal'.

Apple acquired a patent for liquidmetal back in 2010 and uses it to make the
small SIM ejector tool that comes in each iPhone box.

The material itself is a type of alloy that's tougher and more water-resistant
than typical aluminium.

