

NEW DELHI: iPhone 4, which is now more than three years old, is probably India's
most popular iPhone. The reason behind its popularity is its premium design - it
is a characteristically Apple product with an all glass and aluminum body - and
yet a low price by Apple's standards. Over the years, Apple has cut the price of
iPhone 4 several times. Since last year, iPhone 4 has been the most affordable
choice for anyone in India who wants "an iPhone".

Three years can be considered an eternity in the fast-moving smartphone
industry. But the reason why Apple has been able to keep iPhone 4 in the market
is its promise of prompt software updates. Recently, when the company announced
iOS 7, it said the new OS would be available for iPhone 4.

The reality, however, is not so rosy. Even though you can run iOS 7 on iPhone 4,
it doesn't necessarily makes the device better. In fact, a large number of users
running iOS 7 on iPhone 4 agrees that the new OS has made the device slower.

Kunal Gangar, a technology blogger, installed iOS 7 on his sister's one-year-old
iPhone 4 the day the new OS became available. "After the install was complete, I
noticed that the phone was slow. Animations were slower. Even scrolling through
installed apps was slow," he said. "iPhone 4 with iOS7 is similar to how
mid-range Android phones feel. There is noticeable lag."

Nithin Rajasekaram, a PR professional, shares a similar experience. "After
installing I can see that iPhone 4 feels slow. Worse, there is not only the lag
in user interface but some apps are also crashing. For example, after I
installed iOS 7, my phone can't handle Temple Run. The app always crashes," he
said.

To be fair, iPhone 4 is a three-year-old phone and lacks the hardware that can
handle a modern OS like iOS 7. The amount of RAM is particularly an issue.
iPhone 4 has 512MB RAM, which is just not enough for the full-blown multitasking
that has been implemented in iOS 7.

Multitasking is one area where iPhone 4 feels slowest. For example switching
between apps is not at all smooth. Even scrolling through open apps in the card
view is slow and shows lag.

Rajasekaram adds that iOS 7 keyboard also feels slower on iPhone 4. "When I type
a message in WhatsApp, letters appear with some lag," he said.

Hans Gogia, another technology blogger, advises that iPhone users stay on iOS 6.
"iOS 7 on iPhone 4 has some lag compared to 6.1.3. This phone is too old for the
new OS," he said.

Apple has now discontinued iPhone 4 in the US. However, in India the phone is
still available in stores for a price of around Rs 22,000. Also, once a device
has been updated to iOS 7, Apple doesn't officially allow users to switch back
to the older OS.

Despite the lags and slow user interface, most iPhone 4 users agree that the
device continues to be usable. "I love my phone. There are ways to manage
performance. For example, I often close the applications I don't need instead of
letting them run in the background. Given that this is an old phone, I don't
have much complaints from it," said Rajasekaram.

Gangar added that it was nice of Apple that it was supporting such an old phone
with the new OS. "It continues to be usable. Yes, it slows down but it doesn't
hang," he said.

So, if you have iPhone 4 should you upgrade to iOS 7 or not?

The answer depends on what you prefer - features or performance. Given the
performance issues, it is advisable to keep iPhone 4 on older versions of iOS.
But if you do not mind some lag, it is worth getting the new OS for features
like control centre.

In case you don't have an iPhone 4 and are looking to buy it because it is the
cheapest iPhone, which also runs the latest version of iOS, our advice is that
don't go ahead. If you want an iPhone, stay away from iPhone 4. By paying just a
few thousand rupees more you can get Nexus 4 or Galaxy S3, which are better
devices.

Even iPhone 4S is not a very smart choice. You should wait for iPhone 5C to come
into the market. It is expected to cost around Rs 40,000 and should offer the
premium iPhone experience.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

