

With its customary hype, rumours and fanfare, Apple yesterday unveiled its
iPhone 7. National technology writer ROD CHESTER gives his review of the new
features.

THE big news with the iPhone 7 was supposed to be that Apple was dropping the
headphone jack. Yes, that happened, but the really big news is what you'll be
able to do with the new iPhone 7 Plus camera.

Apple has never worried about the megapixel race but has focused on ensuring the
camera takes really good pictures. That's why you see those "Shot on iPhone"
posters around town, which highlight some amazing photos that non-photographers
have taken with their phone.

Apple CEO Tim Cook took the helm at Apple's biggest launch of the year - which
included a performance by Adelaide-born singer Sia Furler - unveiling a new
model iPhone and Apple Watch, which are both faster, smarter and, at last,
waterproof.

But again the biggest thing about the iPhone launch in San Francisco yesterday
is the camera. Sure, the camera in the iPhone 7 has been improved, with a better
sensor, wider f1.8 aperture and better processing. It's still a 12-megapixel
camera, although the front-facing camera has been upgraded to seven megapixels.

But it's impossible not to breeze over that and head straight to the iPhone 7
Plus, which has dual cameras with two lenses protruding from the back. One
camera is the standard wide photo, the other is a telephoto.

To switch between the two, open up the camera mode, touch "1x" at the bottom of
the frame and it instantly switches to the 2x zoom lens.

Apple also lets users get closer to their subject in their photograph with a
dial that lets you increase the zoom to 10x, although the range between 2x and
10x is done with software rather than a lens.

The rule with digital zoom on any smartphone is never use it - it's not worth
it. Whether Apple has produced something that breaks that rule is hard to say in
just a few minutes of playing with the phone.

I shot a few 10x frames in a dark room with shaky hands and the zoomed images
were OK but not great. However, a fairer test will be when we get to take one in
the real world.

If you commit to the dual-lens iPhone 7 Plus, you also get a new mode in the
camera called Portraits. n that mode, the camera automatically detects faces and
keeps them sharply in focus while blurring the background.

There are plenty of apps that have tried to do this, but an initial look at
results shot with the iPhone 7 Plus is that Apple has got it right.

Although it has also got it right a bit too late - this effect won't be on the
iPhone 7 Plus at release date but will come out as a software by the end of the
year.

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus have the same form factor as the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus
although, aside from the dual lens, there are a few subtle differences so that
eagle-eyed folk will notice you have a shiny new phone.

The antenna band no longer goes across the back of the phone but is on the edge.
And the audio jack is gone.

Apple spent a lot of time yesterday talking about wireless earphones, from a new
range of Beats to AirPods that protrude from your ears like little sticks.

Maybe dropping the jack will be the catalyst needed to drive people into
wireless headphones.

Apple has a history of dropping "essential" items from devices and, after
initial grumbling, people soon learn to live without.

There is a new chip that will make this faster - but there is always a new chip
to make every new iPhone faster. Perhaps the only surprise with the chip is that
it is called the A10 Fusion, which is an update on last year's A9.

Apple has promised this will have the best battery life of any iPhone, which
suggests that maybe some of the space saved with the headphone jack has been
used by a bigger battery.

The home button looks the same but doesn't act the same. It's no longer a
physical button but a solid piece of glass that gives the sense of movement
through Taptic feedback.

That sense of movement through specific vibration is not just on the home button
and will also add to the game play on iOS games.

The screen is brighter with a wider colour gamut and there is now stereo sound
on the iPhone, although it is hard to properly test that in a crowded room of
enthusiastic tech reporters.

Something to file under the "At Long Last" heading is the waterproof feature. If
you drop this iPhone in the loo or jump in the pool with it in your pocket,
you're safe.

I've reviewed the past five iPhone models and every time I wrote "should be
waterproof". Better late than never.

Joining waterproofing in that same category is the removal of the 16GB model of
the iPhone, which was woefully too small.

Now the iPhone models start at 32GB, although if you want the fancy Jet Black
model you'll need to get the 128GB or 256GB version.

So, do I love this iPhone 7? Yes, but I love the iPhone 7 Plus more. I've long
been dismissive of phablet phones. Size is a preference when it comes to
smartphones and I've always preferred the smaller 4.7-inch phone.

But the advantages of the dual cameras in the iPhone 7 Plus have me challenging
my long-held views.

This could be the time to go big and get into the picture - both in the wide
angle and with the zoom.

What is the best smartphone on the market? With the recall of Samsung's Note7
following reports of phones bursting into flames, there is only one answer.

It's not the iPhone 7. It is the iPhone 7 Plus.

Price and availability in Australia â-  iPhone 7 starts at RRP $A1079 inc. GST.

â-  iPhone 7 Plus starts at RRP $A1269 inc. GST.

â-  Pre order from today, September 9.

â- Available from Friday, September 16.

Rod Chester travelled to San Francisco as a guest of Apple.

WHAT'S NEW ON iPHONE7 Rear camera flash: Upgraded with four LEDs (two cool and
two warm) and new ambient light sensor for better image quality No headphone
jack: Ships with Lightning EarPods and regular earphone adapter. Removal of jack
allows for upgraded speaker and improved Force Touch sensor Dual-lens rear
camera: Exclusive to iPhone 7 Plus. Two 12MP lenses - one wide-angle, other
telephoto Home button: Pressure-sensitive, with no click, to benefit water
resistance. Haptic motor mimics clicking sensation when button is pressed iPhone
7 colour options New: Glossy "piano black" Lightning to 3.5 mm jack adapter
EarPods Screen: Better wide colour technology adopted from iPad Pro Water
resistance: Improved IPX7 waterproofing allows device to survive splashes,
showering, and even brief dips in water up to one metre deep Earpiece: Doubles
as loudspeaker, providing enough separation to allow for stereo sound when
device is held in landscape orientation New A10 processor and improved storage:
32GB, 128GB, and 256GB on both iPhone 7* and iPhone 7 PlusGRAPHIC NEWS

