

When Apple executives unveil the iPhone 7 on Wednesday in San Francisco, a big
question will loom over the event -- will the new device be enough?

Enough that is, for current iPhone owners to say goodbye to their old phones and
clamor for a new one.

It is a critical time for Apple. iPhone sales, which make up more than
two-thirds of Apple's annual revenues, have been falling.

Its Apple Watch, which is expected to get an upgrade Wednesday, hasn't taken
off.

Sure there will be razzle-dazzle at the Apple event. There always is. It is
still the moment when the entire tech industry stops and pays attention. What
Apple announces can upend other firms' plans or create new opportunities.

Other than its business challenge, the company has become a political hot
potato, recently coming under fire in Europe for its large stockpile of money,
which Apple holds offshore rather than pay the U.S. corporate tax rate. The
European Commission's ruling that Apple owed Ireland $14.5 billion in back taxes
has set off a firestorm in the U.S. over Apple, and other firms, which park
profits overseas.

But this week the question facing Apple won't be where its tax revenues should
go, but what did the firm do with the iPhone's headphone jack. What the new
iPhone reportedly won't have is already set to be the most newsworthy.

I hate to ask since consumer technology is supposed to be so exciting. But
except for tweens handed their first phone, are the rest of us getting a little
bored with our iPhones and other smartphones?

I ask, because Apple faces a double problem, both products of its success. The
iPhone lasts longer than it used to and the developed markets are saturated.

Many millions of users will update to the iPhone 7, because that's what
technology has trained us to do. Still, there are only a certain number of
people out there who feel they need to upgrade for a new shade of black or
better battery life. The rest will wait until our iPhones sputter and give up
the ghost, if that should ever happen.

What Apple reportedly has in store for its next phone, which is expected to be
called the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus, sounds mildly interesting.

There's supposed to be a few new colors (dark black and piano black, to name
two), improved camera technology for the larger model and more storage. There
may also be a home button that one doesn't push, but simply touches and feels a
vibration. The iPhone may be slimmer than prior models.

And then there's that missing headphone jack. Instead, iPhone 7 users will be
able to listen to music via the phone's Lightning cable port. (The new iPhones
will reportedly come with Lightning-to-headphone adapter as well as Lightning
EarPods.)

You know there will be some howling, because people hate change.

Rumors have it that the iPhone can be slimmer without the headphone jack and
that its absence also helps with waterproofing.

But there could be another reason. The firm reportedly has a new audio system in
the works for the next phone and Apple is trying to get its users ready for the
change.

The missing headphone jack move hearkens back to when Apple first came out with
the iPhone in 2007.

Missing from the brand new device was a traditional keypad with physical buttons
like a BlackBerry or a stylus like a PalmPilot. Some people thought Apple was
crazy to break from the standard design, but the company reinvented smartphones
with these changes.

Given what appears to be small upgrades to the iPhone, what Apple may be doing
this week is offering the iPhone 7 as a placeholder, something that those
needing an upgrade can have but nothing to really knock the socks off the entire
smartphone category.

Analysts predict that the company may be planning a major overhaul of the iPhone
next year for its 10th anniversary. Among the rumored changes is that iPhone
will be an all-glass device.

That could wake up the masses.

Contact Michelle Quinn at 510-394-4196 and Twitter.com/michellequinn.

