

All those Apple fans out there in India waiting desperately to lay there hands
on the next iPhones -- iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus -- can now pre-order the new
smartphones.

Most IWorld stores, Apple's Premium Resellers in Northern India, are accepting
pre-bookings for Apple's new iPhones. Users can also pre-book (reserve to buy in
store) the devices on the company's website. Another Apple Premium Partner in
India, Unicorn, too is accepting pre-orders for the two new iPhones. Interested
buyers can pre-book the smartphones after paying an advance payment of Rs 5,000.
Delhi-based Unicorn has presence across several states in the country.

However, two of the biggest consumer electronics retail stores in the country,
Tata Group's Croma and Reliance Industry's Reliance Digital, are still to start
pre-bookings for both the smartphones. Another prominent electronic retail store
in the country Jumbo said that it will accept pre-orders starting next week.

Officially too, Apple India is yet to announce the opening of pre-bookings for
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

Also, while Beetel Teletech Ltd, one of the distributors for Apple in India,
said that it will start deliveries of the two phones at 7pm on October 7, sales
person at both IWorld and Unicorn said that there stores will start selling the
smartphones at dot 12 am on October 7. Another Apple distributor Rashi
Peripherals too has announced that it will start selling the latest iPhones from
October 7 in India. The company, however, has so far not disclosed the time when
it will start sales at its 1,000 locations across the country.

October 7 is the official launch date of the upcoming Apple smartphones for
India. The company is launching the devices in India in the third phase. In the
first phase, the new iPhones will go on sale in 28 countries across the world on
September 16. In the second phase, beginning September 23, the duo will be
available in over 25 countries including Andorra, Bahrain, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece,
Greenland, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, Isle of Man, Jersey, Kosovo, Kuwait,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Slovenia.

Apple unveiled its latest iPhones at an even in San Francisco on September 7.
The smartphone giant has not yet revealed the complete pricing details of its
new smartphones in India. The company, however, just said that the price of the
iPhones will start at Rs 60,000 in the country. This is likely to be the price
of the base iPhone 7 model with 32GB internal storage.

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB storage variants.
The colour options available are Silver, Gold, Rose Gold, Black and Jet Black.
Of these, the Jet Black colour variant comes only in 128GB and 256GB variants.

Apple iPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch display with 3D touch, whereas the iPhone 7
Plus has a 5.5-inch Retina HD display with 3D touch. Both the smartphones are
powered by a new quad-core Apple A10 Fusion processor, which the company claims
is 40% faster that Apple A9 and it runs iOS 10.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

