

Apple has finally revealed the iPhone 7.

At an event in San Francisco yesterday, Apple 's CEO Tim Cook took to the stage
to unveil the new phones - the 7 and the 7 Plus.

And although they don't look too different to the previous models, some fans of
the iPhone have been left disappointed at one particular change.

Want to know more? Here's an introductory guide.

· Water resistant

· Longer battery life

· New Retina HD display means its 25% brighter

· The iPhone 7 Plus boasts two rear-facing 12-megapixel cameras

· Stereo speakers at top and bottom with double the volume of previous version

· No headphone jack

Apple has taken the controversial decision to drop the 3.5mm headphone jack from
its latest iPhone.

The port was ditched in order to free up more space to make iPhone 7 slimmer
than previous models.

The move means that owners of the iPhone 7 will not be able to directly connect
any headphones with a traditional 3.5mm plug.

This means people who have splashed out on expensive wired headphones in the
past will need to use a Lightning to 3.5mm adapter (included in the box).

It will also be possible to use wireless Bluetooth headphones, or those that are
equipped with Apple's Lightning connector.

However, if buyers do upgrade to headphones equipped with a Lightning jack, they
won't be able to use these with any non-Apple devices.

To coincide with the launch of the iPhone 7, Apple also unveiled wireless
'AirPod' earphones which use Apple's own wireless technology in place of the
more frequently used Bluetooth.

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in 32GB, 128GB or 256GB
options.

Apple said during its keynote unveiling that it has kept the prices of its new
smartphones the same as the iPhone 6s when it launched last year for their
respective storage options.

However, because the 16GB is no longer available, this means the cheapest option
is now more expensive.

In the UK, Apple said the iPhone 7 will be available from a starting price of
£599 for the cheapest 32GB option.

The 128GB version is £699 and the 256GB version will set you back £799.

The larger iPhone 7 Plus will be £719 for the 32GB model, £819 for the 128GB
model, and £919 for the 256GB.

Both the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will come in the usual black, gold, silver,
rose gold colour options, alongside a new black called 'jet black', which is
much darker than previous black models.

The phones will be available to pre-order from tomorrow, September 9, before
they start shipping on September 16.

