

ANTICIPATION is building for the release of Apple's latest iPhone - especially
with rival smartphones ramping up the pressure in the last 12 months.

We've seen the Samsung Galaxy S6, Google's Nexus 6 Blue and the HTC One M9.

But it's the turn of Apple to trynand up the ante lone again with the eagerly
awaited iPhone7.

The notoriously secretive company has already revealed its new iOS 9 operating
system at this year's WWDC. But that's just the precursor to what everyone wants
to know about: the hardware.

Plenty of rumours have already started to fly about what Apple has in store for
its iPhone 7 (or iPhone 6S) handset.

Our friends at sister paper the Mirror have collected all the latest information
into one place so you can get the complete lowdown on what is sure to be the
most-hyped smartphone of the year.

iPhone 7 Concept

Apple iPhone 7: Release date

Taking Apple's release date history into account, it's unlikely that we'll see
anything officially revealed until September 2015.

Both the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 5S were revealed in September and Apple has no
reason to change its strategy. It will look to take advantage of Black Friday
sales and the run up to Christmas.

Even if the next version is revealed in September, it's unlikely to actually be
available to buy in the UK until October.

Apple iPhone 7: Camera and design

A big clue about what to expect from the iPhone 7's camera was discovered by
developer Hamza Sood inside the iOS 9 code.

The code includes support for a front-facing camera flash - something currently
unavailable on any existing model of iPhone.

What's more, the code also reveals the next iPhone will be able to run FaceTime
at full 1080p high definition. Currently, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus can only
manage 720p defintion.

Apple is clearly targeting selfie-mad snappers who prefer the front-facing
camera to the rear-facing one.

In terms of design, the iPhone 6 was a big change from the iPhone 5S and it's
unlikely Apple will redesign the appearance two years running.

Having said that, both Samsung and LG have embraced curvy screens with
theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge and the LG G Flex 2 respectively.

It's unlikely Apple will follow suit but then the world's most valuable company
has frequently had a problem with bending phones.

Screen size is a much more contentious issue however. Some rumours have
suggested Apple will reveal three handsets this year, each with a different
screen size.

Alongside the 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch upgrades to the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, some
rumours have suggested a smaller iPhone 6C could be revealed with a 4-inch
screen.

If true, it would give Apple a "budget" option to appeal to those who don't want
to fork out for the larger phones.

Apple iPhone 7: Specs

Because the new iPhone will arrive with Apple's iOS 9 software and an upgraded
processor, it will offer even more power and better efficiency.

According to a report from Reuters, Apple's arch-nemesis Samsung will be
responsible for building 75per cent of the new processor.

Likely to be called the A9 chip, the new beating heart of the iPhone will be
smaller than the previous iteration - allowing engineers to cram even more
transistors onto the silicone.

At the moment, we don't know what kind of battery the iPhone 7 will use - but at
least there's now a Low Power Mode built into iOS 9 to help it last even longer.

So far, Apple has resisted updating the random-access memory (RAM) of its
smartphones, but some sources expect the new model to have at least 2GB of RAM
on the clock.

Apple iPhone 7: Price

If the rumours of a smaller, cheaper iPhone 6C are true then it's unlikely that
Apple's main iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than past variants.

Most experts reckon the new iPhone will start at £539 for a 16GB model,
effectively taking the place of the current iPhone 6 - which will see an
incremental drop in price.

If true, we could expect other models with larger storage - 64GB and 128GB most
likely - to stick with the £619 and £699 prices.

Quick Quiz: News 12/06/2015

