

Click for image

Given that Apple sold 61 million iPhones in its most recent quarter and that the
iPhone 6 Plus now dominates the U.S. market for phablets with 5.5-inch screens
or bigger, you might think Apple could coast for a spell, and that rumors of the
iPhone 6S or iPhone 7 would be overkill. But no, the rumor mills cranks
along.Noka Productions

Some people are really into the iPhone, and the filmmakers at Noka Productions
think the iPhone 7 could literally be into you.

Check out the very short film "Upgrade," which its creators describe as "a story
of a young woman who is experiencing an embarrassing malfunction with her older
model of the iPhone and is desperately seeking an upgrade."

iPhone 6c: Really?Noka Productions

That cheap little plastic iPhone 5c introduced a year and a half ago has been
assumed by many an Apple watcher to be the company's last smartphone of that
ilk. The criticisms have been well documented (See "The iPhone 5c is a mistake,
a failure, a disaster, a flop, a dud").

But the vacuum caused by the relative lack of juicy iPhone 7 rumors has
apparently resulted in iPhone 6c scuttlebutt to make some headway. Macworld UK
this week rounded up the iPhone 6c rumors, including that colorful new 4-inch
models could be on the way from Apple later this year - not just 4.7- and
5.5-inch models as is the case with Apple's current flagship line.

Among the clues that something's up are rumors that "Apple has bought most of
Sony's camera sensors for it, leaving the rest of the industry short," Macworld
UK reports.

An intriguing part of this report is that Apple might price the 6c lower than it
did the 5c at launch, decidedly going after the low-end market. But low-end
doesn't necessarily mean the 6c won't gain new features, possibly TouchID, so
that Apple isn't supporting a bunch of different feature types across its lines.

However, if other iPhone rumors pan out, there will still be quite a different
look and feel between 6c and a 6S/6S Plus or iPhone 7. For example, the new
full-blown iPhones might even be made with a super strong aluminum alloy called
7000 Series that's used in the Apple Watch Sport, according to MacRumors, by way
of Taiwan's Economic Daily News.

Plastic indeed.

iPhone 7 rumors need to start somewhere

iPhone 7 design concepts are just that - the results of tech enthusiasts with an
artistic bent blue-skying and sharing their ideas with the world. The latest,
this iPhone 7 concept from the prolific concept designer Martin Hajek, via
Computer Bild in Germany. Highlights include a glowing Apple logo, a
non-protruding double camera and a home button/TouchID fingerprint sensor that
is part of the touchscreen. Coming to an iPhone near you...?

Separately, Apple Insider spotted a new Apple patent for "Invisible Light
Transmission Via a Display Assembly" that could result in smartphones that
display information invisible to the human eye, but readable by machines such as
barcode and QR code scanners. What's more, it could beam "invisible light" that
could help illuminate the user's face for use with apps such as facial
recogniation.

