

by Courtesy of Artipot Apple has made the iPhone 7 Plus water resistant.


Whatever is running inside your mind, we are trying to tell you the differences
in the iPhone 7 Plus and the iPhone 6s plus. The choice is yours according to
your requirement for luxury, quality, features, technology, and of course the
budget.



Design Remain Identical, Yet Some Improvements

When looking at the design and the size of the handset, there is no change from
last three years. However, Apple has made the iPhone 7 Plus water resistant. So,
the submersion for upto 30 minutes cannot harm your phone, while with iPhone 6s
Plus, some splashes are allowed for this device. The headphone jack is no longer
available on the newest iPhone. It is considered as good and has been welcomed
by Apple addicts, due to the new EarPod or wireless AirPod. Luckily, you have
now two more colour options in iPhone 7 and 7 Plus and also a new storage model
of 256GB which is the newest.

Performance Beast or What?

It's genuine for Apple bringing new device with new processor and co-processor.
But, this time, it's not only the A10 chip, it's A10 Fusion chipset with quad
core CPU and 3GB RAM -- an obvious upgrade from the predecessor for faster
performance and more seamless experience. The 4G has also become stronger with
the speed of upto 450mBit.

Camera: The Magical and Most Advanced Part

When we compare iPhones, wonders will never cease. With every new phone, the
camera has become more and more advanced and improved in quality and clarity.
The iSight camera now is not just a phone camera, but a biggest camera module
with hundreds of new and high-end features in iPhone 7 Plus, especially, with
its dual 12MP sensors with OIS and 2x optical zoom.

Battery is Bigger, to be Better:

Removing the headphone jack, company has given more space to the chip and the
battery. But, it seems not too effective with one extra hour of boost than the
iPhone 6s Plus. The new iPhone 7 Plus is although offering a massive battery
with an extra hour of power backup, but it consumes by the haptic motors which
energise the touchscreen to lit-up.

Enormous Space to Store Stuff:

iPhone 7 has just made a revolutionary upgrade in the storage with this new
model. However, there is good news for the budget people who are not good enough
to buy this exorbitantly pricy iPhone 7 Plus 256GB model can go for the
predecessor, because it is better to buy Apple iPhone 6s Plus 128GB model online
instead of the 32GB iPhone 7 Plus at the almost identical price tag. However, it
is said that Apple will soon give you the 2016 tweak model of iPhone 6s plus
with the upgraded 256GB option.

Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2016

http://imgs.syndigate.info/42/89/31/147549623997.jpg

Apple has made the iPhone 7 Plus water resistant.

