

Rumors about features in Apple's upcoming gadgets are doing rounds. Technology
bloggers are claiming that iPhone 7 could have a thickness of 6.3 millimeters.
Other news suggest that most probably, Apple iPhone 7 would not be water-proof,
which was earlier speculated by technology experts tracking Apple.

Apple iPhone 7 is due for release in September and in six months, there can be
many new technologies.

As per reports, Apple is going to launch iPhone SE in March while iPhone 7/Pro
and the iPhone 7S/Pro will be launched in September. But it is speculated that a
fourth secret iPhone could be released this year. The three iPhone 7 models will
be iPhone 7, iPhone 7 plus and iPhone 7 Pro.

Experts have said that magnetic attachment mechanism is considered crucial to
Apple's invention that will connect the listening device to the host cord for
battery recharging and wired audio signal transmission.

Freeing headphones from host device is considered to have many benefits and one
of them being ability to move without getting wrapped up in wires. Apple is not
going to have a curvy iPhone. In fact, Apple is moving to flexible circuitry and
screen technology.

As Apple development continues to work on its 'Campus 2' headquarters,
technology bloggers are trying their best to get the latest news about what is
going on for the next iPhone variant.

A recent 6.4 magnitude earthquake near the Taiwanese city of Tainan is said to
have impacted the production at TSMC, the chip manufacturer and sole supplier of
the A10 SoC meant for iPhone 7.

Apple's supply chain managers have been in touch with TSMC.

The STGist notes that, "First published by Apple topic-centric website 9to5Mac
which has predicted many Apple products in the past, the smaller iPad Pro will
replace the iPad Air meaning from this month onward, Apple might offer a brand
new iPad line which it will call the 'Pro' apart from the iPad Mini and the
older versions of the Air."

"I think if you're looking at a PC, why would you buy a PC anymore? No really,
why would you buy one?" Asks Mr. Cook as written on a piece published at the
Telegraph last year. "Yes, the iPad Pro is a replacement for a notebook or a
desktop for many, many people."

In other news NYTimes reported, "We're on PCs for the day-to-day work," said
Larry Anderson, chief engineer of Teecom, an architectural engineering firm that
bought iPad Pros last year to present drawings to clients and carry digitized
blueprints to construction sites. "But when I go to a meeting, I don't grab my
laptop - I grab my iPad."

"It doesn't surprise us that in these early days of iPad Pro, people are
gravitating to things they can't do with a laptop, like sketching with Apple
Pencil," he said. "What we've seen since the beginning is that as people spend
more time with iPad, more and more of their workflows live there."

In a statement provided to NYTimes News, "We're on PCs for the day-to-day work,"
said Larry Anderson, chief engineer of Teecom, an architectural engineering firm
that bought iPad Pros last year to present drawings to clients and carry
digitized blueprints to construction sites. "But when I go to a meeting, I don't
grab my laptop - I grab my iPad."

He said he thought the iPad Pro could eventually replace his computer, but not
yet because of the limitations of the current apps. Many creative apps designed
for the iPad Pro focus on the start of the design process, like sketches and
rough compositions, while desktop apps have the ability to do more complex image
manipulations, animations and other functions.

