

Click for image

With year over year iPhone sales on the decline, there is a quite a deal of
pressure on Apple's iPhone 7 to help turn things around. Over the past few weeks
and months, we've seen no shortage of rumors centering on what type of new
features and design choices users can expect to see out of Apple's next-gen
smartphone. And now, with the iPhone unveiling just a little bit more than a
month away, we finally have a grasp on when the iPhone 7 is slated to hit store
shelves.

According to Evan Blass -- a leaker with a stellar track record in the mobile
space -- Apple's iPhone 7 will land in stores on Friday, September 16. Word of
the release date originally appeared via Blass' Twitter account last week.

ltrenJust to clarify, this refers to the retail release, not the launch event.
To be even more specific, it should happen on Friday, Sept. 16th.

- Evan Blass (@evleaks) July 23, 2016

While the date may be subject to change, the rumored launch date aligns nicely
with iPhone launches over the past few years. Every single iPhone has launched
on Friday and every iPhone model going back to the iPhone 5 has launched during
September. iPhone rumors should always be taken with a grain of salt, but Blass'
history of spot-on predictions undoubtedly give this particular rumor much more
weight.

Following up on his tweet from last week, Blass a few days ago also published a
tweet indicating when pre-orders for the iPhone 7 will likely begin - Friday,
September 9.

ltrenConfirmed: Pre-orders start on the 9th. You can extrapolate the launch
event date from there. https://t.co/gwoPzIM1dI

- Evan Blass (@evleaks) July 28, 2016

Pre-orders for any new iPhone typically begin about one week ahead of a
worldwide launch, so again, it stands to reason that Blass' prediction here
rests on firm ground.

Set to be even thinner than the iPhone 6s, the iPhone 7 -- as you've probably
heard by now -- will likely ship without a traditional 3.5mm headphone jack.
Instead, rumor has it that Apple will rely on the Lightning port in order to
provide audio out. As for features worth getting excited about, the device
promises to be much faster thanks to a blazing fast A10 processor and will
likely come with much improved camera technology. The iPhone 7 Plus in
particular may be graced with a dual camera system.

Additionally, various reports have pointed to the entry level iPhone 7 model
coming with 32GB of storage as opposed to 16GB. Even more exciting, and arguably
long overdue, the iPhone 7's battery may come with 15% more capacity than the
iPhone 6s.

Lastly, we've also seen reports that Apple with the iPhone 7 will introduce a
Space Grey option into the mix.

