

Apple's latest smartphone went on sale at the tech giant's Liverpool store today
- but queues were smaller than previous years.

Apple warned on Thursday that initial stocks of the iPhone 7 Plus had already
sold out the day before launch day, while the jet black iPhone 7 would also not
be available to walk-in customers.

With so many customers reserving phones online, there were fewer people than
expected waiting outside Apple's Liverpool store - but several Apple fans were
still proudly waiting outside when it opened at 8am.

iPhone 7 Plus and jet black iPhone 7 sold out to pre-order customers

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will both come in two new black finishes and are water
resistant for the first time. The device also has no headphone jack, meaning
users have to connect headsets wirelessly or through the Lightning port.

20-year-old Jess Punton, from Rainford is among customers left disappointed this
morning when she was unable to get her hands on the new handset.

She said: "I rang Apple yesterday and asked if the new iPhone would be available
in store this morning, they said it would be.

"I have came into Liverpool early and I have been told they are already sold
out, I have now made a reservation for the phone and have a five week wait."

Emma Boner, 22 from Crosby will not be receiving her new gadget until November
as she has ordered the IPhone 7 Plus in Jet Black.

Waiting times for original black model seem to be lower with some customers
today learning there is a two week wait.

Apple said yesterday: "We couldn't be happier with the initial response to the
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, and we are looking forward to beginning sales
through our retail stores and partners around the world.

iPhone 7 review - what the critics say about Apple's new handset

"Beginning Friday, limited quantities of iPhone 7 in silver, gold, rose gold and
black will be available for walk-in customers at Apple retail stores.

"During the online pre-order period, initial quantities of iPhone 7 Plus in all
finishes and iPhone 7 in jet black sold out and will not be available for
walk-in customers."

