

The Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus have been announced. They will be available
in India exactly a month later, from October 7. Even if you have read the
stories of the launch and the new features, we are sure there are a lot of
questions lingering in your minds about the new phones. We try to answer them
here.

What all were announced at the Apple event?

Apple announced two new phones, the 4.7-inch iPhone 7 and the 5.5inch iPhone 7
Plus. There is also the latest version of the Apple Watch called the Series 2,
as well as a new wireless headset called the Apple AirPod.

What is new in Apple iPhone 7?

The design is a bit different as the lines have given way to solid colour, among
them a matte-finish solid black and glossy jet black versions. Also, the iPhone
7 Plus has a dual camera set-up which makes it look different in the rear. Also,
both phones no longer have the headphone jack and will connect to audio devices
using the lightning port. The home button now offers haptic feedback and you
will feel a buzz from time to time. Both phones will be powered by a quad-core
A10 Fusion processor with two high-efficiency and two high-power cores each.
Apple claims the battery life will be at least two hours more than the earlier
versions.

What is Apple iPhone 7 price in India?

The Apple iPhone 7 is priced in India at Rs 60,000 onwards. Apple has not
announced prices of the iPhone 7 Plus for India. We expect this pricing to be at
least Rs 10,000 more given that the US price difference is $120 between the two.
We will know the final pricing closer to the launch date.

Is the Apple iPhone 7 price cheaper this time?

Yes, because the iPhone 6s was launched in India with a pricing of Rs 62,000. If
you consider that the price was for a 16GB model, buyers will get more value
this time as the base model now is 32GB.

So, is the 16GB iPhone dead?

Yes, pretty much. In fact, even the last year's version will now start from
32GB. While there is no 16GB in the new models, here is no 64GB either. So the
price differential from 32GB to 128GB and 256GB will be quite significant. Brace
for that.

&lt;strong>Read more here:Why Apple's dual rear camera is a big deal&lt;/strong>
(http://indianexpress.com/article/technology/iphone-7/apple-iphone-7-plus-
iphone-7-dual-camera-specifications-price-india-launch-3020185/)

Is there a 3.5mm headphone jack in the phones?

No, there is no 3.5mm headphone jack. Apple has moved on to the lightning port
to connect the headphone. However, it understands that a lot of its users will
have good headphones with the older pin and hence the new phones will come with
a lightning to 3.5 mm headphone jack adapter. We can almost hear you say thank
God for that.

Do both phones have the dual camera?

No, only the iPhone 7 Plus has a dual camera. The iPhone 7 has a better camera
now, but the wide-angle, telephoto combination is limited to the top-end iPhone
7 Plus. However, the iPhone 7 camera now has optical image stabilisation. The
iPhone 7 Plus on the other hand has a up to 2X optical zoom and 10x digital
zoom.

&lt;strong>Read: First impressions of the iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus&lt;/strong>
(http://indianexpress.com/article/technology/iphone-7/apple-iphone-7-iphone-7
-plus-first-impressions-3019468/)

What is the difference between the two models?

Except for the size, the only differentiator between the two models is the dual
camera. And contrary to initial reports, the larger one does not come with more
RAM to cater to the needs of the camera.

Disclaimer: The author in San Francisco on Apple's invite.

