

Apple have officially unveiled the iPhone 7 at their latest Keynote
presentation.

The tech company have branded the new headset "the best iPhone we have ever
made".

The new model features major upgrades, including a new camera, a water-resistant
design, and an upgraded A10 chip.

The unit features a high-gloss seamless finish, with no gap between the screen
and back casing, and comes in a variety of colours: jet black, gold, silver,
rose gold, and standard black.

Read more

Apple iPhone 7 unveiled early in Twitter blunder

Controversially, the unit does not have a headphone jack - with the included ear
buds using the lightning connector.

However, Apple are including a lightning-to-mini-phono adapter with all iPhone 7
units for users to plug in their non-lightning headphones.

The cameras have been significantly upgraded, with a 12-megapixel sensor that's
60% faster and 30% more energy efficient than the 6s camera.

Low light photography has also been improved, while the front camera will shoot
in 7 megapixels.

The iPhone 7 Plus features a camera with two lenses - one wide-angle and one
tele-photo, allowing for advanced shooting features including depth-of-field
options and improved zoom.

Watch the evolution of the iPhone

The iPhone 7's retina display is 25% brighter than the 6s, while the unit
features a speaker at either end of the device.

It also features the longest battery life of any iPhone, lasting on average for
2 hours longer than the 6s.

Read more

Apple Watch Series 2 launch date, UK release date and price revealed

Apple's iPhone 7 launch: Release date, price and all the latest news and rumours

iPhone 7: Apple set to unveil latest smartphone as host of new features expected

Storage capacity for the device has been doubled, with the entry unit featuring
32GB of storage.

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will be launching on September 16, and will start from
approximately £486 ($649). Pre-orders for the iPhone 7 begin onSeptember 9.iOS
10 will launch on September 13.

