

Report comes from respected KGI Securities analyst Min-Chi Kuo

Dual-lens rear camera is set to be introduced on iPhone 7 Plus

Apple also expected to unveil final design for Apple Watch 2

Apple is finally set to unveil its iPhone 7 at a launch event this Wednesday,
but all its headline features may now have been revealed.

Although Apple is notoriously secretive, almost every detail of the new device
has emerged days before the company's official event, if a major leak is to be
believed.

The report suggests the phone will be faster, water resistant and come in two
new colours.

Images recently emerged from designer Martin Hajek, who 3D printed mock ups of
the iPhone 7 based on renders circulating online (pictured are the iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Pro models)

A detailed rundown from KGI Securities analyst Min-Chi Kuo, who has a good track
record of correctly relaying information on Apple hardware before it launches,
was obtained by Mac Rumours and confirms many of the predicted features of the
iPhone 7.

Here are the features that are expected to arrive on the new iPhone 7 and iPhone
7 Plus smartphones.

NO HEADPHONE JACK

It appears Apple really will be taking the unpopular step of completely ditching
the headphone port on its next-generation handsets.

The technology firm is said to be bundling 'EarPods' with a Lightning connector,
as well as a Lightning to 3.5mm adapter in the box.

iPhone owners will also be able to use wireless Bluetooth headphones.

Getting rid of the traditional headphone port will free up more room for a new
speaker, and possibly a new sensor to improve Force Touch operation - Apple's
touchscreen and haptic feedback technology.

Apple is controversially dropping the headphone jack in favour of its Lightning
port. This leaked image shows what the iPhone 7 might look like without the
headphone jack

NEW COLOURS

Apple will be adding a 'dark black' model to replace its Space Grey finish.

This will sit alongside the silver, gold and rose gold finishes that have been
popular parts of previous line ups.

They will also be joined by another new colour described as 'glossy piano
black'.

The iPhone 7 is said to come in five colours. Apple will be adding a 'dark
black' model to replace its Space Grey finish. This will sit alongside the
silver, gold and rose gold finishes that have been popular parts of previous
line ups. Pictured are concept images

Previous rumours have also suggested that a dark blue finish will be introduced,
but there is no mention of this in the latest report.

'We expect the iPhone 7 to come in piano black, dark black, rose gold, gold and
silver,' says the report obtained by Mac Rumours.

'Only the piano black model will have a glossy finish. Given high production
barriers, large-storage models may have first priority in adopting piano black
casing in the initial stage.'

WATER RESISTANCE

Apple is set to introduce IPX7 water resistance, which already exists on its
first Apple Watch model.

This should allow the new phone to be submerged up to three feet (1m) for up to
30 minutes.

This would mean that the new handset would survive in the rain, or a brief spell
in the shower, but is unlikely to survive a long dunk in a swimming pool.

The event will be held in San Francisco at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, and
could also see the release of new MacBooks and a second generation Apple watch

MORE POWERFUL CHIP

Apple could be replacing its current A9 chip with an updated A10 processor made
by TSMC, which could run at speeds up to 2.45 GHz.

This could mean a substantial boost to existing processing speeds leading to
faster loader of apps.

DUAL-LENS CAMERA

A long-rumoured feature, the dual-lens rear camera is said to be coming to the
iPhone 7 Plus, but not to the smaller iPhone 7.

Leaked images show a new dual lens rear camera that is said to be heading to the
larger iPhone 7 Plus, but which will reportedly not be included on the smaller
iPhone 7

The double camera is said to take brighter pictures and will also be capable of
merging two photos together to provide the best image possible.

An improved LED flash will also be included on the rear camera, along with an
ambient light sensor, says the report.

REDESIGNED HOME BUTTON

Apple is said to be overhauling the home button to make it fit flush against the
chassis, which is a result of the new water resistant design.

While the button will no longer be clickable, the phone is said to include
haptic feedback, to mimic the response of a clickable button.

A concept image shows what Apple's new iPhone 7 handset might look like with a
new home button and no traditional headphone port

WIDE COLOUR DISPLAY

The new iPhone is expected to include the wide colour display technology that
was introduced on the iPad Pro.

Influenced by the digital cinema industry, the tech is designed to improve
colour saturation for a punchier and more realistic picture.

+7

Early concept images show what the new iPhone 7's rumoured chassis design

STEREO SPEAKERS

Apple is rumoured to be upgrading the earpiece receiver at the top of the device
to work as a speaker.

This would improve the audio by providing a stereo experience when the handset
is held in landscape.

CURVED SCREEN

Earlier rumours have suggested that at least one of the new iPhone models will
include a curved display.

Rumours suggest that the iPhone 7 will be cased in curved glass made from liquid
metal. Artist Martin Hajek created this concept images ahead of the iPhone 6
launch, based on similar rumours at the time

This would put it head-to-head with the Samsung Galaxy Edge S7, which was
released earlier this year and features a display that curves around the edges
of the handset.

'The standout features will be a dual-camera system on the larger iPhone, a
re-engineered home button that responds to pressure with a vibrating sensation
rather than a true physical click and the removal of the devices' headphone
jack,' reports Mark Gurman from Bloomberg.

Culled from: http://www.dailymail.co.uk /sciencetech/article-3774113/iPhone-7
-specs-revealed-report-ahead-Wednesday-s-launch.html#ixzz4JOQgXM6J

