

Apple fans may be bemoaning the rumoured loss of the headphone jack with the
iPhone 7, but there's one very big incentive to upgrade.

According to the latest leaked images, Apple's next plus-size smartphone could
feature more internal storage than any of its predecessors - meaning more room
to download apps and store photos than ever before.

There have been rumours that Apple is planning to launch a 256GB model for some
time, but now a sheet outlining some of the key features of the iPhone 7 Plus
has emerged on Chinese microblogging site Weibo , appearing to confirm the
rumour.

iPhone 7: Release date, rumours, leaked images, price and all the latest news
about Apple's next iPhone

iPhone 7 and Apple Watch 2 launch LIVE: Dual-lens camera and NO headphone jack
expected at Apple event 2016

The sheet clearly shows plans for a 256GB version of the device - doubling the
capacity of the largest iPhone 6s Plus.

This is a huge amount of storage for an iPhone. For context, it's the same
amount of storage offered on Apple's top-of-the-range iPad Pro , which costs
£739.

Apple's decision to include this option may relate to rumours that the iPhone 7
Plus will have a dual lens camera , capable of capturing SLR-quality photos.

If this is the case, it is likely that the images captured will take up a lot
more storage space than standard iPhone photos.

Apple has also launched a new iCloud tier this week, offering a massive two
terabytes of storage for just £19.99 a month. This is the largest amount of
space offered by the company to date.

The leaked spec sheet, whose authenticity has not been verified, also suggests
that Apple's will bundle the new iPhone with its own EarPods, featuring a
Lightning connector, and a "Lightning to Headphone Jack Adapter".

This differs from earlier rumours, which suggested the iPhone 7 would come
bundled with wireless "AirPod" earphones .

Apple is expected to unveil its iPhone 7 at an event in San Francisco on
September 7. For all the latest rumours, check out our full round-up here .

