

Click for image

Now that Google I/O is behind us, the next two major tech events are set to be
Apple-dominated affairs. Up first, of course, we have WWDC which is slated to
take place in just about two weeks in San Francisco. Following that, Apple
sometime in late August or early September will finally take the wraps off the
highly anticipated iPhone 7.

Over the past few months, we've slowly but surely been inundated with an
avalanche of iPhone 7 rumors, some more credible than others. But with Apple
reportedly already looking to kickstart production, it stands to reason that
some of the more recent leaks represent close approximations to what Apple will
ultimately unveil in just a few months.

+ Also on Network World: 40 years of Apple: Apple's most innovative products +

Now, for anyone expecting a wild new design, the iPhone 7 may disappoint. While
the iPhone 7 will likely be thinner and lighter than its predecessor, its form
factor will in large part resemble the design Apple used for the iPhone 6 and
6s. One notable and welcome change, however, is that the unsightly antenna lines
we've had to withstand over the last two years will finally be done away with
once the iPhone 7 ships.

That said, the last few days have provided us with quite a few leaks to sort
through.

First, the following photo of an alleged iPhone 7 was spotted on Weibo earlier
in the week.

Adding even more detail to the equation, designer Jermaine Smit recently put
together an engaging video that purports to show what the iPhone 7 will look
like. Now to be clear, the video renderings below are only as accurate as the
leaked schematics, so per usual, make sure to take this with the requisite grain
of salt.

Interestingly, you'll note that the renderings above showcase what an iPhone
without a traditional 3.5mm headphone jack will look like. Indeed, this will
without a doubt be a controversial move on Apple's part, and it will be
fascinating to see whether this serves to impact sales in one direction or the
other. Remember, not everyone is a fan of Apple's standard white headphones, so
we can only hope that Apple will provide an inconspicuous adapter for those who
still want to use their own headphones.

As far as other specific iPhone features are concerned, it's increasingly
starting to look like only Apple's gargantuan 5.5-in. iPhone 7 Plus will be
graced with Apple's advanced dual camera system. At the same time, the iPhone 7
camera will likely see a boost in quality over the iPhone 6.

As a final note, it's worth pointing to a recent report from Barron's that
claims iPhone 7 production will likely fall in the 72 million to 78 million
range, easily surpassing analyst estimates of 65 million. The big takeaway here
is that the current slowdown in iPhone sales is merely temporary and that the
impending rollout of the iPhone 7 will likely set new sales records and
emphatically alleviate concerns that we've reached peak iPhone.

