

The iPhone 7 is here and I received a review sample from Apple a few hours back.
While I need more time with the iPhone to work on a comprehensive review, here
are some quick initial thoughts on it.

Design

I received the Silver version of the iPhone 7 Plus from Apple and not a single
person realized that I was carrying the new iPhone. The design of the iPhone 7
is the same as last year's model- and the year before that. The antenna lines
have been moved towards the top and bottom edges which gives the back of the
iPhone a cleaner look. The Plus model also has two cameras on the back. Neither
of these changes is instantly striking. If you want to let people know that you
have a new iPhone, get one of the two newer colours- the Black of the shiny Jet
Black. Between the two, I prefer the Jet Black.

Screen

Apple claims the screen on the iPhone 7 is 25% brighter with a wide colour
gamut. I couldn't really tell much of a difference between the iPhone 6s and the
iPhone 7 as far as screen is concerned- maybe I need to use more in different
conditions. Keep in mind, that I was using the Galaxy Note7 for the past few
weeks which I consider as the best screen on a mobile phone so it won't be easy
for Apple to impress me with the screen.

The Home Button

I was super excited to learn that Apple will be using the same technology as the
trackpad on the MacBook to power the new Home button. However, the Taptic Engine
on the iPhone 7 doesn't feel as magical. The feedback you get when you tap the
home button makes you think that the entire bottom area is being clicked in. At
times, I enjoyed this while other times I wished it was the older mechanical
button. It's too soon for me to like or dislike it. I'll form a better opinion
after using it more.

Performance

Apple claims that with the new A10 fusion processor, the iPhone 7 is twice as
fast as the iPhone 6. However, the iPhone 6s is no slouch- it's faster than
every Android phone I've tested. With common operations such as launching apps,
turning on the camera or switching between apps, the iPhone 7 didn't feel much
faster than the iPhone 6s. We probably have to wait for apps that push the
envelope of the A10 to start appreciating it.

Lack of a 3.5mm jack

Get over it. It's gone and good riddance. This coming from a guy that owns a
$200 pair of B&O Play H3 earphones and wonders why I didn't chose a wireless
solution every time I use it. Apple provides a Lightning to 3.5mm adapter in the
box this year for you to transition so it's not like you won't be able to use
your older set of headphone. However, the future is wireless. I'm personally
looking forward to the new Beats Solo3 Wireless.

Speakers

The new iPhone 7 now has two speakers- one at the usual position next to the
Lightning connector while the other inside the earpiece which creates a much
richer audio experience. Music playback is much louder and app/game developers
can take advantage of the stereo speakers to provide a more immersive
environment.

More features

Two more features that need to spend more time with are the new camera and the
battery life. The dual camera on the iPhone 7 allows for a 2x optical zoom while
increased battery capacity and hardware optimization should give you at least an
additional hour of battery on the Plus. Watch out for these in the full review
that will follow in about a week's time.

