

The upcoming iPhone could feature a beefed up selfie camera and will probably
come in the world's most controversial colour: pink.

Fresh leaks have hinted at the pastel ambitions of Apple, as well its desire to
help the selfie-obsessed people of the world take pictures of themselves.

The blog 9to5Mac has published an advert from accessory manufacturer Spigen, who
are preparing to make a phone case in the same "Rose Gold" shade Apple is
expected to debut at its iPhone launch event on September 9.

Apple's colour decision is likely to be controversial, as feminists have long
railed against pink's association with femininity and delight in highlighting
sexism wherever they imagine it to be present.

95mac

The website has also obtained fresh pictures of the new smartphone showing its
super-sized selfie camera, which is expected to have a front-facing flash to
light up your self-portraits, and the sensors which power the mobile's
pioneering Force Touch feature.

We'd like to take a moment to tell (or warn) Apple about the Pink Stinks
campaign , which urged parents to avoid buying rose-coloured gifts for young
girls.

The thrust of the campaigners' arguments is that pink is somehow "sexist",
leading the young women who wear it into a dead end of vapid niceness.

Boys, on the other hand, are ushered into a life of purposeful, thrusting
success by wearing the colour blue which, apparently, makes them "bold and
challenging".

All of which leads us to ask.

Is the iPhone 6s/7 sexist?

Whilst you're chewing over that question, here's a round up of all the iPhone
intelligence we've gleaned so far:

Apple iPhone 7: Price

If the rumours of a smaller, cheaper iPhone 6C are true then it's unlikely that
Apple's main iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than past models.

Most experts reckon the new iPhone will start at £539 for a 16GB model,
effectively taking the place of the current iPhone 6 - which will see an
incremental drop in price.

If true, we could expect other models with larger storage - 64GB and 128GB most
likely - to stick with the £619 and £699 prices. Apple iPhone 7: Release date

We'll see it officially revealed on September 9.

Both the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 5S were revealed in September and Apple has no
reason to change its strategy. It will look to take advantage of Black Friday
sales and the run up to Christmas.

Alongside the iPhone 6S, Apple is also expected to reveal the iPhone 6S Plus and
potentially an iPhone 6C . Apple iPhone 7: Camera and design

Expect this phone to be a snapper's delight, with a 12 megapixel camera and the
ability to shoot 4K video.

It will probably include a front-facing camera flash - something currently
unavailable on any existing model of iPhone.

Hamza tweet 1

In terms of design, the iPhone 6 was a big change from the iPhone 5S and it's
unlikely Apple will redesign the appearance two years running.

Having said that, both Samsung and LG have embraced curvy screens with the
Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge and the LG G Flex 2 respectively.

It's unlikely Apple will follow suit but then the world's most valuable company
has frequently had a problem with bending phones .

And yet, the latest set of rumours suggest that Apple will be introducing a
brand new colour into the mix. We're expecting the usual space grey, silver and
gold options but how about...pink?

A set of images appearing on Chinese social media appear to show a fully-formed
2015 iPhone with a pink case.

Apple usually refers to this colour as "Rose Gold" when it's talking about the
Apple Watch - so it could be producing this new version of the iPhone to match
its smartwatch.

Screen size is perhaps the most contentious issue. Some rumours have suggested
Apple will reveal three handsets this year , each with a different screen size.

Alongside the 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch upgrades to the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, some
rumours have suggested a smaller iPhone 6C could be revealed with a 4-inch
screen.

If true, it would give Apple a "budget" option to appeal to those who don't want
to fork out for the larger phones. Apple iPhone 7: Specs

Because the new iPhone will arrive with Apple's iOS 9 software and an upgraded
processor, it will offer even more power and better efficiency.

According to a report from Reuters , Apple's arch-nemesis Samsung will be
responsible for building 75% of the new processor.

Likely to be called the A9 chip, the new beating heart of the iPhone will be
smaller than the previous iteration - allowing engineers to cram even more
transistors onto the silicone.

At the moment, we don't know what kind of battery the iPhone 7 will use - but at
least there's now a Low Power Mode built into iOS 9 to help it last even longer.

So far, Apple has resisted updating the random-access memory (RAM) of its
smartphones, but some sources expect the new model to have at least 2GB of RAM
on the clock.

iPhone 7 Concept

Will you buy an iPhone 7?

See our pick of the best 5 contract deals on the iPhone 6 here , plus find out
how to buy a second-hand handset, or sell your current device for more.

