

Shares of Apple soared to a high for 2016 on Thursday after reports surfaced
that the company had captured strong early sales for its iPhone7, and analysts
quickly raised estimates for the tech giant.

Cupertino-based Apple jumped more than 3 percent Thursday and was well ahead of
the prior high for the year, a pinnacle the company gained in April.

cApple is doing very well,c said Michael Tchong,ccfounder of Las Vegas-based
Ubercool Innovation, which tracks tech trends. cIt does look like the iPhone 7
is selling better than expected, that the demand is more than they expected.c

Analysts with Credit Suisse reported cThursday that some wireless phone carriers
are busy taking orders for the new iPhone.

cBoth T-Mobile and Sprint have announced today that they are seeing a record
number of pre-orders for Applecs iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, shattering previous
records,c KulbindercGarcha, an analyst with investment firmcCredit Suisse stated
in a note Tuesday.

More indications that the companycs iPhone 7 sales are brisk prompted Credit
Suisse to raise its estimates for the tech giant.

cWe believe a number of recent data points suggest a better than expected iPhone
7 cycle, in both volume and mix,c Garcha wrote cin a note Thursday.

Apple, which began taking pre-orders last week, said Wednesday it is already
sold out of the iPhone 7 Plus and the jet black iPhone 7. Thursday, the company
told several media outlets that would-be buyers who show up at Apple Stores when
the iPhones are scheduled to go on sale Friday wonct be able to get their hands
on the sold-out models.Apple Inc. (AAPL) Stock Price | FindTheCompany

c

For the 2017 fiscal year that will end in September 2017, Apple is expected to
earn $9.74 a share, according to Credit Suisse. Thatcs well above the investment
firmcs prior estimate of $9.30 a share, Garcha wrote in the Thursday note.

In a survey of iPhone users, Credit Suisse discovered that an estimated 60
percent of iPhone users intend to replace their devices within one year.

That suggests that users will replace their iPhone every 29 months, which is
faster than prior replacement rates of every 32 months that Credit Suisse had
determined from earlier research.

Apple also may benefit from good timing with its launch and could capitalize on
woes that have afflicted new smartphones offered by one of its principal rivals,
Samsung.

cSamsung has had to halt sales and recall its recent flagship phone, the Galaxy
Note 7,c Credit Suisse said in the note to its clients Thursday.

Other investment firms, including Morgan Stanley and RBC, also issued positive
comments about the new iPhone 7.

Apple rose 3.4 percent and closed at $115.56. That compared with the prior high
for 2016 of $112.10 on April 14.

cThere will be a lot of pent-up demand for the iPhone 7,c Tchong said. cThey
have already sold 1 billion iPhones, so thatcs a huge base to draw from.c

c

Photo:cApple CEO Tim Cook introduces the iPhone 7 at the Bill Graham Civic
Auditorium in San Francisco, Calif., on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2016. (Gary
Reyes/Bay Area News Group)

The post Exuberance over iPhone 7 propel Apple shares to 2016 high appeared
first on SiliconBeat .

