

YEREVAN, SEPTEMBER 8, ARMENPRESS. On September 7 Apple introduced iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus, the best, most advanced iPhone ever, packed with unique
innovations that improve all the ways iPhone is used every day, "Armenpress"
reports citing Apple's official website.

The new iPhone features new advanced camera systems that take pictures like
never before, more power and performance with the best battery life ever in an
iPhone, immersive stereo speakers, wide color system from camera to display, two
new beautiful finishes, and is the first water and dust resistant iPhone. iPhone
7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in more than 25 countries beginning
Friday, September 16.

"iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus dramatically improve every aspect of the iPhone
experience, reaching a new level of innovation and precision to make this the
best iPhone we have ever made," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice
president of Worldwide Marketing. "The completely redesigned cameras shoot
incredible photos and videos day or night, the A10 Fusion chip is the most
powerful chip on any smartphone while delivering the best battery life ever in
an iPhone, and an entirely new stereo speaker system provides twice the sound,
all within the first water and dust resistant iPhone."

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus take the world's most popular camera and make it even
better with entirely new camera systems. The 12-megapixel camera includes
optical image stabilization on both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, and a larger
[#x192]/1.8 aperture and 6-element lens enable brighter, more detailed photos
and videos, and a wide color capture allows for more vibrant colors with more
detail. iPhone 7 Plus features the same 12-megapixel wide angle camera as iPhone
7 and adds a 12-megapixel telephoto camera that together offer optical zoom at
two times and up to 10 times digital zoom for photos.

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come in a gorgeous design in silver, gold and
rose gold finishes and introduce two all-new black finishes, a beautiful black
finish that has an anodized matte appearance, and an innovative jet black finish
that has a deep, high-gloss look. The new jet black finish is accomplished
through an innovative nine-step process of anodization and polish for a uniform,
glossy finish. An entirely reengineered enclosure results in a water resistant
iPhone offering protection like never before against spills, splashes and dust.2

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come with iOS 10, the biggest release ever of the
world's most advanced mobile operating system. iOS 10 introduces a huge update
to Messages that delivers more expressive andanimated ways to message friends
and family, the ability for Siri to do more by working with apps, new ways to
interact with apps and even more places to use 3D Touch, beautifully redesigned
Maps, Photos, Apple Music and News apps, and the Home app, delivering a simple
and secure way to manage home automation products inone place. iOS 10 also opens
up incredible opportunities for developers with Siri, Maps, Phone and Messages
APIs, allowing customers to do more than ever with the apps they love to use.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in silver, gold, rose gold and the
new black finish in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB models starting at$649 (US).

http://imgs.syndigate.info/354/1176/2/147331615032.jpg



