

Apple hasn't released any preorder numbers for the latest pair of iPhones, but
the company has let one nugget about sales slip out: If you want a jet-black
iPhone, you may have to wait awhile.

The company said phones with the new, glossy black finish for the iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus wouldn't be on shelves in Apple stores at first.

"We couldn't be happier with the initial response to iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus," Apple said in a statement to The Washington Post. "During the online
pre-order period, initial quantities of iPhone 7 Plus in all finishes and iPhone
7 in jet black sold out and will not be available for walk-in customers."

The jet-black iPhone models come only in the phone's higher storage capacities,
128 gigabyte and 256 gigabyte.

Shoppers may have luck finding the jet-black phones at carrier stores or other
retail stores, such as Best Buy or Target. But you may want to call ahead before
you go to the store (or camp out in line) to make sure you can get what you
want.

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are also available in rose gold, gold, silver and
Apple's other black finish. The firm said shoppers would be able to find all of
those hues in Apple stores and other retail stores.

Those who really want the shiny jet-black finish can still order the phone they
want - though it will require patience. Orders for the jet-black iPhone on
Apple's website have shipping dates that push into November.

Apple has said that it will not release preorder sales information for this pair
of smartphones, as had been its custom, because it thought that the phones will
sell out and that sales will be limited only by supply.

Skeptics have said that Apple's decision indicates it's worried that the latest
phones, which are more of an incremental update than many had hoped, won't sell
in the way some have come to expect from Apple. That's a valid concern, given
that some may look at the new phones and decide not to upgrade so quickly.

