

Gadget fans will finally find out what is special about the new iPhone when it
is launched TODAY by Apple.

Rumours have swirled for months about its features, one of which is a potential
dual-lens camera.

And the new phone controversially may no longer have a earphone socket.

The tech giant will release the next generation of the phone - likely to be
called the iPhone7 - at its annual event in San Francisco.

iPhone 7: Release date, price, leaked pictures, and all the latest news and
rumours about Apple's new iPhone

The iPhone 7 is expected to start at around (EURO)700 for the 32GB version. The
larger iPhone 7 Plus is expected to start at (EURO)815.

iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus and Apple Watch 2 launch LIVE: Dual-lens camera and NO
headphone jack expected at Apple event 2016

Apple has been known in the past to lower the price of its older handsets when
new models are released, meaning the cost of an iPhone 6s could fall.

Each year the Silicon Valley company unveils a raft of new products in the
Autumn, which can include new iPad, MacBook and Apple Watch models.

Talk of the new features on the handset have been circulating for months with
several leaked photos adding fuel to the frenzy.

The most persistent is that Apple is going to get rid of the headphone socket.

This means users of the new device will either have to connect compatible ear
and headphones to listen to music via Bluetooth.

Or alternatively wired headphones that plug into the lightning, or charging
port, can be used - an idea that already has some fans up in arms.

iPhone 7: Release date, price, leaked pictures, and all the latest news and
rumours about Apple's new iPhone

But no jack would allow the phone to be thinner and sleeker, and could
potentially help in making the phone more waterproof.

Water-resistance is another feature that is rumoured to be on the table with the
new model.

Smartphone rivals like Samsung already make waterproof phones - a big selling
point.

Apple has improved the water-resistance of its devices in recent years, but it
is yet to release a fully waterproof iPhone.

The iPhone 7 is expected to have a camera upgrade but this may only apply to the
larger 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus, not the 4.7-inch iPhone 7 .

And the larger model could have a a dual-lens camera, meaning users will be able
to snap SLR-quality photos and create arty special effects such as bokeh - which
throws part of the picture out of focus.

Talk is rife that Apple will remove the home button, but the latest chatter is
this could now be a key feature of next year's model - to mark the 10th
anniversary.

Instead pressure-sensitivity could be added to the button, meaning different
functions could be performed depending on how hard it is pressed.

Leaked pictures also suggest Apple will scrap the plastic lines across the back
of the device.

These currently allow radio signals to pass through the metal casing and reach
the antennas.

However, it looks like Apple may be planning to redesign the case to get around
this restriction.

Other big changes expected include scrapping the smaller 16GB model, with the
minimum storage capacity on the iPhone 7 raised to 32GB.

And it is also expected to introduce a new top-of-the-range device with 256GB of
storage.

Fast-charging technology - meaning your phone will get several hours of battery
life from just a few minutes of charging - could also be introduced, alongside a
new colour of 'piano black' joining silver, gold, rose gold, dark black.

But Apple likes to surprise, and is good at keeping secrets, so there could be
other new features on the phone.

To watch the event live, click here - but just be sure you're using an Apple
device to view the stream .

