

Apple iPhone 7 and 7 Plus owners have reported that the devices a strange
hissing sound problem. The hissing sound is generally found in electronic
devices when there are a few new parts like chips, which are not well connected.
This sound was first reported by American podcaster Stephen Hackett, who noticed
the hiss when the smartphone was used heavily for a long time. Hackett took to
Twitter and wrote, "My iPhone 7 Plus makes terrible noises when under load."
Along with the tweet, he added a YouTube link, which had a recording of the
sound. After Hackett's tweet, a lot of users of the new iPhone 7 have come out
and acknowledged it and confirmed that they were facing the same problem in
their devices.

Darrell Etherington, a journalist who was a former PR with Apple also tweeted
that he heard the sound in his iPhone 7 Plus while setting it up. Apparently,
the hissing sound from the iPhone 7 comes because of a high-power processor
which when under heavy load produces what is called as 'coil noise'. It has been
learnt that the new A10 Fusion processor might be the reason since the sound
only comes when large programs are being processed. The new processor which is
said to be twice as fast as the one in iPhone 6, also has 'efficiency cores to
save battery. There are no fans in there, yet the sound seems like the whirring
of a fan, in other devices like laptops.

In reply to Hackett's tweet, Apple's customer care team suggested him to go to
an Apple store and get it replaced. Although there is a shortage of devices,
reportedly, others should also go to the store if such an issue comes to the
fore. After the bend-gate issue in iPhone 6 in the year 2014, this hissing-gate
is another controversy that Apple has found itself in. Though many claimed that
the hissing sound is not exclusive to Apple only. Many devices with
high-intensity processors also tend to make the sound.

Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus launch in India on October 7. While the iPhone
7 price starts at Rs 60,000 for the 32GB variant, it is Rs 70,000 for the 128GB
variant and Rs 80,000 for 256GB. The iPhone 7 Plus will be priced at Rs 72,000
for 32GB, Rs 82,000 for 128GB and Rs 92,000 for the 256GB variant.

