

Apple has scrapped its longstanding free-of-charge return policy in Hong Kong
and Macao, in a sign of the tech giant's determination to deter scalpers from
making a quick buck on its newly launched handsets.

Apple had previously allowed customers in Hong Kong and Macao to return the
undamaged products for free, with the original receipt and packaging, within 14
days of the pick-up date.

However, buyers will now be charged a 25-per cent "open box fee" when returning
their opened Apple or Beats products, and a 15-per cent "restocking fee" for
closed-box returns. A tailor-made return policy, in particular, has been
introduced for purchases of more than four products from the same category.

The new policy was released on Apple's website on the same day iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus hit stores in Hong Kong and Macao, where the lucrative scalping
business has become commonplace and distorted the markets with the launch of
every iPhone model over the past few years.

The exact reason behind the policy change, and whether it is a temporary move
until supplies of the highly sought-after iPhone 7 models return to a normal
level, remains unclear at the moment. It is believed the decision has much to do
with the thriving re-sale market in the territories, where an iPhone 7 Plus can
easily be resold at the moment at a 100-per cent premium.

Hong Kong resident Thomas Li picked up his pre-ordered jet black 128G iPhone 7
Plus at the Apple Store in Hong Kong's Causeway Bay on Sunday. Having gotten his
hands on the new iPhone model, which normally retails for 7,388 Hong Kong
dollars ($952), for a few minutes, he just as quickly sold it to a scalper
waiting a few feet outside the Apple Store for 15,000 Hong Kong dollars.

Merchants at Sin Tat Plaza, Hong Kong's so-called iPhone exchange which
determines the gray market's price for the newly launched iPhone models, quoted
a price of up to 21,000 Hong Kong dollars for a jet black 256G iPhone 7 Plus and
15,000 Hong Kong dollars for a jet black 128G iPhone 7 Plus.

A 32G iPhone 7 Plus in gold or rose gold can be sold at a premium of more than
1,000 Hong Kong dollars and the same-colored 128G model can be sold for 1,500
Hong Kong dollars more than the official retail price.

Due to the lack to import taxes and duties, smuggling the latest iPhone models
from Hong Kong into the mainland can be rather profitable, even though the
mainland was selected in the first batch of markets for the launch of the iPhone
7.

Online pre-ordering for the newly released iPhones kicked off on September 9 in
the mainland. But many Apple enthusiasts complained about the difficulty of
getting their hands on the large-screen iPhone 7 Plus and a jet-black iPhone 7.
It is unclear if the shortages were the result of strong demand or limited
supply.

Apple, which saw a 33 per cent drop in sales in China in the quarter ended in
June, pins its hope on the new iPhones to regain its business momentum in the
country where domestic brands such as Huawei and Oppo have seen a surge in
shipments.

