

When Steve Jobs introduced the original iPhone in January 2007, he touted the
device as "a revolutionary and magical product" that was "five years ahead of
any ­mobile phone".


But the latest iterations of ­Apple's flagship product, the ­iPhone 7 and iPhone
7 Plus, were launched last week in the United States to muted reception since
the basic design retained that of the previous two generations.

Once they have it in their hands, they will fall in love with itJulie Ask, a
vice-president at Forrester Research

"Consumers underestimate the engineering feats the iPhone 7 brings, like the
audio, camera and processing power, in such a small package," said Julie Ask, a
vice-president at Forrester Research. "While it's hard to market performance and
speed, consumers need to experience it firsthand to get it. Once they have it in
their hands, they will fall in love with it."


The Posthad a limited hands-on time with a test unit, but it certainly left a
very good impression.


Available in Hong Kong from Friday, the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus have three storage
capacity options - 32 gigabytes, 128GB and 256GB - and come in five case
finishes: silver, gold, rose gold, matte black and jet black.


The jet black iPhone 7 is likely to be the must-have model, ­despite the
constant fingermarks users will inevitably have to wipe from its piano
lacquer-like finish. This high-gloss aluminium case draws attention, much like
the white iPhone 4 model when it was released in 2011.


The jet black model is available only with the 128GB and 256GB storage options.

Audio is greatly enhanced by two new stereo speakers, which deliver twice the
volume of the iPhone 6s

That seamless unibody design also parlays a re-engineered enclosure that makes
the iPhone 7 both water and dust resistant, as well as competitive with premium
water-resistant Android smartphones like the Galaxy S7 from Samsung, and Sony's
Experia Z5.


The 138-gram new iPhone model's 4.7-inch Retina HD ­display - the branding used
by Apple for its high-definition - multi-touch screens, has 1,334 by 750-pixel
resolution, which makes it up to 25 per cent brighter than the iPhone 6s.


Pre-launch concerns focused on the removal of the stereo jack, which means the
phones only work with compatible wireless headphones, such as the new AirPods
available separately from next month. But audio is greatly enhanced by the
handset's two new stereo speakers, which deliver twice the volume of the iPhone
6s.


The iPhone 7 sports a 12-megapixel back camera and a 7MP front camera, while the
7 Plus has a 12MP dual camera at the back. Both models come with an optical
image stabilisation feature for better low-light photos and videos. The
technology ­compensates for handshake and counteracts motion blur.


The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will be available from Friday and prices for the iPhone
7 start from HK$5,588, while those of the 7 Plus start at HK$6,588.

