

Snapdeal iPhone 7 and 7 Plus offer: Online marketplace Snapdeal has unveiled a
new offer to keep the excitement high on its website during the festive season
in the wake of the just concluded Unbox Diwali sale.

Snapdeal iPhone 7 and 7 Plus offer: Online marketplace Snapdeal has unveiled a
new offer to keep the excitement high on its website during the festive season
in the wake of the just concluded Unbox Diwali sale. The offer spans a number
sensitive points about the price on this premium smartphone that was launched
recently. The interest in the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is intense indeed, but
with the launch of the Google Pixel and Google Pixel XL, which are going to be
available soon, many 'pucca' customers may now be in two minds about buying the
product and instead waiting to check out what Google has launched. Nevertheless,
Apple iPhone is a premium phone and will make for an excellent gift in this
season of giving in India. Just remember, both the phones will hurt your wallet.

Snapdeal has tagged its iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus offer as 'industry best offer'.
So, what is it offering? First of all is an instant Rs 10,000 off for American
Express Card members. The offer has gone live on Snapdeal at 00:00 hours on
October 7, 2016.

Snapdeal Co-founder Rohit Bansal said, "We have entered into a strategic
partnership with American Express and are excited to bring yet another much
sought after and iconic product to our customers with an attractive offer. We
are confident that all avid Apple fans would appreciate this specially curated
offer on iPhone 7."

Snapdeal is allowing potential buyers to club this 'instant discount' on Apple
iPhone 7 and 7 Plus with its on-going exchange offers on smartphones and Zero
Cost EMIs. Do the maths as per the combination that suits you and then see if
the deal is exciting enough. As far as Snapdeal is concerned, this is an
'incredible deal' on the Apple smartphones.

American Express Banking Corp, India Vice President & General Manager - Consumer
& Merchant Services and CEO Manoj Adlakha, on his part, said, "American Express
is recognized for providing premium service and value, which resonates with the
lifestyle and the aspirations of our card members. In line with the commitment,
we have partnered with Snapdeal to introduce a limited period offer on the much
awaited iPhone 7 and 7 Plus to all American Express card members."

