

What's the best feature of the new iPhone? For many, it's the fact that it's
free.

While tech reviewers kvetch over the iPhone 7's missing headphone jack and
middling performance gains, orders for the new gadget are getting goosed by US
wireless carriers who have brought back a slew of aggressive subsidies.

Verizon, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile are all offering promos that allow customers
to get iPhone 7s free of charge - typically by trading in their iPhone 6 and 6s
models and committing to two-year contracts.

That stands in contrast to the past couple of years, in which carriers have
tried to hawk the phones at full price - either by charging in monthly
installments or demanding upward of $650 up front.

The result of the backpedaling, T-Mobile and Sprint say, is that iPhone 7 demand
was up fourfold from previous records. Verizon and AT&T also reported increased
orders out of the gate.

"Free is the new cheap," says Jonathan Chaplin, a managing partner at New Street
Research.

Indeed, analysts say this year's deals signal that carriers have gone back to
doing what they hated most: footing the bill for the iPhone as they mount
another bruising battle for market share.

"We estimate the carriers are losing (about) $300 per iPhone under the trade-in
promos," UBS analyst John Hodulik said in a Wednesday research note.

Still, New Street's Chaplin notes that last year, Sprint and T-Mobile also had
dangled deals that effectively allowed customers to purchase the iPhone 6s for
as little as $1 and $5 a month, respectively.

The fact that sales at the nation's No. 3 and No. 4 carriers are up so
dramatically this year demonstrates the other key driver for the iPhone 7: It
has arrived at the end of a two-year iPhone cycle.

"If you got an iPhone two years ago. it's reached the end of its life," Chaplin
said. "If you look at people carrying around the [iPhone] 6, the screens are all
cracked, they don't charge very well, they're running slower and slower, and
it's a 16-gig device."

This year, the iPhone 7 has likewise gotten a boost from woes at Samsung, whose
new Galaxy Note 7 is being recalled after catching fire and exploding in users'
hands.

While Samsung scrambles to contain the damage, Sprint is offering the iPhone 7
in exchange for the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge. Verizon, meanwhile, is doling
out $300 credits toward iPhone 7s for trade-ins of the Galaxy 6s models, and as
much as $200 for Galaxy S5s and $100 for Galaxy S4 models.

Bullish commentary from wireless carriers this week has sent Apple shares
soaring. Last week, the stock took a beating as the iPhone 7's unveiling drew
yawns and Apple announced it would no longer report opening-weekend iPhone
sales.

On Wednesday, Apple shares added 3.5 percent to close at $111.83. That capped a
rally of 8 percent this week that has brought Apple's market capitalization to
$602 billion, its highest level in nine months.

Stay back!

Strong pre-sales of the iPhone 7 have allowed Apple CEO Tim Cook to fend off the
Wall Street bears - but the strong consumer interest is sparked in part by
carrier subsidies, including:

n Free iPhone 7s when trading in an iPhone 6 or 6s *

n A $400 credit when trading in an iPhone 5 and 5s**

n A credit of $100 to $650 for trade-ins of Samsung and other Android phones***

* Verizon, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile

** Verizon and T-Mobile

*** Verizon and Sprint

jcovert@nypost.com

