

Tonight, Tim Cook will step on stage at a keynote event in San Francisco and
announce Apple's next smartphone, the iPhone 7 .

In the past few months, we've seen hundreds of rumours and leaks scattered all
over the web, with many suggesting that Apple will keep the design of its next
generation iPhone very similar to that of the iPhone 6S.

But why would Apple not want to give fans something new? This could all be down
to timing.

iPhone 7 and Apple Watch 2 launch LIVE: Dual-lens camera and NO headphone jack
expected at Apple event 2016

Since 2017 will mark the tenth anniversary of the iPhone , experts have
predicted that Apple has been holding back some of its most groundbreaking
features for next year's model - which many expect to be called the iPhone 8 .

As a result, many are suggesting that users hold off on buying the iPhone 7, and
wait another year before splashing out on a Apple handset, when updates are more
revolutionary.

Analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research thinks the limited changes in design will
allow bigger changes in a future announcement.

"It looks like part of the reason they are keeping the design the same this year
is there are bigger changes they are working on for next year,"Dawson said.

Speaking to The Ringer , Chetan Sharma, a mobile analyst and CEO of Chetan
Sharma Consulting, said: "If it's just more memory and a slightly better camera,
then there's less motivation [to upgrade].

When is iOS 10 coming out? UK release date, features and how to download

"This year might just be a small bump in terms of the upgrade cycle. That's why
a number of consumer technology sites are advising users to hold off on
upgrading until the next year's version, the iPhone 8."

We've rounded up all the latest rumours and leak in our iPhone 8 rumours article
, so if the iPhone 7 turns out to be a damp squib, you'll know what the next
year's update has in store.

But doesn't Apple's update cycle usually mean the iPhone changes in design every
two years, not one?

Well, usually, based on Apple's well-established "tick-tock" cycle, and assuming
this year's handset is called the iPhone 7, the 2017 model would be called the
iPhone 7s.

iPhone 7 Plus dual-lens camera could let you create some seriously cool photo
effects

The tick-tock cycle refers to Apple releasing a new design every two years, and
new features within the same casing on alternate years.

However, rumour has it that Apple is moving to a three-year cycle on major
iPhone refreshes.

This, combined with the fact that next year is the tenth anniversary of the
iPhone, suggests that Apple's 2017 model will be a fairly major upgrade, and
therefore d called the iPhone 8.

