

The mass production of Apple's iPhone 7 has already started, but it seems that
iPhone 7 Plus is still nowhere in the picture right now

iPhone 7 is scheduled to be announced during the month of September, which is
going to be a whole month after the announcement of Galaxy Note 7. Since we
expect that Apple is going to be extremely time conscious with the announcement
date of its iPhone 7, mass production of the smartphone has already started at
the Pegatron factory. However, there is currently no word on the iPhone 7's
older brother, iPhone 7 Plus. iPhone 7 Plus is not going to be mass produced at
the Pegatron factory and is instead probably undergoing mass production at a
facility that we do not have any information to at the moment.

There have been major developments regarding an iPhone 7. One of the things that
we are looking forward to the most is the storage upgrade and larger battery
capacity. Apple's upcoming flagship iPhone is said to feature a maximum storage
capacity model of 256GB and will feature a battery capacity of 3,100mAh battery.
If the rumors are true, then it looks like Apple is getting real serious about
internal storage and battery capacity, and this might also mark the day when we
no longer see the 16GB storage option anymore.

Instead, the 16GB storage model could be replaced with the 32GB storage model,
while the 64GB model could be replaced with the 128GB model. In total, given
below are the storage models that we are expecting to be announced during the
month of September:

32GB
128GB
256GB

3D Touch is definitely going to be retained, but one of the most interesting
changes that can come from an iPhone 7 is the removal of the 3.5mm headphone
jack. With many manufacturers inclined to remove the old connector, it does
present a great deal of complications, especially when you have a whole family
of audio products that use this type of connector. Let us hope that Apple
provides us with a worthy upgrade during the month of September.

Source

