
DATELINE: Jammu


Jammu, Sept. 2 -- In less than a week's time the world is going to go crazy. One
more time. Those who are even remotely aware of Apple's annual launch events
must also be aware of the mania that surrounds new iPhone every year. On
September 7, Apple will launch iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.Since the launch of
iPhone 6S, 6S Plus, rumors of iPhone 7 had already started coming in. And by now
we have a fair idea of what this phone will be all about. The keyword here is
"idea". Nothing is confirmed yet.

Here's a list of all the specifications, features and everything in and about
iPhone 7 that have leaked on internet:

- Some were expecting Apple to come up with a revolutionary design, but the
reports so far have suggested otherwise. The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will
look more or less like the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.

- There are going to be changes but they will most likely be incremental. The
leaked images of both the phones have shown redesigned antenna lines. No, they
won't be in a cool, snazzy shape but simply moved towards the edges. The bigger
phone, iPhone 7 Plus, is expected to come with a dual-camera. So that can be
counted as a new design element.

- Continuing on the camera specs, the iPhone 7 Plus' dual-camera is rumoured to
be equipped with a wider, brighter lens. This means iPhone's already good photos
will get better.

- iPhone 7 will have a 4.7-inch display, while the iPhone 7 Plus will get a
5.5-inch screen.

- Another prominent change will be the absence of 3.5mm audio jack from iPhone 7
and iPhone 7 Plus. A recent report has suggested Apple will unveil a new Dr Dre
Beats product at the event. Could this be the bundled earphone? It could be.

- iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are most probably getting the latest A10 processor.
Considering A9 was already one of the fastest processors out there, Apple can't
go wrong with A10.

- Apple is also planning to kill the 16GB iPhone. Reports have suggest that the
company will even launch a 256GB iPhone this year.

- The smaller iPhone will carry 2GB RAM and iPhone 7 Plus will most likely have
3GB of RAM.

- Following Apple's tradition, iOS 10 will roll out with the launch of iPhone 7
and 7 Plus. The OS is already in beta stage.

- Some reports have also suggested that Apple will drop the home button from
both the phones. This means the physical home button will be replaced by a
touch-sensitive surface, which will also double up as the fingerprint sensor.

After the launch of the phones, Apple is expected to start shipping from
September 16. But for Indian users the date could stretch to late September or
even October.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are not expected to be pricier than their
predecessors considering the falling sales. The iPhone 7 should be priced around
Rs 62,000 and iPhone 7 Plus should cost somewhere around Rs 72,000.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Northlines. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

