

Anyone wanting to pick up an iPhone 7 today, the first day the devices arrive in
UK stores, will be disappointed unless they have ordered in advance.

In anticipation of strong demand for the device from die-hard Apple fans, the
company is not allowing sales of either the new iPhone 7 Plus, which retails for
£719, or the cheaper iPhone 7, which starts at £599, to walk-in customers in
this country.

Only those who have ordered the phone in advance for in-store pick-up or home
delivery will get their phones today. This is likely to mean an end to the
familiar snake of people queueing outside Apple stores on launch day.

In the United States and other countries where walk-in sales of the new devices
are possible, online pre-orders have been so strong that supplies are short.

In its home market, the company said that both the iPhone 7 Plus in all colours
and the jet black iPhone 7 were sold out and that only limited quantities of
iPhone 7 in silver, gold, rose gold and black would be available for walkin
customers in American Apple stores. "We couldn't be happier with the initial
response to iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus," the company said.

Apple is hoping that its latest iPhone, which comes with no headphone jack, a
longer battery life, louder speakers, faster processors, an improved camera and
graphics chips, will help it to bounce back from disappointing sales. In the
second quarter of this year, iPhone sales fell for the first time in seven
years, dropping by more than 16 per cent compared with the same period a year
earlier, prompting Apple's first quarterly decline in revenue for 13 years.
Since Apple unveiled the iPhone 7 this month, the early signs have been
positive, with American mobile networks reporting pre-order records. According
to SimilarWeb, the market intelligence firm, the unveiling of the device
generated a 152 per cent rise in oneday traffic to the company's site. This was
higher than other Apple launches of the past two years, though it did not beat
the iPhone 6's traffic surge of 195 per cent in 2014.

Demand for the new device appears also to have beaten the expectations of
analysts. "We believe a number of recent data points suggest a
betterthan-expected iPhone 7 cycle, in both volume and mix," Credit Suisse
analysts said in a note.

