
DATELINE: New York



 Ankara: The Turkish Government has issued the following press release:



   Apple has sold out of many of its new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus models
before the smartphones become available at retail stores, the company said
Thursday.



 Apple opened up pre-orders for the new mobile phones Sept. 9, soon after the
company unveiled the devices. It appears that those pre-orders have outstripped
supply, and retail stores will not have several versions of the new iPhones when
they officially launch Friday.

 All iPhone 7 Plus smartphones have sold out, and some iPhone 7 models have as
well, including the colored "jet black", a brand new color scheme.

 "We couldn't be happier with the initial response to iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus, and we are looking forward to beginning sales through our retail stores
and partners around the world," Apple said in a statement. "Beginning Friday,
limited quantities of iPhone 7 in silver, gold, rose gold and black will be
available for walk-in customers at Apple retail stores. During the online
pre-order period, initial quantities of iPhone 7 Plus in all finishes and iPhone
7 in jet black sold out and will not be available for walk-in customers."

 The two new iPhones were set to launch in 28 countries on Sept. 16. Customers
can still order the new smartphones, but there will be a wait. The Apple website
claims U.S. residents interested in certain models will have to wait until
November to receive them.

 Shares of Apple increased nearly 4 percent amid the news, closing at $115.57
per share.

 The past week had been good for the company with its stock rising 12 percent
since Monday. The rally is the best four-day streak Apple has seen since April
2014.

 "We sincerely appreciate our customers' patience as we work hard to get the new
iPhone into the hands of everyone who wants one as quickly as possible," Apple
said.




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

