

If you want to get your hands on the new iPhone 7 or iPhone 7 Plus, then you may
be dismayed to know the product will cost you more than previous models - all
because of Brexit.

It has emerged the iPhone 7 Plus, which goes on pre-sale on Friday 9, September,
will set shoppers back a huge £719 bought outright.

This is compared to £619 for its predecessor - the iPhone 6S Plus, which was
released earlier this year.

The 2016 iPhone 6 model costs £539, however its upgrade, the iPhone 7 Plus,
which goes on official sale on 16 September, will cost shoppers £599 - a
whopping rise of £60.

The price hike can be seen across the board, with the 256GB iPhone 7 Plus model
also now £100 more, at £919.

Apple launches iPhone 7 - but there's one BIG problem with it

Apple has not officially revealed a reason for the price hike, but consumer
experts say it is likely to be down to the plunging value of the pound against
the dollar, after the UK backed Brexit in the EU Referendum back in June.

The revelations come just days after experts predicted a rise in the cost of
bacon batches as the result of Brexit.

Apple does its accounting in dollars so, when the value of the pound drops, the
company has to adjust prices to ensure profits aren't affected.

iPhone 7: How much does it cost and how do I pre-order in the UK?

However, the rise can also be attributed to Apple's decision to scrap the 16GB
model across the board - meaning fans will have to pay slightly more for 32GB
memory going forwards.

Apple supremo Tim Cook revealed that the new phone will be available to
pre-order on Friday, September 9.

iPhone 7: Where to get the best deals with up to £115 cashback discount

Those looking to pre-order the handset can snap up the following cashback deals
from TopCashback.co.uk.

We've compiled some of the best iPhone 7 deals here.

People simply need to click through TopCashback.co.uk to the retailer, to get
the cashback on their iPhone 7 contract.

