

The Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in India exactly a month
after their global unveiling at the Bill Graham Centre in San Francisco. When
sales start on October 7, the iPhone 7 model will become available for prices
starting R60,000 for the 32 GB version. We still don't know the pricing of the
iPhone 7 Plus. We spent some time with the two new phones in the crowded
hands-on area behind the venue to find out more about the devices. Here are our
first impressions about the two devices.

iPhone 7

The iPhone 7 is the same size as the iPhone 6s, but the new jet black version
makes it slicker. There are no bands, and it is one pure block of black, shiny
but not slippery. There is another black version with a matte finish that is
more my style. The sides of the phone now remind me a lot of the Apple Watch.
The camera on the Apple 7 is at par with the iPhone 6s Plus, maybe a bit better.
The front camera is surely better.

The display hasn't changed in pixels, but it has more vibrant colours. The
company claims the battery life is at least two hours more in comparison to the
earlier versions. The haptic feedback on the home screen is good and very
similar to the 3D Touch. But we will need to wait for third party apps to put it
to better use. Like with the watch, the phone now wakes up as you turn it
towards you.

Also, with stereo speakers, these should be the best sounding iPhones ever.
However, in the noisy hands-on zone, there was no way to test this out. I think
the iPad is the best sounding mobile device and the iPhone would be an earful
even if it achieves a fraction of that.

iPhone 7 Plus

This phone is all about the dual camera. For me, the ease of zooming on this
camera was really awesome and the first thing that impressed me. It is fast and
it doesn't pixelate when it gets to 10x. The 1x switch is also real fast. I had
the good fortune of testing it on Tim Cook himself in the hands-on area. I could
go from wide to long shot in a jiffy. But we will need more time with the device
to really put the Bokeh effect to test. The devices I tried did not have the
software that gives you the portrait option. That will need to wait a week, I
guess. Also, the demo photos suggest the low light capability will be much
better than before. But again, more on that after a proper hands-on.

However, with what I have seen I am convinced the iPhone 7 Plus is better than
the iPhone 6s Plus, which in my book is the best smartphone camera around. Also,
I don't think this phone, or for that matter, the Huawei Honor P9 or Samsung
Galaxy Note 7, is a threat to other phones as much as it is to the entry range
of DSLRs.

The writer was in San Francisco at the invitation of Apple India.

