

Apple customers across Merseyside are fuming that they will not be receiving
their new iPhone 7 today despite pre-ordering.

No mobile phone company seems to be immune from the backlash as people took to
social media to vent their anger and frustration.

Many are now being told that they will have to wait weeks or months for the
tech-giant's new phone.

One Twitter user @kellieann23 said: "Fuming!! My iPhone7 plus I wanted now they
only have iPhone7!! Have to wait a few weeks or months now for it!! #TescoMobile
ruined my day!!"

Another, @stewsadler, said: "@EE i think its a bit out of order that my wife
ordered an iPhone 7 last Sunday, but gets a text last night to say she wont get
it today."

And it wasn't just people waiting for the postman to arrive.

Consumers who had travelled all the way down to the shop in the city centre were
told that they had a five week wait for their iPhone.

20-year-old Jess Punton, from Rainford, said: "I rang Apple yesterday and asked
if the new iPhone would be available in store this morning, they said it would
be.

"I have came into Liverpool early and I have been told they are already sold
out, I have now made a reservation for the phone and have a five week wait."

And Emma Boner, 22 from Crosby will not be receiving her new gadget until
November as she has ordered the IPhone 7 Plus in Jet Black.

Apple said yesterday: "We couldn't be happier with the initial response to the
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, and we are looking forward to beginning sales
through our retail stores and partners around the world.

iPhone 7 Plus and jet black iPhone 7 sold out to pre-order customers

"Beginning Friday, limited quantities of iPhone 7 in silver, gold, rose gold and
black will be available for walk-in customers at Apple retail stores.

"During the online pre-order period, initial quantities of iPhone 7 Plus in all
finishes and iPhone 7 in jet black sold out and will not be available for
walk-in customers."

