

REACTION to the Apple iPhone launch yesterday was a mixed bag: great new extra
camera but shame about the headphone jack.

Apple CEO Tim Cook -unveiled a new model iPhone and Apple Watch that are both
faster, smarter and, at last, waterproof.

The timing of the iPhone event is perfect for Apple, coming just days after
Samsung was forced to recall its flagship Note 7 over a string of reports of the
phone bursting into flames while charging.

Technology analyst Jan Dawson, of Jackdaw Research, called the dual-lens camera
in the iPhone 7 Plus the "headline" of the event.

This is the first iPhone to have two rear 12-megapixel cameras, which gives the
iPhone 7 Plus a 2x optical zoom and the ability to mimic the shallow depth of
field effect you typically get when shooting pictures with a DSLR.

Mr Dawson said the dual lens camera, which is available only in the bigger
Plus-sized iPhone, would boost sales of the 5.5-inch iPhone.

"This is going to drive people up, this is going to increase average selling
prices and it's going to drive iPhone revenue growth rather than shipment
growth," he said.

One of the biggest selling points of the new camera, apart from the zoom, is the
blurred backgrounds the iPhone 7 Plus will do when shooting portraits after a
software update this year.

Mr Dawson said Apple had work to do selling its message, with a negative
reaction on -social media to the news that Apple had ditched the 3.5mm audio
jack, which would force people to connect their headphones through the Lightning
port or switch to wireless headphones, which need regular charging.

While Apple will ship an adaptor with the new iPhone that will let people
connect -existing headphones through the Lightning port, the downside is that
users will not be able to use wired headphones and charge the iPhone 7 at the
same time.

The iPhone 7 starts at $1079 and the iPhone 7 Plus starts at $1269. Orders are
open and it goes on sale next Friday.The Apple Watch Series 2 begins at $520 and
goes on sale next Thursday.

