

Dozens of keen customers have been queuing outside Eldon Square's Apple store to
get their hands on the new iPhone 7 in Newcastle.

The latest iPhones which were announced last week in San Francisco come in a
black and jet black finish for the first time.

Apple warned on Thursday that initial stocks of the iPhone 7 Plus had already
sold out the day before launch day, while the jet black iPhone 7 would also not
be available to walk-in customers.

The queue of eager shoppers outside Apple Eldon Square was largely made up of
those who had reserved a spot to pick up a pre-ordered device.

Graeme Dougal, 42, from Newcastle, was among those queueing early outside the
store.

He said: "I'm excited about the new features. I'm a software developer so I'll
be interested to see the new apps."

And Lauren Ord, 21, had left home in Seaham, County Durham, at 8am to get her
hands on the new flagship smartphone.

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will both come in two new black finishes and are water
resistant for the first time.

Apple caused controversy when announcing the iPhone 7 when it revealed the new
devices would no longer have a headphone jack, instead asking customers to
connect headphones via the Lightning connector, or use wireless headsets.

So what is different about the iPhone 7?

The new device is waterproof and the larger model comes with an dual lens camera
capable of all kinds of photographic wizardry.

The iPhone 7 is available from a starting price of £599 for the cheapest 32GB
option. The 128GB version costs £699 and the 256GB version will set you back a
whopping £799.

The larger iPhone 7 Plus is even more of a wallet buster than it's smaller
sibling.

The cheapest (32GB) iPhone 7 Plus costs £719, followed by a 128GB model at £819,
and then a 256GB variant costing an astonishing £919 in the UK.

A new version of the Apple Watch, called the Series 2, has also gone on sale
today.

The Apple Watch Series 2 looks very similar to the company's first edition
Watch, with a square face.

However, while the first Apple Watch was "splash" proof, the second edition
Series 2 is "swim" proof - completely water resistant to a depth of 50 meters,
in both swimming pools and open water.

The Watch Series 2 also features a second-generation display that's two times
brighter at 1000 nits, which Apple said will make all the difference when
wearers are outside in the sun.

To ensure workouts are more accurate and the Watch Series 2 has built-in GPS,
which connects to satellites instantly, and even means that a route map will
show your varying speeds.

