

CUPERTINO, California-Sept 10 (IBNS) Apple on Tuesday introduced iPhone  5c,
featuring an all-new design, packed with what it called incredible features in
five gorgeous colors-blue, green, pink, yellow and white.

Apple also announced iPhone 5s, the most forward-thinking iPhone yet, featuring
an all-new A7 chip, making iPhone 5s the world's first smartphone with 64-bit
desktop-class architecture for blazing fast performance in the palm of ones
hand.

iPhone 5c is built on a foundation of features people know and love like the
beautiful 4-inch Retina  display, blazing fast performance of the A6 chip, and
the 8 megapixel iSight  camera-all while delivering great battery life.

iPhone 5c comes with more LTE bands than any other smartphone in the world, a
new FaceTime(R) HD camera, and iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the
original iPhone.

"iPhone 5c is everything iPhone 5 was and more, in an all-new design packed with
great features," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of
Worldwide Marketing.

"iPhone 5c is designed with a beautiful polycarbonate enclosure that looks and
feels so solid in your hand."

iPhone 5c features an all-new design crafted from a single, hard-coated
polycarbonate body with a steel reinforced frame for a solid, sturdy feel. The
steel frame holds the internal components and also doubles as the iPhone 5c's
multiband antenna.

The enclosure is one continuous and seamless structure that is finished with a
hard coat for a durable and incredibly glossy surface. To complement the all-new
iPhone 5c design, Apple created soft, matte, microfiber-lined cases in a very
intentional contrast to the glossy, hard coat finish. These sleek silicone cases
with unique circular patterns let splashes of color show through, and with five
iPhone 5c colors and six cases to choose from, you can mix and match for dozens
of fun combinations.

iPhone 5c comes with all the features customers love in iPhone 5, and more. The
Apple-designed A6 chip provides incredible performance and power efficiency, all
while delivering great battery life, so almost everything you do on iPhone 5c is
blazing fast, from launching apps and loading web pages to downloading email
attachments. iPhone 5c features a stunning 4-inch Retina display and an 8
megapixel iSight camera, the most popular camera in the world. iPhone 5c also
includes a new FaceTime HD camera for even better FaceTime calls and
self-portraits, and with iOS 7, you can make audio-only FaceTime calls for the
first time.

iPhone 5c comes with iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the original
iPhone, featuring a stunning new user interface, completely redesigned with an
elegant color palette, distinct, functional layers and subtle motion that make
it feel more alive. iOS 7 is designed to complement the gorgeous exteriors of
iPhone 5c, with matching wallpapers and translucency that carry the color
through the entire experience. iOS 7 has hundreds of great new features,
including Control Center, Notification Center, improved Multitasking,
AirDrop(R), enhanced Photos, Safari(R), Siri(R) and introduces iTunes Radio, a
free Internet radio service based on the music you listen to on iTunes(R).

Pricing & Availability

iPhone 5c comes in blue, green, pink, yellow and white and will be available in
the US for a suggested retail price of $99 (US) for the 16GB model and $199 (US)
for the 32GB model.

iPhone 5s

Apple said iPhone 5s redefined the best smartphone experience in the world with
amazing new features all packed into a remarkable thin and light design,
including an all-new 8 megapixel iSight camera with True Tone flash and
introducing Touch ID, an innovative way to simply and securely unlock your phone
with just the touch of a finger. iPhone 5s comes with iOS 7, the most
significant iOS update since the original iPhone, engineered for 64-bit
technology and featuring hundreds of great new features, including Control
Center, Notification Center, improved Multitasking, AirDrop(R), enhanced Photos,
Safari(R), Siri(R) and iTunes Radio.

"iPhone 5s is the most forward-thinking smartphone in the world, delivering
desktop class architecture in the palm of your hand," said Philip Schiller,
Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing. "iPhone 5s sets a new
standard for smartphones, packed into its beautiful and refined design are
breakthrough features that really matter to people, like Touch ID, a simple and
secure way to unlock your phone with just a touch of your finger."

iPhone 5s comes with iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the original
iPhone, engineered to support the A7 chip's 64-bit architecture, the new iSight
camera and Touch ID fingerprint sensor. iOS 7 features a stunning new user
interface, completely redesigned with an elegant color palette, distinct,
functional layers and subtle motion that make it feel more alive. iOS 7 has
hundreds of great new features, including Control Center, Notification Center,
improved Multitasking, AirDrop, enhanced Photos, Safari, Siri and introduces
iTunes Radio, a free Internet radio service based on the music you listen to on
iTunes(R).

iPhone 5s customers have access to the revolutionary App Store, which offers
more than 900,000 apps to iPhone, iPad(R) and iPod touch(R) users in 155
countries around the world. More than 50 billion apps have been downloaded from
the App Store to date, offering customers an incredible range of apps in 23
categories, including newspapers and magazines in Newsstand, games and
entertainment, business, news, sports, health and fitness and travel.

Designed specifically for iOS, iPhoto(R), iMovie(R), Pages(R), Numbers(R) and
Keynote(R) are among the most popular apps in the App Store and are now
available as free downloads with the purchase of iPhone 5s. iPhoto and iMovie
enable you to do more than you ever thought possible with your photos and
movies, and with Pages, Numbers and Keynote you can create, edit and share
stunning documents, spreadsheets and presentations on your iPhone, iPad or iPod
touch.

Pricing & Availability

iPhone 5s comes in gold, silver or space gray, and will be available in the US
for a suggested retail price of $199 (US) for the 16GB model and $299 (US) for
the 32GB model and $399 (US) for the 64GB model.

