

THE pattern is the same every year - the iPhone hype bubble is blown up to
bursting point in the run up to the big reveal... and then its decried as one
big let down when Apple finally shows its hand.

We're disappointed because we've convinced ourselves they're going to invent
something magical we can't even imagine. And then all they come up with is a
better phone.

It's frankly ridiculous. Because what Apple showed us this week with it's new
iPhone 7 and 7 Plus was a pair of devices that take already breathtakingly
brilliant bits of kit, and makes them better. A lot better.

So, peeling away the hyperbole and peering at what lies beneath, what do we
really see when we look at what Apple boss Tim Cook and his pals showed us this
week.

We don't need a headphone jack when we've got wireless headphones, do we? Not
just any old wireless headphones, though - Apple's new AirPods , when they hit
then shelves next month, will likely be wireless headphones done right - it was
telling that Apple didn't say they were bluetooth headphones. They look like
they connect using some kind of specially-built wireless technology which Apple
thinks is better than bluetooth.

They will undoubtedly be right. The AirPods don't come with the new iPhone,
though - you just get some wired buds connecting to the phone using the
lightning port - the phone has no headphone jack. Apple cleverly supplied an
adapter so we can continue to use our regular headphones if we want, though. And
so people can't complain about it. Too much.

It was almost thrown away at the start of the event, but the fact that Nintendo
is making a Mario game for iOS is huge news. Nintendo just don't make games that
run on other people's hardware. Obviously, they've cottoned on the the fact that
iOS is the world's biggest gaming platform. Nintendo underlined that fact by
sending video game god Shigeru Miyamoto - only the man who created Mario - to
make the announcement.

The game will be called Super Mario Run - it's an endless runner in which Mario
races to reach the flag at the end of the level before the time limit runs out.
There will be online multiplayer, and it will be playable one-handed. Next up
Zelda and Donkey Kong, please.

The iPhone camera is a phenomenon, and it's no surprise that they made it even
better this year. The camera on the iPhone 7 is an upgrade on the 6S, while the
iPhone 7 Plus gets an innovative dual-lens camera, one lens is wide-angle, the
other zoom.

This means two things - firstly, obviously, you can zoom 2x without using
software (so the image is of a better quality), but also that, using some kind
of software magic, you'll be able to take photos which reproduce the kind of
depth of field effect you can only get now from using a big DSLR - a special
portrait setting will, when an update is released next month, blur the
background of an image, making the subject pop.

You can order this Friday (September 9), and the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will ship
on September 16. Prices for all models: iPhone 7 - 32GB £599, 128GB £699, 256GB
£799. iPhone 7 Plus - 32GB £719, 128GB £819, 256GB £919. The AirPods will be out
in 'late October' and will cost £159. iOS 10 and watchOS 3 will come out as a
free upgrade on September 13.

Performance is massively improved in the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus. There's a new chip
- the A10. Phil says the chip is a 'rocket ship', and that the new iPhone is 120
times faster than the original iPhone. The new graphic capabilities will bring
'console level' games to the phone, too. And pro apps like photo editors will
also benefit from the new power.

Battery life is better, too. On average, an iPhone 7 will last two hours longer
than an iPhone 6S, while a 7 Plus will go for an hour longer than a 6S Plus.
It's got the 'longest battery life of any iPhone ever'.

