

Apple iPhone 7 is all set to hit India and the ecommerce major Flipkart has put
in place a doorstep delivery strategy to push sales and spring a few surprises
too - personalised by CEO Binny Bansal too!

Apple iPhone 7 is all set to hit India and the ecommerce major Flipkart has put
in place a doorstep delivery strategy to push sales and spring a few surprises
too - personalised by CEO Binny Bansal too! The iPhone 7 is one of the most
talked about smartphones in recent weeks and its India entry is keenly awaited,
not just by the Apple fans but rest of the smartphone-toting community which
wants to see how good the phone is as well as how it will stand vis a vis the
recently unveiled Google Pixel and Google Pixel XL. Flipkart, whose Big Billion
Days Diwali sale ended on October 5, saw its mobile phone category jump to the
top of its charts in terms of popularity and demand and is it is now eyeing the
iPhone 7 to retain the eyeballs as much as possible. The iPhone 7 is a premium
phone and its sales will be keenly watched by all.

According to Flipkart, the iPhone 7 will make its India debut at 7 PM on October
7, 2016 and the eretailer is ready to make the deliveries right at customers'
doorsteps 7 PM onwards today. The iPhone 7 will be available at Apple stores
across India, but unlike previous launches, this time it is unlikely to lead to
big queues forming there as the hype generated till now is not overwhelming.

Giving an inkling into the sales figures, Flipkart said thousands of customers
across India have already pre-ordered the iPhone 7. These buyers will get
delivery of their smartphone via Ekart, Flipkart's supply chain arm, which has
massed its delivery executives, to make sure they get their hands on their
phones right from 7 PM today. In fact, the ecommerce major says its executives
have fanned out across key cities to spring a surprise on some lucky customers
exactly when the clock strikes 7.

In a very personalised strategy brought to bear today, Flipkart CEO Binny Bansal
will turn into a delivery executives who will deliver the Apple iPhone 7 today
starting at 7 PM in Bangalore. The mystery is about who will be the first lucky
customer to get the first smartphone today?

