

Reports the iPhone 7 will be Apple's first without a headphone jack are
gathering credence after a Russian patent filing emerged detailing new wireless
headphones, called AirPods.

The new headphones, branded as "Apple" rather than "Beats", will connect to the
new iPhone using Bluetooth.

The filing was made to the regulatory body for the Eurasian Economic Union, the
EEC, which encompasses Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia and Belarus, and
was found by mobiletelefon.ru .

iPhones currently come bundled with Apple's earpod wired headphones.

iPhone 7: Release date, rumours, leaked images, price and all the latest news
about Apple's next iPhone

The iPhone 7 rumour we know is NOT true about the controversial headphone jack

Another headphone rumour from Deutsche Bank analysts by way of Business Insider,
suggests that Apple will include a special adaptor along with the iPhone 7
instead of a pair of headphones.

The audio dongle would presumably plug into the lightning port, meaning you
couldn't charge the iPhone whilst using a pair of wired headphones.

Apple is hosting an event on Wednesday 7 September in San Francisco, where it is
expected to showcase the iPhone 7 and a new version of the Apple Watch.

Apple Watch 2: Release date, price, specs and all the latest rumours about
Apple's next smartwatch

Persistent rumours include the removal of the white plastic antenna bands, which
stretch across the back of the current iPhone 6s generation, and waterproofing.

iPhone 7 launch date CONFIRMED - Apple to unveil its new smartphone next week

The physical home button could also be replaced by pressure-sensitive technology
used in newest MacBooks' trackpads, according to Bloomberg .

"Current home buttons are switches that physically press into the phone, but the
new models will have a pressure-sensitive button that provides feedback to the
user via a vibrating haptic sensation rather than a true physical click," it
said.

The new phone is expected to go on sale on 16 September, with pre-orders taken
from 9 September.

Apple's 2017 iPhone model could have a curved screen just like the Samsung
Galaxy S7 Edge

