

Even after allowing for the currency differential, Apple aficionados north of
the border will be paying more for the latest iPhone vis-#224;-vis their
American cousins.

The after-exchange markup for Canadian consumers amounts to 7 or 8 per cent,
depending on the phone's size and storage capacity, for the iPhone 7 series
without a contract.

That's for an iPhone 7 largely similar to the iPhone 6, although its features
include improved camera function, better sound, greater water and dust
resistance and longer battery life.

The phone starts at $899 (Canadian) and $649 (U.S.), with preorders beginning
Friday.

"It's certainly nice ... but it's not really that different," said Sentry
Investments vice-president Andy Nasr. "And look, it's pricey."

Apple typically defends profit margins on hardware even if premium pricing
dissuades some buyers - and it also reserves the right to adjust pricing when it
launches the iPhone 7s, likely in mid 2017.

Moreover, Nasr said customers in Canada can receive a rebate on their legacy
iPhones if they exchange the handset for an iPhone 7 or 7 Plus at an Apple
retail outlet. An Apple Canada spokesperson did not immediately respond to a
request for comment.

Nasr said pricing the iPhone for international markets hints at the challenges
volatile currencies present to U.S.-based multinationals amid a strong
greenback, adding that iPhone 7 prices may have been set when the loonie was
worth less than it is today.

He also noted that the U.S.-Canada price gap has narrowed slightly since launch
of the iPhone 6 two years ago.

Apple, meanwhile, expressed confidence that the new iPhone will sell out, even
though it will not disclose first-weekend preorder volume, calling it "no longer
a representative metric."

Apple on Wednesday announced iPhone and Apple Watch upgrades that analysts said
lack the innovative punch to drive a consumer upgrade cycle in a saturated
global market.

Some analysts said buyers should hold off on a new iPhone until 2017, when
Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple will likely unveil a more radically re-engineered,
possibly all-glass iPhone 8 to mark the 10th anniversary of the world's most
popular consumer electronics device.

"If (the iPhone 7) is just more memory and a slightly better camera, then
there's less motivation (to upgrade)," said technology consultant Chetan Sharma.

Apple's product refresh follows slightly better-than-expected fiscal
third-quarter earnings for the company on revenue and iPhone and iPad sales that
topped forecasts.

Apple has also forecast fiscal fourth-quarter revenue ahead of expectations and
could benefit this quarter from a Samsung Galaxy recall due to overheating
batteries.

But some analysts question the company's capacity for innovation, suggesting
that it lags rivals including Samsung in areas such as messaging and hardware
waterproofing.

A key Apple advantage, however, is its proprietary ecosystem and the iPhone's
ability to draw customers to other products such as the iPad, as well as to
Apple services including its mobile wallet and the App Store.

The company has posted sharp growth in its software services business in recent
quarters as it seeks to reduce reliance on hardware after an extraordinary year
that has seen a waning trajectory for iPhone sales and a recent decision by the
EU ordering repayment of billions in allegedly illegal tax benefits.

Apple marketing chief Phil Schiller told employees and media at the event that
the headphone jack will disappear on the iPhone 7 series, meaning users will
need to use wireless Bluetooth or a lightning port to physically connect
headphones.

Schiller called the controversial move courageous even as critics took to social
media to bemoan the inconvenience of a port converter and the potential loss in
sound quality via a wireless connection.

