

Click for image

Perhaps because of this past week's buzz about Apple Watch going on sale, the
iPhone 7 rumor mill has spit out relatively little for Apple fans and the media
to overreact about. About the biggest excitement has been figuring out if the
next phone will be called the iPhone 6C, 6S or 7.

Although the reason for that renaming is of interest. Namely, that Apple might
be planning to fit its next iPhone with a variation of the Force Touch
technology going into its Apple Watch and 12-inch Retina MacBook. Comments to
this effect from KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo made the rounds after he
issued a note to clients and the note was quoted by MacRumors: "We believe that
iPhone's Force Touch sensor doesn't directly detect the pressure applied by
fingers. Instead, it monitors the contact area on which the finger touches the
screen to decide how big the pressure is."

Such an advance would be waaaay too important to bury in a 6S iPhone, but would
be just right for an iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus (Kuo expects Apple to stick with
4.7- and 5.5-inch models, like with the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus).

And who's to argue with Kuo. He's been right on a number of Apple predictions
before, so much so that MacRumors cites his "respectable track record" and
International Business Times describes him as "renowned."

Though going with iPhone 7 would throw off a pattern of smartphone naming by
Apple in which it alternates going with straight number, then S model editions,
year by year.

If Apple is to make a major release of the iPhone 7 this year, its staff better
get cracking. Among the other things expected/hoped for in the next major iPhone
would be improved battery life, and Apple is said (by AppleInsider) to be hiring
plenty of new people to work on that, and water-proofing, as evidenced by a new
patent. Although Apple is expected to stick with LCD technology for its iPhone
displays rather than moving to OLED, as it has done for its smart watches, so
that could help move production along.

iPhone 6C speculation

All this speculation quickly buried buzz from earlier in the month after images
surfaced online of a supposed rear casing for an iPhone 6C, a new edition of
Apple's budget model iPhone. A bare-bones mobile blog called Future Supplier
initially shared the images, which some have suggested are Photoshopped, and in
true Upworthy form, tease readers with "You may get a shock by what we recently
found."

iDigital Times isn't sure it's buying the 6C photos. It notes that while there
are some slight differences between the 5C casing and the purported 6C one (such
as the hole where Apple's camera flash peeks out), it thinks the case would need
to be thicker to contain some of the 6C features at a time when Apple is
increasingly about thinning things down.

On to iPhone 8

If you're already tired of the 6 vs. 7 debate, then we invite you to take a look
at Mihael Merkler's vision of iPhone 8. The Macedonian designer has posted
images on the Behance site in which he envisions Apple bringing out a
laser-projected keyboard, allowing users to switch between battery-saving quad
core processor or a more powerful octo core processor, and packaging the whole
thing in glass, aluminum and carbon fiber.

