

Apple has unveiled the new iPhone 7, making the phone water resistant for the
first time, removing the headphone jack and providing wireless headphones.

The tech giant's chief executive Tim Cook announced the phone at an event in San
Francisco.

There's also a new version of the Apple Watch, called the Series 2.

The Watch, iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will go on sale on September 16, with
pre-orders beginning on Friday.

As was widely rumoured, Apple confirmed the removal of the headphone jack
connection on the base of the phone.

Instead, Apple said it now includes earphones in their boxes that connect to the
iPhone's Lightning connection, currently used for charging and data transfer.

An adaptor will also be included in the box that will enable traditional
headphone users to connect to the new iPhone and continue to use their existing
headset.

Some commentators had predicted a backlash from consumers if Apple completely
cut off wired connections in one move.

New "breakthrough" wireless EarPods called AirPods were also unveiled for those
wanting to go wireless.

The AirPods contain sensors that can tell when they are in a user's ears, and
can be connected to an iPhone or Apple Watch just by opening the smart box they
come in, that also charges them.

Apple said they would have five hours of battery life.

However, the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will ship with a pair of wired headphones that
plug into the charging port on the bottom of the device, as well as an adaptor
for people who want to hang onto their old headphones.

The wireless versions can be purchased for an additional £159.

A smoother, more metallic finish has been implemented, so the Jet Black version
of the iPhone 7 in particular looks a departure from previous generations.

A black finish has also been added alongside gold, silver and rose gold.

The iPhone 7 will also come with stereo speakers for the first time, with a
speaker now placed at the top and bottom of the device.

The iPhone 7 has also had its camera completely redesigned, with a much-rumoured
second lens being added to the larger iPhone 7 Plus that will enable users to
capture more zoomed images without losing picture quality. All the camera lenses
have also been given improved image stabilisation, a wider aperture that lets in
50% more light and a seven megapixel front-facing camera.

The lenses across the two phones now contain a 12 megapixel sensor.

It will allow the iPhone 7 Plus camera to capture depth-of-field, and separate
the background from the foreground to achieve amazing portraits once possible
only with DSLR cameras.

Both the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus have an IP67 rating, which means they are totally
protected against dust and can be immersed in water to a depth of 1 metre.

The new home button is "force-sensitive", meaning it provides haptic feedback
when you use it in different ways.

Apple also unveiled the Apple Watch Series 2 at its launch event, which looks
almost identical to its predecessor.

However, while the first Apple Watch was "splash" proof, the second edition
Series 2 is "swim" proof - completely water resistant to a depth of 50 meters,
in both swimming pools and open water.

The Apple Watch 2 also has built-in GPS, so it can record precise distance, pace
and speed for outdoor workouts such as walking, running or cycling.

The Apple Watch 2 is available in two different case sizes - 38 mm and 42 mm -
and three different colours - gold, rose gold, silver or space grey.

The Apple Watch 2 will be available in gold, rose gold, silver or space grey
aluminium, or silver or space black stainless steel cases paired with a wide
variety of bands starting at £369.In the UK, Apple said the iPhone 7 will be
available from a starting price of £599 for the cheapest 32GB option. The 128GB
version is £699 and the 256GB version will set you back a whopping £799.

Mr Cook said of the smartphone: "It has become the industry gold standard.

"iPhone is the phone by which all others are measured and it has become a
cultural phenomenon."

In July, the tech giant revealed it had sold the one billionth unit of the
device, while Mr Cook said the Apple Watch was now the world's second most
popular watch brand and most popular smartwatch.

The new batch of emojis is about to appear but there's still no Welsh flag

Many had predicted that the iPhone 7 would change little of Apple's smartphone,
with eyes on next year's 10th anniversary.

