

Washington

APPLE hasn't released any preorder numbers for its latest pair of iPhones, but
the company has let slip one nugget about sales: If you want the jet-black
iPhone, you may have to wait awhile.

The company says its iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus phones in the new, glossy black
finish will not be on shelves in Apple stores on Friday. It said in a statement
to The Washington Post: "We couldn't be happier with the initial response to
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

"During the online pre-order period, initial quantities of iPhone 7 Plus in all
finishes and iPhone 7 in jet black sold out and will not be available for
walk-in customers." The jet-black iPhone models come only in the phone's
higher-storage capacities, 128 gigabyte and 256 gigabyte.

Shoppers may have luck finding the jet-black phones at carrier stores or other
retail stores, such as Best Buy or Target, but are advised to call ahead of
going to the store or camping out in line, to ensure they can get what they
want.

The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus also comes in rose gold, gold, silver and Apple's
other black finish; the firm said shoppers will be able to find these hues in
Apple stores and other retail stores from Friday.

Those who really want the shiny jet-black finish can still order the phone they
want - though it will require patience. Orders for the jet-black iPhone on
Apple's website have shipping dates stretching into November.

Apple has said it will not release pre-order sales information for this pair of
smartphones, as had been its custom, because it thought that the phones will
sell out and that sales will be limited only by supply.

Skeptics have said that Apple's decision indicates it is worried that the latest
phones - which are more of an incremental update than many had hoped - will not
sell in the way that has come to be expected from Apple. It is a valid concern,
given that some may look at the new phones and decide not to upgrade so quickly.

Early statements from major US carriers, however, indicate that pre-orders are
on pace with past years or better. Verizon's executive vice-president Marni
Walden said at a mobile industry conference that iPhone preorders were "business
as usual", Bloomberg reported.

Meanwhile, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile have said that preorders are higher than
for the iPhone 6S.

Sprint, a smaller carrier, said pre-orders were "up more than 375 per cent" from
the first three days of iPhone sales last year. WP

