
DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Sept. 15 -- The disappearance of the 3.5mm audio socket and the
rework of the home button were already staple mentions on gossip columns and
tech websites much before the launch of the iPhone 7. Steve Jobs would have been
furious with such laxity.


 Yet, there are a few surprising new features in the pair of new iPhones that
Apple unveiled last week. Design is certainly not one of them. The overall look
and shape of the new iPhones have remained the same over the past three
iterations, save the changes to the antenna line in the new ones.
 So, should you go in for the upgrade if you already own an iPhone? And if you
are planning to jump ship from Android, are the upgrades in the iPhone 7 and 7
Plus worth emptying your wallet for upward of [#x20b9]60,000? Or should you wait
for that deal on the 6s?
 Design and display
 The screen on the iPhone 7 is the same Retina HD display as on the 6s - it's
just that it's now 25 per cent brighter and shows a wider gamut of colours.
 The new Home button with Taptic engine feedback could be an interesting
addition, but it is too fringe to become a factor influencing a buy call. A
similar point would be the new dust and water resistance feature, where Apple is
by now only a follower, not a trendsetter. The new Jet Black body finish looks
awesome in pictures, but our guess is that if you are a heavy user, the matt
black might be the one to choose. The super glossy Jet Black finish is
guaranteed to be prone to fingerprints and scratches.
 Upgraded camera
 The iPhone 7 gets a new 12MP camera with an f/1.8 aperture lens and optical
image stabilisation. This is a big jump in performance over the 6s, because the
new lens will allow more light into the sensor (50 per cent more than 6s) and
the optical stabilisation will deliver much better results than the kind of
stabilisation that can be achieved by software. So, low light photography should
produce much better, less grainy results. Flash photos should be better too
thanks to the the quad LEDs. But, it is the iPhone 7 Plus that gets two cameras
positioned side by side and both 12MP each. This arrangement is meant to deliver
greater depth to your photos and to be able to generate that key 'Bokah' effect
for portraits and close-ups. But, one capability that will be unique to the 7
Plus is optical zoom upto 2X.
 The new cameras are great but unless you're quite a phone photography
enthusiast, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus cameras are fantastic in themselves. There
are a lot of apps that can also help add depth and Bokeh in post-processing.
 Processor power
 The iPhone 7's new A10 Fusion chip offers an incremental improvement in
processing power, graphics speeds and battery efficiency. The numbers are only
impressive compared to the iPhone 6 and much less attractive when compared to
the 6s. So, unless you are an Apple loyalist or a performance addict, the 6s'
performance should suffice from the perspective of processing power. That would
be the recommendation even if you are big into gaming on your phone.
 But, the reason the iPhone 7 could be more attractive is the doubling of
memory. With apps taking over our lives, the need for higher capacity has never
been more urgent. And there are no memory cards with Apple devices, so the
larger capacity is most welcome. With the iPhone 7's camera capable of shooting
in RAW format and also taking 4K videos the larger memory will definitely be
useful. Many of today's games take up space and even their updates (like Asphalt
8 Airborne's) are larger than 1GB.
 Sound of music
 The stereo speakers on the iPhone 7 are welcome, not so the elimination of the
3.5mm audio socket. But then, you can't complain since Apple is including the
lightning to 3.5mm adapter in the box. Also, with the lighting socket doubling
up as the audio port and with the possibility of it delivering power for
headphones with active noise cancellation, this could turn out to be a blessing
eventually.
 Down to cash
 True iPhone fans need little persuasion to move to the next version. But it
comes down to whether you want to spend the cash on an iteration of what already
works quite well. If you're using a really old version of the iPhone, and can
spare the money, certainly look at the new iPhone 7's. If not, wait for a good
deal on the iPhone 6s or 6s Plus. As far as software goes, the operating system
is now upgrading for everyone, with the release of iOS 10 and new features will
come in on old devices.

