
DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Apple's latest iPhone might be more notable for what's missing than what's been
added, as the tech giant tries to revive demand for its top-selling product and
nudge consumers closer to its vision of a wireless world.

That's a world where, in Apple's view, consumers will use the same wireless
earbuds to shift seamlessly from listening to music on their iPhone to talking
with their Apple Watch and other Apple gadgets.

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus unveiled Wednesday come with a faster processor, longer
battery life and better cameras - including a new dual lens system in the
pricier 7 Plus model that provides higher quality zooming. But the new phones
won't have the analog headphone jack that's been a staple for decades in just
about every consumer electronics device that can play audio.

Apple is betting its legions of loyal fans will embrace the shift - or that they
won't mind using a new style of earbuds that plug into the iPhone's "Lightning"
charging port.

The redesigned earbuds - with cord - will be included with the new iPhones. Also
in the box: an adapter that will let older headphones plug into the digital
charging port. But Apple would clearly prefer to push consumers to make the leap
into what it envisions as a "wireless future."

"The reason to move on is courage," Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice
president of worldwide marketing, said during the company's fall product event.
"The courage to move on and do something new that will benefit all of us."

As part of the transition, Apple introduced wireless "AirPods" that will sell
for

$160. They're powered by an Apple-designed processor and special software that
Schiller said will let users easily sync the wireless buds to their iPhone,
Apple Watch and other Apple devices. Apple is also promising a new line of
high-end wireless speakers from its Beats division.

Getting rid of the

3.5 millimeter headphone jack helped Apple make room for a second iPhone speaker
designed for playing stereo sound. The iPhone 7 is also water resistant, a
popular feature that rivals such as Samsung Electronics have already introduced.

Schiller portrayed the move to drop the headphone jack as a step toward
improving user experience. "It makes no sense to tether ourselves with cables to
our mobile devices," he said.

The company is trying to reverse its first decline in iPhone sales since the
company's founder, Steve Jobs, unveiled the trendsetting device in

2007. It's

also seen a drop in demand for the Apple Watch since its introduction last year.

Though the company sold nearly

92 million iPhones in the first six months of this year, that's about 15 percent
fewer than the same period last year. Industry analysts say the iPhone 6S and 6S
Plus, which Apple introduced last fall, didn't offer many compelling new
features over the previous year's models.

With the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, Apple could face a similar challenge.

Apple delivered virtually all the features that had been promised in news leaks
over recent weeks, but analyst Bob O'Donnell of Technalysis Research said the
changes from last year's iPhones were "modest" overall. The dual-lens camera in
the iPhone 7 Plus could be impressive, he said, but it's only available in the
larger and more expensive phone, limiting its appeal.

APPLE'S MAJOR ANNOUNCEMENTS

IPHONE 7 AND 7 PLUS: Apple's new iPhone is getting a faster processor, an
updated home button and will come with water and dust protection. Apple says the
iPhone 7 home button is now force sensitive, so responses can differ based on
how hard you press it. It's similar to what Apple has done with a trackpad in
its MacBook. Apple estimates that the 7 Plus will have an additional hour of
battery life compared to the 6S.

CAMERA: Camera improvements include a new flash with four LEDs rather than two
for greater brightness. High-end photographers can get images in RAW format,
which allows for more versatile editing, matching what many leading cameras now
have. The iPhone 7 Plus will have two lenses to boost the zoom capabilities of
the camera. The camera can now zoom in twice as much without losing sharpness.
Both cameras take 12 megapixel photos.

PRICING AND STORAGE: TheiPhone 7 will start at $650, the same as the 6S it
replaces. The larger Plus model is increasing to $770 from $750. They come in
silver, gold, rose gold, black andthe new jet-black finish. Storagehas been
doubled, so Apple joins rival phone makers in making the starter model 32
gigabytes, rather than 16 gigabytes before. Apple is doubling storage in
higher-priced models, too - to 128 and 256 gigabytes. The new phones will ship
Sept. 16, with orders to start this Friday.

- Associated Press

