

NEW DELHI: Apple Inc. finally put an end to all iPhone rumours by launching the
iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus smartphones. The handsets were announced in the
company's keynote event at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium.

Both the devices will be available starting September 16, 2016 in the US.The
Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus come in Silver, Gold, Rose Gold, Black and Jet
Black colour variants in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB storage versions. The company has
added the aluminium-finish Jet Black and mirrorless-finish Black variants
instead of the earlier Space Grey one. The phones will be available in India
from 7 October and the price starts at Rs 60,000 (32GB). There is also an iPhone
upgrade programme for users in the US, UK and China. The pre-orders in the US
starts this Friday and the shipping will commence from September 16.The antenna
lines, which previously ran across the back panel on top and bottom, now run on
the sides giving an overall cleaner look. Another feature hitting the iPhone
models for the first time is the IP67 rating signifying the fact that it is
water and dust resistant. The models also have a new home button which is now
touch sensitive and uses a new Taptic engine for better response. Besides
featuring stereo speakers with a high dynamic range the new handsets, the
handsets as rumoured before, have ditched the 3.5mm headphone jack and replaced
it with the Lightning port-based connectors. The iPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch
Retina HD display while the iPhone 7 Plus comes with a 5.5-inch Retina HD
display. The camera segment is governed by a new 12MP rear camera with a better
f/1.8 aperture, 6 Element lens, 4 flash LEDs, flicker sensor and more for a
better photography experience. The camera also makes use of an Image signal
processor to apply machine learning to distinguish between a human and an object
in the image and adjust its brightness, noise and more.It is worth noting that
while the iPhone 7 features a single 12MP rear camera, the larger screen variant
comes with two 12MP rear camera with 2x optical zooming capability upto 56mm.
Both sport a 7MP FaceTime camera for selfies and video chats. Talking about the
performance, the two iPhone 7 handsets are powered by the new quad-core Apple
A10 Fusion processor. The processor has two high performance cores and two high
efficiency cores for a longer battery life. It also has a new 6-core GPU which
is 50% faster than the Apple A9 processor. Apple also launched the Apple Watch 2
with new features and design.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

