

LET'S hit this one head on - the newiPhone 7has no audio jack, and lots of
people have made a lot of noise about how angry they are about it.

So, for the hard of understanding let me spell it out simply - any headphones
you have been using with a previous generation iPhone can be used with the
iPhone 7. Any of them. Any at all.

If you have wireless Bluetooth headphones, they will work with the iPhone 7.

If you have a set of headphones with a standard 3.5mm jack, you can still use
them - Apple provides an adapter (yes, in the box with every new iPhone 7, and
at no extra cost) so you can plug it into the iPhone's lightning port.

And even if you don't have any headphones at all, you are covered - there's a
set of (admittedly not very good) headphones with a lightning jack in the box
(yes, at no extra cost).

So, let's be clear about this, you can use ANY headphones you already have that
worked with any other smartphone with the iPhone 7, without spending a single
penny more.

The only slight drawback to the new iPhone 7 set-up is that you cannot plug in a
charger and a pair of headphones at the same time without using an iPhone dock,
or one of the third-party adapters springing up. When I say slight, I mean
slight.

So, now we've cleared that one up, what is the phone actually like...

The new colours for iPhone this year are black and black. Or rather, matte black
and shiny black (above left).

Both are stunning in the hand, with the matte version my favourite.

The shiny one - Apple calls it jet black - is a little bling for my tastes.

It looks as if it might be a little slippery, too, but actually the opposite is
true - although it is rather more prone to scratching than the other iPhone
colours, so don't expect it to stay pristine for long (and you can, of course,
still get silver, gold, and rose gold iPhones).

The speakers in the iPhone 7 are much-improved, and the phone is a lot louder
that its predecessors.

As well as producing sound from the bottom speaker when watching video or
listening to music, the iPhone 7 also has a speaker at the top of the device,
where the earpiece is next to the front-facing camera - so you get a more
clearly defined stereo effect.

It's not going to replace your hi-fi, but it's as loud and as good as many
Bluetooth speakers.

It is still, more than a week after I started testing the iPhone 7 Plus, weird
that the home button is not a real button.

It's a solid state circle that gives haptic feedback when pressure is applied to
it. It works well - but it does not feel like you are pressing a button.

It suggests that enough, though, for you to allow yourself to be fooled
(although it doesn't work as well when the phone is resting on a table, making
it quite hard to tell if you have pressed at all, and it won't work at all if
you gave gloves on).

The different behaviour of the home button in iOS 10 makes the experience of
unlocking the phone doubly different and not a little confusing at first.

There is no 'slide to unlock' - the phone now comes on automatically when you
pick it up, and you press the home button to unlock (it reads your fingerprint
if you use Touch ID, or the passcode entry screen pops up if you don't). It
takes some getting used to, but I'm finally there.

The cameras on the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are the best cameras you can get on a
smartphone.

The images they produce are stunning, and although they do not produce photos to
rival proper cameras with big sensors, there is now no need to buy a point and
shoot camera if you have one of these.

I'm less sold on the dual-lens system in the 7 Plus - which sports a normal
wide-angle lens and a telephoto lens.

The x2 magnification it provides isn't powerful enough to make owners of the
smaller iPhone 7 too jealous. And the x10 digital zoom is unusable.

My advice would be to zoom with your feet.

Well, the screen is brighter and better, with a wider colour range, and the
thing is a whole lot faster, as well as being water and dust resistant.

The battery life is better, too. In my testing, using the 7 Plus a lot more than
I usually would have, I've barely hit 50% of battery left at the end of the day.

You can get hold of an iPhone 7 usingApple's new upgrade programme, too. This
allows you to sign a two-year contract with Apple for a new phone (it's unlocked
so you can get your sim-only mobile service wherever you like), and pay for it
in monthly installments interest free. And after 11 months you can hand it back
to Apple and upgrade to the newest model. It's a bit like renting the phone, as
you just trade it in and sign a new two-year contract. If you opt not to
upgrade, and pay for the full two years, the phone is yours.

Is the iPhone 7 worth upgrading to? Of course it is. Everything is better than
the previous generation, and all the things we all do with our mobiles these
days can be done more quickly, and with better quality.

It might look a lot like an iPhone 6 S, but it's enough of a step up for me to
say - go for it.

