

NEW DELHI: Apple is almost as well-known for its product marketing campaigns as
it is for its iPhones, and the company's product marketing (e.g. videos,
branding) is generally among the best out there. However, everyone can make
mistakes and Apple just made quite an amusing one.The company recently launched
its iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus smartphones at its keynote event, held at the
Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, California. The company has
chosen a rather straightforward sounding slogan - This is 7, for its new
smartphones.

As it turns out, it's not that straightforward when translated to
Cantonese.China is among the Cupertino-based tech company's biggest markets and
Apple products are hugely popular there. But the company's 'This is 7' slogan
translates to something rather 'naughty' in Cantonese, the dominant dialect of
Chinese spoken in Hong Kong, a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China.In
Cantonese, 'seven' is pronounced as tsat, which is also slang for the male
genitalia. So the literal translation of the iPhone 7's slogan turns out to be
'This is Penis'. Not exactly the kind of marketing we think Apple was aiming
for.Apple is yet to take a corrective action (that is, if it feels that an
action is necessary) but it seems that people in Hong Kong are enjoying this. As
per a report in Quartz website, a Hong Konger, who is seemingly not happy with
iPhone's new design, commented in a Facebook post about the Chinese translations
of the phone's new slogan that already has 39,000 reactions.Apple recently
launched its iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus smartphones. In terms of specifications,
the iPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch display with 3D touch, whereas the iPhone 7
Plus has a 5.5-inch Retina HD display (again, with 3D Touch). Both smartphones
are powered by a new quad-core Apple A10 Fusion processor, which the company
claims is 40% faster than the A9 chipset that powers Apple iPhone 6s and iPhone
6s Plus.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

