

APPLE DOESN'T know jack about headphones.

With the introduction of its new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus - which start at
$649 and $769 respectively - Apple is phasing out the 3.5-mm. headphone port
standard on virtually every other smartphone.

Instead, the tech giant is urging its famously loyal customers to pony up for a
pair of plastic-fantastic "AirPods" that wirelessly connect to the new phones -
for a cool $159 a pop.

The move is nothing less than a profile in courage, to hear it from a top Apple
exec.

"Courage," Phil Schiller, the company's senior vice president, said at a
much-hyped Wednesday unveiling, "the courage to move on to do something new that
betters all of us."

Apple will begin taking preorders for the latest version of its wildly popular
iPhone on Friday, with the first devices shipping on Sept. 16.

For those who don't want to fork over the extra scratch for the AirPods, the new
iPhones will be boxed with earbuds that plug not into a 3.5-mm. hole, but the
devices' "Lightning" ports. You'll also be able to plug your old earbuds into
the new phones with the use of an adapter known by the not-so-elegant name of
"dongle."

Fans have already started to give Apple an earful about the new gear. Twitter
was full of remarks saying the AirPods are the perfect accessory to lose on the
subway, among other problems.

As far as new features go, the larger iPhone 7 Plus packs three cameras - dual
wide-angle and telephoto lenses on the back and a selfie camera on the front -
while the iPhone 7 maintains the standard of two cameras.

The new line comes in five finishes, including Apple's usual gold, silver and
rose gold colors. The company replaced its charcoal-like "space gray" with a new
deep matte shade simply called black. Apple also rolled out a glossy "jet black"
finish - the first shiny iPhone since its glass-back iPhone 4S and its
candy-colored plastic iPhone 5c.

Both of the latest versions of the iPhone also have a storage boost. Their
memory capacity starts at 32 gigabytes, while previous generations offered a
16-GB option. The biggest phone will hold 256 GB, twice the maximum storage of
older models.

Apple also unveiled a water-resistant version of its Apple Watch on Wednesday.

The $369 Apple Watch Series 2 is water-resistant up to 150 feet. The previous
generation of the device was merely splash-proof.

The new model also features a faster processor and a built-in GPS system,
replacing the old watch's work-around way of using the GPS system of the iPhone
it's paired with. The new technology means users can navigate running, biking
and hiking trails without lugging their phones with them.

Series 2 comes in aluminum, stainless steel and white ceramic finishes and can
be paired with any Apple Watch band. A special model designed with Nike, the
Apple Watch Nike Plus, features a breathable band and a lightweight aluminum
body.

The original Apple Watch - which now features a snappier processor and is
rebranded as the Series 1 - will cost $269.

mwagner@nydailynews.com

Sidebar:

WHAT THEY COST

iPhone 7: Starts at $649

iPhone 7 Plus: Starts at $769

Apple Watch Series 2: $369

AirPod headphones: $159

WHAT YOU GET

iPhone 7: More storage, a new home button, improved mobile payment service, new
colors.

iPhone 7 Plus: All that, along with three cameras.

Apple Watch Series 2: Water resistance, faster processor than original model,
own GPS, new looks.

AirPods: No wires, but worries about getting lost.

WHY PEOPLE

WANT 'EM

iPhone 7: Keeping up with the Joneses, of course.

iPhone 7 Plus: Ability to snap high-res, wide-angle pix.

Apple Watch Series 2: You don't have to lug iPhone to get GPS.

AirPods: They love looking for small lost items.

