

Click for image

Much of this past week in iPhone 7 rumorville was occupied with rehashing and
debunking a lot of the most popular scuttlebutt (dual cameras, no more 3.5mm
headphone jack, etc.) about Apple's next flagship smartphone, which is expected
to debut in September.

Plenty continues to be said as well about how boring the new iPhones promise to
be (though Apple will need to try really hard to make it duller than its recent
Worldwide Developers Conference bounty). Macworld's Macalope column rips into
those who don't have faith in Apple to do the right thing, including a writer
for The Verge who urges Apple shoppers to have "Have some dignity" over buying
what Apple is reportedly selling this time around.

"If there is anything that more represents dignity than a headphone jack then
the Macalope hasn't heard of it," The Macalope quips, referring to the outrage
over Apple possibly ditching the traditional. 3.5mm headphone jack in iPhone 7.

MORE:14 fascinating facts about Apple's iPhone

One point that has increasingly begun to get mentioned is that Apple is going to
hold off on the really good stuff until next year, when the iPhone turns 10.

"Next year marks the tenth anniversary of the original iPhone. There's no
question Apple was going to save its big new launch for 2017, and according to
rumors it's indeed going to be big," writes Yahoo Tech.

Cranking out iPhone 7s

While we might need to wait until next year for the really exciting new iPhone
features (curved screen, etc.), rumor has it that Apple has already begun
cranking up production of the iPhone 7.

Super-leaker OnLeaks tweeted out that "Mass production of 4.7" #iphone7 has
slowly started at Pegatron factory..." and various sites, such as Phones Review,
ran with that. FoxConn is perhaps the better known Apple manufacturer of iPhones
.

There's no turning back now, and leaked images of iPhone 7 could be coming
faster and more furiously now.

Touchy subject: iPhone 7 home button

New leaks surfacing on the Mobipicker website supposedly show the front of an
iPhone 7 and point to the traditional home button being replaced by a
touch-sensitive pad built right into the display.

"Sources say the new 'button' will be flush with the body of the smartphone,
instead of protruding from the bottom bezel, and users will have to perform
tapping actions to activate specific functions," according to the UK Daily Mail.

Forbes contributor Gordon Kelly mentions that "learning new combinations could
prove problematic," but that getting rid of a moving part should enhance the
iPhone's durability.

And if Apple really is going to stretch out the time between when it releases
major iPhone upgrades, customers might start weighing durability higher than
style in the years ahead.

