

The iPhone 7 is Apple's best iPhone yet, but would I go out of my way to buy it?
The phone's signature feature is the dumping of the standard audio port and its
replacement with a second speaker for stereo sound.

It's Apple's most controversial change, given that the 3.5mm connector has been
part of iPhone since i2007. Existing headsets are potentially redundant with the
port axed.

To save the day, Apple says it will ship iPhone 7/7 Plus with -special earpods
that plug into the remaining lightning connector. It also will ship a lightning
adaptor for existing earpods and headset with iPhone 7.

This will do the job, but again iPhone devotees are being asked to carry around
an awkward adapt-or if they want connectivity.

Absence of the 3.5mm socket means there is room in the phone for a second
speaker and stereo sound. Alternatively, you can use a Bluetooth headset, and
Apple has this option covered with headsets available from Beats Electronics,
which it bought in 2014.

Using Bluetooth can be a frustrating experience; sometimes headsets don't pair
or take a lot of fiddling to pair with a handset.

To overcome this, Apple has developed a "W1" chip that it says revolutionises
wireless connectivity, with it happening in a flash.

Of all the technology on display, the W1 chip is something that could
revolutionise Bluetooth connectivity and benefit us all. It's an innovation that
I felt was truly disruptive.

In other ways, iPhone 7 is a case of playing catch-up. Sure, it is
water-resistant and dustproof and capable of surviving rain.

But it's not as highly rated as this year's Samsung Galaxy S7 phones, which can
be used in water. There are reports that Apple's warranty doesn't cover -liquid
damage.

The fact that iPhone storage has been upgraded with 32GB, 128GB and 256GB
options again is compensation for Android offering 256GB extra storage.

Apple's upgrade to the camera on iPhone 7 brings the promise of better
lower-light photos with a wider-aperture lens. On iPhone 7 Plus you get two
lenses: a wide-angle lens and telephoto lens that work seamlessly to offer
optical magnification and stabilisation on both models. But Apple has had to
respond to Android cameras that outperformed iPhone 6s.

I doubt I'd feel compelled to buy iPhone 7, but if I'm an Apple user already,
iPhone 7 and 7 Plus may be enough to stop me defecting to the Android
opposition.

Chris Griffith travelled to Apple's launch in San Francisco courtesy of
AppleLIFE P12

