

Apple has unveiled the new iPhone 7, having made the phone water resistant for
the first time and removed the headphone jack.

The tech giant's chief executive Tim Cook announced the phone at an event in San
Francisco, though a social media glitch saw the firm's Twitter account - only
recently activated - accidentally reveal the news early.

A new version of the Apple Watch, called the Series 2 and with greater focus on
health and exercise tracking, was also announced, including a special Nike+
version for runners.

The Watch, iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will go on sale on September 16, with
pre-orders for the devices beginning on Friday.

As was widely rumoured, Apple confirmed the removal of the headphone jack
connection on the base of the phone.

Instead, Apple said it now includes earphones in their boxes that connect to the
iPhone's Lightning connection, currently used for charging and data transfer.

An adaptor will also be included in the box that will enable traditional
headphone users to connect to the new iPhone and continue to use their existing
headset.

Some commentators had predicted a backlash from consumers if Apple completely
cut off wired connections in one move.

New "breakthrough" wireless EarPods called AirPods were also unveiled for those
wanting to go wireless.

The AirPods contain sensors that can tell when they are in a user's ears, and
can be connected to an iPhone or Apple Watch just by opening the smart box they
come in, that also charges them.

Apple said they would have five hours of battery life.

The iPhone 7 will also come with stereo speakers for the first time, with a
speaker now placed at the top and bottom of the device.

The iPhone 7 has also had its camera completely redesigned, with a much-rumoured
second lens being added to the larger iPhone 7 Plus that will enable users to
capture more zoomed images without losing picture quality.

The lenses across the two phones now contain a 12 megapixel sensor.

Mr Cook said of the smartphone: "It has become the industry gold standard.

"iPhone is the phone by which all others are measured and it has become a
cultural phenomenon."

In July, the tech giant revealed it had sold the one billionth unit of the
device, while Mr Cook said the Apple Watch was now the world's second most
popular watch brand and most popular smartwatch.

The new batch of emojis is about to appear but there's still no Welsh flag

Many had predicted that the iPhone 7 would change little of Apple's smartphone,
with eyes on next year's 10th anniversary.

However, the tech giant unveiled new smartphones that not only are different in
how they are made, but also in some of their core features.

A smoother, more metallic finish has been implemented, so the Jet Black version
of the iPhone 7 in particular looks a departure from previous generations.

A black finish has also been added alongside gold, silver and rose gold.

The home button on the phone has also been given Apple's vibration-based taptic
engine that responds to a user's touch.

In terms of the second generation Apple Watch the company revealed it was making
the wearable "swim-proof" for the first time.

The new Watch comes with a speaker that is able to eject any water that gets
inside the speaker grill.

Apple has patented an infrared blocker to stop people taking pictures and videos
at concerts

Apple chief Tim Cook said that since launching the Apple Watch in 2015, it has
become the second most popular watch brand globally and the most popular
smartwatch.

Called Apple Watch Series 2, Apple has completely overhauled the internals of
the device, with a new display as well as a new processor that makes the Watch
"up to 50%" faster, Apple's Jeff Williams said.

Apple also revealed that built-in GPS will appear on the wearable for the first
time, enabling users to run without needing to take their phone with them.

