

The new iPhone7 is expected to be revealed to the world later on today.

Tech giant Apple usually updates its smartphone lineup in early September so it
can see out the end of the year on a high.

Apple sent out invitations last week for an event that is taking place at 6pm UK
time today.

Highlights are likely to include a new dual-camera and the loss of the headphone
port.

Apple launches new smaller and cheaper iPhone - the iPhone SE

But what else do we know?

Apple have sent out invitations for an event next week, they are for September 7
and it is widely expected that the new iPhone will be unveiled today.

The event is taking place in San Francisco's Bill Graham Civic Auditorium at
10am, which will be 6pm in the UK.

Apple often likes to include a hidden message in its invitations, but this one
gives very little away. It carries the tagline "See you on the 7th" - which may
allude to the name of the iPhone 7, as well as the date.

It also features a number of translucent coloured dots outlining the top portion
of Apple's logo, which may relate to the rumour that Apple is planning to
introduce new coloured handsets.

However, the dots could also be water droplets, which would be relevant if Apple
was planning to launch a waterproof iPhone.

There have been lots of rumours and several supposed leaks of images, but they
do not really show very much. All you can make out is what the casing or
materials that are believed to be in the new smartphone look like.

It has been reported that you can get it in silver, gold and rose gold. It is
also likely to come in two different sizes - one with a 4.7-inch display, and
one with a 5.5-inch display.

Not much is expected to change as Apple is tipped to be saving up big design
changes for the 2017 iPhone which will mark the iPhones 10th anniversary.

But it is thought that the new phones will have a new dual-camera at the rear
(it's been described as "a monumental leap forward in smartphone camera
quality"), and there will be no headphone jack so it can be skinnier than ever.
It means users will have to buy an adaptor that lets them plug headphones in.

Well-connected analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI Securities has issued a new research
note, claiming that the iPhone 7 will include one very useful feature for photo
fanatics.

The phone will reportedly have four LED flash lights - two in cool colours, and
two in warm colours - and an ambient light sensor.

While the iPhone 6S camera is widely praised, it still struggles to take good
photos in low-light situations. These additions should theoretically improve
image quality.

Rumours also suggest that Apple is planning to ditch its pitifully small 16GB
storage option in favour of a more generous 32GB base model.

Apple has patented an infrared blocker to stop people taking pictures and videos
at concerts

While most people expect Apple's next iPhone to be called the iPhone 7, some
leaks suggest that Apple may opt for the name "iPhone 6SE" instead or iPhone7
Plus.

The name iPhone 6SE would make sense, given that most of the rumours point to
Apple's next iPhone being an iterative update rather than a major design
overhaul.

However, some rumours suggest Apple is going with iPhone 7, "to avoid
confusion".

The home button has become one of Apple's most iconic design features. And while
some rumours say Apple will ditch the home button, others suggest it's getting a
revamp.

According to Bloomberg Technology , the new iPhones will use pressure-sensitive
technology from Macbook computers for the home button.

"Current home buttons are switches that physically press into the phone, but the
new models will have a pressure-sensitive button that provides feedback to the
user via a vibrating haptic sensation rather than a true physical click,"
explains the site.

"This mechanism is similar to that of the trackpads on the latest MacBook line."

The new batch of emojis is about to appear but there's still no Welsh flag

Meanwhile, pictures surfaced recently that appear to show a version of the phone
with a completely blank front panel. They seem to suggest that Apple will drop
its famous home key in favour of an on-screen button.

The misery of dropping your iPhone down the toilet could soon be over as the
latest rumours suggest Apple's next iPhone could be completely waterproof.

According to a report in the China-based  Commercial Times  , Apple is working
on a new "compound material" that repels water for use in its forthcoming iPhone
.

This new material will also reportedly remove the need for the two strips of
plastic that run across the back of the current generation of iPhones to allow
mobile signals to reach the antennas.

This suggests that the body of the next iPhone may not be made from metal at
all, but some other kind of material that allows radio waves to pass through it.

This picture appears to give us our clearest view yet of what the iPhone 7 will
look like.

Emerging on Chinese social media, it shows a device that's very similar to the
current iPhone 6s, albeit with a couple of small changes.

Firstly, the camera lens is clearly bigger - which holds true to rumours the
tech giant is improving the on-board snapper.

Secondly, the lines across the back have been removed.

These lines currently allow radio signals to pass through the metal casing and
reach the antennas. However, it looks like Apple may be planning to redesign the
case to get around this restriction.

It could be a risky move though, as last time Apple messed with its antennas,
things didn't end well. - remember #antennagate?

Because the new iPhone will likely arrive with Apple's iOS 10 software and an
upgraded processor, it will offer even more power and better efficiency.

According to Kuo, the iPhone 7 will boast a next-generation A10 processor that
could be as fast as 2.4GHz - a dramatic increase over the existing A9 chip.

At the moment, we don't know what kind of battery the iPhone 7 will use - but at
least there's now a Low Power Mode built into iOS 9 to help it last even longer.
We expect this will continue into an updated version of iOS.

It is expected to go on pre-order straight after the launch on September 7, and
it is likely to go on sale in the UK on September 16.

The price is widely reported to be £539 for a 16GB version, £619 for 64GB, and
£699 for the 128GB iPhone 7. Rumour has it, though, that there may well be a
256GB model of iPhone 7, although that's unlikely. If there is, however, expect
it to be well into the region of £800.

