

The wait is finally over - and Apple have FINALLY unveiled their forthcoming
smartphone, the iPhone 7.

The eagerly-anticipated handset was launched at an event streamed live across
the globe from San Francisco.

All eyes were on the tech giant, who certainly didn't disappoint when unveiling
the new smartphone, which has been dubbed "ground-breaking" by critics.

There are a raft of new features and colours to take advantage of - and Apple
supremo Tim Cook revealed that the new phone will be available to pre-order on
Friday, September 9.

And, as if that wasn't enough, the smartphone will start shipping on September
16.

All of the major UK networks are making the iPhone 7 available to its customers.

Happy days!

Best iPhone 6 and iPhone 6S deals after Apple launch iPhone 7

If you decide to buy the phone outright, the iPhone 7 will be available from a
starting price of £599 for the cheapest 32GB option.

The 128GB version is £699 and the 256GB version will set you back an
eye-watering £799.

The larger iPhone 7 Plus, meanwhile, will cost £719 at the cheapest level,
followed by a 128GB model at £819, and then a 256GB variant costing an
unbelievable £919 in the UK.

iPhone messages set for MAJOR changes with iOS 10 - all you need to know

Customers will only be able to capitalise on the iPhone's CAT 9 functionality on
EE.

This is because of EE's high-speed, high-capacity EE 4G+ network - allowing
customers to achieve maximum speeds of up to 400Mbps.

EE's Cat 9 network is rolling out now and will reach 500+ sites by December
2017.

If you choose to buy the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus on Three, you will benefit
from 4G at no extra cost where available.

Also, their Feel at Home function lets you call, text and use data in 42
countries abroad both in and outside of Europe (including the USA and Australia)
as if you were in the UK, at no extra cost.

Vodafone, meanwhile,  offer ultrafast 4G network and Network Satisfaction
Guarantee which gives you the freedom to experience the strength and quality of
Vodafone's network for up to 30 days before you fully commit.

