

India's largest 4G network, Reliance Jio has now partnered with Apple to
increase the demand for its 4G VoLTE services. In case you have been living
under a rock, Jio 4G network was commercially launched on September 5, and
offers unlimited everything (voice and data) under the 'Jio Welcome Offer' till
31 December 2016. Owners of all 4G phones can get their free Jio SIM for
availing the benefits under this offer.

As per the latest announcement, Jio will offer free services to anyone
purchasing a new iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus, and the
iPhone SE.

"Today's announcement brings together India's best premium 4G network with the
incredible iPhone experience," said Mathew Oommen, President of Jio.

The company also stated that it would be for the first time that the mobile
subscribers in India would be able to watch 300+ live TV channels, and have
buffer-free FaceTime and HD voice calling.

To be eligible for this complementary offer which will kick in from 1 January
2017, the customers will have to buy an iPhone from Reliance Digital, or Apple
Premium Resellers (APR), or Apple Authorized Resellers (AAR).

Jio's Mouth-watering Offer For iPhone Buyers

The 'Jio iPhone Offer' will be valid from 1 January 2017 and the iPhone buyers
will get the same benefits as Rs. 1,499 Jio Prepaid plan.

The iPhone users will not only get free and unlimited voice including STD and
while roaming, but will also get 20 GB monthly 4G data plus 40 GB WiFi data.
Other benefits include unlimited local and national SMS, 30 minutes of ISD calls
along with a rate cutter plan, and Rs. 1,250 worth of subscription to Jio apps.

To incentivize the purchases at its own stores, Jio is also offering its iPhone
customers Reliance Retail coupons worth Rs. 15,000. To motivate repeat
purchases, the buyers would also be offered 10% discount on their second
transaction at Reliance Retail stores.

iPhone Buyers Would Get The Best Of Jio Everywhere

The iPhone buyers would not only be able to enjoy home delivery and doorstep SIM
activation, but would also get "Express Priority Experience" at Jio stores.

On the other hand, the Enterprise customers would get an exclusive discount on
the above listed iPhone models along with special tariff plans.

It is worth noting that Airtel had announced extra 10 GB 3G or 4G data per month
valid for 12 months for all iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus on any Airtel Infinity
plan, but Jio has one-up this with its 'iPhone Offer'.

If you are planning to get yourself an iPhone, then which service provider would
you chose- Airtel for its reliable network or Jio for its wide-spread 4G
network?

TagsApple Iphone iPhone 7 Jio 4G Services JIO SIM

