

Apple has confirmed the date of its next big launch event where it is widely
expected to unveil the iPhone 7.

They've sent out media invitations for an event on September 7 - at the usual
time of 10am in San Francisco (6pm in the UK).

It's set to take place at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, but the invite for
journalists doesn't give many clues to what's going to happen - unlike normal.

It simply says "see you on the 7th" - which has led to speculation the iPhone 7
will indeed be launched.

The background of translucent coloured bubbles may relate to the rumour that
Apple is planning to bring in new coloured handsets.

Some people have also speculated they could be water droplets - pointing to a
possible waterproof iPhone.

Tech news sites and blogs have been posting rumour upon rumour about the new
iPhone for months. Leaks from what appear to be people involved in the
production of the iPhone have kept the interest up.

The most persistent (and controversial) rumour is that Apple is going to get rid
of the headphone socket.

This means you will either have to buy a pair of headphones that use a Lightning
cable, get an adapter, or use Bluetooth headphones.

The iPhone 7 is on the way - here's what to expect

There are a lot of rumours that the iPhone 7 will get a camera upgrade - but
this may only apply to the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus, not the 4.7-inch iPhone 7.

The rumour is that it the larger iPhone will get a dual-lens camera that will be
able to snap SLR-quality photos and 3D images.

There has been a lot of talk about Apple removing the Home button, but the
latest rumours suggest this will be a key feature of next year's model.

Instead, Apple could add some pressure-sensitivity to the Home button, meaning
it will perform different functions depending on how hard you press it.

The latest leaked pictures suggest that Apple is going to get rid of the plastic
lines that run across the back of the iPhone.

These lines currently allow radio signals to pass through the metal casing and
reach the antennas. However, it looks like Apple may be planning to redesign the
case to get around this restriction.

There is some suggestion that the iPhone 7 will be waterproof. Smartphone rivals
like Samsung already make waterproof phones - and this is a big selling point
for people prone to clumsiness.

Apple has improved the water-resistance of its devices in recent years, but it
yet to release a fully waterproof phone.

Earlier rumours suggested that the new handset will no longer come in a 16GB
model - but that the top-of-the-range iPhone will now offer 256GB of storage.

It's also expected to feature fast-charging technology - meaning your phone will
get several hours of battery life from just a few minutes of charging.

Finally, there have been several leaked pictures purporting to show a blue
iPhone 7, suggesting Apple may be considering different colour options.

