

The smartphone market evolves at the blink of an eye and the long-standing,
dominant players are getting ready to battle it out on the field. Keeping to the
trend of launching new and innovative products and services, Google recently
launched its new series of smartphones - Pixel. Marking a clear break from their
much sought-after Nexus series, the new range of Pixel phones have prospective
users excited about its highly advanced features - both internal and external -
that are sure to give its major opponents like Apple and Samsung the competition
of a lifetime.

The multi-billion dollar conglomerate has been releasing a series of new
products, which include Google Allo and Google Trips, which have the majority of
the market tilting towards its favour. But Apple is quick to keep up and release
its own set of products with modified features to lure these very same people
back into its lair. The flaming battle between Apple and Android loyalists has
led to many virtual showdowns, but the real question comes down to which of the
two's recent releases fares better in the market - the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus or
the Google Pixel?

Although we do not profess loyalty towards any one company over the other,
here's why we think that Apple's iPhone fares better than the Google Pixel.

Design

Although both the Google Pixel and the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus smartphones look
similar in terms of polishing, there are some factors in which the latter
outperforms the former. The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus have their home buttons at the
bottom of the front screen, and the iPhone 7 weighs a good 20 grams lighter than
the Pixel phone, making it lighter on the pocket (only literally). The new set
of iPhones comes in a variety of unique colours like Jet Black, Matte Black,
Silver, Gold and Rose Gold. The Pixel phones, on the other hand, appear only in
three shades - 'Quite Black', 'Very Silver' and 'Really Blue'.

Water resistance

The natural klutzes that we are, we often get caught in the rain with our phones
in our pockets, or we unconsciously place them on wet counter-tops, only to
realise this after some serious damage. Here, too, Apple traced consumer
behaviour and made the new series water-proof, sparing us the trouble of waiting
for hours and spending a fortune on getting our phones repaired at the service
store. However, Pixel does not offer the same luxury and offers no safeguard to
everyday damages to the smartphone.

Raw power

The iPhone 7 uses a superior A10 fusion processor that the company boasts of as
being "the most powerful chip ever used in a smartphone". According to various
benchmark tests, the A10 processor offers a significantly higher single-core
performance among its competition and a modestly enhanced multi-core
performance. With official records stating that this makes the iPhone 7 and 7
Plus twice as fast as the iPhone 6, the former seems to have an edge in the
market when it comes to raw power. In comparison, the Google Pixel carries a
Qualcomm Snapdragon 821 system-on-a-chip, which, though the company promises a
10 percent improvement in processing speed over the Snapdragon 820 that
smartphones like the One Plus 3 and the HTC 10 currently support, does not seem
to boast of the same core performance speed as the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.

Storage

The new set of iPhones offers a storage package of 32, 128 and 256 GB compared
to the earlier iPhones that began with the set of 16, 32 and 128 GB. In
comparison, the Google Pixel offers a storage package of 32 and 128 GB, tilting
the odds in favour of the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, considering the vast amount of
data that everyday users are now privy to save on their devices.

Camera and updates

One of the primary selling features of the iPhone 7 Plus is that it offers a
dual-real-lens camera with a 12 megapixel wide-angle and telephoto features,
with an optical zoom of 2x and digital zoom up to 10x. Although Google Pixel too
offers a 12-megapixel rear camera and has the advantage of an 8-megapixel front
camera, compared to the iPhone's 7-megapixel, it boasts of no dual-lens feature
that has your everyday picture-lovers bouncing in their seats.

