

Ending round-the-clock rumours that had sent the world of technology into a
tizzy for quite some time now, Apple on Wednesday unveiled its stunning iPhone 7
and iPhone 7 Plus along with next-generation 'Apple Watch Series 2' at the
jam-packed Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco. On stage, Apple made
much of the new design, Chief Design Officer of Apple Inc, Jony Ivy stressed
that the device has been painstakingly perfected to be as clean and beautiful as
possible, and on multiple occasion he called the new iPhone as 'the best iPhone'
ever made.

Here the key takeaways from Apple's iPhone 7 launch event:

1)In what has become an annual ritual, Apple unveiled two upgraded versions of
its flagship smartphone while keeping prices roughly the same.

2) Apple CEO Tim Cook said Apple Watch has topped rankings consistently.

(Image: The Apple iPhone7 and AirPods are displayed during an Apple media event
in San Francisco, California, US)

3) A total of 140 billion App Store downloads have happened so far.

4) 17 million Apple Music subscribers compared to 39 million for Spotify.

5) Apple iWork suite of software, including word processing, processing,
spreadsheet and presentation programs, will include real-time collaboration
features for the first time. It's something Google and Microsoft already offer
in some form. Although Apple's iWork package allows syncing through iCloud, it's
has been primarily for one person to work on documents at a time. The software
is available for iPhones, iPads and Mac computers, with a web version for
Windows users.

6) A Pokemon Go app is coming to Apple Watch. The app lets you collect items
from Pokestops, hatch eggs and alert you to nearby Pokemon (you still need your
phone to catch actual Pokemon). It will be shipping before the end of the year.

7) Apple made a splash by announcing jointly with Nintendo that "Super Mario
Run" -- featuring the iconic game character and developed specifically for
mobile -- will hit the App Store this year.

8) The upgraded Apple Watch will include water resistance to 50 meters and GPS,
to allow users to track a workout without bringing along a smartphone. Apple is
also introducing new designs including one co-branded with Nike aimed at runners
and new styles for its Hermes edition.

9) Apple Watch Series 2 will be priced at Rs 32,900 and will be available in
Gold, Rose Gold, Silver/Space Grey aluminium and Silver/Space Black stainless
steel colour options.

10) Apple Watch Nike+ edition announced. The Nike+ edition also has the same
price. However, the Ceramic edition of the Apple Watch Series 2 starts at a
hefty Rs 1,10,900.

11) Apple has sold over 1 billion iPhones.

12) The iPhone 7 is dust and water resistant. It adheres to IP67 rating. iPhone
7 has used robots to spin the aluminum bodies through sand to make it insanely
shiny. There will be a total of five colours including the new Jet Black
feature.

13) iPhone 7 has a 12 megapixel sensor that is 60% faster. iPhone 7 also has a
quad-LED flash with 50% light output, and can detect for the imperceptible
flickering of energy efficient lights. Each camera on iPhone 7 has a different
focal length, allowing users to pick between shooting photos with a wide-angle
or a telephoto lens. The iPhone 7 Plus will also be able to do some software
tricks using those two different focal lengths.

14) While Apple will allow consumers to use plug-in headsets, it also made a
further push for wireless with new "AirPods" and upgraded Beats headphones. Both
will use Apple's W1 chip and Class 1 Bluetooth wireless connectivity.

15) The new A10 64-bit quad-core CPU powers the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

16) Apple iPhone 7 starts at $649 (Rs 43,200 approx). Will be available in 32GB,
128GB and 256GB internal storage.

17) Apple is releasing a new mobile operating system called iOS 10, aimed at
working with the new hardware, on September 13, including upgrades to its maps
and news applications. A test version of the software, which helps accelerate
Apple's efforts in home automation, was released earlier this year.

18) Last but not the least, singer Sia helped conclude Apple's product launch
with a two-song performance. Her performance was theatrical, with plenty of
dancing and eye-catching costumes -- including an enormous bow. Choosing Sia
marks a cultural shift for Apple.

(Image: Singer Sia performs during an Apple media event in San Francisco,
California, US)wil

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

