

Not all iPhone 7 buyers in Singapore will receive their handsets today as Apple
has been hit by global supply delays, especially for the model called jet black.

The three local telcos - Singtel, StarHub and M1 - started contacting consumers
yesterday to notify them of the handset delay. Meanwhile, many customers who had
ordered and paid for the new phone started flooding the telcos' Facebook pages
and online forums like Hardwarezone with complaints.

This is the first time that the telcos are flagging a shortage even before a
phone has been officially launched here. A Singapore-based Apple spokesman said:
"During the online pre-order period, initial quantities of iPhone 7 Plus in all
finishes and iPhone 7 in jet black sold out and will not be available for
walk-in customers."

All three telcos acknowledged the squeeze. A Singtel spokesman said: "We have
been informed that stock for iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus in jet black in all
capacities will not be arriving on Sept 16 as planned."

Due to technical issues on Singtel's website on Wednesday, customers could order
the new iPhone only at 10am yesterday. By then, the telco had already informed
customers they could not order certain models.

StarHub and M1 - which had taken most of their customers' orders by Wednesday -
apologised for the delays.

A StarHub spokesman put the blame on a "last-minute change in iPhone 7
availability at the supplier's end".

Customers who had ordered the affected jet black and silver models were offered
another colour. They could also choose to wait but it is not clear when their
choice would become available.

An M1 spokesman said the telco will contact customers when there is stock for
the unavailable models. "Please be assured that we are working with Apple to
fulfil these outstanding orders as quickly as possible," he added.

Some customers asked for a refund, while others wondered when they could get
their handset.

One M1 customer going by the moniker James Koh JL, who had paid for a 256GB
silver iPhone 7 Plus, said: "Can I know what is the point of the pre-order'"

Project manager Raymond Cheng, 29, who ordered a 128GB jet black iPhone 7 Plus
from Apple's online store, understands that he would have to wait two or three
weeks for his phone. "I'm disappointed with the delay. But I can wait two to
three weeks."

Neither Apple nor the telcos would say how many customers were affected and when
they would get their handsets.

Mr Clement Teo, principal analyst at market research firm Ovum, said: "Everyone
along the supply chain underestimated the demand for the new iPhone, especially
the new jet black model."

