

NEW DELHI: The wait for Apple's new iPhones is over. Continuing its traditional
naming structure, Apple introduced the all-new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus at an
event in San Francisco earlier this week. The smartphones boasts of several
exciting new features and some upgrades too. Along with the latest iPhones, the
Cupertino giant also launched the second-generation of its smartwatch (Apple
Watch Series 2) and new range of earphones called AirPods.Wondering when will
all these gadgets reach Indian market?

Here's all you need to know about their India launch -- price, launch date and
more ... Apple iPhone 7, iPhone 7 PlusIndia launch: October 7Price: Starts at Rs
60,000Apple has not yet revealed the complete pricing details of its new
smartphones in India. The company, however, just said that the price of the
iPhones will start at Rs 60,000 in the country. This is likely to be the price
of the base iPhone 7 model with 32GB internal storage.The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus come in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB storage variants. The colour options
available are Silver, Gold, Rose Gold, Black and Jet Black. Of these, the Jet
Black colour variant comes only in 128GB and 256GB variants.Apple iPhone 7
features a 4.7-inch display with 3D touch, whereas the iPhone 7 Plus has a
5.5-inch Retina HD display with 3D touch. Both the smartphones are powered by a
new quad-core Apple A10 Fusion processor, which the company claims is 40% faster
that Apple A9 and it runs iOS 10.

Apple Watch Series 2India launch: October 7Price: Starts at Rs 32,900Apple also
launched the second-generation of its smartwatch dubbed Watch series 2. The
smartwatch comes in three variants (based on case material) -- Aluminium,
Stainless Steel and Ceramic White. The company has also introduced new straps in
collaboration with luxury fashion brand Hermes. Along with this, Apple also
worked with Nike to bring the Apple Watch Nike+ Edition . Targetted at fitness
freaks, the watch comes with an 'Advanced' mode. Boasting of perforated straps,
apparently for better ventilation and sweat management. The Nike+ edition Apple
Watch Series 2 will be available in four colours. Apple Watch Series 2 Ceramic
edition is the most expensive of the series priced at Rs 110,900.Apple Watch
Series 2 runs watchOS 3 and is powered by a new dual-core processor. It also
comes with new GPU for claimingly 2x better graphics performance than before. As
for the display, the new-gen wearable device sports a second-gen OLED display
that is claimed to be up to two times brighter than that in the original Apple
Watch. There's also built-in GPS for better tracking of distances, among other
features.Apple Watch Series 1India launch: October 7Price: Starts at Rs
23,900Apple has also rebranded its original Apple Watch as Watch Series 1 . The
Apple Watch Series 1 comes with a dual-core processor to ensure faster
performance. The company claims that the upgrade makes the Series 1 up to 50%
faster as compared to the original watch. All the other features of the series
1, such as the heart rate sensor, splash resistance and OLED Retina display with
Force Touch and others remain same. The watch promises to deliver 18 hours of
battery backup.AirPodsIndia launch: October 7Price: Starts at Rs 15,400Apple's
earphones called AirPods let users access the company's digital assistant Siri
by tapping gestures. Users can also change tracks and control volume by double
tapping on the device. The wireless headphones are powered by an ultra-low power
W1 chip designed by Apple. The chip lets AirPods deliver high-quality audio and
better battery life. Furthermore, there are optical sensors and accelerometers
in each irPod that can automatically sync when plugged into the ears. Removing
them automatically pauses the music, thus saving battery life. The AirPods are
compatible with all the devices running iOS 10, watchOS 3 and macOS Sierra.3.5
mm headphone jack adapterIndia launch: October 7Price: Starting at Rs 900The new
iPhone comes with EarPods with Lightning connector to deliver better sound, as
well as a 3.5 mm headphone jack adapter that allows customers to use old
headphones and accessories.Battery covers for iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus India
launch: October 7Price: Starts at Rs 2,900Apple is also for the first time
introducing its complete range of accessories for iPhone 7 and 7 Plus. These
include silicone cases with a starting price of Rs 2,900; iPhone 7 Smart Battery
Case in Black and While colours priced at Rs 8,900; and Lightning Docks at Rs
3,700 (these come in several colour-matching metallic finishes).

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

