

An extra camera adds vast dimensions.

JOHN DAVIDSON|They say you should be careful what you wish for, because you just
might get it.

For the past two years, we've been writing that Apple should add features to its
big-screened phone, the iPhone Plus, that aren't in the regular iPhone, the same
way Samsung added a stylus and a whole handwriting and note-taking system to its
big-screened Galaxy Note.

The way we see it, you need to give customers some incentive for lugging around
a much bigger device over and above the inherent advantage of just having a
bigger screen.

And now Apple has gone and done just that with the iPhone 7 Plus, and we don't
know what to think of it. I mean, it's kind of good, right? But what about the
poor, long-suffering users of the regular iPhone? What about us?

What Apple has gone and done is added an extra camera. The Plus, which has a
5.5-inch display compared with the 4.7-inch display on the regular model, now
has two cameras on the back: one with an equivalent focal length of 28mm, just
like the camera on the regular iPhone 7, and one with an equivalent focal length
of 56mm.

I wouldn't exactly call the extra camera "telephoto" - a 56mm lens is a general
purpose lens, somewhere between wide-angle and telephoto - but its addition does
mean you can zoom in on scenes and expect results significantly better than if
you zoomed in digitally on an ordinary iPhone using the "pinch zoom", which
simply crops the photo and enlarges the bejesus out of it.

And I mean significantly better.

In our tests, there was a huge difference between an image shot while zoomed in
using the iPhone 7 Plus, and the same image taken using the iPhone's digital
zoom. Detail is vastly better on the Plus, as you would expect, and
image-processing artefacts such as JPEG mosquito noise are either invisible or
vastly less visible compared with the way they assault the eye on the regular
iPhone 7.

If you're someone who likes to zoom in using their phone camera (which we think
is a terrible idea, but whatever), the upgrade to an iPhone 7 Plus is possibly
even bigger than the upgrade from an iPhone 6s to an iPhone 7, which is itself a
huge step. The extra camera, which you can think of as an extra lens that
automatically appears whenever you need it, makes a vast difference.

And that would be fine if Apple had left it at that. Regular iPhone users could
always just walk closer to their subjects, the way nature and lens optics
intended, and not feel like they're missing out on too much.

But did Apple stop just there with the iPhone 7 Plus? Of course it did not.

Not only is that longer lens used when you are zoomed in, but Apple also says
it's put to use even when you're shooting zoomed out, at the 28mm focal length.
Remember, it's not just an extra lens: it's actually a second camera, one that
fires every time the wide-angle one fires.

One way it's put to use, according to Apple, is in the processing of images.
Apparently, detail that's captured using the longer lens is added into images
shot using the wider lens, meaning that, in theory, all photos shot with the
iPhone 7 Plus should be a little sharper in the centre than the same images shot
using the regular iPhone.

I'm saying "in theory" here because, in our tests shooting the same image with
both phones, that didn't really show up: the centre of the Plus images looked
the same as the centre of the non-Plus images.

It may be a feature that Apple is still working on, the way it's definitely
still working on another feature that the Plus will have: fake shallow focus.

When you have two cameras rather than one, you can start to calculate the 3D
depth of an image, and when you can do that, you can start to change the focus
of things in a photo, depending on how far away they are from the lens. What
that means is that Apple will soon be adding a feature to the iPhone 7 Plus that
lets you defocus the background of photos while maintaining the focus of
subjects in the foreground.

The lack of control over the "depth of field", as it's known, is one of the
biggest drawbacks of using the tiny image sensors in phone cameras. Everything
is in focus, sometimes making it hard for the viewer to know what they're
supposed to be looking at. Selectively altering the focus - faking a shallow
depth of field, as it were - is something a few phone makers have tried, and
Apple has promised to add to the iPhone 7 Plus in an upcoming update.

We haven't reviewed the technology properly, but we have seen photos that Apple
says were created using a beta version of the feature, and we have to say
they're very good. They're much better than all the other efforts we've seen
over the years; much better, even, than we were hoping.

Shallow-focused portraits are more or less the holy grail of phone photography.
If Apple pulls it off properly, it will be huge.

Indeed, it will be too big to belong to just one phone. Why give the Plus an
awesome feature like that and not give it to the regular iPhone 7? It doesn't
seem fair. What are we non-Plus users supposed to call our phones now? The
iPhone Minus? L&L

