

The build-up to the release of the iPhone 7 has been palpable.

After Apple held a conference in San Francisco to announce all the amazing new
features, some people couldn't wait to get their hands on a brand new phone.

Wireless headphones, you say? Dual-lens camera? And it won't die if we drop it
down the toilet?

Some people were so eager to get an iPhone 7, they pre-ordered handsets for
delivery on the day of the release - which was yesterday, in case you didn't
know.

But it seems that didn't quite go to plan and they've been left absolutely
fuming because their deliveries have been delayed.

Some customers have got themselves prepared to meet their new phone only to
learn on the day that they're facing a THREE-WEEK wait.

And they're really not very happy about it...

The phone is definitely proving that Apple isn't past its sell-by-date.

They've ALREADY sold out of the larger 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus.

The gigantic US company has said that customers heading down to the Apple store
on launch day yesterday would be able to place an order, but couldn't buy a
phone there and then.

iPhone 7 goes on sale in the UK - but where are all the queues?

"We sincerely appreciate our customers' patience as we work hard to get the new
iPhone into the hands of everyone who wants one as quickly as possible," Apple
spokeswoman Trudy Muller said in a statement.

Apple boss Tim Cook says the iPhone 7's new wireless 'AirPods' won't fall out of
your ears

Launched last week in San Francisco, the iPhone 7 Plus has a new dual-lens
camera that helps capture better pictures.

iPhone 7: Release date, UK price, pictures, specs and key features of Apple's
new iPhone

It's Apple's first smartphone to offer to feature two rear cameras instead of
one, each with 12MP sensors: one standard wide angle 12MP lens alongside another
new telephoto lens.

Apple has redesigned its emojis in iOS 10 and people are kicking off

The 12-megapixel camera includes optical image stabilisation and a larger f/1.8
aperture and 6-element lens - enabling brighter, more detailed photos and
videos, and a wide colour capture.

The heartache doesn't end there for Apple fans, though. The company also dropped
the bombshell that the regular iPhone 7 won't be available with in the new "jet
black" colour.

Apparently the new glossy finish has also proved to be a bestseller and stocks
have all been snapped up.

Although you might not be too fussed about that, given that even Apple has said
the jet black version will scratch easily .

Still, it shows the demand for the new gadgets is sky-high. And a quick word of
warning - Apple is only speaking about its own retail stores. Other high street
shops may have different levels of stock - so it's worth looking around if
you're desperate to get your hands on one.

Earlier this year sales of the iPhone dropped for the first time leading some
analysts to question whether Apple had reached its peak.

iOS 10 tips and tricks: These 10 hidden features will make your iPhone even more
useful

The US company has also made clear that it will not release first-weekend sales
figures of the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

