

Now that we are on the date for Apple's major launch event, we can round up
everything we've heard about the latest products. You probably know that the big
showcase will be the next iPhone, but there's likely to be a refresh to the
Apple Watch as well.

iPhone 7 & 7 Plus

Design

At the outset, both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus are expected to appear largely
the same as their predecessors with a few subtle changes. The biggest one being
the placement of antenna bands: aligned along the top and bottom instead of the
bands going across the back of the phone. This will give the phone a cleaner
look and make it easier for case design.

The Biggest Improvement - Cameras

This is where the biggest change will be - even the invite for the event seems
to suggest enhanced capabilities with low depth of field, like an SLR camera.
The iPhone 7 is rumored to get optical image stabilization and a larger sensor
with f1.9 aperture (this would make the camera protrude more) but worth it for
improved imaging capabilities. The iPhone 7 Plus is rumored to get a dual 12MP
camera setup along with optical image stabilization and f1.9 aperture. The dual
lenses might enable a 2 or 3x optical zoom and various effects like shallow
depth of field.

No more 3.5mm Jack

The analog 3.5mm jack has probably lived its life. We've seen many drop it
already so there won't be too many raised eyebrows when Apple does it too. You
will have to use the Lightning port for wired headphones - a couple of Lightning
earphones have already been launched in India ahead of the iPhone launch. There
could also be a Lightning to 3.5mm adapter in the box or available as an
accessory.

Hardware Upgrades

The iPhone 7 and 7 plus are expected to be powered by the more powerful Apple
A10 processor and paired with either 2GB or 3GB RAM (depending on version). Even
the GPU should get a major upgrade on the phones to be able to meet the demand
of games, 4K video and image/video editing apps. Considering that the year-old
iPhone 6S still manages to beat many current flagships when it comes to outright
performance, the A10 should be a real cracker, widening the performance lead
even further.

Finally - More Storage

It's almost a given that the 16GB iPhone will be a thing of the past. We've
heard that Apple will ditch the 16GB storage option on both iPhone variants
after years of complaints from users. The 16GB storage did tend to get filled up
rather quickly. In fact, Apple could double the storage across the board, which
means that the storage options this year could be be 32GB, 128GB and 256GB.
Sadly, the possibility of expandable storage will continue to remain a dream.

Display

We don't expect any changes in the display sizes and resolutions for the iPhone
7 (4.7-inch) and iPhone 7 plus(5.5-inch). This is logical and ties in with
Apple's philosophy of keeping fragmentation down. Keeping the screen/resolution
the same means that apps will continue to work as seamlessly as before. Some
rumours suggest amoled panels for the iPhone 7 (and a 2K resolution for the
iPhone 7 Plus) but we think it's more likely that the amoled (or mLED) panel
will only appear in the iPhone 8 next year.

A New Kind of Home Button?

A common complaint about iPhone is the dead home button - and it does tend to
fail, considering the number of times it gets clicked in a day. To get around
this issue, Apple could do away with the hardware home button, replacing it for
a pressure sensitive, capacitive touch based home button and fingerprint sensor
(it will wake up and unlock the phone as well as double up as home button).

Possibly WaterProof?

The rumors of removal of 3.5mm jack and home button point to the possibility of
the new devices having enhanced water resistance. While they are not expected to
be IP68 certified for 'proper' waterproofing, it is rumored that both variants
will have IPX7 rating for water resistance (this means they would be capable of
handling accidental water exposure, up to a depth of 1 meter).

A New Smart Connector

According to some leaks, Apple could integrate a smart connector (seen on the
iPad Pro) on the iPhone 7 Plus or a separate higher-end phone called iPhone 7
Pro. A smart connector doesn't add bulk or compromise water proofing but it can
supply power and enable data transfer for various accessories. One of the first
accessories you could see would be the smart keyboard (an official accessory for
the iPad Pro at present).

Price & Availability

The Apple event is fixed for today. The phone is expected to go on sale in the
United States as early as the second week of September. We expect that it will
arrive in India soon - possibly the first wave of launches, placing the launch
in early October, to cash-in on Diwali festivities. We think that prices could
start from `50,000 for the iPhone 7 32GB version while the iPhone 7 Plus 32GB
could start at Rs 60,000.

Apple Watch 2

Two Versions?

The Apple Watch is distinctive but it doesn't appeal much to purists who love
the classic round design. There is a possibility that Apple may launch two
versions of the Apple

The OLED display on Apple Watch is already pretty good, but any mobile device
could do with some improvements. In 2014, Apple purchased a company called
Lux-Vue Technology - they specialize in micro LED (mLED) display technology -
think of it like the next evolution of OLED. Like OLED, mLED does not need a
backlight (which means the display has infinite contrast) but it's also thinner,
way more power efficient and can get much brighter.

Enhanced Waterproofing

The existing Apple Watch is water resistant of course, but you couldn't wear one
while swimming. This is an obvious area of improvement and something that would
open up the Watch to fitness and adventure sports enthusiasts as well.

Larger Battery

The easiest way to get better battery life is to include a larger battery at the
expense of added bulk. However, if the other components could be shrunk, the
battery could be made larger. This, combined with a more efficient screen could
mean a 2 to 3 day battery. Bands with More Functionality Safe to assume we'll
see some new designs and there's a possibility of 'authorised' third party
bands. One of the interesting possibilities is an extended battery band. There
is a lot of wasted space on a band which can be used for batteries.

Lesser Reliance on iPhone

The new Watch might have more independence & be able to access internet using
WiFi on its own. Some rumours have also hinted at the possibility of the Watch
having its own cellular radio and its own SIM card slot - though we consider
this unlikely.

Compatibility with Android

This is least likely and that's a shame. Android & iOS make up most of the
smartphone market globally (majority Android). And after all, Android Wear
watches work on both iOS and Android. The potential market opens up considerably
- which is important because IDC recently reported that the global smartwatch
market saw a year-on-year decline of 32%.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

