

THE reaction to the Apple iPhone launch yesterday was a double whammy: great new
extra camera but shame about the headphone jack.

Apple CEO Tim Cook took the helm at Apple's biggest launch of the year,
unveiling a new model iPhone and Apple Watch which are both faster, smarter and,
at last, waterproof.

The timing of the iPhone event is perfect for Apple, coming just days after
Samsung was forced to recall its Note7 after reports of the phone bursting into
flames while charging.

Technology analyst Jan Dawson, of Jackdaw Research, called the dual-lens camera
in the iPhone 7 Plus the "headline" of the event.

This is the first iPhone to have two rear 12 megapixel cameras, that gives the
iPhone 7 Plus a 2x optical zoom and the ability to mimic the shallow depth of
field effect you typically get when shooting pictures with a DSLR.

Mr Dawson said the dual lens camera, which is only available in the bigger
Plus-sized iPhone, would boost sales of the 5.5-inch iPhone.

One of the biggest selling points of the new camera, apart from the zoom, is the
blurred backgrounds the iPhone 7 Plus will do when shooting portraits - but only
after Apple releases a software update later this year.

Mr Dawson said Apple had work to do in selling its message, with a negative
reaction on social media to the news that Apple had ditched the 3.5mm audio jack
which would force people to connect their headphones through the Lightning port
or switch to wireless headphones that need regular charging.

While Apple will ship an adaptor with the new iPhone that will let people
connect existing headphones through the Lightning port, the downside of that
connection is that you will not be able to use wired headphones while charging
your iPhone 7.

It's not the first time Apple has killed a technology with a new product. When
it launched the iMac it offered lots of colours but no disk drive and it cut the
optical drive when it launched the MacBook Air.

Apple also released the second version of the Apple Watch. Waterproof for 50m,
the Apple Watch Series 2 has built-in GPS and can be used to track calorie burn
while swimming.

The iPhone 7 starts at $1079 and the iPhone 7 Plus at $1269. Preorders will open
today and it goes on sale next Friday. The Apple Watch Series 2 begins at $520
and goes on sale next Friday.

*Rod Chester travelled to San Francisco as a guest of Apple.

iPhone 7: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW Water resistance: IP67 rating means they'll
survive in 1m of water for 30 min. Upgrades:A faster chip, brighter screen,
stereo sound but no headphone jack. Old headphones will work with adapter
(below).

Better camera:The 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus has dual cameras: one 12 megapixel
camera with a wide angle and a 12 megapixel camera with a 2x telephone. A
software update will add a portrait mode to the iPhone 7 plus, letting you take
DSLR-style portraits with a shallow depth of field.Apple Watch:The 2nd gen Apple
Watch Series 2 has GPS, is water resistant to 50m and will track calorie burning
while swimming.

