

Smartphone owners worldwide camp out for days to get their hands on Apple's
latest iPhone model, but the release of the iPhone 7 may not be as anticipated
as previous models have been. Lack of new features is one of the main reasons
why excitement has waned. Most are also likely waiting for the iPhone 8, which
will be released next year on the iPhone's 10th anniversary--and is expected to
be significantly different and worth the upgrade.

This year, 90.1 million people in the US will own an iPhone and use the device
at least monthly, eMarketer estimates. That amounts to 43.5% of all smartphone
users in the country--a share that ticked slightly up this year, but remains
behind Android's 52.0% of the user base.

When Apple reported a decline in Q2 revenues in April--for the first time in 13
years--the release of the iPhone 7 was certainly top-of-mind. But it seems
iPhone owners are on the fence about buying the newest model. According to
research from Branding Brand, which builds mobile commerce sites and apps for
retailers, 51% of respondents said they would trade in their current iPhone for
the latest model. Interestingly, however, nearly the same percentage said they
would not.

"Apple customers have been hesitant to upgrade their smartphones this year,"
said Chris Mason, co-founder and CEO of Branding Brand. "In March, there was
high anticipation that Apple would launch its newest generation of iPhones, but
the 4-inch iPhone SE felt like a step back for consumers that enjoy more
innovative Apple products."

US iPhone Users, 2014-2016 (millions, % change and % of total smartphone users)

The new model's features include dual cameras (reported only to be offered in
the iPhone 7 Plus), no headphone jack, a pressure-sensitive home button and the
latest iOS 10 software. In all, not a drastic change from the iPhone 6, iPhone 6
Plus and iPhone SE. According to Branding Brand, only 12% of US iPhone owners
said they were most interested in the removed headphone jack feature, which is
supposed to make the device thinner. Less than a third of respondents said they
were most interested in iOS 10, the latest software which will make Apple's
iMessages more visual.

Given the lack of features the iPhone 7 will boast, smartphone owners will
likely wait to upgrade. And in general, most do wait to get new handsets rather
than upgrading anytime a new model comes out. June 2016 data from ad tech firm
Fluent found that a strong majority of smartphone users wait two years or longer
to upgrade their device. Since major wireless providers have gotten rid of
contracts--which came with discounted-upgrade privileges--smartphone owners are
waiting longer than two years to shell out money for the full price of their
device.

But that's not the only reason smartphone owners may be hesitant. Apple has some
tough competition out there, including Samsung, which has seen success with its
Galaxy devices--despite the recent official recall (because of an exploding
battery issue) of its Note 7 device. The manufacturer is expected to pay around
$1 billion to replace 2.5 million devices shipped since launch.

Frequency with Which US Smartphone Owners Purchase a New Smartphone, by Gender
and OS, June 2016 (% of respondents in each group)

Overall, Samsung has been outpacing Apple in global shipments, but trails in the
US. A survey from International Data Corp. (IDC) indicated that Samsung ships
more smartphones each quarter than any other manufacturer in the world. For
example, in Q2 of this year, Samsung shipped 77.0 million smartphones around the
world. To compare, Apple shipped 40.4 million.

Nonetheless, Apple is worth more. Samsung is worth roughly $210 billion, while
Apple is worth twice as much--well over $500 billion. And in the US, more than
43% of smartphones in the hands of US consumers were Apple devices, a comScore
Mobile Metrix study revealed.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/434/1381/54/147324462560.jpg

Will Smartphone Owners Line Up for Apple's iPhone 7? Many might hold out for the
iPhone 8

http://imgs.syndigate.info/434/1381/97/147324462738.jpg



