

Peter Nowak

While it would be foolish to say that the iPhone 7 is a make-it-or-break-it
product for Apple, there is a lot riding on it.

After two successive quarters of sales declines, the first in the product's
history, Apple needs to right the ship in a bad way. With the iPhone generating
more than half of its revenue and profit and with no obvious big new products in
the pipeline, the company can ill afford a continuing downward trend.

Unfortunately, it doesn't look like the iPhone 7 is going to set things right.
Unveiled at a press event in San Francisco on Wednesday, the iPhone 7 and its
larger iPhone 7 Plus cousin are iterative additions to the lineup at best and
potentially off-putting to consumers at worst.

The new devices, available from September 17 in 28 countries including the UAE,
pack the expected incremental improvements in processor speed, battery life and
storage space, but they're light on new whiz-bang features.

A redesigned home button replaces the need to click with "taptic" feedback while
an improved camera pro mises better pictures. The best new feature, a second
telephoto lens that will enable true optic zoom, is available only on the bigger
and more expensive iPhone 7 Plus.

The new devices are also water and dust-resistant and finally have stereo
speakers, but none of the additions are what anyone would call groundbreaking or
must-have.

On the other hand, Apple's other big move - the decision to eliminate the iPhone
's 35-millimetre headphone jack in favour of connecting earphones either
wirelessly or through its Lightning port - is drawing hostility and could turn
potential buyers off.

Critics are questioning why the company is replacing a decades-old standard that
works just fine with a proprietary measure that offers no discernible benefits.
If consumers want to use existing earphones and audio accessories with the
iPhone 7, they'll need an inelegant adapter or have to repurchase all those
devices in the new, compatible format.

Apple didn't do itself any favours in its justification on Wednesday, with head
of marketing Phil Schiller saying it was merely motivated by "the courage to
move on to do something that betters all of us". There was a collective virtual
eye-roll among people following the event on Twitter.

Apple's new wireless earphones, dubbed AirPods, are also provoking derision. The
US$169 earphones, which resemble miniature hair dryers, are taking fire for
being expensive, silly looking when worn, and likely prone to getting lost on
account of their small size and - ironically - their lack of a cord.

Nevertheless, Apple could experience a sales rebound with the iPhone 7 thanks to
some good timing.

The company had record sales two years ago when it launched the iPhone 6 and 6
Plus, mainly thanks to the devices' larger screen sizes. The duo were the first
to stretch beyond four inches, which was enough to tap into the demand built by
steady growth in the size of competing Android phones.

With wireless carriers in many countries typically subsidising the upfront cost
of new smartphones in exchange for two-year contracts, a large cohort of iPhone
6 customers will now be coming up for renewal.

Many are therefore already in the mindset to consider upgrading to something
new. The question is how many of them will find enough appeal in the iPhone 7 to
do so.

Given that, it's a safe bet that this year's iPhone will do better than last
year's, but probably not as well as the iPhone 6 two years ago.

In some ways, Apple could end up a victim of its own success. The iPhone is a
lot like a Toyota car in that it retains its value over time and keeps working
longer than many of its rivals. That good-enough longevity might convince buyers
to sit out the iPhone 7 and wait for the next one.

And the next one, next year, will mark the 10th anniversary of the iPhone. Many
analysts are expecting Apple to pull out something big for the occasion, which
is yet another reason why consumers may decide to skip the iPhone 7.

Peter Nowak is a veteran technology writer and the author of Humans 3.0: The
Upgrading of the Species

