

Apple's latest smartphones - iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus - will be available in
India from October 7 at a starting price of Rs 60,000, the US-based technology
giant has said, while for the first time confirming the India pricing of the
gadgets at the launch event itself. The highly-anticipated new iPhones with
advancements such as stereo speakers, water and dust resistance technology, and
wireless headphones were launched by Apple CEO Tim Cook at in San Francisco
early this week. As widely speculated, Apple also introduced AirPods, wireless
headphones for the new phone.

In addition, Apple has eliminated the standard headphone jack; wired earphones
will now connect to the phone's Lightning port, which is also used for charging.
The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in more than 25 countries
beginning September 16 and the products will be available in India beginning
October 7. The iPhone 7, with a 4.7 inch display, will start at $649, while the
5.5 inch iPhone7 Plus will cost $769 and up. The models will be available in
silver, gold, rose gold and black in 32 GB, 128 GB and 256 GB configurations. A
new jet black finish will only be available in 128 GB and 256 GB options.

The starting price for the iPhone 7 in India is Rs 60,000 for the 32 GB iPhone
model in India. Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing Philip
Schiller said Apple has inculcated the advanced A10 Fusion chip in the new
phones, "the most powerful chip on any smartphone while delivering the best
battery life ever in an iPhone, and an entirely new stereo speaker system
provides twice the sound, all within the first water and dust resistant iPhone".

The phones will also have an improved home button that lets users perform
different tasks by varying how hard they press it, the company said. Apple has
also introduced the next generation of its smartwatch, called Apple Watch Series
2, which has been equipped with fitness and health capabilities including a
water resistance 50 meter rating for swimming, built-in GPS, dual- core
processor. The company also announced a tie-up with sports giant Nike for its
watches and the Apple Watch Nike+ will be available to order beginning September
9, with availability in late October for India. In India, the Apple Watch Nike+
will be available in 38 mm size at Rs 32,900, and in 42mm at Rs 34,900.

The new phones will come with the earpods with Lightning connector as well as a
3.5 mm headphone jack adaptor that will allow customers to use old headphones
and accessories. Apple said AirPods, which can be synced with various Apple
devices, will eliminate the hassles of normal headphones and its "advanced
sensors know when you are listening and automatically play and pause your
music". AirPods will include a charging case and will be available for Rs 15,400
in late October. The new iPhones comes with a 12-megapixel camera which includes
optical image stabilisation, a larger aperture and 6-element lens.

The iPhone 7 Plus also packs a second 12- megapixel telephoto camera at the
back. The two cameras combine to offer 2x optical zoom and up to 10x digital
zoom for photos. For selfies, the iPhone 7 now comes with a 7- megapixel
FaceTime HD camera. Apple also announced launch of the latest version of its
operating system, calling iOS 10 the "biggest release ever of the world's most
advanced mobile operating system". The new phones will come with iOS 10, which
introduces an update to Messages, the ability for its virtual assistant Siri to
do more by working with apps, and new ways to interact with redesigned apps.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

