

Apple iPhone 7 launch: With Samsung Galaxy Note 7 hit by a massive recall in the
face of its exploding smartphones, Apple iPhone 7 has received an unintended
booster shot just ahead of its surmised launch. There is an Apple event for
which media invites have been sent and it is for the 7th of September - it
carries this legend: 'See you on the 7th'. It acquires significance simply
because what has been speculated about is the launch of the iPhone 7. Whether
this has any link with it or not, is totally unclear, but social media is surely
abuzz. Apple itself has been battling a lot of negatives in the recent past as
its older phones sales are slowing down and needs a big pick-me-up to restore
its lost marketshare and fall in sales. So, check out here what the expectations
are for the mega event on Wednesday.

The Apple mega event will be held Wednesday, September 7, at 10 am local time at
the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, San Francisco. To ensure a wider public can
tune in, Apple will live stream the event on it's website. There is much
speculation about what the invite itself is all about. From colour of the iPhone
7s to their water-proof status, all of them have been speculated about, but the
photo itself is quite clean of clues except the colourful out-of-focus circles
that are a bit transparent. So guess on, till tomorrow at least and read on as
well look to clear the fog.

One of the hottest topics regarding the iPhone 7 has been about the smartphone's
water-proof status. To be able to get that perfect, the handset may well have
had to sacrifice its headphone socket/jack system - the weakest link of the
phone regarding the elements and nasty spills. That also means Apple may provide
Bluetooth-enabled headphones. Will it up the tech and go farther than that is
unclear.

As far as the iPhone 7 price is concerned, since it is a hugely premium phone
and is unlikely to come cheap. In fact, it is most probably going to be very
pricey indeed. The most recent Samsung Galaxy Note 7 was priced at $891. The
iPhone 7 is likely to get a price point around $600 for the low-end handset and
over $1200 for the top end smartphone. The phone may be a little more expensive
as Apple looks to charge a premium just because it is Apple.

A waterproof iPhone is very much on the cards as rivals have already fielded
theirs in most markets. While water-proof phones are not the strongest selling
points, after all how many people will drop their phones into water or take them
along scuba diving? Still, a technology that has already been trotted out by
rivals, it will have to be matched by Apple.

As far as iPhone specs and features are concerned, speculation has written an
obituary for the 16GB model. Now, with users looking to save virtually
everything they do on their handsets, from photos, videos, music to all kinds of
personal daily-use data points, the need for a basic 32GB gadget is widely
expected.

Apple iPhones have come in for a lot of flak regarding their cameras. Rival
companies have stolen the thunder in this regard and the US co is expected to
steal a march on them this time around. The invite itself is lending itself to
rumours as the circles in the photo showcase effects that only some really high
end cameras can achieve. Also, in ads that have been running for long, Apple has
been promoting its cameras' achievements when clearly they were not the best on
offer. perhaps, the company was preparing the ground for such an eventuality.
Rumours also have it that the new iPhone will pack dual cameras.

Another feature that might see the light of day on an iPhone is the fast
charging battery. Since this is arguably the best premium handset of them all, a
battery that charges the way an ordinary phone does is clearly a loss-making
proposition. People just doesn't have the time for anything these days that
takes more than two shakes of a cat's tail, and if the tech is not up to date
with their pace of life, then it will not enter into their buying vision.

From the standout plain white or black iPhones that Steve Jobs set out to sell,
Apple has become quite a colourful company, perhaps jarringly so. With this new
flagship smartphone, the company may just stick to its rainbow colours. Again,
the invite itself is hinting at a number of colours from blue, red, yellow,
white and more. Also, each colour may well have different specs to go with it.

