

All iPhone 7 Plus models in Hong Kong sold out in less than 10 minutes after
pre-ordering was made available to the public at 3.08pm yesterday, boosting
local dealers' confidence in Apple's latest ­offering.


Meanwhile, Hong Kong ­airlines are yet to respond to Samsung's exploding battery
recall, which is widely expected to strengthen sales of the new ­iPhone.


The jet-black iPhone 7 Plus models were the first to sell out at 3.13pm, and all
iPhone 7 Plus models were sold out about four minutes later.


At 3.21pm, the regular jet-black iPhone 7 was also sold out and customers who
placed orders for the other regular models were told they would face a lengthy
wait to receive their ­devices.


Those who managed to place an early order will receive their phones in three to
four weeks, ­according to the Apple Store. Later buyers have to wait until
November.


Local secondary market ­dealers were feeling more bullish about the new models,
given the fervour during the pre-ordering.


"I think we can trade this early batch of iPhones for an extra ­­HK$ 3,000 a
piece," Lau Chi-kong, owner of G-World Mobile at Sin Tat Plaza at Mong Kok,
said.


He said the jet-black iPhone 7 Plus' popularity was expected.


On Thursday, the day before the iPhone was made available for pre-order, Lau was
sceptical over the pricing of the device and said retail margins were likely to
be about HK$2,000. The marked price of an iPhone 7 Plus with 128GB storage is
HK$7,388.


Gary Yiu, who runs I Generation at Sin Tat Plaza, said dealers might even be
able to trade for HK$4,000 above retail price with limited supplies of the
phone.


"There are very few iPhones in this first batch," Yiu said, adding that most
dealers expected very few units in the first batch.


The merchants believed the new iPhones would sell well given their established
fanbase and ­despite receiving a lukewarm reception from tech experts. It is not
known how many have sold so far.


It's expected that with ­the Samsung recall of its Galaxy Note 7 over recurring
exploding battery problems, sales of the iPhone 7 could strengthen.


The Samsung recall has led to Singapore Airlines and three Australian airlines -
Qantas Airways, Jetstar Airways and ­Virgin Australia - banning ­passengers from
using the phones during flights.


The US Federal Aviation ­Administration also advised ­passengers not to turn on
or charge their Samsung Galaxy Note 7 during flights or stow them in checked
baggage.


In Hong Kong, local airlines have yet to say if they intend to follow their
peers, with the industry watchdog Civil Aviation Department (CAD) allowing them
to make their own decisions. The CAD, which informed Hong Kong airlines of the
US Federal Aviation Administration's advice, said it is monitoring the matter.


Additional reporting by Alice Woodhouse.

