

Click for image

Apple depends on the iPhone flywheel effect to draw consumers into its
proprietary ecosystem and throw off iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Apple TV, App Store
and iTunes revenues. When that effect doesn't work, things go south, as we've
seen in Apple's first decline in 13 years.

The decrease, in fact, marks the beginning of the end of the iPhone 6 product
cycle. iPhone 6 growth spiked because of pent-up demand for iPhones with larger
screens that Android competitors proved consumers wanted. Former iPhone users
that became large-screen Android users returned to Apple, increasing iPhone
sales. For iPhone sales to rebound from this current decline, though, the iPhone
7 must have a vital growth-reigniting feature-something really important to
consumers that hasn't been invented by a competitor.

Between now and September when Apple is rumored to announce the iPhone 7, Apple
will be under top-line pressure. Whether the iPhone 7 is the elixir of growth
won't be known until Apple's earnings call in January 2017, after the company
has a full quarter of iPhone 7 shipments.

Why iPhone revenue dropped

Apple's revenue woes came from both a decline in average selling price and
nearly flat unit shipments. A total of 51.2 million iPhones shipped, compared to
51 million a year ago. Average selling prices were down to $642 compared to $670
last year.

CEO Tim Cook put much of the blame on the impact of a strong U.S. dollar in
foreign markets, especially China, when he said, "Despite the pause in our
growth, the results represent excellent execution by our team in the face of
strong macroeconomic headwinds."

But given that the iPhone is built in China with components built mainly in
China, iPhone costs should trend down with China's Yuan, not the stronger
dollar, pointing again to the end of the strong iPhone 6 product cycle as the
problem.

iPhone SE misses

The new $400 iPhone SE (an iPhone 6s in a 4-in. iPhone 5s form factor) couldn't
work its entry-level magic of attracting millions more consumers to make up for
its lower price. Putting the guts of a $650 iPhone 6s into the SE clearly has
put downward margin pressure on Apple's 40 percent gross margins that
historically defied the gravity of cutthroat mobile competition. Apple predicted
lower gross margins in the coming quarter of 37.5 percent to 38 percent compared
to investor expectations of 39.2 percent.

Competition from lower-priced Android phones could be squeezing Apple into
trading gross margins from lower average selling prices and increased iPhone
unit shipments. Apple predicted disappointing revenues in the coming quarter
too: $41 billion to $43 billion compared to investor expectations of $47.6
billion next quarter.

At $400, the iPhone SE is one of the best smartphones in this price range. Its
differentiation is Apple's brand and a superior camera. However, if the consumer
doesn't value the Apple brand and camera, budget-priced shoppers can buy a lot
of value for under $200 from companies such as Motorola and LG. This value
proposition exaggerates in fast-growing, emerging country markets such as India
and Malaysia where Android phones sell for $100.

Apple faces challenges in the coming quarters that might be mutually exclusive:
attract new consumers to fuel the Apple flywheel effect or higher gross margins,
or hold its margins and attract fewer consumers, especially in emerging country
markets. It may find some relief in gross margins from the maturing iPhone SE
manufacturing learning curve. And the iPad Pro may, as I have predicted, fuel an
iPad renaissance with creative professionals (engineers, designers, architects,
graphics artists, etc.) who are loyal Mac users.

The iPhone 7 will have to be amazing to reignite interest in the phone, and that
will be a challenge. If Apple fails to do that, it will have to look to one of
the many new products that have been rumored, such as autonomous cars, or expand
into entertainment. Or it may need to find a new product that has the scale to
impact its $200 billion in annual revenue with double-digit growth.

