

We all know that only one thing can excite the internet more than a Kardashian
derrière - and that's a new iPhone.

And while I can't claim to be up on Kim and co, I can tell you all there is to
know about the next phone from Apple - which could well be in your hands in a
little over a month.

Yes - the iPhone 7 is on the horizon, so now is as good a time as any to round
up the rumours and explore what delights Tim Cook and his pals from Cupertino
may have in store for us.

Here's what they're saying on the world wide web. Although remember - nobody but
Tim's inner circle know for sure if any of this is true...

The iPhone 7 will look very much like the iPhone 6S (with perhaps fewer antenna
bands on the back), so don't expect anything groundbreaking. Lots of people will
say that this means Apple is finished and the phone will be a dud - but it'll
sell like those hot cakes everyone's always talking about.

It'll come in the 4.7in and 5.5in sizes currently available. Next year the
iPhone turns 10, and Apple will keep its design power dry this year for
something spectacular to mark that milestone.

The iPhone 7 Plus will come with a dual-lens rear camera that should produce
much sharper images and perform better in low light.

It may also be able to perform some kind of 3D scanning magic. The smaller
iPhone won't have this camera, though - just the one lens, but better than the
6S.

The iPhone 7 will have no headphone jack. So how will we listen to our music?
Apple will include headphones that attach to the phone via the lightning port on
the bottom, or will offer up wireless headphones that connect to the phone using
bluetooth (maybe even both).

This may mean that you will be able to charge the phone wirelessly (like the
Apple Watch), so you will still be able to charge the phone and listen to music
at the same time. There will be an adapter available which will allow you to use
your current headphones - but you will have to pay extra for this, and people
will be very angry about that.

The iPhone 7 will be water resistant. Other smartphones can be submerged 1.5m
under water for 30 minutes and surface unscathed - if Apple isn't looking to
match that, it's going to look very silly indeed.

The home button on both models will not be a 'real' button, and will sit flush
to the face of the phone.

It will employ sophisticated haptic feedback (also known as vibration) to make
it feel like the button clicks when you press it, but the button will not
actually move. The same technology is used in the trackpads of MacBooks.

It almost goes without saying that the iPhone 7 will feature the next generation
A10 chip from Apple and will be faster than the iPhone 6S.

It'll also have better battery life. Although perhaps not much better given the
improvements in the cameras.

There might be a third iPhone model called the iPhone Pro. It will have a 5.5in
screen, and will be the one that has the dual-lens (while the regular 7 Plus
will have the same single lens as the 7).

It will also feature a 'smart connector' (as seen on the iPad Pro), and support
the Apple Pencil.

The iPhone 7 will be revealed at a special Apple event in San Fransisco on
September 7, and will go on sale on September 16.

Apple will reveal the Apple Watch 2.0 at the same event - the current
first-generation model is now two years old.

The new version will look similar to the current model, but will be faster and
will include a GPS radio and an improved barometer. Apple will go big on selling
the health and fitness elements of the watch.

We've seen iOS 10 that will run on these new iPhones, and watchOS 3 that will
power the new watches. Expect the software to be released at the same time as
the new phones drop.

