

Apple Inc. will peel back some of the mystery around sales of the iPhone 7 when
it reports earnings Tuesday that are likely to show the company's first
year-over-year revenue decline since the iPhone debuted in 2007.

Meanwhile on Thursday, the Cupertino giant is expected to unveil its new
MacBook, including a Pro model with a touch-button panel replacing physical
function keys.

Most of the attention this week, however, will be on the iPhone 7 with its
enhanced camera and discontinued earphone jack that launched in September - and
its impact on Apple's bottom line.

The company took the unusual step of not announcing post-launch weekend sales of
the iPhone 7 and larger-screen 7 Plus, fuelling speculation that the products
had a tepid launch that was somewhat offset by the absence of competition from
the recalled Samsung Galaxy Note 7.

That disclosure void has been filled with conflicting reports, with Consumer
Intelligence Research Partners saying the iPhone 7 models have seen a positive
reception in the U.S., particularly among upgrade buyers.

It said the devices accounted for 43 per cent of U.S. iPhone sales in the third
quarter, even though they were only available for the final two weeks.

In a separate note, Deutsche Bank analyst Sherri Scribner raised the firm's
iPhone sales estimate for the quarter to 46 million versus the consensus analyst
view for 45 million, citing positive impacts of promotions from all four major
U.S. carriers.

Some analysts also see a boost from the recall and ultimate production end of
the Note 7 due to combustive overheating, although there is a view that Android
rivals are the more likely beneficiary.

Bloomberg Intelligence says fiscal 2017 first-quarter revenue guidance will hint
at holiday sales prospects for the iPhone 7 and the potential for market share
gains in the absence of the Note 7.

Shares in Apple have spiked since Samsung pulled the plug on its Note 7 handset
to focus on launching the next Galaxy iteration, but slipped on reports that
sales of the iPhone 7 in China have been slow.

"Distributor checks find that iPhone 7 sales are weaker than the 6s was out of
the box (after launch)," UBS analyst Steven Milunovich said in a research note.

"Apple (is) losing share to domestic handsets . . . Apple's brand remains
strong, but the App Store can be difficult to access and slow."

With a sales slump in China part of a broader trend in a saturated global
smartphone market, the company in its fourth-quarter earnings report will likely
confirm a year-over-year sales decline to $215.67 billion (U.S.) from $233.72
billion last year.

Apple is expected to report fourth-quarter sales of $46.9 billion, an
8.9-per-cent annual drop and profit of $8.9 billion, or $1.65 per share, a
19.9-per-cent fall.

