

I was apprehensive when I travelled to San Francisco last week for Apple's
iPhone launch. If -rumours were true, the most -notable iPhone 7 feature would
be something taken from the -device, something users still wanted.

After nine generations of iPhone, there'd be no audio jack, and every device you
owned with a 3.5mm jack - headsets, speakers, selfie sticks, audio docks - would
be cactus. As Apple said last week, 3.5mm jacks had been with us since the
1800s, used then in telephone exchanges.

At first, removal of the audio jack seemed a travesty, but the more I used
iPhone 7 with Apple's new wireless AirPods, the less I missed that little
socket. I got over my grief.

Apple is not alone in wanting to ditch the 3.5mm jack, so expect competing
Android phone makers to axe the 3.5mm jack too, -especially if it means better
audio quality. The old jack's time is up.

There are situations where I wouldn't use AirPods: running, cycling, at the
beach, on the dance floor or in areas where they could be snatched from your
ears, like earrings. I wouldn't give them to children or leave them near
toddlers who could swallow them.

Apart from playing music through Bluetooth, AirPods are like having Big Brother
on your earlobes as the phone knows what you're doing with your AirPods. Open
the AirPod's small container, and my phone would display a pop-up inviting me to
connect them. Take them out of your ears and the music stops.

My AirPods worked up to 25m from iPhone 7 and I could communicate with Apple's
assistant Siri by tapping twice on an AirPod. I tested the battery life of
iPhone 6s Plus, 7 and 7 Plus, continuously playing 1080p video at 50 per cent
screen brightness. iPhone 7 Plus with its larger battery came in best with 12.5
hours video on a single charge. Then came iPhone 6s Plus with almost 11 hours
followed by iPhone 7 at 10 hours 37 minutes.

Photos taken with the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus cameras displayed more subtle colours.
Greens and reds were more pronounced. Photos in lower light were clearer, as
were darker sections of photos. Being water -resistant means iPhone 7 will
survive getting wet in a downpour or being dropped in the bath.

While iPhone 7 isn't a quantum leap beyond its predecessor, it's an attractive
proposition, -particularly for Apple users whose two-year contracts are due for
renewal.LIFE P16

