

The iPhone 7 is predicted to launch next month with shoppers expected to spend
hours queueing outside the Apple store in Liverpool One.

Both the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6 were launched in September and notorious leaker
Evan Blass has pinned the date down to the week of September 12.

The tech giant usually reveals its latest smartphone in September to finish the
year on a sales high with shoppers able to take advantage of Black Friday deals
and Christmas sales.

With the release possibly just weeks away, the rumour mill is going into
overdrive with speculation of what the iPhone 7 will look like, with supposedly
leaked images emerging on social media.

Rumours have surfaced that the new design will see the headphone socket ditched,
the home key removed in favour of an on-screen button, and a more powerful and
efficient processor.

It's also being claimed that the iPhone 7 will feature a dual-lens camera, which
could allow users to snap SLR quality photos and 3D images. A video by Unbox
Therapy has been uploaded to YouTube, showing a large cut out for the rear
camera on what it claims to be the flagship iPhone 7 transparent case.

However, if the leaked images are to be believed, the new model doesn't look
much different in size to the iPhone 6s, which has a thinner body and larger
screen than the iPhone 5 and iPhone 6.

It's unlikely that the iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than previous
models. Rumours suggest that Apple is planning to ditch its pitifully small 16GB
storage option in favour of a more generous 32GB base model.

Supply chain investigations by Kevin Wang, director of market research at
respected analyst firm IHS Technology, suggest the iPhone 7 base model will come
with with 32GB of storage.

If true, we could expect other models with larger storage - 64GB and 128GB most
likely - to stick with the £619 and £699 prices.

Tech fans gathered outside the Apple store at Liverpool One and queued through
the night to get their hands on the iPhone 6s, when it launched in September
2015. The diehards included Matt Duffy, 34, from Wirral, who is sure to be one
of the first in the queue for the new iPhone, after he said: "I upgrade every
year. I've been further back in the queue before and your heart's racing
wondering whether you're going to get one."

