

As Apple gets set to announce its latest iPhone handset on September 9,
thousands of people will be rushing to sell their old smartphones so they can
make some cash back to buy what's rumouredto be the tech giant's most exciting
launch yet.

If you're one of many iPhone users that are planning to get in lineon launch
day, there are a number of ways you can get rid of your old handset ahead of the
6s (or 7) launch. Here's everything you need to know about selling up.

What to do before you sell your device

Before you sell or give away your device, you should remove your personal
information.

Follow these steps:

Back up your device.

Tap Settings > iCloud. Scroll down and tap Sign Out. In iOS 7 or earlier, tap
Delete Account.

Tap Sign Out again, then tap Delete from My iPhone and enter your password.

Go back to Settings and tap General > Reset > Erase All Content and Settings*.
In iOS 7 or later with Find My iPhone turned on, you'll need your Apple ID and
password.

If asked for your device passcode or Restrictions passcode, enter it. Then, tap
Erase [device].

Contact your carrier for guidance on transferring service to a new owner. If you
aren't using a SIM card with your device, you can contact them to get help
transferring service to the new owner.

Read more

iPhone 6S (or iPhone 7) release date, rumours & new features

Call in the professionals: how to fix your smartphone or tablet with

Is your smartphone turning you into a tech zombie?

Where to sell your iPhone

Trade-in Sites

There are a number of trade-in sites that have sprung up in recent years,
catering to people who want to make a quick buck on their iPhone in the most
hassle-free way.

One of the better known trade in sites is Mazuma Mobile, which will give you one
of the best prices on the market for your iPhone. For a 64GB unlocked iPhone 6
in working condition Mazuma is offering £360. This might not fetch you as much
money as selling the handset yourself, but the value of sites like Mazuma is in
their no-hassle experience: If you like Mazuma's price you ship them your iPhone
, they'll check it out, then they'll either cut you a check, pay you via bank
transfer or send you Argos gift cards.

Apple is also offering an in-house trade-in service which, essentially, lets you
swap your iPhone for store credit either in your local Apple store or online.
For a fully functioning 32GB iPhone 5s, Apple will credit you £160 to your next
purchase. Best thing of all? You can trade-in and buy your next handset in one
go - reducing the stress and time spent trying to get money back on your old
handset.

Coming soon? Images of a pink Iphone 6s have been circulating the Internet

Amazon

If convenience isn't that important to you, you can get a lot more selling your
device yourself - and Amazon is just one of the places you can do this. The main
advantage of using a site like Amazon is that you can set the price. Amazon will
end up taking about 10 per centin fees, but you still get a much better deal for
your iPhone than you'd get trading it in.

You'll need to create a free seller account and a listing for your iPhone
detailing the exact condition of the handset. You set the 'buy it now' price you
want the buyer to pay and when someone purchase your iPhone Amazon will send you
an email. You'll then need to package and post the phone yourself.

It's worth noting that Amazon holds your funds for 14 days to make sure you
actually deliver the iPhone to the buyer. This means if you need the cash to buy
your next handset, you'll need to time your sell so you can access the funds on
the day.

eBay

Essentially, people can bid for your iPhone or you can set a Buy It Now price.
These two methods ensure you'll get a better price for your iPhone on eBay than
at a trade-in site if you set the minimum bidding price at what you expect to be
paid at a trade-in site and get a quote from your local post office for the
posting costs.

It's more hassle than simply dropping off your phone at the Apple store, but the
eBay app makes taking and uploading pictures much easier than the days of
listing from your desktop computer. However, one major drawback to consider is
that when eBay and PayPal fees are taken into account you'll end up losing
almost 15 per centof your selling price in fees.

Gumtree

Unlike trade-in sites and Amazon or eBay, Gumtree doesn't help with the
financial transaction at all - which means you won't lose your profit margin to
sellers fees.

The site works like a virtual notice board - you place your ad listing with the
price and location and local buyers can email you to arrange meeting you with
cash.

Naturally, one of the major flaws of Gumtree is that despite the
straight-forward cash-in-hand nature of the sale, there are many unscrupulous
buyers and sellers on Gumtree, so it's important to proceed with caution.
Remember to agree to meet in a very public, well lit place with a friend and
only accept cash.

Good luck...

