

A video of what seems to be the iPhone 7 Plus has been posted online, and
appears to confirm some long-standing rumours.

The six-second clip, depicting a large rose gold iPhone Plus being turned over
in someone's hand, was uploaded to Twitter by Apple leaker Sonny Dickson and
then quickly deleted.

iPhone 7: Release date, rumours, leaked images, price and all the latest news
about Apple's next iPhone

When the phone is flipped onto its front, a dual camera lens becomes visible.
Tipping its bottom edge towards the camera also reveals that, while it has a
lightning port for charging, there is no 3.5mm headphone jack to be seen.

Apple's 2017 iPhone model could have a curved screen just like the Samsung
Galaxy S7 Edge

The removal of the headphone jack has been one of the most persistent rumours
surrounding the iPhone 7, and this clip appears to confirm it.

The smartphone, due to be launched next week on Wednesday 7 September, is highly
likely to ship with wireless headphones known as airpods , according to a
patent.

Other rumours include the removal of the white plastic antenna bands , which
stretch across the back of the current iPhone 6s generation, and waterproofing.

However, the video does appear to dispel another report.

It has long been believed the iPhone 7 was going to get rid of the physical home
button , but the video alongside some pictures Dickson uploaded earlier this
month suggest otherwise.

A second clip Dickson posted shows a hand dragging slowly across three iPhone
screens, before turning over the far right model to show a dual camera lens.

The decision to remove the headphone jack has the potential to annoy a lot of
fans, Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has said.

"If it's missing the 3.5mm earphone jack, that's going to tick off a lot of
people," Woz told the Australian Financial Review .

"I have cars where you can plug in the music, or go through Bluetooth, and
Bluetooth just sounds so flat for the same music," he said.

iPhone 7: Release date, rumours, leaked images, price and all the latest news
about Apple's next iPhone

