

The new Apple iPhone 7 is to be made available for sale in Indian markets on
October 7, this year. The price of the phone is expected to be a tad more than
Rs 60,ooo. Earlier today, Apple's yearly September event took place at the Bill
Graham Civic Auditorium, San Francisco. Speculations were ripe in India about
the launch the new iPhone 7 in the country. To ensure a wider public can tune
in, the live stream the event on Apple's official website. From the variants in
colours to its newly certified waterproof status, all the specifications of the
Apple iPhone 7 have been speculated about, but the picture has been drawn too
neatly by the tech giant to leave any clues behind.

However, Indian users would have to wait for a while top buy the Cupertino
giant's new iPhone 7. Reports indicate that the Apple iPhone 7 is to hit the
Indian markets by October 7, which is also the most of many festivities in the
country. Apple seems to have played a master stroke in matters of timing. India
is currently the third largest smartphone market in the world and is expected to
move up to the 2nd position very soon. So offering the iPhone 7 on sale during
the festival season would boost Apple's sales by a large number. Availability of
the new Apple iPhone 7 during the first week of October is a welcome move from
the tech giant. If Apple had gone with its regular trend of launching the
smartphone in late December, it would have committed the mistake of negligence
of a massive demography.

The current market for Apple in India stands at just 30%, which means the scope
for growth is huge. Apple has in recent years tried to boost its sales in India
and has achieved an impressive success rate of 56% growth per year. It seems
that Tim Cook's recent visit to the country to set up a Development Office in
Hyderabad was a clear indication for the good times to come for Apple's loyal
users in India as the phone is being launched in the country within a month of
the actual launch.

