

By tbreak Staff -

iPhone 6s Plus is definitely an example of how far Apple has come in innovating
mobile devices, but it appears that iPhone 7 Plus, its direct successor is
already rumored to be sporting very impressive specifications. Starting off, let
us ponder over the battery capacity, where iPhone 7 Plus has been rumored by My
Drivers to sport a 3,100mAh cell, which is 350mAh higher than the 2,750mAh
battery pack in iPhone 6s Plus, which was already considered as a downgrade by
several users.

However, perhaps the biggest change we will be seeing in iPhone 7 Plus apart
from being completely waterproof is the fact that it is going to feature 256GB
of internal storage. So far, Apple has limited its smartphones to 128GB of
on-board memory, but according to the latest rumor, all that could change very
soon. It is a very smart move on Apple's part, seeing as how the globe is
transitioning to carrying a ton of content in their mobile devices for later
viewing, not to mention that 4K content does not exactly go gentle on your
storage. However, while we say this, what is going to happen to the previous
storage models? Are 16GB models going to be cut out of the equation completely,
or is there still room for their existence.

If you ask us, 16GB is already too low to be present in advanced mobile
computing products and since the OS and file system each a small chunk of it,
you have to work around with that limitation. While 16GB might be completely
fine for a small percentage of consumers, a flagship phone with such minuscule
amount of internal memory should definitely be considered a joke. While we wait
in anticipation of iPhone 7 Plus, what about its 4.7 inch sized iPhone 7? Will
it feature the same maximum internal storage capacity or does Apple have
different plans for it.

Due to the sheer size differences, not to mention Apple's affinity in keeping
its mobile products as thin as possible, we should expect the battery capacity
of iPhone 7 Plus to be considerably larger than iPhone 7, but we will definitely
keep you in the loop of what is to come in the foreseeable future. For now, we
definitely cannot wait to see how the larger of the upcoming iPhones is going to
perform. We have also reviewed Apple's iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus to see how
well they fare in our tests, so be sure to check those out while you are reading
this.

2016 is definitely going to be another great year for Apple fans.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/26/145182148532.png



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/19/145182148551.png



