

The lack of the headphone jack is by far the biggest shortcoming in the latest
iPhone 7 by Apple which has garnered the maximum flak from smartphone lovers
worldwide. Apple's iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, which were announced in San
Francisco on September 7 and are scheduled to start shipping to consumers on
September 16, will not have a port for plugging in earphones. The launch of the
iPhone 7 may not have been as highly anticipated as that of its previous
versions, because of various leaks and rumours. Yet it is expected the sales
will go up, especially after the unfortunate Samsung Galaxy Note 7 'burning'
issue.

Yet it can be said that Apple has not made too many technological advances with
the iPhone 7. The tech giant has squandered its place as the leader in hardware
and software design. The company added a dual-lens camera, water resistance
feature and an upgraded chipset, yet none of them is actually revolutionary.
iPhone lovers worldwide have a few complaints about the missing features in the
new iPhone.

iPhone could transcend the 5th dimension

The way Apple had brought a revolution in the smartphone and laptop market,
people have always expected them to unveil devices which change the course of
history. People expect a Virtual Reality Simulator to integrated biometrics in
the iPhone. According to fans and critics alike, the iPhone needs to be
integrated with human consciousness, and that will be some experience. People
not only want to talk to Siri but also expects her to reads thoughts and guide
actions.

Siri could become A.I. like in movies:

When it was launched, SIRI was expected to bring a revolution in its genre. But
the fact of the matter is that it still hasn't been able to be the best
artificial intelligence that it could have become. People expect it to be
something straight out of the movies. Maybe the next version could be a Jarvis
from Iron Man or Scarlett Johansson from the movie 'Her'. Maybe then people will
'fall in love with the iPhone'. Siri is expected and should rise above the
battle between Microsoft's Cortana, Google Now and itself and be an AI software
which can be used for ANYTHING.

Music that enters directly into the brain:

Leave aside the lack of an audio jack, there should be no headphones. According
to people, the music should be able to enter directly into our brains. Maybe a
mix of biometrics and neural audio is the answer, which will eventually result
in the end of headphone cribs.

GPS could measure things which cannot be, YET.

Apps and devices can capture and measure distances. Location services and GPS
use cameras to do the same. But there is nothing to tell you how far you can go
to achieve something which is not material. It is high time Apple brings out
something which can tell the user how long it will be till he gets some success
in life. Critics hope that iPhone can use the lens and light to guess all of
that maybe.

Charging on the move, by the move

People expect the iPhone to get charged without plugging in anything. Yes.
Nothing at all. No more hoarding and fighting for charging spots. No more
carrying heavy power banks. Maybe like regenerative brakes, iPhone will be able
to get energy from the walk of the user.

