

Apple recently launched its next generation of iPhone worldwide. Releasing two
phones at the same time; iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus, the upgraded version has
already taken the world by storm.

Right from having a new range of colours to an upgraded camera, the iPhone has
changed several of its features when compared to its launches over the years.
Starting from a price range of Rs. 43,000 all the way to Rs. 60,000, pre-orders
had already begun in several parts of the country. Considered to be one of the
costliest of mobile handsets in the country, the public has never swayed away
from purchasing it in-spite the cost, ever since its launch in 2007.

Apart from the iPhone, Apple has launched its watch series 2 and Air Pad as
well. At the launch event that was held in San Francisco, Super Mario run game
was launched as well. So while Apple has once again swarmed the world with its
new releases, why not take a look at Apple's journey in the last 9 years.

The journey all the way from iPhone 1 first generation launched in the year
2007, to the iPhone 7 and 7 plus launched in the year 2016, Apple's journey has
been one hell of an impressive ride!

iPhone 1 (first generation)

Launch Date: June 2007

iPhone 1 was launched with iPad touch, a touch screen device and a mobile web
browser. Thousands of people were reported to have waited outside the Apple and
AT&T stores in the USA days before its launch.

iPhone 3G (second generation)

Launch Date: July 2008

Apple's new smart phone had the amazing feature of 3G connectivity. It also
launched the App store with the help of which a user could replace his smart TV
with a Windows 8 laptop.

iPhone 3GS (third generation)

Launch Date: June 2009

Although this series was launched with several new features like a better camera
quality, 3.54 inch screen and 320x480 resolution, it failed to make its mark in
the market as the users were unable to find an extra-ordinary difference between
the two models.

iPhone 4 (fourth generation)

Launch Date: June 2010

By the launch of its 4th series, iPhone had pretty much become a fashion
statement among the masses. Launched with a higher resolution and megapixel, the
device also supported HD video recording. Resultant, iPhone 4 was a huge craze.

iPhone 4S (fifth generation)

Launch Date: October 2011

Apart from better features, the phone was also launched with A5 processor which
made the device function faster. It also upgraded its iOS and supported full HD
video recording.

iPhone 5 (sixth generation)

Launch Date: September 2012

Apple's 6th launch decided to work on its screen size and ratio foremost.
Launched with a 4 inch screen, it was almost 20% bigger than its previous
models. It also launched iOS 7 which made the device widely popular.

iPhone 5S/5C (seventh generation)

Launch Date: September 2013

The biggest difference between the two models was its cost. 5C became one of the
cheapest models to be ever launched by Apple. Along with a better battery
back-up and camera quality, it also had the fingerprint option.

iPhone 6/6 Plus (eighth generation)

Launch Date: September 2014

This series of Apple was launched with a bang with amazing features and
hardware. With a screen as wide as 5.5 inch, it also had the A8 processor. The
sale of this series made Apple the number 1 sellers yet again.

iPhone 6S/6S Plus (ninth generation)

Launch Date: September 2015

Alongside a 3D touch feature, it also had the A9 chip which was 70% faster than
its previous models. This wireless chip supported Wi-Fi and 4G connections at a
much faster pace. However, it was the battery back-up that was a challenge.

