

With the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, Apple has taken a risk by, well, not
changing very much. We've become accustomed to getting something new and
impressive from Apple every two years, but these phones are more renovation than
revelation.

But, theatrics aside, the question that really matters is are these phones worth
buying? Apple provided me with an iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, in its two new
shades of black. The firm also gave me a SIM card to use while reviewing the
devices.

Here's what I found out.

Design, storage and performance

Most of the noticeable changes are under the hood, but there are aesthetic
changes worth noting. The new black finishes are nice to look at, particularly
the shiny jet black. The jet black finish, though, is a fingerprint magnet. But
at the end of the day, many people are likely to cover the finishes up with
cases.

As far as weight and width, the phones feel about the same as their
predecessors, though you can tell they're a hair lighter if you directly compare
the new phones to the old ones.

Apple also redesigned the home button to be a button in name only; it's now a
pressure-sensitive disc that uses vibrations to feel like a button. Users can
customize the strength of the buzz to make it feel more or less clicky. The faux
button, particularly on the lowest setting, can feel a little muddy, and at
first, I really didn't like how it felt. But after two days and some adjusted
settings, I almost didn't notice anymore.

One improvement could be a big deal to every iPhone user who's ever complained
about running out of space or missed a critical photo because they didn't have
room on their phone to take it. Apple has doubled the storage on the base models
of the new iPhones, which finally brings Apple up to par with its closest
competitors in this area. A base model iPhone 7 or iPhone 7 Plus now has 32 GB
of storage instead of 16 GB. You can only get a jet black iPhone with either 128
GB or 256 GB of storage.

And those who may have worried that they weren't going to get a speed or
processing boost from the iPhone 6 or the iPhone 6S can rest easy. Apps load
snappily and without lag.

How much water can these phones stand?

Apple redesigned the home button in part to make the phone more water resistant.
The phone can withstand about three feet of water for up to 30 minutes. But that
is certainly not recommended.

Although the iPhone is able to withstand a quick dip in the sink or (as can
happen) in the toilet, it's not exactly waterproof. It has a lower water
resistance rating than Samsung's Galaxy S7 line, which delights in showing off
its resistance to water fountains and champagne in its commercials.

Basically, all Apple's water resistance means is that you don't have to weep if
your phone falls in a puddle. (Dropping my units in the sink was a serious test
of my nerves.) But if these phones get wet, you still can't completely brush
that off. Apple, in fact, recommends that you don't plug the phone in for
several hours if the power port takes a bath.

Battery life

Both phones have been designed to improve battery life, with the inclusion of
two efficiency processing cores alongside Apple's existing performance cores,
which allow the phone to use less power for the same processes. The iPhone 7
Plus is supposed to be a battery powerhouse, with Apple claiming it will get an
hour more of battery life compared with the iPhone 6S Plus.

In practical terms, both of the new phones can easily make it through a day of
regular use without a problem. In my use, the iPhone 7 Plus could have lasted
into the next morning if needed. But battery-intensive features such as
following directions on a map would still probably have you reaching for the
power cord sometime before bed.

Overall, when it comes to performance, if you upgrade from the iPhone 6 or
earlier, you will feel a big boost that may be worth the money. But iPhone 6S
users can probably sit this upgrade out; the improvements aren't that big,
unless you're really into upgrading your iPhone's camera.

Lights, camera, action

The camera is definitely the part of the iPhone that received the most attention
in these upgrades. Apple now includes four flashes instead of two, meaning that,
yes, you can have twice as much flash to take pictures as before.

Apple also added features that prevent you from taking pictures that are too
shaky.

Real photography fanatics may want the iPhone 7 Plus. The larger iPhone has a
dual-camera, which has a normal wide-angle lens and a second lens that Apple
refers to as a "telephoto" lens that improves the camera's ability to take
close-up pictures.

The zoom feature on the Plus is impressive. Apple has made it possible to zoom
in up to 10x with the camera for photos, and 6x for videos at a much higher
quality. It's not perfect resolution that close, but it can be pretty good, even
at night.

Users can also take panoramic photos at 2x zoom for the first time.

On both phones, low light photography has been improved significantly over even
the iPhone 6S, thanks to improved software and hardware that takes in more light
and takes good pictures even if your hands are not steady.

Apple also made changes to its speakers. The new iPhones produce more sound from
their now-stereo speakers, making it noticeably better to listen to music and
play games when you're not in a place that requires headphones, or when you want
to share content with others nearby.

About that headphone jack

Not everything about these phones is all sunshine. The removal of the headphone
jack -- although not quite the apocalyptic event that many people seem to think
it is -- has serious drawbacks for consumer convenience.

In terms of sound quality, I didn't notice any great difference between the
lightning headphones and the standard headphones that came with my last iPhone.
While playing games and listening to music, they performed about the same to my
ear.

But while things don't change much if you're using Apple products, the truth
remains that the whole world is not made of Apple products. If you're flying on
a plane, for example, and only have your Lightning or Bluetooth headphones on
hand, you'll be out of luck for watching any in-flight movies unless you want to
buy another cable. Ditto if you use your audio jack to plug into your car.

Apple includes a headphone jack adapter in every box, and the adapter fits
snugly on the end of a normal pair of earphones without too much trouble. Even
when I yanked the headphones out of the bottom of the phone, the adapter held
tight to the headphone cord. That said, throwing an adapted headphone cord in my
bag did pull them apart, making me worry about how easy it could be to lose the
adapter.

Conclusion

In almost any other case, on almost any other phone, the loss of the headphone
jack would be a deal-breaker, even with the excellent changes to other parts of
the phone. But this is the iPhone, and with iOS, Apple has built an overall
ecosystem that's hard to leave. So potential buyers have to think, first and
foremost, about whether it will be more annoying to switch over to an Android
phone with a port, or to have to use an adapter on planes and in cars over the
next few years. For some, the loss of the headphone jack may make it feel like
Apple made the iPhone actively worse.

Those with the iPhone 6 or earlier will feel best about updating; iPhone 6S
users can probably take or leave the update, based on the level of upgrades.

But overall, I'd say Apple's performance improvements, particularly to the
camera, on the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus make these phones feel like more of an
upgrade than it seems on paper. For me, at least, the updates ultimately edge
out the cons.

