

As usual, everyone's talking about the rumored new iPhone. The wrinkle? They're
not talking about the very next model, the iPhone 7 due out in September, but
instead are looking out a distant 15 months or so ahead -- a lifetime in the
tech world -- at the following iPhone.

Next year's iPhone 8 is shaping up to be the most exciting smartphone release
from Apple since the original iPhone in 2007.

And for Apple that's good -- and bad.

The buzz around the 2017 model is so great that it threatens to put a damper on
sales of this year's model, analysts say. The iPhone 8 has been written about
extensively in media, thanks to leaks from the supply chain.

"As more and more is written about the iPhone 8, the average consumer will start
to become aware of what's coming from Apple," Canaccord Genuity analyst Mike
Walkley told IBD.

People "might wait one more year for what they think is going to be a bigger
release," timed with the 10-year anniversary of the first iPhone, Walkley said.

"Certainly everything in the supply chain points to next year having a much more
differentiated device than this next one."

Apple observers expect the iPhone 7 will be a relatively minor upgrade to the
current iPhone 6 S series handsets. The 7 is expected to be thinner, faster and
have a better camera, but nothing too earthshaking is seen. It will look pretty
much like recent iPhones.

By contrast, the iPhone 8 could sport a radical redesign, thanks to its use of
an organic light-emitting diode (OLED) screen, instead of the current LCD
screen.

The iPhone 8 could make Apple's smartphone sexy again.

But rumors about the 8, which will be the 11 th-generation iPhone, could inspire
people to extend the life of their existing handsets and wait to upgrade, Wall
Street analysts say. That could lead to soft sales of this fall's 10
th-generation handset, the iPhone 7. And those soft sales would be on top of
weaker-than-expected sales of the current iPhone 6 S.

One huge factor could alleviate much of this concern, though -- the way service
providers are altering their business models.

New Year, New iPhone

Apple and its carrier partners such as AT&T and Verizon Communications probably
will use the iPhone 7 launch to promote upgrade plans that let customers get new
iPhones every year, says Tim Bajarin, an analyst with Creative Strategies.

"More and more people are going to move to that, because everybody knows that
Apple does a better phone every year," he said.

Most of the excitement over the iPhone 8 concerns its rumored use of an edgeless
OLED screen. OLED displays boast richer colors, deeper blacks and a faster
refresh rate than LCD screens. Since OLED screens don't have a backlight, they
can be much thinner and more power efficient. Plus, OLED displays are flexible,
allowing them to be used on curved screens.

Mock-ups of possible iPhone 8 designs circulated by tech enthusiast websites
illustrate dramatic new form factors, from iPhones with secondary screens along
their sides to all-glass handsets in which the display covers the entire surface
of the phone, front and back.

For years, Apple Chief Design Officer Jony Ive has expressed a desire for the
iPhone to appear like a single sheet of glass, the Wall Street Journal reported
recently.

But don't put a lot of stock into those artists' conceptions of the iPhone 8,
Bajarin says.

"The kinds of designs you're seeing now are more pie-in-the-sky than reality,"
he said.

One big question is whether Apple will limit the OLED-screen iPhone 8 to a
premium model and keep selling LCD models as well.

Another is whether any use of a curved display or wraparound screen will be
truly useful or perceived as a gimmick.

Apple's OLED iPhone wouldn't be the first such smartphone on the market. Samsung
already uses OLED displays in its flagship Galaxy smartphones.

Sharp, Japan Display, Joled, AU Optronics and LG Display all plan to add either
pilot or production capacity for OLED screens in 2017 or 2018. Plus, at least
five Chinese companies are preparing OLED production lines.

Apple enthusiasts, however, will think the OLED iPhone is a "big deal," even
though Samsung and others already use them, says Roger Kay, an analyst with
Endpoint Technologies Associates and another longtime Apple watcher.

But the OLED screen could be just one selling point of the iPhone 8. Another
major change is that next year's iPhone could feature wireless charging,
according to media reports. Instead of plugging in a power cord, users would
place the device on a charging mat.

In addition, Apple also could eliminate the physical home button with the iPhone
8. That functionality would be incorporated into the pressure-sensitive touch
screen.

