

The all new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus were unveiled in California on 7
September at Apple's annual September launch and the wait was finally over for
the iFans. However the new devices will be launched in India on 7 of October.
Like every other Apple launch event, some of the announcements were new, while
some weren't.

Here are the 10 things you need to know about the new Apple devices.

It is still costly but won't cost you extra

The iPhone 7 price in India starts at Rs. 60,000 for the new 32GB base variant
which is almost similar to the price of iPhone 6 plus. However, there is no
conformation on 7 plus price in India.

It looks the same

If you take a good hard look at the iPhone 7 you will say it looks like iPhone 6
because Apple has not changed the exterior design, maybe they are saving the big
exterior design changes for next year's launch event! But one of the major
changes in the design, which everyone is talking about, is the doing away with
the 3.5 mm headphone jack.

Yes, no headphone jack

There were a lot of rumours that the apple will do away with the 3.5 mm jack in
the new iPhone 7 and as it turns out Apple has done away with the 3.5mm
headphone jack. Well, a fair amount of people are unhappy about it, but if it
makes you happy Apple will provide lightning-to-3.5mm adapter. And also the
obvious reason why Apple wanted to do away with the headphone jack is because it
came in the way of making it a waterproof phone.

It is waterproof

Finally, after spending all that money that you do to buy an Apple device you
will not have to worry about water slipping into your device during heavy down
pour or if someone spills a drink over your phone. The new iPhone is IP-67
proof-rated waterproof and dustproof.

It has two cameras at the back

Apple is well known for its camera and this time around as well Apple did not
disappoint either. The Plus model features two 12MP cameras. One camera has a
28mm wide-angle lens while the other has a 56mm telephoto lens. You can switch
between the cameras with ease. The iPhone 7 gets a 12MP camera with image
stabilization, a larger f/1.8 aperture that lets 50% more light onto the lens.

New Battery Boost

Traditionally Apple does not reveal the size of its battery but this time around
it has given us a little more to be happy about. Apple has promised that the
battery life of the new iPhone devices is going to be better than the previous
devices.

The makeover of the home button

Apple has installed its Force Touch technology into the iconic home key. The
home button is not clickable anymore you just have to tap on to the class.

16GB iPhone is done with

After almost everyone calling the 16 GB iPhone completely useless, the apple has
finally decided to do away with it. The 16 GB device barely allowed you to
install two apps and would hang up on you. So now Apple starts its base model
iPhones at 32GB.

