

Oct. 28--Officially presenting iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus mobile devices in
Azerbaijan the Mobile operator Azercell Telecom also offers new beneficial
proposal for its subscribers. In fact, the subscribers wishing to get iPhone 7
under extremely beneficial conditions will be able to realize it by paying only
89 manat a month and benefit from this modern smartphone and 30 GB Hedsiz
Internet pack.

Customers who pre-order iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus beginning from October, 28
get 50 percent discount for the 1st month payment. Subscribers are advised to
pre-order the device from October 28 to November 4 via Azercell website
(www.azercell.com) and visit Azercell's Customer Service Centers located in
Tagiyev, 18, Besti Bagirova 2 and 28 May, 33A between November, 4-6.

The number of devices is limited.

The devises are the most advanced iPhone ever, featuring new advanced camera
systems, the best battery life ever on an iPhone and water and dust resistance.

Azercell will continue to please its subscribers with new attractive services
and campaigns further on.

The leader of the mobile communication industry of Azerbaijan and the biggest
investor in the non-oil sector Azercell Telecom LLC was founded in 1996. With
48% share of Azerbaijan's mobile market Azercell's network covers 80% of the
territory and 99,8% of population of the country. Currently, 4,5 million
subscribers choose Azercell services.

Azercell has pioneered an important number of innovations in Azerbaijan,
including GSM technology, advance payment system, 24/7 Customer Care, online
customer services, GPRS/EDGE, M2M, MobilBank, one-stop- shop service offices
Azercell Express, mobile e-service "ASAN signature", etc. Azercell deployed
first 4G -- LTE services in Azerbaijan in 2012. According to the results of
mobile network quality surveys of Global Wireless Solutions company and
international systems specialized in wireless coverage mapping such as
"Opensignal" and "Testmy.net", Azercell's network demonstrated the best results
among the mobile operators of Azerbaijan.

___ (c)2016 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

