

Apple is expected to reveal the next version of its iPhone this week.

The Californian tech giant usually updates its smartphone lineup in early
September so it can see out the end of the year on a high.

This year it will almost certainly be the iPhone 7 that's revealed, and the
online rumour mill is going into overdrive ahead of the announcement.

Along with comments and predictions from industry analysts and the specialised
tech media, there have been several supposed leaked images.

Many show the casing or materials that are believed to be in the new smartphone.

Apple Store to replace Birmingham bookshop - and the symbolism was not lost on
people

We've gathered together all the latest news surrounding the phone into one place
and will continue to update this as we learn more.

Well-connected analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of KGI Securities has issued a new research
note, claiming that the iPhone 7 will include one very useful feature for photo
fanatics.

The phone will reportedly have four LED flash lights - two in cool colours, and
two in warm colours - and an ambient light sensor.

While the iPhone 6's camera is widely praised, it still struggles to take good
photos in low-light situations. These additions should theoretically improve
image quality.

It is unclear whether the new features will appear on the 4.7-inch iPhone 7 or
just the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus, which is also expected to feature a dual lens
camera capable of taking SLR-quality photos.

Either way, Apple is clearly stepping up its photography capabilities in the
face of growing competition from the likes of Samsung, Sony and Huawei.

Apple has s ent out invitations for an event, where it is widely expected to
unveil the iPhone 7.

The event is taking place at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco
on Wednesday, September 7, at 10am local time, (6pm BST).

Apple often likes to include a hidden message in its invitations, but this one
gives very little away.

New giant Apple store to open in Waterstones New Street building

It carries the tagline "See you on the 7th" - which may allude to the name of
the iPhone 7, as well as the date.

It also features a number of translucent coloured dots outlining the top portion
of Apple's logo, which may relate to the rumour that Apple is planning to
introduce new colourer handsets.

In photography, this out-of-focus effect is called bokeh. It is usually hard to
create with a phone camera, suggesting that the iPhone 7 could feature an
upgraded camera lens.

Apple iPhone7 launch date finally CONFIRMED

However, the dots could also be water droplets, which would be relevant if Apple
was planning to launch a waterproof iPhone.

Although the launch will take place on 7 September, there is usually a gap
between Apple unveiling its latest iPhone and the device going on sale.

Notorious leaker Evan Blass claims to have pinned down the release date to
Friday, September 16 - although he has cited no source for the information.

September 16 would be in keeping with Apple's normal timetable, allowing the
company to start taking pre-orders a week earlier, on Friday, September 9.

