

APPLE has unveiled the new iPhone 7, having made the phone water resistant for
the first time and removed the headphone jack.

The tech giant's chief executive Tim Cook announced the phone at an event in San
Francisco, though a social media glitch saw the firm's Twitter account - only
recently activated - accidentally reveal the news early.

A new version of the Apple Watch, called the Series 2 and with greater focus on
health and exercise tracking, was also announced, including a special Nike+
version for runners.

The Watch, iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will go on sale on 16 September, with
pre-orders for the devices beginning tomorrow.

The iPhone 7 will start at £599 in the UK for the 32GB model, which makes it £60
more expensive than the iPhone 6s.

Instead of the traditional headphone connection, iPhone packages will now come
with earphones that fit into the phone's lightning port, currently used for
charging and data transfer.

However, Apple also revealed new wireless earphones, called AirPods, that will
connect to both iPhone and Apple Watch remotely.

Meanwhile, an adaptor that enables traditional headphones to continue to plug
into the iPhone will also be included in the box.

The iPhone 7 has also had its camera redesigned, with a second lens being added
to the larger iPhone 7 Plus that will enable users to capture more zoomed images
without losing picture quality.

The lenses across the two phones now contain a 12 mega-pixel sensor.

Other new features include the home button of the new phones, which can now
detect how firmly it is being pressed and provide vibration-based feedback.

The handsets can be submerged in water up to depths of 1m (3.2ft) for 30 minutes
at a time.

Mr Cook said of the smartphone: "It has become the industry gold standard.

"iPhone is the phone by which all others are measured and it has become a
cultural phenomenon."

In July, the tech giant revealed it had sold the one billionth unit of the
device, while Mr Cook said the Apple Watch was now the world's second most
popular watch brand and most popular smartwatch.

Analysts say the new iPhones could help Apple recover modestly from a recent dip
in sales.

But with few expected dramatic changes from previous models, Apple watchers
aren't expecting the kind of big spikes in consumer demand that the company saw
two years ago, when it introduced larger screens.

Apple sold nearly 92 million iPhones in the first six months of this year, about
15 percent fewer than the same period last year. The launch comes a week after
the European Commission demanded Apple pay up to ¤13 billion (£11bn) in back
taxes to Ireland - a ruling the firm is appealing against.

