

I've been using the iPhone 7 Plus for over a week now. Initially, I worried that
its near-identical design to the iPhone 6S Plus (and iPhone 6 Plus) might make
it feel a little same-old, same-old. And the removal of the headphone jack
caused momentary pause. But the improvements under the hood, together with a
magnificent new dual-camera system, make it a worthy upgrade candidate.

The new 'haptic' home button feels a little odd for the first while. Whether
it's nostalgia or muscle-memory, there is something satisfying about pressing
down on an actual button. But it's actually fine, and if Apple is correct in
saying it makes the overall phone "more durable", that's definitely a good
thing.

It certainly helps make the phone more water-resistant. The iPhone 7 has no
problems with splashes of water or beer.

I also don't miss the headphone jack one bit, mainly because I mostly wear
wireless headphones anyway. But for those who might miss it, Apple has included
a 3.5mm adaptor in the box that fits the end of your earphone jack and goes into
the Lightning port. And there is still a pair of (Lightning) EarPod earphones
included with the new iPhone 7 anyway.

But the main feature here is the camera.

This is unquestionably the biggest reason to upgrade to this phone. It's
actually two cameras (with two sensors, according to Apple) on one device.
There's a wide-angle 28mm lens and a telephoto 56mm lens. This allows the phone
to 'zoom' from one angle (or view) to the other without compromising much
quality in the photo. Of critical importance to this whole process is the iPhone
7 Plus's optical stabilisation (also now available on the smaller iPhone 7).
When used with video, even a zoomed-in, apparently shaky filming process results
in a nice, smooth video.

You have to see this to believe it: it's a huge advance. The amount of light
that the camera lets in is much improved, too, with an f1.8 aperture The iPhone
7 Plus's battery life is around two hours better than previous iPhone Plus
models. Apple credits this largely to the reduced energy consumption of the
phone's powerful, efficient new A10 processor. It also has more storage
(starting at 32GB up to 256GB). Finally, iOS 10, with all its new widgets,
messaging animations and quick actions, looks great on the iPhone 7.

