
DATELINE: New York



 (ARIZO) Phoenix: Arizona Republic The state of AZ has issued the following news
release:



 San Francisco-- Rarely have there been such modest expectations leading into an
iPhone launch. All we've heard lately is how Apple has misplaced its mojo and
how the entire smartphone industry has been languishing in an innovation glut.





 Apple found that mojo. No, the company didn't go gaga with a ton of new
features on the $649 (on up) iPhone 7 and $769 iPhone 7 Plus that Tim Cook
unveiled at San Francisco's Bill Graham Civic Auditorium Wednesday here, and
that will hit stores a week from Friday.



 What Apple has done is provide a lot of stuff that is sure to please the
faithful.



 USA TODAY



 Apple unveils iPhone 7, kills headphone jack



 Start with the fact that Apple, at long last, has made iPhones that are water
and dust resistant. Yes, Samsung (and others) got there first. But better late
than never still translates into "better."



 We'll all appreciate the longer battery life that Apple promises: if true,
iPhone 7 gets two extra hours of juice compared to the iPhone 6S. Same goes for
double the storage capacities (32GB is the new entry point), plus phones that
are likely to be snappier, what with a new A10 Fusion chip that company
executive Phil Schiller has likened to a "rocket ship." The graphics have also
been bolstered. The home button is more versatile.



 Most of Apple love, though, went to the cameras on the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7
Plus, the latter of which gets two rear cameras that will let you easily switch
from a wide-angle shot to a telephoto.



 USA TODAY



 The real winner from Apple's talk isn't Apple



 Both phones get a larger f/1.8 aperture that should improve low light
photography. There's optical image stabilization, a wider color gamut and other
camera features that have me excited to start shooting some pictures with the
latest handsets.



 Now let me get to the biggest bummer of the whole event. As had been widely
rumored, Apple indeed removed the standard headphone jack from the iPhone 7S
that has been on every iPhone to date, and virtually every other modern cell
phone that is out there.



 Apple has done this sort of thing before, acting, before others do, on getting
rid of stuff we've been seemingly using forever. Remember for example how we all
went nuts when Apple removed optical drives from Mac computers? Few of us miss
them now.Still, the removal of the standard headphone jack is one of those
things sure to annoy users.



 Apple is supplying free new wired EarPods that connect to the phone's Lightning
connector, which for Apple anyway, becomes the new standard for headphones. An
adapter will also be included at no charge that will let you plug in your older
headphones. Such adapters tend to be clumsy to use.



 By making this move, Apple is also pushing the use of wireless headphones. The
company unveiled new wireless AirPods that are apparently easy to set up and
charge. Most importantly, if Apple is to be believed, they sound swell, too.One
other key thing to keep in mind is that the new iPhones will run iOS 10, the
next version of the mobile operating system that adds Siri improvements, fancy
tricks to the Messages app, and voicemail transcription, among other new
features. I've been running the iOS 10 beta most of the summer and like the
software a lot.



 Those of you not inclined to buy either new iPhone can upgrade your existing
devices to iOS 10 starting Sept. 13.



 On balance, the new iPhone doesn't appear to have broken new ground. In
removing the standard headphone port not every user will be pleased. But
whenever Apple introduces a new iPhone it makes the identical claim: that this
latest device (or devices) is better than the ones that preceded it. That's what
we all have come to expect -- and that's what I expect of the iPhone 7 and 7
Plus.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

