

Despite Hong Kong, the mainland and Taiwan being among the first to get their
hands on the new ­iPhone 7, local secondary market traders remained sceptical
over its upgrades and pricing.


Apple unveiled its new iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus and Apple Watch Series 2
yesterday.


The release is widely expected to boost smartphone and smartwatch sales around
the world after a damaging Samsung Electronics product recall and a global
­economic slowdown.


Apple also confirmed it will extend its year-old iPhone ­upgrade programme to
the mainland, allowing consumers there to purchase an unlocked iPhone or iPhone
7 Plus from the company's online store and branded shops.


Those who sign up for the ­programme pay for the phone on a monthly basis, and
may select their own telecommunications network operator and upgrade their
device annually.


While pricing for the mainland was not disclosed, monthly payments in the US
start at US$32. A spokesman said Hong Kong was not included in the programme.


"I think this is a big deal and makes a lot of sense for the rising middle class
in mainland China," Ben Bajarin, from consulting firm Creative Strategies, said.
"Instead of spending one huge lump sum, those consumers can use their
discretionary spending to pay a smaller monthly amount to get a new iPhone each
year."


Apple will accept pre-orders for the iPhone from today, ­according to the firm's
website.


The new models are set to be available in Hong Kong, the mainland at Taiwan from
a week today.


The iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are the first dust and water-resistant handsets
from Apple. Other features include a faster processor, longer battery life,
wireless earphones and advanced camera capabilities.


Prices start from HK$5,588, with storage capacity options of 32GB, 128GB and
256GB.


The updated Apple Watch ­Series 2 was also launched with a built-in Global
Positioning ­System among other upgrades. Prices start at HK$2,888.


But despite the fanfare ­surrounding Apple's latest ­offering, Hong Kong
smartphone traders remained sceptical of the new models' pricing and ­upgrades.


The owner of LIKE at Sin Tat Plaza in Mong Kok, who identified himself as Peter,
said he was "not impressed" by the new model.


"If I was a buyer, I probably would not pay an extra HK$2,000 just to get my
hands on the new iPhone before anyone else," he said.


Of the new models, Lau Chi-kong, owner of G-World Mobile at Sin Tat Plaza, said
he expected more sales of the iPhone 7 Plus, which comes with a dual camera and
presents better value for phone traders.


"The margins will be about HK$1,000 to HK$2,000," he said.


Lau said the new models were only a slight upgrade from the ­iPhone 6s, and he
doubted there would be much of a market frenzy beyond the first day of trading.


"But there could be a market for certain devices," he said.


"The iPhone 7 Plus in jet black could be quite sought after."

