

The new iPhones may not pose a serious threat to Korean smartphone makers,
Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics, in the market they added.

'As the iPhone 7 and 7 plus have been released with specifications and features
as expected, Samsung Electronics may be able to enter intense competition in the
fourth quarter, on the back of its improved brand image after the decision to
recall millions of Galaxy Note 7s,' Eugene Investment & Securities analyst Lee
Jung said.

'LG Electronics is also expected to have an opportunity to elevate its position
in the North American market with its new premium handset, the V20,' Lee added.

NH Investment & Securities analyst Ko Jung-woo pointed out that the product
lifecycle in the domestic smartphone market will also have a negative impact on
the popularity of new iPhones here.

'Considering that the new iPhone 7 series has not changed much in hardware
specifications and that the market has entered the stage of motorization from
the perspective of product lifecycle, their launch is unlikely to cause a threat
to other smartphone companies such as Samsung Electronics,' Ko said.

'The expected customers of the new iPhones are those who have already purchased
an Apple smartphone two years ago. But the number of potential customers who
choose to use an iPhone may not be great.'

Another analyst here said even existing iPhone users may hesitate to buy an
iPhone 7 amid high expectations for the next Apple smartphone.

'The next Apple smartphone, which is expected to be rolled out in 2017 as the
iPhone 7S, is likely to have more significant changes in specifications such as
an organic light-emitting diode front display, as the new handset will
commemorate the 10th anniversary of iPhones,' Korea Investment & Securities
analyst Lee Seung-hyuk said.

'This means that existing iPhone users may wait until the launch of the iPhone
7S,' he added.

Lee projected that about 216 million iPhones will be sold this year; down 7
percent year-on-year compared to the less-than-expected popularity of the iPhone
6S. He added that the production cost of an iPhone 7 will go up about 20 percent
compared to that of an iPhone 6S due to hardware upgrades such as the dual
camera module and waterproof design, pressurizing Apple in terms of pricing.

According to data from global market researcher IHS Technology, Apple will ship
209 million iPhones this year.

Highlighting that iPhones sales represented 57 percent of Apple's total revenue
in the second quarter, IHS analyst Ian Fogg said the importance of the phone for
the company is much greater than direct revenue alone.

'Apple needs the iPhone 7 to be a major success because it is the main driver of
growth for the whole company. But Apple has seen iPhone shipments fall
year-on-year in 2016 and it needs the iPhone to return to growth,' Fogg said in
a report. 'The iPhone drives acquisition for Apple's entire ecosystem, supports
up-sell of Apple Watches, Macs and iPads. The more iPhones Apple sells, the
larger the addressable audience for accessories such as the Apple Watch series
2.'

Fogg pointed out Apple has taken major risks with the iPhone 7 design.

He said Apple is applying the dual camera feature only on the iPhone 7 Plus
despite the sales results of the iPhone 6 and larger iPhone 6 Plus showing that
only 21 percent of iPhone shipments were for the large-screen models in the
second quarter. In the meantime, Chinese smartphone giant Huawei offers a dual
camera design in the compact P9 which is similar in size to the regular iPhone
7, he said.

The analyst added that adverse reaction to the decision to drop the headphone
jack threatens to drown out communication about iPhone 7 improvements.

'Apple has to make the case that the many enhancements are worth the
inconvenience of the lack of a headphone socket, or consumers will hold off
upgrading to the iPhone 7,' he said.

