

[THE INVESTOR] In the aftermath of Samsung Electronics' decision to discontinue
sales and production of the problem-ridden Galaxy Note 7 globally, attention is
now shifting to which alternative smartphones consumers around the world will be
turning to instead.

Samsung on Tuesday announced that it is "officially ending the sales as well as
production of the smartphone to ensure consumer safety," following multiple
incidents in which the exchanged Note 7 devices fitted with new batteries caught
fire due to overheating.

The South Korean electronics giant also initiated a global refund and exchange
program, including in the US and Korea, in partnership with local carriers and
retail partners. Customers can receive a full refund or exchange their Note 7
devices with any other smartphone.

Models promote LG Electronics` V20 smartphone. LG

As Samsung pulls the Note 7 from the world's biggest markets for premium
smartphones, rival electronics giants Apple, LG Electronics and Google are
expected to score new purchases from some 2.6 million Galaxy Note 7 owners
looking for alternative high-end smartphones.

Apple's newly released iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, LG Electronics' V20 and
Google's new premium Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones are slated to compete for
market share in the absence of Samsung's Galaxy Note 7.

Customers who are familiar with Android-based smartphones are likely to prefer
smartphones from Google and LG, while others who have lost trust in the Samsung
brand are expected to take this opportunity to switch to Apple's iOS-based
iPhone models.

At the same time, some users who remain loyal to Samsung may turn to former
Samsung smartphones -- including the Galaxy Note 5 launched last year or the
smaller-sized Galaxy S7 released earlier this year -- or simply wait for the
release of the Galaxy S8 next year.

Last month, the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7s Plus began sales in more than 30
countries around the world including the US and China. The two new iPhone models
are slated for release on Oct. 21 in Korea.

The iPhone 7 features a 4.7-inch display while its larger-sized sibling iPhone 7
Plus comes with a larger 5.5-inch full HD display. Both devices run on the iOS
10 operating system.

Setting itself apart from previous models, the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus
have removed the earphone sockets, and are instead accompanied by wireless
earphones -- which has driven some customers away from the new iPhones.

Meanwhile, LG Electronics has the 5.7-inch LG V20, co-designed by LG and
Denmark-based luxury stereo brand Bang & Olufsen, boasting high-end audio and
camera features. It runs on the Google Android 7.0 Nougat operating system and
comes with a removable battery. The LG V20 is slated to launch in the US by Oct.
28. The device is already available in Korea.

Google's 5-inch Pixel and 5.5-inch Pixel XL are also strong options favored by
Android enthusiasts. The device is slated for release in the US later this
month. Google has yet to announce a launch date for Korea.

By Sohn Ji-young/The Korea Herald (

