

Apple is holding a launch event in the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San
Francisco, where it will unveil a new iPhone 7 for 2016, which is expected to
have a faster processor, better cameras and - controversially - remove the
headphone port.

The company is also expected to announce its second generation Apple Watch with
new GPS capabilities to improve its health tracking features and remove the need
to tether it to an iPhone during runs.

iPhone

     ·    Apple has sold more than one billion iPhones since the first version
          launched in 2007. New latest - the iPhone 7 - will wake when lifted
          up, use Siri to voice activate apps, add contextual predictive typing
          and include a new version of Maps that allows taxi or hotel bookings
          from inside the app.
     ·    There are two new black options, one gloss and one matt, and the new
          iPhone is water and dust resistant. The display is 25% brighter.
          iPhone 7 has a 4.7" retina screen and the iPhone 7 Plus a 5.5" retina
          HD screen.
     ·    The camera on the iPhone 7 has a better flash, improved lens, image
          stabilisation, high speed 12MP camera and can capture raw image files.
          The iPhone 7 Plus has the same wide angle camera but also has a second
          telephoto camera on the back. A new feature uses machine learning to
          identify people, and then apply depth of field to the background.
     ·    iPhone 7 will come in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB starting at $640, and
          iPhone 7 Plus in 32GB, 128GB 256GB from $769. Pre-orders open 9
          September and they ship on 16 September.


                   AirPods

     ·    The daily challenge of untangling Apple's white earphones will become
          a thing of the past ; Apple announced AirPods, wireless white
          earphones that can also still be used to take phone calls. Beats also
          launched the Solo 3 Wireless headphones and two further models.
          AirPods will ship in late October for $159.


                   Apple Watch

     ·    The new version of Apple Watch will be waterproof to 5om depth,
          allowing a new range of apps that track swim performance including lap
          time. It has a new, two-times brighter screen, a faster dual-core
          processor, a white ceramic case option and built-in GPS, which allows
          better tracking for running and sports apps, including a new Nike+
          version of the AppleWatch available in late October. The new 'series
          2' Apple Watch will be priced at $369, while series 1 will be dropped
          to $269 but gain the faster processor of the new watch.


Related:  Apple Watch series 2: GPS, waterproofing and faster processing

Game apps

     ·    Tim Cook introduced Shigeru Miyamoto, now creative fellow at Nintendo
          and one of the world's most respected and best loved video game
          creators, who announced a new Mario game app. Super Mario Run follows
          a familiar running platform game format and includes a new battle mode
          called Toad Relay, in which friends can compete across the internet.


     ·    A version of Pokemon Go is launching for the Apple Watch. Niantic
          founder John Hanke said Pokemon Go players have so far walked 4.6bn
          kilometres.


Related:  Super Mario Run: Nintendo running game to launch with Apple's iPhone 7

