

The D-day is almost here! Come September 7, and we will see the biggest
smartphone launch of the year as Apple unveils iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus.

Like all previous iPhones, the duo too have ruled the tech rumour mill since
past many months.

Now, KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, who is known for his track record when
it comes to Apple device rumors, has released a detailed research report on the
upcoming iPhones.

Kuo's report offers peek into iPhone 7 and iPhone Plus features. Here's all that
Kuo predicts and more about the upcoming iPhones.

The report claims that iPhone 7 will be powered by Apple's new A10 chip
(manufactured by TSMC) offering a maximum clock speed of 2.4 GHz.

Apple Store in Brooklyn (Image: Reuters/ Representative image)

The chip will reportedly be a major upgrade over the Apple A9 chip used in the
current-generation iPhones.

Apple will also be giving both RAM and storage boost to the new iPhones, as per
the KGI report.

The company is expected to drop 16GB and 64GB models and add a 256GB variant.

A guest uses her iphone to take pictures (Image: Reuters)

This means Apple iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus models will come in 32GB, 128 GB and
256GB variants. Both the iPhones are also likely to get a RAM boost of 1GB.

Apple is also adding new colour options. The company is likely to add 'dark
black' and 'glossy piano black' variants to the iPhone range.

These may replace the existing 'space grey' coloured variant.

Apple's brand new iPhones will sport dual-lens camera system, comprising both
wide-angle and telephoto camera.

Both cameras will have 12-megapixel sensors, with the larger one also boosting
of optical image stabilisation (OIS).

Yes, the new iPhones will be water-resistant. Both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus
will be water-proof with IPX7 rating.

Same as that of Apple Watch, this means that the device can withstand immersion
in water up to 1 meter (for some 30 minutes).

One of the most widely-rumoured feature of the upcoming iPhones has been the
dropping of 3.5mm headphone jack.

KGI's Ming-Chi Kuo too agrees with this most-written about leaked feature.
According to him, Apple will be bundling Lightning EarPods and a Lightning to
3.5mm headphone Jack adapter with both the new iPhones to compensate for the
omission.

The same was also confirmed by an alleged packaging of iPhone 7 Plus that
surfaced online recently.

The space for 3.5mm headphone jack will be used to enhance the Force Touch
recognition system, as per the KGI report.

The smartphones will sport a new sensor to improve users' 'Force Touch
experience'.

KGI also predicts upgrade in proximity sensor, which is expected to switch from
LCD to laser with faster response times and longer recognition distance.

It is also likely to offer support for hand-waving gesture features.

Users looking forward to a design change in iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will have
to wait for another year.

As Apple is reportedly not introducing any design changes in its upcoming
iPhones. The company, however, is said to be planning major design upgrade for
its next year's iPhones as it celebrates ten years of iPhone launch.

Likely to be called iPhone 8, the smartphone is rumoured to offer "significant
innovations" including full-glass OLED screen and new haptic feedback features.

There are no official confirmation or hints on this, however, according to the
noted tipster Evan Blass iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will go on sale on Friday
September 16 2016 in the US.

We can expect the company to launch the device in India before Diwali.

Apple enthusiasts in India can watch the livestream of the event starting at
10:30PM on Wednesday, September 7.

The livestream can be watched on iOS-based devices running version 7.0 or above
and Mac computers with OS X v10.8.5 or above and Safari version 6.0.6 or above.

Windows users can watch the event on their Windows 10 PCs, via Microsoft Edge
browser.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

