

Chennai: With the announcement of October 7 as the date for the Indian Apple
lovers to grab a new iPhone 7 or 7 Plus, the Cupertino-based tech giant has not
only improved upon the product availability date for the country but is also
firmly eyeing the long festive season ahead.

Last year when Apple launched iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus in India on October
16, it was touted as the fastest iPhone rollout with the devices being made
available in less than a month after going on sale in the US.

This year, Apple has further shortened the gap.

According to industry analysts, Since Navratri -- an auspicious time for
shopping -- begins on October 1 and with Diwali falling on October 30, this is a
strategic time for Apple to register super iPhone 7 sales.

"Apple will have three-four weeks of solid festive momentum. Last year, Apple
launched iPhone models on October 16. This year, the company will have more
time-frame to register better sales figures," Tarun Pathak, Senior Analyst,
Mobile Devices and Ecosystems at New Delhi-based Counterpoint Research, told.

According to Pathak, like other countries where Apple has gone into strategic
partnerships (recent ones being SAP and Cisco), it should look for similar
partnerships in India too.

"I feel Apple must consider Reliance Jio -- currently the game changer in the
Indian telecom space with its disrupting pricing and data plans -- for a long,
beneficial partnership in a country where the number of smartphones users are
set for an exponential growth in years to come," Pathak told.

Available in silver, gold, rose gold and the new black finish (jet black),
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB models,
starting at Rs 60,000.

The new jet black finish will be offered exclusively on the 128GB and 256GB
models from Apple authorised resellers and select carriers, the Cupertino-based
tech giant announced.

Pre-orders for the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus begins from September 9 and the shipping
will start from September 16 first in 25 countries and other countries a week
later.

"Since iPhone sales are on the rise in India, Apple must plan for a simultaneous
global launch for the country too," Pathak added.

Apple CEO Tim Cook recently announced to soon open retail stores in the country
-- a move that brings to the fore the global importance of the burgeoning Indian
smartphone market.

The sales of the Apple devices in India rose 51 per cent in the last three
quarters compared with a year earlier, Cook said on Tuesday.

"India is now one of our fastest growing markets. In the first three quarters of
this fiscal year, our iPhone sales in India were up 51 percent year on year.
We're looking forward to opening retail stores in India down the road and we see
huge potential for that vibrant country," Cook added.

"The way things are going for Apple in India, they will have to consider India
for a simultaneous global launch. At the moment, the Indian festival season is
on Apple's mind, hence the decision to make iPhone 7 and 7 Plus available for
the consumers a bit early," noted Vishal Tripathi, research director at global
market consultancy firm Gartner.

According to Tripathi, the cost of iPhone 7 and other variants may also come
down in India with attractive festival offers like discounts and EMI options.

