

A prank video showing how to drill a hole in the new iPhone to create a DIY
headphone socket has been viewed millions of times- leading some owners to
destroy their £600 phones.

The video jokingly claims it has a "secret hack" to make a headphone jack on the
new iPhone 7 model which was released earlier this month without the socket.

Ukranian prankster Taras Maksimuk, who goes by the name of TechRax, posted the
video on YouTube and it has since been watched by nearly 10 million people.

It shows a man clamping the phone into a vice before drilling a 3.5 mm hole into
the bottom left edge of the device.

The video suggests drilling into the second hole on the left reveals a hidden
socket.

It then shows music playing from the iPhone model - although the sound is
actually coming out of the speakers.

Read more

iPhone 7 has ditched the headphone jack - and Twitter isn't happy

But some ill-informed iPhone users have complained at Californian-based Ukranian
YouTuber Mr Maksimuk after following the video's advice.

One angry person messaged him to say: "AppleCare doesn't even cover that, thanks
a lot."

Apple's latest iPhone was the first model not to have a headphone socket and
instead only has the usual lightning port, used to connect the device to
computers.

Mr Maksimuk self-styles himself as specialising in "smashing technology for your
pleasure".

He has so far posted seven separate videos showing him destroying iPhone 7s -
including microwaving the device and immersing it in liquid nitrogen.

But some hapless iPhone owners - who were likely to have paid £600 and upwards
for their new models - angrily commented on the YouTube video and have
complained to the YouTube star.

Read more

Apple iPhone 7 causes wireless headphones sales to soar

iPhone 7 launch date, UK release date and price revealed at Apple conference

Apple iOS 10 update causes problems for iPhone and iPad users

Someone called Sinus Plexus posted: "Help! Now my old headphones fit in but the
phone doesn't work anymore!"

Another angry owner commented: "My screen turned black the moment I started
drilling and now I can't even open it."

Adambsk8 said: "I followed all the steps you said and it won't even turn back
on. Do I gotta update it or download the headphone jack app?"

Legit people complaining to me about them drilling the iPhone 7 for a headphone
jack.

- Taras Maksimuk (@TechRax) September 24, 2016

Mr Maksimuk said on Twitter: "Legit people complaining to me about them drilling
the iPhone 7 for a headphone jack."

