

Apple revealed it's next-generation smartphone, the iPhone 7, at a keynote event
in San Francisco on Wednesday, boasting an vastly upgraded camera.

The iPhone 7 is Apple's first device to sport a wide-angle 12MP sensor, along
with optical image stabilisation and a larger f/1.8 aperture and 6-element lens.

This, Apple said, enables brighter, more detailed photos and videos, and a wide
colour capture.

If you're wondering what you could do with this impressive piece of kit, fear
not - Instagram has your back.

The company is bringing out an updated version of its iOS app that makes full
use of the iPhone 7's new photo-taking capabilities.

Unless you were paying close attention, you might have missed the Instagram's
short but sweet announcement during Apple's hotly-anticipated launch event last
night.

What is a dual lens camera and how does it work on Apple's iPhone 7 Plus?

Instagram's head of design, Ian Spalter, took to the stage to reveal that the
new iOS app will take and share photos using the wider colour range captured by
the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus' image sensors.

As a result, Spatler said, users will see more vivid colors than you'd get from
a phone taking photos in the usual sRGB color gamut.

The app will also take advantage of the iPhone 7 Plus' telephoto zoom lens,
which will be usable by dragging a single finger up and down when taking a photo
or video within Instagram.

How can I pre-order the iPhone 7 and when is it coming out in the UK?

Spatler explained that haptic feedback will help you know just how zoomed you
are, and could help you stay in the 2X optical zoom offered by the iPhone 7
Plus, without straying into digital zoom that degrades quality.

Another update means users will also be able to instantly convert Live Photos
taken with the iPhone 7 into Instagram Boomerang GIFs, without the need to shoot
separate Boomerangs in its dedicated app.

Instagram said the updates will arrive to the app sometime later this year.

