

Apple is out to make a splash with new waterproof iPhones, a smartphone game
starring Nintendo's beloved Mario" and a push on wireless headphones.The iPhone
7 and larger iPhone 7 Plus, with sophisticated camera technology, improved water
resistance and other features, were shown off to applause on Wednesday at an
Apple event in San Francisco.

The flagship devices with boosted memory capacity will be sold at roughly the
same price as the models they replace, starting at $649 for the iPhone 7 for US
customers, with deliveries in 25 countries beginning September 16.Revered
Nintendo game designer Shigeru Miyamoto was a surprise guest at the Apple event,
unveiling a new Super Mario Run" game heading for the iPhone by the year-end
holidays.

We want as many people of all ages to be able to play Super Mario Run," Miyamoto
said.We plan to release it at a set price, and then you can play to your heart's
content.

" The price was not disclosed.Apple, Nintendo and game maker Niantic used the
event toannouncethe wildly popular Pokemon Go would be available for Apple Watch
users later this month.

Pokemon Go has beendownloadedmore than 500 million times and billions of
kilometers have been walked by players since it was made available free in early
July, according to Niantic Labs, which created the game.NOHEADPHONE JACKA new
iPhone feature which may ruffle some feathers is the removal of the headphone
jack, requiring audio to be delivered via Apple's proprietary lightning"
connector or by wireless.

Lightning connectors were designed from the outset to handle high-quality audio,
Apple vice president Phil Schiller told the audience, addressing concerns about
the jack removal.It comes down to one reason: courage, the courage to move on,"
Schiller said of the decision to get rid of the traditional headset port.

Our smartphones are packed with technologies and we all want more, and it is all
fighting for space in that same enclosure. Maintaining an old, single-purpose
connector just doesn't make sense.

"Apple AirPods" wireless ear pieces and adaptors to plug old-fashioned wired
headsets into Lightning ports will come with iPhone 7 models, according to
SchillerThe 35mm analogue jack for wired headsets dates back more than a
century, and it was time for someone to break from the past and start pushing
people into the future," Creative Strategies analyst Tim Bajarin said after the
event.Apple may be setting the stage for a dramatically different iPhone model
to debut next year on the10th anniversaryof the smartphone first introduced in
2007, Bajarin reasoned.

It could be a first step for Apple making this completely wireless, and maybe
next year a new iPhone with wireless charging," the analyst said.GETTING WETThe
new-generation iPhones and Apple Watch boast the ability to get wet without
getting ruined.

The first Apple Watch was splash-proof, the Apple Watch Series 2 is swim-proof,"
Apple chief operating officer Jeff Williams said during the presentation.The new
smartphones come with Apple seeking to reverse declines in sales of the iPhone
in an increasingly saturated global market, and boost its Apple Watch.

Apple chief executive Tim Cook said the new smartphones take advantage of the
latest iPhone software, iOS 10.We are about to launch iOS 10, our biggest iOS
release ever It is jam-packed with new features," Cook said.

Now of course the world's most advanced mobile operating system deserves the
most advanced smartphone, and here it is."The iPhone 7 Plus, Apple's version of
a phablet," includes dual cameras to improve optical performance and photo
quality.

While Apple has touted total iPhone sales of one billion, the number sold in the
quarter ending June 25 fell 15 percent from a year earlier, highlighting
concerns over growth for the key profit driverAnalysts were split on whether new
iPhones would help Apple regain momentumI believe Apple did enough to keep the
base happy with upgrades and arguably did enough to attract some Android users,"
said analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights and Strategy.The iPhone 7 is a
completely new phone.

"But Neil Saunders of the research firm Conlumino said the iPhone 7 is not
radically different to the previous incarnation." and that the new features are
unlikely to be persuasive factors in determining whether consumers upgrade or
stick with what they have.

"Bajarin believed the iPhone 7 models would encourage upgrades and stabilise
iPhone sales growth.MOVING FORWARD ON WATCHOn the wearables front, its new Apple
Watch Series 2 will also feature GPS and allowing people to gather fitness data
during an outdoor workout without need to take along a smartphone.

We started shipping Apple Watch just 18 months ago, and already people all over
the world are using it in many aspects of their daily lives," Cook said.Sales
figures for the smartwatch are not disclosed by Apple, but surveys show
enthusiasm has faded since last year's release.

Apple saw a 56.7 percent year-over-year drop in sales of the device in the past
quarter, research firm IDC said.

Apple has rethought the Apple Watch significantly since its first release," said
Jackdaw Research chief analyst ja Dawson.It's original emphasis on apps and
communication has faded into the background as health and fitness features have
come to the fore.

"

