

Chino, CA,  September 24, 2016 --(PR.com)-- As per talks with Rocky Batta, CEO
Zizo Wireless, Zizo has maintained its class and innovative productivity,
following the tradition of high-class user friendly phone cases for almost 10
years and same class will be reflected in latest iPhone 7 Cases and iPhone 7
Plus cases.

Zizo is famous for producing military standard cases for phones of almost every
brand available in the market. These strong and firm cases protect the phone
from breaking caused by dropping it accidentally. It also adds a grip to keep it
from sliding out of your hand and onto the concrete.

As iPhone 7 has recently released, there has been a growing demand of phone
cases now. Divided into three different avatars- these cases come with elegant
design that can match with the brand. Customers can order Bolt, Pulse and Elite
series cases for iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus directly from their website
www.zizowireless.com.

Pulse series: Zizo's Pulse Series is an anti-slip Grip + slim fit with
lightweight protection. It has a diamond plated TPU which gives it more durable
body. It has been finely engineered to provide shockproof and impact dispersion
technology. The Pulse Series is available in vibrant color choice that can go
with iPhone 7 and Plus series. You can now order this product at $9.99.

Bolt Case: Zizo's Military Grade Bolt Case has tempered glass with screen
protector. Available in vibrant design and color, the entire case is carefully
designed. It has Outer-Locking and Built-in Kickstand which allows hands-free
viewing. It comes with heavy duty 360 degree holster clip. The case cover is
aesthetically engineered which provides solid grip over hand. The lightning
shield provides clarity and zero distortion. The multiple layers of protection:
soft and shock absorbing tetra Polyurethane with an Impact Resistant
Polycarbonate shell compliments with the protection. This case is Military
Standard 810G drop test certified. This highly protective stylish case is
available for $17.99.

Elite Series: This third case from the series is Slim Fit and is aesthetically
engineered matching the look of iPhone 7. Available in various color variants,
it has shockproof technology and is triple layered. The case has sturdy
kickstand allowing hands-free viewing of phone. You can now pre-order this
product for $12.99.

About Zizo:

This second generation family company was founded in 2006. The company is
passionate in creating effective product that is creatively inclined. It works
with the vision to manufacture high quality phone cases. With the launch of
iPhone 7, they have released an incredible series of iPhone 7 Cases and iPhone 7
Plus Cases. By spending countless hours in innovating and designing, the company
is backed by professionals to give satisfactory services to its customers. All
its products are offered with lifetime limited warranty and 30 day return
policy. For more information visit: https://www.zizowireless.com/

