

Click for image

The latest rumors about the iPhone 7 include indications that Plus sizes of the
Apple smartphone are here to stay, and that while the iPhone screen won't get
bigger anytime soon, its insides will.

PLUS-SIZE iPHONE 7

What I mean by that is that speculation (via MacRumors and Chinese website
MyDrivers) regarding an iPhone 7 Plus is that the phablet would have the same
5.5-inch screen size as the iPhone 6 Plus, but inside, storage would top out at
256GB vs. today's max of 128GB.

What's more, Apple is reportedly plotting a bigger battery for this September
2016 edition of its smartphone, too. We're talking a 3,100 mAh battery, which
would be about 13% bigger than the one used in the 6S Plus, according to
MacRumors.

Cult of Mac notes that a bigger and longer-lasting battery could obsolete
Apples' new Smart Battery Case almost before it gets any market traction.

As we all know, it's what's on the inside that really counts...

EXCEPT WHEN THE OUTSIDE MATTERS

Apple Insider reports, taking its cue from Taiwan's Commercial Times as well as
from DigiTimes, that a company called Catcher Technologies is said to revamping
the chassis components it supplies Apple to perhaps make the next breed of
iPhones waterproof. As Apple Insider points out, the most recent iPhones do
include improved water resistance over earlier models.

But a redesigned and potentially thinner iPhone that switches out the current
deep headphone jack that's susceptible to water intake for an Apple-designed
Lightning connector could really save your phone the next time you drop it in
the loo or pool or river or...

Forbes makes this interesting observation as well, as concerns the iPhone vs.
Android devices:

Whatever Apple's route, however, the irony that rivals like Samsung had
waterproof devices years ago then ditched the feature to more closely mimic
Apple's design aesthetic will not be lost on many.

Also regarding the outside of new iPhones, Apple is said to be inking deals with
Samsung and LG to gain access to power-efficient and quick refresh AMOLED
display panels for its new phones. But consider that most of these rumors are
pointing to upgrades not seeing the light of day until 2018.

APPLE THINKS SMALL TOO

Rumors persist that Apple is plotting the release of a budget 4-inch iPhone for
those who can't wrap their hands or wallets around the bigger new smartphones
and phablets.

And as with the latest scuttlebutt about the iPhone 7 Plus, word is that Apple
is bolstering the insides of its upcoming small phone. Pocket-lint, citing the
aforementioned MyDrivers site, reports that the iPhone 6C could boast 2GB of RAM
"just like the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus), not to mention a speedy A9
processor.

REVIEWING THE UNREVIEWABLE

This concept video from ConceptsiPhone and SCAVidsHD was snuck under the
Christmas tree just before I left on vacation. It's a review of the iPhone 7
Edge - a non-existent device with a name that obviously borrows from Samsung's
Galaxy Edge products. But that didn't stop these guys from showcasing this
5.5-inch phone with a 2K curved display, A10 chip, surround sound speakers and
more.

