

Apple has moved to close the technology gap between the iPhone and its Android
rivals, adding stereo speakers, water resistance, a new "rocketship" processor
and improving the camera in an effort to keep up with the likes of Samsung's
Galaxy S7, Google's Nexus 6 and LG's G5.

At the company's yearly iPhone launch in San Francisco, an event that closed
with a performance by the the Australian singer-songwriter Sia, Apple officials
said they had made 10 major changes to the iPhone 6s to produce the iPhone 7,
while keeping the same basic design of the previous year's model. That's an
unusual step for the company, which tends to overhaul the design of its phones
every two years, but has stuck with the same basic design for three years
running.

Even so, some of the changes are major. As expected, the company has taken the
controversial step of removing the headphone jack from the iPhone 7 to make way
for new stereo speakers, similar to the stereo speakers already found on Android
phones such as the Nexus 6.

It has also replaced the mechanical home button on the front of the phone with
an electronic one that mimics a mechanical button, opening the way for apps to
use the button as another form of user feedback. Such a button, based on work
Apple has done with the Apple Watch and with the trackpads on certain MacBooks,
is one of the few new features that doesn't already exist in the Android world.

And as expected, the larger version of the iPhone, known as the iPhone 7 Plus,
will come with two lenses built into its camera, one wide angle and one
telephoto. Aping the technology that LG introduced earlier in the year with its
G5 Android phone, the two lenses can work in concert, allowing users to
seamlessly zoom in and out of scenes, with the phone automatically selecting
which lens to use depending on the amount of zoom the user has selected.

Later this year the new 12-megapixel rear camera on the iPhone 7 Plus will also
use the two cameras to create a 3D depth map, which can be used to artificially
create a shallow depth of field where the subject of a photo is in sharp focus
and the background is out of focus, helping to emphasise the subject.

That's another feature which has been in a number of Android phones for several
years.

Removing the headphone jack from the iPhone 7, which was widely rumoured ahead
of the announcement, is bound to "tick off" a lot of customers, said Apple
co-founder Steve Wozniak in an interview with The Australian Financial Review
ahead of the launch.

With the headphone jack gone, the phone will come with a new pair of earbuds
that attach to the USB connector, known as the Lightning port. iPhone 7 owners
who wish to use existing headphones will have to use an adaptor that connects a
3.5-millimetre headphone jack to the Lightning port. And because the port is
also used to charge the phone, it may not be possible to use plugged-in
headphones at the same time.

Apple officials described their move as "courageous", while deriding headphone
jacks as "ancient" technology. To help ease the pain associated with the removal
of the headphone jack, Apple also announced a pair of wireless headphones known
as the AirPods that work with the iPhone.

The earphones, which will operate over Bluetooth and feature built-in noise
cancellation, will have a five-hour battery life, and will be stored in a case
that can recharge them for up to 24 hours of usage. The AirPods will sell for
$229 when they go on sale in Australia in late October.

Meanwhile, a new processor in the iPhone 7, known as the A10 Fusion chip, will
use a "big/little" core design (something already common on Android phones),
which will employ two power-efficient cores for simple tasks, and two, more
powerful, cores for more demanding tasks, extending the phone's battery life.
Apple said the high-performance cores would be up to twice as fast as the
processor in the iPhone 6, and that the two high-efficiency ones would run at
just one-fifth the power of the high-performance cores.

The new phone will come in the colours silver, gold, rose gold, black and jet
black.

Pre-orders for the phone will begin on September 9, with prices starting at
$1079 for the 32-gigabyte model of the iPhone and $1269 for the iPhone 7 Plus.

The phone will be available on September 16.

