

The upcoming iPhone 7 might not be called iPhone 7 at all, because the retail
packaging shows the name iPhone 6SE printed

The name iPhone 6SE has been ringing in our ears ever since a leak came through
detailing that the name iPhone 7 could be used for the 2017 family instead of
the one that's going to be announced in September. To be fair, there aren't a
whole lot of differences that you'll be able to find between iPhone 6SE and
iPhone 6s, especially if you place both smartphones right next to each other and
start to examine them from the outside.

The two images of the iPhone's retail packaging shows the 64GB model, with the
printed name shown as iPhone 6SE. The level of professionalism is clearly absent
from the printing, as it's haphazardly written, but if Apple was going to choose
the name iPhone 6SE, it would be due to lack of major differences, and not
because of anything else.

The insides of iPhone 6SE include the powerful A10 chipset. This iPhone is also
expected to feature a larger battery capacity than its predecessor by 14
percent, making the total come to a 1,960mAh cell. While the overall capacity is
still less than the 2,000mAh mark, the improved chipset's processor design
coupled with an improved operating system should allow the user to get more
battery life out of the handset.

One of the things that we are looking forward to the most is the storage upgrade
and larger battery capacity. Apple's upcoming flagship iPhone is said to feature
a maximum storage capacity model of 256GB and will feature a battery capacity of
3,100mAh battery. If the rumors are true, then it looks like Apple is getting
real serious about internal storage and battery capacity, and this might also
mark the day when we no longer see the 16GB storage option anymore.

3D Touch is definitely going to be retained, but one of the most interesting
changes that can come from an iPhone 6SE is the removal of the 3.5mm headphone
jack. With many manufacturers inclined to remove the old connector, it does
present a great deal of complications, especially when you have a whole family
of audio products that use this type of connector. Let us hope that Apple
provides us with a worthy upgrade during the month of September.

Source

