

Ringing in new | Co to launch it tonight n Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 glitch may
work in US firm's favour

Mumbai: Wednesday (today) is the big day. Apple is, in all likelihood, poised to
unveil its latest and greatest, the iPhone 7. CEO Tim Cook will be making the
necessary announcements at an event in San Francisco Wednesday night at 10:30PM
IST. According to all the rumours thus far, the 7th gen iPhone is expected to be
a significant upgrade over its predecessors. Let's look at what the rumour mills
are busy churning out.

What's doing the rounds?

To start, the iPhone 7 will most likely sport a 4.7-inch screen and its branded
'Retina HD Display', with a 7501334 pixel resolution. It could very well be
powered by a new A10 chipset, clocked at up to 2.4GHz and paired with 2GB of
RAM. The company is rumoured to be offering three storage options: 32GB, 128GB,
and 256GB. The low-end 16GB variant may finally go. On the camera front, Apple
might just continue with the same 12MP camera currently seen on the iPhone 6s
but with an improved sensor, along with a better six-element lens, and could add
a protective shield around the phone lens to have it better withstand physical
damage.

One of the biggest rumours is that Apple may, well and truly, be ditching the
ubiquitous 3.5mm headphone jack, and will instead introduce the digital-only
Lightning connected earpods for a heightened audio experience. The new iPhones
could come in five colour options: Silver, Gold, Rose Gold, along with a "dark
black" colour variant, which will mostly replace the Space Grey option.

A newer colour might be unveiled on Wednesday night, which may be known as
'piano black'.

iPhone 6 woes

If Samsung is heartbroken over their Galaxy Note 7 battery explosions, Apple has
had its share of goof-ups too: a recent lawsuit filed in the Silicon Valley
federal court accused Apple of knowingly selling defective iPhone 6 models with
screens that stop responding to touch. The issue, coined as "touch disease" was
causing unresponsive screens, along with a flickering gray bar that appears at
top of the display. To make matters worse, Apple refused to repair iPhones free
of charge, despite the inherent design flaw.

Viewers and investors are bound to look to Tim Cook to address this issue of
reliability during his keynote --it could just be one of the most significant
parts of the event, given that there's an upcoming line of Apple phones that
would need to win the trust of the broader set of Apple buyers that exclude
die-hard enthusiasts.

KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo--one of the most prolific and accurate
predictors of iPhone launch details--believes iPhone 7 shipments will be below
those of the iPhone 6s through the end of the year, coming in at 60-65 million
compared to 82 million last year.

Samsung's loss, Apple's timely gift?

When Samsung unveiled the Galaxy Note 7 a few weeks ago, they staked claim to a
significant timing advantage. But the recent turn of events with Samsung needing
to replace all 2.5 million units of its flagship device, just weeks after its
release, due to the unfortunate issue of exploding batteries could well work in
favour of Apple. Reports also indicate that the company has informed iPhone 7
component suppliers and manufacturing partners to boost production by 10%.

As Galaxy Note 7 owners need to wait for two weeks before they get their hands
on a replacement device, Apple's increased production (along with an alluring
set of specs) could prove advantageous as many fence-sitters may simply choose
to jump ship to the iPhone 7 instead of waiting out their Note 7 replacement.

With both companies tied in terms of last-minute pitfalls, it all boils down to
what exactly is unveiled in San Francisco on Wednesday night. Be sure to follow
us as we cover it live on dnaindia.com.

