

Click for image

While it might be disappointing not to have a full year of iPhone 7 rumor
build-up, some might be excited to hear that Apple is considering rolling out
its next flagship smartphone a bit early.

Well, that's according to one trustworthy source of Apple Insider, which itself
has been pretty trustworthy when it comes to iPhome scuttlebutt.

In true iPhone 7 rumor fashion, though, exactly how early the new iPhone might
debut isn't known. While Apple has gotten into the habit of releasing new
iPhones in September, the company just a few years ago was launching new ones
earlier in the year, so an early arrival would not be unprecedented.

In fact, speculation was heating up last month that Apple might roll out a
4-inch iPhone 6c sometime early next year.

One other report that might toss a little toss water on all this is a blurb from
Digitimes that says Apple has fallen behind schedule in producing touch and
display driver integration (TDDI) chips and has had to place orders with outside
supplier Synaptics to pick up the slack. These chips supposedly could be Apple's
way of ridding iPhones of the physical home button on the way to a more
touchy-feely device.

BRING ON THE iPHONE 7 CONCEPTS

Now the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have arrived, and are not called the iPhone 7 or 7
Plus, smartphone concept designers can once again get on with producing snazzy
concept design images and videos.

Here's an elegant and perhaps slightly creepy one from DeepMind, of the iPhone
7c, that depicts a fullscreen display with virtual bezels that disappear when
the screen fills with content.

SPECTRE OF USING AN iPHONE

While James Bond actor Daniel Craig has been quoted as saying that 007 "only
uses the best," Apple fanboys and fangirls might be disappointed to know that
that means the Sony Xperia Z5 in the new Spectre spy film. Apparently Craig was
not a fan of using the Sony phone, but relented perhaps when the dollars
involved got bigger.

Of course, Bond might need to reconsider the iPhone if as rumored Apple adds a
Panic Button to one of its future devices. Apple has reportedly patented
technology that would let users disable access to certain data with the Touch ID
fingerprint sensor.

