

Click for image

A reminder not to put Barclays analyst Mark Moskowitz on your A List if you plan
to have an iPhone 7 party - though you might want to put him at the top of the
list for the iPhone 8 in 2017.

The market watcher has issued a note to investors this week, according to
Fortune, in which he says the iPhone 7 smartphone that Apple will reportedly
launch later this year will be devoid of "any must-have form factor changes"
compared to the iPhone 6s.

MORE: Best iPhone 7 Design Concepts of 2016

However, iPhone 8 in 2017 could be another matter. "The [iPhone 8] could
showcase major form factor changes, including OLED, no home button, and wireless
charging. In our view, these potential changes could drive a mega cycle."

Meanwhile, if you are looking for another person to invite to your iPhone 7
party, perhaps Goldman Sachs' Simona Jankowski would fit nicely. She has
conducted an online survey of more than 1,000 U.S. consumers, Barron's reports,
and found that about 44% said they plan to get an iPhone 7, with a quarter of
those people not being iPhone customers at all currently.

All Glass

Never the most transparent of companies, Apple's iPhone at least might become
more so if the latest from KGI analyst Ming-Chi Kuo is on the mark (while we're
still dealing with speculation here, many take his word as being iPhone facts).
Kuo says that Apple next year is expected to replace its iPhone's aluminum
casing with an all-glass one featuring an AMOLED screen. 9to5Mac has picked up
on the KGI note from Kuo, and says that Apple's move could help set it apart
from competitors, who have embraced aluminum bodies for their phones.

9to5Mac notes that even though the glass body would weigh more than the aluminum
ones, the thinner and lighter AMOLED screen would help to offset that.

Meanwhile, no matter how drop-defying Apple tells us the glass casing will be,
we'd be keeping ours covered up anyway.

Not all bad for Intel

It's been a horrible week for Intel, which said it is cutting 12,000 jobs (11%
of its workforce) as it rejiggers itself to compete in IoT and server markets to
offset a big drop-off in the PC market.

But one bit of possible good news at Intel - at the expense of rival Qualcomm -
is that the former might be in line to supply Apple with LTE modems for its
iPhone 7 smartphones. The latest speculation about this possible Intel win were
sparked by comments made by Qualcomm's CEO this past week during an earnings
call in which he warned that a major customer is expected to split off some of
its business to a second source, presumably Intel.

Slashgear writes that the addition of Intel to the iPhone mix could be
significant for customers:

So what kind of changes could we expect from this switch? Well, the reports have
indicated that Apple would be using Intel's 7360 LTE modem. This particular chip
has theoretical downlink speeds of up to 450 Mbps and uplink speeds of up to 100
Mbps. Now compare that to the Qualcomm MDM96 (used in the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus)
which only has theoretical downlink and uplink speeds of 300 Mbps and 50 Mbps
respectively.

Those Intel chips better be really great though, because the word is that Apple
has a team hunkering down to build its own LTE modem chips for future iPhones...

Beating Apple to the punch

The much discussed elimination by Apple of a traditional 3.5mm headphone jack in
its next iPhone has given competitors plenty of time to mull doing the same.

Whether or not Apple's plans were a factor here is unknown publicly, but BGR
reports

that Chinese Android phone maker LeEco has unveiled three new phones that boast
microUSB wired headset support. Hey, it's not like they're using Apple Lightning
as the port, so Apple won't be too upset, and maybe the change will even make
Apple's move more palatable. Then again, maybe most people who don't live in
China will even notice, since LeEco's products are mainly sold in Asia.

Camera supply shaken

Recent deadly earthquakes in Japan are said to have thrown Apple's supply of
CMOS image sensors for its iPhone 7 cameras into question. Supplier Sony's
factories in the south of Japan went offline following the quakes, reports Cult
of Mac.

"We are still checking for potential damage to the plants, which usually operate
on a 24-hour basis," a Sony spokesman told Reuters last weekend. "We do not yet
know how the closures will impact supply to customers like Apple."

Apple has attempted to not put all its image sensors eggs in one basket, but
when it comes to these particular components, Sony has been the only choice.

Concept design video of the week: iOS 10

Apple is expected to reveal iOS 10 at its Worldwide Developers' Conference in
June, and that's likely to be the software powering the iPhone 7. Federico
Viticci and Sam Beckett share their iOS Wishlist in this cool video, highlighted
by improvements to the Control Center and 3D Touch, and new features such as
Dark Mode, Rich Message Previews and wait for it...faster Emoji input!

