

Apple is expected to unveil the latest iterations of the iPhone at an event in
San Francisco on Wednesday, and while only a minor refresh is anticipated,
rumours that the devices will lack a headphone port have created a major
flashpoint for iPhone devotees.

Steve Wozniak, who co-founded Apple with Steve Jobs, heads a list of
commentators calling the presumptive move a bad idea that could trigger a
consumer backlash.

"If it's missing the 3.5-millimetre earphone jack, that's going to tick off a
lot of people," Wozniak told The Australian Financial Review last week.

Deutsche Bank analysts in their iPhone preview in July said the headphone jack
will be removed in the new phones, which are expected to hit stores on Sept. 16.

Last week, Apple sent media invitations for the event on Wednesday, which is
presumably being held to announce handsets dubbed the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, along
with a next generation of Apple Watch.

The invite hinted at an iPhone camera upgrade that may include a dual lens
module with an added sensor for improved image quality. Apple declined to
comment.

Multiple online images have also highlighted the absence of an earbud jack on
the new device, while the Deutsche Bank review said the removal will allow for a
thinner and more water-resistant iPhone.

But the move could upset users, who would have to rely on Bluetooth headphones
or headphones that can be plugged into the charging port, while a port adapter
may or may not be included in the iPhone price.

"I would not use Bluetooth . . . I don't like wireless," Wozniak said. "I have
cars where you can plug in the music, or go through Bluetooth, and Bluetooth
just sounds so flat for the same music."

The presumed iPhone upgrade comes after Apple in April reported the first
year-over-year drop in iPhone sales since 2003, amid smartphone saturation in
some Western markets and slowing growth in China. In a research note, Credit
Suisse said it foresees "muted" sales increases for the forthcoming models,
calling them a "modest upgrade" to existing phones.

A leak from Apple China wholesaler Leleda reported by handset website GSMArena
shows Apple will double the storage of the upcoming iPhone models without
affecting the price compared with the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus.

It says prices for the two new phones will range from $790 (U.S.) to $1,180.

