

Although the next iPhone isn't expected to land until September, the upcoming
Apple handset has already got the internet awash with rumors and leaks. So
what's already known about the device and which of the many rumors could turn
out to be true? Read on to find out ...

Launch date Unless Apple suddenly and unexpectedly changes its long-standing
schedule, the iPhone 7 will be presented, as usual, around mid-September time,
before going on sale one to two weeks later. Prices of the different versions
should remain more or less stable, perhaps with a slight increase, as per
previous years.

Design and finish
It's often rumors about the design of upcoming iPhones that create the most
online chatter ... but that's not the case this year. Rumors suggest that the
handset's overall look isn't likely to change much until 2017, marking the 10th
anniversary of the iPhone. Several leaks show an iPhone 7 with more or less the
same dimensions as its predecessor, but with a slightly larger and repositioned
rear-facing camera.

New specs
Like for the run up to the iPhone 6s, online rumors are again suggesting a new
waterproof handset. In terms of technology, Apple is almost certainly capable of
designing a waterproof model, and a host of (unofficial) sources claim that the
iPhone 6s is already water-resistant. But unlike Sony and Samsung, who already
sell waterproof mobiles, Apple doesn't seem ready to join the party.

Over the last few days, some very persistent rumors have surfaced predicting a
new storage capacity for the top-of-the-range model, upped from the current 128
GB to 256 GB. Some sources also suggest that the iPhone 7 could feature wireless
charging, with an induction-based charging system.

Multifunction connector
Another new feature -- this time purportedly heading only to the iPhone 7 Plus
(the largest version) -- could be the Smart Connector, as already seen on
Apple's iPad Pro. This connection port transfers both power and data to
compatible accessories such as keyboards and external batteries. This already
existing feature has a good chance of landing on the upcoming iPhone.

No headphones socket
One of the rumors that's causing the biggest stir on social networks suggests
that Apple could be removing the headphones jack from the iPhone 7. This would
be replaced by Apple's Lightning connector which, until now, has served to
recharge the handset or connect it to a computer. A few models of headphones
also use this type of connection rather than a standard jack. However, a fresh
leak showing what is said to be a photo of the printed circuit board for the new
iPhone contradicts the initial rumor.

A sudden jump for supplier shares
It's not just Apple's shares that shoot up on the back of positive rumors. The
firm's main suppliers in Asia -- including Foxconn, Pegatron, Catcher Technology
and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) -- have seen their shares
jump following a story in a Taiwanese newspaper claiming that the Cupertino tech
firm had ordered 72 million iPhone 7 handsets, beating the 65 million predicted
by analysts.

The outlook
Leaks and rumors have contributed to the global success of the iPhone since its
launch in 2007. This will no doubt be the case again in 2016, whether or not
they turn out to be true.

