

Click for image

Now that Apple is officially in its 40s, you might think the company would
settle down a bit and douse all those silly rumors about iPhone 7 smartphones
and so forth. But no, it looks like the Apple rumor mill isn't hitting any sort
of midlife crisis.

Exclusive to 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus?

Fretting has already begun, and now has intensified, that the much anticipated
dual-lens camera Apple is believed to be working on will only be available in
the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus model. And not everyone wants to lug around such a
big iOS device (isn't that part of the reason so many have ditched their
portable digital cameras and just use their smartphones for picture taking
now?).

As NW contributor Yoni Heisler wrote, though, this would really not be a
shocking move by Apple:

While this may be disappointing who find the 5.5-inch iPhone model to be a bit
unwieldy and cumbersome to use, it's not all that surprising. Going back to the
iPhone 6, Apple has always provided an incentive for users to upgrade to its
larger screened iPhone model. With the iPhone 6s lineup, for example, only the
iPhone 6s Plus was graced with optical image stabilization.

Boy Genius Report shared supposedly leaked images of the dual-lens camera module
posted by an Asian blog called Weibo.

Meanwhile, that pesky Chinese phone maker Huawei has beaten Apple to the punch
in introducing phones with dual camera lenses in the form of its new P9 and P9
Plus offerings. Double rear-facing cameras work together on these phones to
spruce up photos.

WWDC rumors begin

As if all that iPhone 5se noise from March wasn't enough of a distraction for
iPhone 7 enthusiasts, Apple might have a batch of news to share at its annual
Worldwide Developers Conference, most likely being held in June. Among the early
scuttlebutt: A thinner Apple Watch might debut. The iPhone Hacks blog reports
that Apple analyst Brian White has released a research note that refers to a 20%
to 40% thinner Apple Watch

Swearing off dirty words in songs

Apple has dragged the likes of U2 and OneRepublic on stage at its product
rollout events in recent years, but if it really wants to showcase a new dirty
word blocker possibly in the works, it might need to look for band that
specializes in explicit lyrics.

Business Insider Australia reports that Apple has been granted a patent for an
innovation that would strip out swear words in songs and replace the $@&# with
beeps or cleaner lyrics instead. There's no proof this will show up in time for
the iPhone 7 announcement, perhaps as an upgrade in iTunes or Apple Music, but
you have to figure Apple is going to throw a few interesting twists into its
anticipated fall announcements.

iPhone design concept of the week

Zoltan Major shared his iPhone 7 design concept on Behance.net, and those
designs have been livened up on YouTube, as you can see below. The concept
includes back and front 12mp cameras with an advanced lens system and a
ring-shaped flash that circles the lens. Haven't seen anyone put forth that
Flash Ring before...

