

NEW DELHI: Apple is struggling to keep pace with demand for its latest iPhone
devices, especially, the higher priced iPhone 7 Plus with the larger screen
size, despite having brought in record units in the lead up to Diwali in
October, say retailers and industry insiders.

Analysts caution that while the sheer volume of shipments in October could point
towards a record October-December quarter for Apple where it could ship well
over a million devices, sustained supply issues could well mean the
Cupertino-based smartphone maker may not be able to fully cash in on the absence
of Samsung Note 7 with Google Pixel having just started sales.

"There are definitely supply issues and I don't see it easing up till January
because November-December is holiday season in US and Europe, so whatever
shipment are generated would be directed to these markets," said another chief
executive of a Delhi-based national mobile retail chain. A top executive at one
of the country's leading mobile retail chain headquartered out of Bangalore said
it had been getting a few 1,000 units a week for the iPhone 7 "but even fewer
for the 7 Plus".

Asked about the supply issues being faced, Apple pointed to the statement that
chief financial officer Luca Maestri had made in October, during the earnings
call for the quarter and year ended September 2016. "Worldwide demand for iPhone
7 and 7 Plus significantly outpace supply, particularly on iPhone 7 Plus, and
we're working very hard to get the new iPhones into the hands of our customers
as quickly as possible," Maestri had then said.

Executives at the company told ET said that supplies to India should stabilize
within a month. Apple has shipped over 200,000 units of the iPhone 7 in October,
and only 56,000 units of the larger-screen and dual-camera variant of its
flagship in India last month, far less than demand and inquiries being generated
across channels, say retailers. "It seems like Apple did not correctly
anticipate the demand," said Jaipal Singh, senior analyst at International Data
Corporation (IDC) India said. "If the supply issue continues for long, then it
will be a problem," he added.

Retailers add that while the Jet Black and Black colour variants across storage
variants are the most in demand for iPhone 7, all colour variants -- including
Gold, Rose Gold and Silver -- were out of stock for the iPhone 7 Plus. Apple
though shipped in over 430,000 iPhones in October, its highest ever in India, of
which more than half (62%) were shipments of its latest flagship series that
starts at Rs 60,000, over 30% were the iPhone 6 series, followed by the 5 series
and iPhone SE.

The company, which considers the South Asian nation as among the most important
emerging markets, brought in 10% higher number of units than October 2015,
according to data from Cybex Exim.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

