

The long-awaited iPhone 7 was finally unveiled last night and Apple made a
number of intriguing changes to its tried-and-tested formula.

The headphone jack is gone , the phone is finally waterproof and there's also a
new colour . Which is all well and good, but when can you actually get your
hands on one?

The good news is that you won't have long to wait.

Apple supremo Tim Cook revealed that the new phone will be available to
pre-order on Friday, September 9 - and will start shipping on September 16. And
- because it's the iPhone - it'll be available on all the major UK networks.

iPhone 7: Release date, price, images and key features of Apple's new iPhone

All of the main UK networks have contacted Mirror Online to confirm they will be
stocking the new blower, but have yet to reveal their data plans.

iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus hands-on review: Surprisingly daring

Instead, they all laid out reasons why you might want to pick them for the new
iPhone.

An EE spokesperson said: "Only on EE in the UK will iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus
customers be able to benefit from the iPhone's CAT 9 functionality as a result
of EE's high-speed, high-capacity EE 4G+ network - allowing them to achieve
maximum speeds of up to 400Mbps. EE's Cat 9 network is rolling out now and will
reach 500+ sites by December 2017."

Apple unveils new iPhone 7 in 'Jet Black' colour - but there's a big problem
with it

A Three spokesperson said: "If you choose to buy the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus
on Three, you will benefit from 4G at no extra cost where available. Also, Feel
at Home lets you call, text and use data in 42 countries abroad both in and
outside of Europe (including the USA and Australia) as if you were in the UK, at
no extra cost."

A Vodafone spokesperson said: "The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will be available at
Vodafone. In a nutshell, this means you'll have access to our ultrafast 4G
network and Network Satisfaction Guarantee which gives you the freedom to
experience the strength and quality of Vodafone's network for up to 30 days
before you fully commit.

iPhone 7: Release date, price, images and key features of Apple's new iPhone

"Plus, by covering more than 870 large towns and cities as well as thousands of
smaller communities, our 4G network continues to provide stronger indoor and
outdoor coverage across the UK."

iPhone 7 launch: Here's the whole Apple event in just 120 seconds

O2 were a little bit more succinct: "Just a note to confirm that O2 will be
stocking the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus.

"There will be more details to follow in the coming weeks."

If you decide to buy the phone outright, the iPhone 7 will be available from a
starting price of £599 for the cheapest 32GB option. The 128GB version is £699
and the 256GB version will set you back a whopping £799.

The larger iPhone 7 Plus will be even more of a wallet buster than it's smaller
sibling.

Apple is releasing wireless headphones and everyone is making the same joke

The cheapest (32GB) iPhone 7 Plus costs £719, followed by a 128GB model at £819,
and then a 256GB variant costing an astonishing £919 in the UK.

The new jet black finish will be offered exclusively on the 128GB and 256GB
models.

