

APPLE has launched its new iPhone 7 to a very mixed -reception - an extra camera
has won praise but the axing of the headphone jack is being -criticised on
social media.

Apple CEO Tim Cook took the helm at Apple's biggest launch of the year in San
Francisco yesterday, also unveiling a new Apple Watch.

Both upgrades are smarter, faster and waterproof. The iPhone 7 can survive up to
30 minutes at a depth of a metre.

The timing of the iPhone event is perfect for Apple, coming just days after
rival -Samsung was forced to recall its flagship Note7 after a string of reports
of the phone bursting into flames while charging.

Technology analyst Jan Dawson, of Jackdaw Research, called the dual-lens camera
in the iPhone 7 Plus the "headline" of the event.

This is the first iPhone to have two rear 12-megapixel cameras, giving the
iPhone 7 Plus a 2x optical zoom and the ability to mimic the shallow
depth-of-field -effect from a digital SLR camera.

Mr Dawson said the dual-lens camera, only available in the bigger Plus-sized
iPhone, would boost sales. "This is going to increase average selling prices and
drive iPhone revenue growth," he said.

Mr Dawson said that Apple had work to do in selling its message, with a negative
reaction on social media to the news that Apple had ditched the 3.5mm audio
jack, which would force people to connect their headphones through the Lightning
port or switch to wireless headphones that need regularly charging.

Apple will ship an adaptor with the new iPhone that will let people connect
existing headphones through the Lightning port, but users cannot use wired
headphones and charge it at the same time.

Telsyte senior analyst Alvin Lee said only 35 per cent of Australians said they
were turned off from buying a smartphone without a headphone jack, and that
Apple buyers were less concerned about it being phased out.

Apple also released the second version of the Apple Watch, with a greater
emphasis on exercise. It now has built-in GPS and can be used to track kilojoule
burn while swimming. The watch is waterproof to 50m.

The iPhone 7 starts at $1079 and the iPhone 7 Plus starts at $1269. It goes on
sale in one week from today, as does the new watch, from $520.

rod.chester@news.com.auROD CHESTER TRAVELLED TO SAN FRANCISCO AS A GUEST OF
APPLE

