

It is that time of the year when Apple unveils its latest products to everyone
in San Francisco. Apple has sent out invitations for this year's Keynote event
which everyone is excited for because the new line of iPhones, iPads and Macs is
expected to be unveiled at the event.

The Apple Keynote event will be held on 7th September, a Wednesday, at 10AM
Pacific Time or 10:30PM Indian Standard Time. While many of you won't be able to
attend it, you can watch it live too!

Requirements:

Live streaming uses Apple's HTTP Live Streaming (HLS) technology. HLS requires

     路    iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with Safari on iOS 7.0 or later
     路    Mac with Safari 6.0.5 or later on OS X v10.8.5 or later
     路    PC with Microsoft Edge on Windows 10
     路    Streaming via Apple TV requires an Apple TV (2nd or 3rd generation)
          with software 6.2 or later or an Apple TV (4th generation)


The retail release date has been pegged at September 16 when the iPhones will be
officially available to customers for purchase.

What can you expect at the event?

It is quite apparent that the next generation iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be
unveiled at the event. However, what one doesn't know is that the next gen
iPhones will be sacrificing a few features and making way for some new exciting
ones.

First and foremost, it is rumoured that the new iPhones will abolish the 3.5mm
headphone jack and instead integrate it with the lightning port on the phones.
There have been mixed reactions and we're quite sure this will affect iPhone
sales in some way.

There have been a few design changes as well, more prominently at the back with
just bordered antenna lines and cleaner finish. There might also be two downward
facing speakers in the smartphones for crisper and louder sound.

Some rumours also suggest that iPhone could be dropping the iconic home button
and replacing it with a touch capacitive button, which might not go down well
with iPhone users. However these are just leaks and we're only about a week away
from the actual smartphone.

Other than iPhone, new generation iPads will also be unveiled, with a small
possibility of upgraded iMacs. The Macbooks are also due for an upgrade this
year and we shall see more powerful MacBook at this year's event, if not
earlier. TagsApple iPhone 7 iPhone sales launch

