

Here's the interesting stuff you can get for Rs 60,000.

The latest duo of iPhones sport a sleek design, waterproof body, and they don't
explode like their biggest competitor. Little wonder then, the iPhone 7 and 7
Plus are among the best high-end handsets in the market. However, for most of us
Indians, the biggest issue with the latest iPhone is its pricing. Take for
instance the iPhone 7, which is relatively cheaper than the iPhone 7 Plus. Now
the 32 GB base model of the iPhone 7 costs a whopping Rs 60,000. I agree that
the latest iPhone is a performance beast with classy looks. However, 60k is a
lot of money that can be spent on some other interesting stuff such as: Thailand
holiday Rs 55,000 Instead of liking someone else's vacation photos from your
iPhone 7, pack your bags and hit the scenic beaches of Thailand or Singapore's
Sentosa Islands and Universal Studios theme park. Most of the deals found on
Kesari and Thomas Cook include airfares and five to six night stay in fancy
hotels. After this lavish holiday, you will still be left with enough money to
buy Xiaomi's Redmi 3S Prime and upload 'curated' photographs on Facebook and
Instagram.

Bike: Hero Glamour FI Rs 60,000 The Hero Glamour FI comes with a liquid cooled 4
stroke single cylinder 124.8 cc engine. The bike can reach the max speed of 91
Kmph. Available in red and blue, the bike is quite eye-catching for its price.
It is definitely not the top of the line two-wheeler, but surely beats playing
Asphalt 8 on your iPhone 7.

LG 42" TV Rs 59,899 The 42-inch TV comes with pixel dimensions of 1920x1080.
Unlike the competing products, this TV comes with an IPS panel. This means you
get rich colours and wide viewing angles. It comes with two speakers with 20
watts output. The TV also comes with Dolby Digital enhancement. Since TVs don't
become obsolete as as quickly as cellphones, it is a much wiser purchase.

Sony Home Theatre System (Blu-ray) Rs 60,000 If you already own a TV, it is time
to upgrade your sound system. To manufactur fancy-looking slim panels, TV makers
compromise on the speaker system. Hence, to complement the big screen, you
should ideally buy a good home theatre system. If you are looking for something
that costs as much as a latest iPhone, Sony's BDV-N9200W is a great option. The
system comes with a 5.1 surround sound with high resolution audio. The tree way
speaker boast of wireless rear speakers that save you from the hassle of wire
management. For easy connectivity, it features bluetooth, NFC, and Miracast.

Xbox One And PS4 Rs 28,000 + Rs 28,000 After the recent price cuts, these gaming
consoles are so well priced that you can buy two of these mean machines for the
price of the iPhone 7. Sony's console comes with killer exclusives such as the
Uncharted series, DriverClub, and Street Fighter. On the other hand, Microsoft's
gaming machine comes with blockbusters such as Halo, Gears of War, Quantum
Break, Forza to name a few. If you are finding it hard to choose between these
two, you can buy them both for Rs 56,000 (I kid).

