

IRISH people will pay up to (EURO)280 more for the new top-of-therange iPhone
models than customers across the water in the US, it has emerged.

The new iPhone 7 and 7 Plus - launched this week by the tech giant Apple - have
been available for pre-order in Ireland since yesterday.

However, customers here will pay significantly more for the coveted smartphones
than their counterparts in America.

The new iPhones cost between (EURO)208 and (EURO)280 more in Ireland - depending
on the model and memory capacity - than they do in the US.

An iPhone 7 with 256GB of memory can be pre-ordered here for (EURO)999, but that
same phone is sold in the US for just (EURO)753 at the current exchange rate - a
difference of (EURO)246.

Pricing differences on the larger iPhone 7 Plus are higher, with US prices
starting from (EURO)682 - once converted into euro - for a phone with 32GB of
memory.

But here the same model is priced at (EURO)919 - a jump of (EURO)237.

The biggest price variation applies to customers looking for 256GB of memory
with the iPhone 7 Plus. In the US it will cost (EURO)859 once exchange rates are
factored in, while here the same phone will set you back (EURO)1,139 - a price
difference of (EURO)280.

Customers here have been able to order the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus since
yesterday, with availability beginning next Friday, September 16. It will come
in five colour choices: jet black, black, silver, gold and rose gold.

Apple says the price variation is caused by 'several factors'. In a statement to
the Irish Daily Mail, the tech company said: 'Apple suggests product prices
internationally on the basis of several factors, including currency exchange
rates, local import laws, business practices, taxes, and the cost of doing
business.

'These factors vary from region to region and over time, such that international
prices are not always comparable to US suggested retail prices.' Apple also took
account of the recent currency fluctuations with the US dollar in the re-pricing
of its new iPhone range. One euro is currently worth $1.13 in the foreign
exchange rates.

But while the costs may be offputting, the new phones do provide benefits, as
the battery life has been improved - with the iPhone 7 having two more hours of
life than the iPhone 6, and one hour more than the iPhone 6s.

Variation 'caused by several factors'

