

The Apple iPhone7 is expected to be released next week.

The tech giant has invited the media to an event in San Francisco on Wednesday,
September 7 where it is believed the latest handset will be unveiled.

The press invitation simply reads 'See you on the 7th", which may allude to
iPhone 7, as well as the date. It also features a number of translucent coloured
bubbles, which may relate to the rumour that Apple is planning to introduce new
coloured handsets. Or they could be water droplets - which would be relevant if
Apple was planning to launch a waterproof iPhone, as rumoured.

Apple often includes a hidden message on its invitations. The event is taking
place at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium at 10am local time, (6pm BST).

There has been much speculation about what the iPhone 7 will look like, with
supposedly leaked images emerging on social media over the last few months.

Rumours have surfaced that the new design will see the headphone socket ditched,
the home key removed in favour of an on-screen button, and a more powerful and
efficient processor.

It's also being claimed that the iPhone 7 will feature a dual-lens camera, which
could allow users to snap SLR quality photos and 3D images. A video by Unbox
Therapy has been uploaded to YouTube, showing a large cut out for the rear
camera on what it claims to be the flagship iPhone 7 transparent case.

However, if the leaked images are to be believed, the new model doesn't look
much different in size to the iPhone 6s, which has a thinner body and larger
screen than the iPhone 5 and iPhone 6.

It's unlikely that the iPhone 7 will be any easier on the wallet than previous
models. Rumours suggest that Apple is planning to ditch its small 16GB storage
option in favour of a more generous 32GB base model.

Supply chain investigations by Kevin Wang, director of market research at
respected analyst firm IHS Technology, suggest the iPhone 7 base model will come
with with 32GB of storage.

If true, we could expect other models with larger storage - 64GB and 128GB most
likely - to stick with the £619 and £699 prices.

Tech fans gathered outside the Apple store at Liverpool One and queued through
the night to get their hands on the iPhone 6s, when it launched in September
2015. Queues are likely again when the latest model comes out.

The diehards included Matt Duffy, 34, from Wirral, who is sure to be one of the
first in the queue for the new iPhone, after he said: "I upgrade every year.
I've been further back in the queue before and your heart's racing wondering
whether you're going to get one."

