

Apple is set to launch the iPhone 7 today with tech bods around the world set to
rejoice.

But the evolution of the mobile phone has completely revolutionised the football
fans' matchday - and weekday - experience.

Exclusive videos, articles and games are available at the, erm, tap of a
fingerprint identifier keeping fans of the Premier League and beyond in the loop
24/7.

iPhone 7 launch LIVE: Apple Watch 2 trailer and Pokemon Go app unveiled, Super
Mario Run coming to the app store

But if you're getting the iPhone 7, what football apps should you be
downloading?

How much is the new iPhone 7 and will the iPhone 6s price drop after Apple
launch?

Here's what the Mirror Football team are currently addicted to...

Do you want to try your luck at being the Class of 92 by evolving a non-league
team into a global empire?

Well this app is your perfect chance to give it a go, as you make your team's
big decisions, including hiring/firing the manager, building the stadium,
sorting contracts, sponsors, transfers and more.

But make sure you keep the fans and the bank manager happy!

There is a 'lite' version available for free, but the full edition will cost
£2.99.

The hit PC game has made its way to mobile and has a growing interface every
single year.

The world's most realistic football management simulation has now been designed
to be played on the move and it is just as addictive as its computer
counterpart.

From transfers to tactics and scouting to finances, it really is the most
comprehensively detailed football game available on your phone.

It will set you back £6.99 - but certainly has the longevity to justify it.

Endorsed by Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho, Top Eleven is an alternative
football management game but is instead available for free.

It is the most-played online football management simulation available and, like
its more famous counterpart, offers a detailed interface to manage your team.

You can challenge your friends and other players from around the world and
follow the matches live.

One of the most simple but addictive games that you will ever get your hands on.

Score! Hero puts you in the kit of a young footballer and you progress their
career to the top division.

On the pitch, the controls are easy to learn - you simply draw a line where you
want the ball to go, making it easy to pick up.

The best thing? It's free to download.

Free-kick simulator Flick Shoot is back with both single and multiplayer modes
available for players.

Improved 3D graphics make the game easy on the eye, while mini games help you
stay intrigued in the rather simple idea.

There are six different single player modes, competitive multiplayers and loads
of customisable attributes.

It is free to download.

Another game where you begin as a young 16-year-old upstart looking to make
their name in the sport - but this is addictive for a whole different reason.

That's because you control the player's actions off the pitch, including his
relationships, sponsors and even bribes.

It can be enjoyable as both a quick snack game and also for hours of intense
gaming as the player's career takes a series of twists and turns.

It is free to download.

Your one-stop place for everything you need to know about the Premier League.

From fixtures to stats, interviews to fantasy football, it has everything that
you need to stay right on top of all of the top flight action.

You can personalise the content so your team is prioritised, making it the best
place to go for your football information.

It is free to download.

Ever find yourself in a town with no idea where to catch the match? Fear not,
MatchPint have come to the rescue.

It is an app that simply tells you the nearest bar or pub to your location
showing the biggest sporting events in the world, so you never have to miss the
big game.

Even better, you could even win yourself a free pint! Check in at your pub and
see what rewards you could land.

It is free to download.

On the move? Need to check the score?

LiveScore is the app you need to get the essential details from football matches
all over the world.

Set your favourite matches for live alerts and view real-time updates from the
world's largest online football updater app.

Free to download, it really is the essential app for any football fan.

Let's be honest, no matter what fancy flick-of-the-finger football games
producers come up with, nothing beats an old fashioned fantasy football league.

Why not play our Mirror Fantasy iTeam, giving you the option to take part in
three different competitions: Premier League, Champions League and our unique
European Super League format.

It's free to download and is one of the leading fantasy football apps in the
world.

Download the Mirror Fantasy iTeam app here

