

A regulation requiring local content for smartphones sold in Indonesia is not
stopping domestic sales of Apple's new iPhone 7.

Many local online sellers and small kiosks are selling iPhone 7s despite Apple
not officially being allowed to sell the smartphone in Indonesia because of a
rule that requires 20 per cent local content -- both software and hardware -- in
smartphones sold in the country.

Advertisements for the iPhone 7, announced to the world on September 7, can be
seen on online platforms such as Bukalapak, Tokopedia and MatahariMall. The
sellers seem to enable payments through major banks.

Third party and second-hand dealers online are selling the iPhone 7 at prices
ranging from 11 million ($843) to 20 million rupiah ($1,532), while the US
pricing for its cheapest, lowest memory iPhone 7, the 32GB model, is set at
$649.

A majority of the posters on these platforms originate from the Batam and
Sumatra areas, with sporadic sellers in Jakarta and Bali as well. Since the
nearest official market for the iPhone 7 is Singapore, it is possible that some
sellers might have obtained the coveted smartphones from Singaporean stores or
related distributors.

While the activity itself is "technically" illegal, online marketplaces are
finding it hard to control the constant popping up of iPhone 7s on their sites.
Platforms such as Bukalapak have already taken measures to take down illicit
listings of the iPhone 7, as requested by the government.

"It's technically illegal, but we are doing our part to filter posts about it.
However, that doesn't necessarily stop sellers from posting the item again under
modified descriptions," said Debora Rosaria, Bukalapak's legal manager.

Bukalapak is ultimately built on user-generated content, making total control of
restrictions difficult due to the free nature of the black market, she said,
adding: "What can be asked from the users is to let us know if iPhone 7
advertisements are being posted."

Apple's official Indonesian distributor Erajaya Group declined to comment on the
story.

The government plans to raise the threshold of both hardware and software local
content requirement to 30 per cent next year in an industry ministerial
regulation on the calculation of local components in cell phones and tablets.

The regulation was introduced to ease pressure on the trade balance, which saw
surging imports of phones contributing to trade deficits, as an emerging
middle-income segment resulted in a demand boom for smartphones.

The restrictions also explain why the previous iPhone 6S smartphone and the
SIM-card enabled iPad Pro have not entered the Indonesian market as well.
However, the Wi-Fi only iPad Pro is currently on sale at Erajaya's stores such
as iBox.

In terms of fulfilling the software aspect of the ministerial regulation,
Communications and Information Ministry acting spokesperson Noor Iza said it
would be ideal if Apple committed to opening a research and development centre
for software application development to increase local content in iPhones.

"As of now, the iPhone 7 has not been cleared to enter the market because it has
not fulfilled the ministerial regulation requirements yet," Noor said.

Samsung and Lenovo are among smartphone makers that have established local
factories to meet the "made in Indonesia" regulation, as well as Advan,
Evercross and Smartfren. Some content made in Indonesia include product boxes,
manual books, screws and assembly.

Meanwhile, Chinese phone maker OnePlus has exited the country, while Xiamoi's
Redmi Note 3 shut off its 4G feature for official sale in Indonesia to comply
with the regulation.

Despite the vague legality of iPhone 7 sales, as well as that of the Xiaomi
Redmi Note 3 with the 4G feature, the black market pops up and sells the items
below the radar because there is demand for the smartphones.

The desires are reflected in 24-year old CIMB Niaga employee Kamadiputra
Surianegara, who is intrigued by the phone's new jet black colour and camera.

"It's just different and looks cool," he said, referring to the phone's new
dual-lens camera, which is considered new for Apple's standards, and the popular
Jet Black color option that has sent Apple fans worldwide into a frenzy of
interest.

A handful of local buyers have purchased the smartphones through Singapore, the
closest place to Indonesia's western area that can legally sell the likes of the
iPhone 7, which is infamous mostly because of the divisive feature of not having
a 3.5-millimeter headphone jack.

