

Apple could reveal the new iPhone in as little as two months, according to
industry experts.

The new handset will go on sale on Friday, September 16, according to an
industry expert.

Apple usually reveals its next smartphone in early September so it can see out
the end of the year on a high.

And it nearly always leads to chaos in the stores of Birmingham. Last year, a
camper waited two days to be Birmingham's first new owner. The year before,
hundreds queued for the new handset .

This year it will almost certainly be the iPhone 7 that's revealed and social
media is awash with rumours about it.

Leaked images have shown the casing or materials that are believed to be in the
new smartphone and a new bullet-shaped aperture for the camera.

The Mirror has gathered together some of the key rumours. Here, we have picked
out the salient ones for Brummie readers.

Evan Blass, who posts as @evleaks on Twitter, claims the new handset will be
available to pre-order from September 9.

The new handset will go on sale on Friday, September 16, he has claimed on
Twitter.

Blass cited no source for the information, but his predictions have been correct
more often than not in the past.

If he is right, the launch event would either take place at the start of the
week commencing September 12, or a week earlier.

Meanwhile, separate leaks suggest that Apple may not call its next device the
iPhone 7 at all, but opt instead for the name "iPhone 6SE".

The rumour comes from German tech news site Apfelpage, which spoke to Chinese
supply chain sources who claim to have seen finished packaging and labels with
the new name.

New giant Apple store to open in Waterstones New Street building

You probably need to start saving now. It is thought models with larger storate
will set you back £619 between £699.

However, that is because Apple is looking at the thing that annoys people most
about the iPhone - its pitifully small 16GB base level storage - in favour of a
more generous 32GB base model.

The current iPhone 6s and 6s Plus lineup offers customers a choice of 16GB,
64GB, or 128GB storage options.

However, supply chain investigations by Kevin Wang, director of market research
at respected analyst firm IHS Technology, suggest the iPhone 7 base model will
come with with 32GB of storage.

Because the new iPhone will likely arrive with Apple's yet-to-be-confirmed iOS
10 software and an upgraded processor, it will offer even more power and better
efficiency.

Likely to be boasting a processor called the A10 chip, the iPhone 7 will surely
boast more power - although it's anyone's guess as to how much this will
translate into actual usage.

7 things you need to know

You might be able to do some tweeting in the toilet as Apple's next iPhone could
be completely waterproof.

According to a report in the China-based Commercial Times, Apple is working on a
new "compound material" that repels water for use in its forthcoming smartphone,
which it is thought will be called the iPhone 7.

This new material will also reportedly remove the need for the two strips of
plastic that run across the back of the current generation of iPhones to allow
mobile signals to reach the antennas.

This suggests that the body of the next iPhone may not be made from metal at
all, but some other kind of material that allows radio waves to pass through it.

