

Apple today introduced iPhone 5c, featuring an all-new design, packed with
incredible features in five gorgeous colors-blue, green, pink, yellow and white.
iPhone 5c is built on a foundation of features people know and love like the
beautiful 4-inch Retina display, blazing fast performance of the A6 chip, and
the 8 megapixel iSight camera-all while delivering great battery life. iPhone 5c
comes with more LTE bands than any other smartphone in the world, a new FaceTime
HD camera, and iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the original iPhone.
"iPhone 5c is everything iPhone 5 was and more, in an all-new design packed with
great features," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of
Worldwide Marketing.

"iPhone 5c is designed with a beautiful polycarbonate enclosure that looks and
feels so solid in your hand."   iPhone 5c features an all-new design crafted
from a single, hard-coated polycarbonate body with a steel reinforced frame for
a solid, sturdy feel. The steel frame holds the internal components and also
doubles as the iPhone 5c's multiband antenna. The enclosure is one continuous
and seamless structure that is finished with a hard coat for a durable and
incredibly glossy surface. To complement the all-new iPhone 5c design, Apple
created soft, matte, microfiber-lined cases in a very intentional contrast to
the glossy, hard coat finish. These sleek silicone cases with unique circular
patterns let splashes of color show through, and with five iPhone 5c colors and
six cases to choose from, you can mix and match for dozens of fun combinations.
iPhone 5c comes with all the features customers love in iPhone 5, and more. The
Apple-designed A6 chip provides incredible performance and power efficiency, all
while delivering great battery life, so almost everything you do on iPhone 5c is
blazing fast, from launching apps and loading web pages to downloading email
attachments. iPhone 5c features a stunning 4-inch Retina display and an 8
megapixel iSight camera, the most popular camera in the world. iPhone 5c also
includes a new FaceTime HD camera for even better FaceTime calls and
self-portraits, and with iOS 7, you can make audio-only FaceTime calls for the
first time.   iPhone 5c makes it even easier to connect to high-speed networks
with support for up to 13 LTE¹ wireless bands, more than any other smartphone in
the world. With download speeds up to 100 Mbps², you can browse, download and
stream content even faster. iPhone 5c includes dual-band 802.11 a/b/g/n Wi-Fi
support for up to 150 Mbps² and Bluetooth 4.0. iPhone 5c delivers an amazing 10
hours of talk time on 3G networks, up to 10 hours of web browsing on Wi-Fi and
LTE networks and up to 8 hours on 3G networks, and up to 10 hours of video
playback and up to 40 hours of audio playback.³   iPhone 5c comes with iOS 7,
the most significant iOS update since the original iPhone, featuring a stunning
new user interface, completely redesigned with an elegant color palette,
distinct, functional layers and subtle motion that make it feel more alive. iOS
7 is designed to complement the gorgeous exteriors of iPhone 5c, with matching
wallpapers and translucency that carry the color through the entire experience.
iOS 7 has hundreds of great new features, including Control Center, Notification
Center, improved Multitasking, AirDrop®, enhanced Photos, Safari, Siri and
introduces iTunes Radio, a free Internet radio service based on the music you
listen to on iTunes.   iPhone 5c customers have access to the revolutionary App
Store[#x2120], which offers more than 900,000 apps to iPhone, iPad and iPod
touch users in 155 countries around the world. More than 50 billion apps have
been downloaded from the App Store to date, offering customers an incredible
range of apps in 23 categories, including newspapers and magazines in Newsstand,
games and entertainment, business, news, sports, health and fitness and travel.
Designed specifically for iOS, iPhoto, iMovie, Pages, Numbers and Keynote are
among the most popular apps in the App Store and are now available as free
downloads with the purchase of iPhone 5c. iPhoto and iMovie enable you to do
more than you ever thought possible with your photos and movies, and with Pages,
Numbers and Keynote you can create, edit and share stunning documents,
spreadsheets and presentations on your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch.   Pricing &
Availability iPhone 5c comes in blue, green, pink, yellow and white and will be
available in the US for a suggested retail price of $99 (US) for the 16GB model
and $199 (US) for the 32GB model.[#x2075] iPhone 5c will be available from the
Apple Online Store (www.apple.com ), Apple's retail stores, and through AT&T,
Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless and select Apple Authorized Resellers. iPhone
5c cases will be available in blue, green, pink, yellow, black and white for a
suggested retail price of $29 (US) through the Apple Online Store (www.apple.com
), Apple's retail stores and select Apple Authorized Resellers. iPhone 5c will
be available in the US, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK on Friday, September 20, and customers
can pre-order their iPhone 5c beginning Friday, September 13. A new iPhone 4S
8GB model will also be available for free.[#x2075] iOS 7 will be available as a
free software update starting on Wednesday, September 18 for iPhone 4 and later,
iPad 2 and later, iPad mini and iPod touch (fifth generation). Some features may
not be available on all products.

