

Apple's latest iPhone may be more notable for what's missing than what's been
added, as the consumer tech giant tries to revive demand for its top-selling
product and nudge consumers closer to its vision of a wireless world.

That's a world where, in Apple's view, consumers will use the same wireless ear
buds to shift seamlessly from listening to music on their iPhone to talking with
their Apple Watch and other gadgets made by the California tech giant.

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus unveiled Wednesday come with a faster processor, longer
battery life and better cameras - including a new dual-lens system in the
pricier 7 Plus model that provides higher-quality zooming. But the new phones
won't have the analog headphone jack that's been a staple for decades in just
about every consumer electronics device that can play audio.

Apple is betting its legions of loyal fans will embrace the shift to digital
headsets that use wireless connections. Or - if they insist on sticking with
their old ways - that they won't mind using a new style of earbuds that plug
into the iPhone's "Lightning" charging port.

CUTTING THE CORD

The redesigned earbuds - with cord - will be included with the new iPhones. Also
in the box: an adapter that will let older headphones plug into the digital
charging port. But Apple would clearly prefer to push consumers to make the leap
into what it envisions as a "wireless future."

"The reason to move on is courage," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice
president of worldwide marketing, who spoke during the company's fall product
event. "The courage to move on and do something new that will benefit all of
us."

As part of the transition, Apple also is introducing wireless "AirPods" that
will sell for $160. They're powered by an Apple-designed processor and special
software that Schiller said will let users easily sync the wireless buds to
their iPhone, Apple Watch and other Apple devices. Apple is also promising a new
line of high-end wireless speakers from its Beats division.

Getting rid of the 3.5-millimeter headphone jack helped Apple make room for a
second iPhone speaker designed for playing stereo sound. The iPhone 7 is also
water-resistant, a popular feature that rivals such as Samsung Electronics have
already introduced in some phones.

Schiller portrayed the move to drop the headphone jack as a step toward
improving user experience. "It makes no sense to tether ourselves with cables to
our mobile devices," he said during the company's annual fall event.

Apple has previously reduced the number of ports in its popular line of MacBook
computers, while encouraging people to use wireless services for transferring
files and streaming data. By promoting wireless ear buds, analysts say, Apple
may also hope to get more people using streaming services on the Apple Watch as
well.

APPLE'S CHALLENGE

The company is trying to reverse its first decline in iPhone sales since the
company's late founder, Steve Jobs, unveiled the trendsetting device in 2007.
It's also seen a drop in demand for the Apple Watch since its introduction last
year.

While the company sold nearly 92 million iPhones in the first six months of this
year, that's about 15 percent fewer than the same period last year. Industry
analysts say the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, which Apple introduced last fall, didn't
offer many compelling new features over the previous year's models.

With the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, Apple may face a similar challenge.

Apple delivered virtually all the features that had been promised in news leaks
over recent weeks, but analyst Bob O'Donnell of Technalysis Research said the
changes from last year's iPhones were "modest" overall. The dual-lens camera in
the iPhone 7 Plus may be impressive, he said, but it's only available in the
larger and more expensive phone, limiting its appeal.

"Smartphone advancements are slowing down as the market is maturing, so minor
things like look and feel get more attention," said O'Donnell, pointing out how
Apple spent several minutes of its presentation extolling the virtues of an
optional "jet black" finish for the new phones.

Forrester Research analyst Julie Ask figures consumers will appreciate the
faster chip and other improvements once they try the new iPhones. And she's not
worried about any backlash over elimination of the hardware jack.

"Apple has a very long history of removing features we all thought were
necessary, and then convincing us that we didn't need them," said Ask, noting
Apple paved the way in phasing out the use of floppy discs and optical drives in
computers. "Three months later, it will be, 'Why did we ever have that?' "

OTHER UPGRADES

The new iPhones will debut Sept. 16 in the U.S., China and more than two dozen
other countries. Orders will start  Friday.

Older iPhones will also see improvements this fall as the company releases its
latest mobile operating system version, called iOS 10. It will be available as a
free download beginning Tuesday. Among other things, the software will add more
intelligence to Apple services like Maps, Photos, the iPhone keyboard and Siri,
the voice-activated digital assistant.

The company also used Wednesday's showcase to introduce a new generation of its
smartwatches, which will include GPS tracking and enough water resistance to
swim with. Apple is increasingly promoting the watches as tools for health and
fitness enthusiasts.

Apple shares gained less than 1 percent in trading Wednesday, before closing at
$108.36. The stock is slightly below its value a year ago, when the last iPhone
came out.

SIDEBAR:

APPLE SLICES

Key highlights from the Apple event in San Francisco:

New iPhones will debut Sept. 16 in the U.S., China and more than two dozen other
countries. Orders will start  Friday.

Redesigned earbuds - with cord - will be included with the new iPhones. Also in
the box: an adapter that will let older headphones plug into the digital
charging port.

Wireless "AirPods" that will sell for $160. They're powered by an Apple-designed
processor and special software that will let users sync the wireless buds to
their iPhone, Apple Watch and other Apple devices.

A second iPhone speaker designed for playing stereo sound.

The iPhone 7 is water-resistant.

Older iPhones will also see improvements this fall as the company releases its
latest mobile operating system version, called iOS 10. It will be available as a
free download beginning Tuesday.

A new generation of smartwatches, which will include GPS tracking and enough
water resistance to swim with.

The watch will get a popular app. Niantic Labs, the maker of the cultural
sensation Pokemon Go, announced the game will be released for the Apple Watch.

