

Apple likes to create a fog of mystery around its product launches, which in
good times helps to create an atmosphere of feverish anticipation before the
keynote speech. The fog remains this year, but instead of the usual excitement
there is mild anxiety.

Tim Cook will unveil the new iPhone tonight at a characteristically overhyped
gathering of Apple fanatics and technology journalists in San Francisco. He will
do so as his company tries to bounce back from disappointing sales of its
previous handset and negative headlines over its Irish tax affairs.

The new iPhone is not, however, expected to be a superstar. Leaked photographs
apparently from Apple's assembly lines in China suggest that the new device,
likely to be named the iPhone 7, will look very similar to the iPhone 6, which
was launched in September 2014 and was a huge success. The images suggest there
will be a large and a larger model of the same sizes as the iPhone 6 and iPhone
6 Plus.

The smaller of the new iPhones appears to have a larger camera and the Plus
model looks as if it will have two cameras to improve photographs. Neither is
likely to have a headphone jack, as Apple pushes its customers towards wireless
earphones. The iPhone's "home" button is likely to be replaced by a
pressure-sensitive pad. There will be the usual upgrades to the iPhone's
hardware and software, but all these changes are minor for a product that
generates more than three fifths of Apple's revenue.

In the second quarter of this year, iPhone sales fell for the first time in
seven years, by more than 16 per cent compared with the same period last year,
prompting Apple's first quarterly decline in revenue for 13 years.

Samsung's Galaxy S7 has been performing strongly since its launch in March this
year. The Edge variant proved to be particularly popular in the second quarter,
making up more than half of S7 sales.

Competition from China is also hotting up, with Huawei's market share growing
from 8.6 per cent in the second quarter of last year to 9.4 per cent in the same
period this year, according to IDC, the researcher. Apple's market share is just
under 12 per cent, although the margins on its smartphones are considerably
higher than those of its competitors. Samsung has 22.4 per cent of the market,
up from 21.3 per cent in the second quarter of last year.

