

If the rumours turn out to be true, and the iPhone 7 launches on September 7 at
the Apple 2016 event without a headphone jack, some Apple fans are bound to be
disappointed.

The 3.5mm socket has been used as the default audio connector on the vast
majority of electronic devices - from computers to game consoles - since the
1960s.

Now Apple supposedly wants to shake things up by forcing customers to either use
headphones that plug into the Lightning port, which is currently used for
charging, or wireless headphones, which connect to the iPhone via Bluetooth.

When does the iPhone 7 come out and what time is the Apple 2016 launch event?
Everything you need to know

Given that millions of iPhone owners around the world currently use wired
headphones, it's a potentially risky move, but one that Apple evidently has
confidence in.

iPhone 7: Release date, price, leaked pictures, and all the latest news and
rumours about Apple's new iPhone

Some rumours suggest that Apple is planning to bundle the iPhone 7 with new
wired EarPods that use a Lightning connector, while others claim the phone will
launch with wireless headphones, or "AirPods" .

There has also been some suggestion that the new iPhone will come with a
Lightning-to-audio adaptor, so you will still be able to use your regular wired
headphones - though these things are easy to lose.

While the move may seem like a travesty to anyone who has forked out for
expensive headphones in the past, there may be method to Apple's madness.

Recent tests by MacRumours found that headphones connected via the Lightning
port provided better sound quality than those via the standard headphone jack.

This is down to the limited size of the 3.5mm headphone jack, meaning sound
quality suffers as a result of a smaller, less expensive amp and inbuilt
digital-to-analogue music converter (DAC).

Lightning connector headphones contain their own amp and DAC, putting the
manufacturer in charge of the audio quality.

When does the iPhone 7 come out? Launch date CONFIRMED for Apple's new
smartphone

However, there's little doubt that headphones that plug into the Lightning port
would offer significantly better audio quality than wireless ones.

The 8-pin Lightning connector can handle more data than Bluetooth, which is what
counts when your headphones decode audio signals digitally, according to
TechRadar .

Dr Kevin Currie, senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, told the website that the most advanced version of Bluetooth
available can only transfer data at a maximum of 25Mbps - or 3.25 megabytes per
second.

The Lightning port, he says, can transmit information at a rate of 480Mbps - or
around 60 megabytes per second - for far superior audio quality.

iPhone 7 last-minute leak claims Apple's new iPhone will come in five colours
and include one killer feature for photo fanatics

That means, if you care about audio quality, and you have to choose between
wired headphones that use the Lightning connector and wireless ones that use
Bluetooth, you should go for the wired ones.

You may even find they're better than your old ones with a traditional audio
jack.

