

The long-awaited iPhone 7 is finally here - but what do the critics make of it?

Even Apple fans may be wondering if they should upgrade now, or hold out for the
next model.

It costs a cool £599 to buy the cheapest 32GB handset on its own, though of
course the price on contracts will differ.

The new devices are available to pre-order now, and will be in shops from Friday
September 16.

Steve Kovac writes for Business Insider: "I've been using the new iPhone 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus since Apple unveiled the devices last week. I survived. In fact,
the missing headphone jack is such a minor nuisance that I barely noticed.

But he said he expected the jack-free phone to prove a nuisance for those
occasions when iPhone users occasionally want to plug into something else - like
at a computer or on a plane.

He added: "The iPhone 7 comes with new EarPods that are almost exactly the same
except they plug into the Lightning port, which is found only on Apple devices.
That essentially forces you to carry around two pairs of headphones if you want
to be sure you can plug into anything you want."

The new iPhone 7 deal that could save you £400

"Almost all of the new improvements are great - from the camera to the new home
button - but they are also largely invisible.

"It is nearly identical to the iPhone 6s from last year and the iPhone 6 before
that. It is hard to get excited about something new when it looks very similar
to what you've seen before."

David Snelling writes for the Daily Express: "From the outside it might not look
as though Apple has pushed the boundaries of design but there's some very good
news for anyone who has ever dropped their iPhones down the loo.

"The US tech giant has finally made its new smartphone water resistant, which
certainly makes it feel far more robust than previous models.

"We gave our review device a thorough soaking and it survived without suffering
any soggy circuit boards."

Rhiannon Williams writes for the Mirror: "There will be people who are deeply
unhappy at not having a headphone jack any more, and it could be argued that new
finishes aren't going to be enough to persuade people looking to upgrade their
iPhones.

"But the new and improved cameras, home button, zippy processor and better
battery life will answer the needs of a lot of fans - and simultaneously keep us
wanting more.

"If you're forever deleting photos and apps to clear up space, then rejoice -
both models will come with double the storage of the 6s ones, starting with
32GB, 128GB and 256GB.

Apple iOS 10 release time - How to install, and everything you need to know
about Apple's new software

"Photography plays a key role in the new handsets, with both receiving a welcome
upgrade. The iPhone 7 has one rear-facing 12MP circular camera, while the 7 Plus
has two cameras on its back: one for wide angles and the other for telephotos.

"Telephoto lenses are designed to create a narrower field of view for
long-focus, which basically means more detailed images without the need to get
up close and personal."

