
DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 25 -- MUST READ
 Five takeaways from Apple iPhone 7 launch event
 New York: After a stupendous response from 28 countries in the first phase
beginning from September 16, Apple's iPhone 7 ans iPhone 7 Plus will now be
available in additional 30 countries, starting from Saturday.


 Todaya's launch includes the following countries: Andorra, Bahrain, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece,
Greenland, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, Isle of Man, Jersey, Kosovo, Kuwait,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia and Slovenia.
 iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will be launched in India on October 7.
 Apple also launched its new "Apple Watch Series 2", "Apple Watch Edition" and
updated Series 1 models in 20 additional countries on Saturday.
 The new "Apple Watch Series 2 Hermes" was also launcheed for the first time in
18 countries on Saturday.
 Apple enthusiasts are known to swarm company stores and form long queues in the
hours before any big launch and the scene at its stores in 28 countries in the
first phase was no different on September 16.
 Coming in silver, gold, rose gold and the new black finish (jet black), iPhone
7 and iPhone 7 Plus will be available in 32GB, 128GB and 256GB models, starting
at Rs 60,000, in India.
 iPhone 7 features breakthrough new camera systems, the best battery life ever
in an iPhone and water and dust resistance.
 "Apple Watch Series 2", the ultimate device for a healthy life, offers water
resistance at 50 metre, GPS, two-times-brighter display, dual-core processor and
watchOS 3.
 Starting at $369, the 'Apple Watch Series 2' will be water resistant to 50
metres and the speaker will literally repel the water like a piston.
 The device will have a dual core processor with GPU that is up to two times
faster.
 Since Navratri - an auspicious time for shopping - begins on October 1 and with
Diwali falling on October 30, this is a strategic time for Apple to register
super iPhone 7 sales in India.

