

If it's September, there ust be a brand new iPhone ine from Apple Inc. And if
his year's iPhone looks susiciously similar to last year's Phone, that's
because, well, it s.

Called the iPhone 7 and the Phone 7 Plus, the new line arks the first time Apple
has ot followed one of its S-series ith a design change - a devition from its
usual two-year esign cycle. The height, idth and depth dimensions f the new
phones are all idenical to the previous iPhone 6s nd 6s Plus, though the weight
s slightly less.

The Financial Post was one a few media outlets globally receive early review
units of oth phones to test all of the ew features.

On the inside, there is a aster processor that's up to 40 er cent faster than
last year's Phone 6s and 6s Plus, plus here is up to 50 per cent beter graphics
capabilities. The hones feel quicker in simple day-to-day tasks such as web
browsing, switching between apps or restarting. More intensive actions such as
photo or video editing and gaming also load faster or render much more quickly.
The Home button has also been redesigned, using a taptic engine vibration that
creates the illusion of the user pressing a button without anything actually
moving. Removing the button helps seal the phones, making them water and dust
resistant.

Controversially, Apple has also removed the headphone jack. The company said
this was done to help free up space internally for other technology, like a
bigger battery or the taptic engine.

Regular headphones can now be connected using an adapter, which will retail for
only $10, for the device's Lightning port.

Alternately, music lovers can use Bluetooth headphones, such as Apple's new
EarPods that are releasing in October. The only real usability issue with a lack
of headphone jack is when you want to charge your phone while listening to
music, which requires a separate adapter.

The most impressive part about the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus is its camera.
Both models have 12-megapixel cameras, as did the iPhone 6s and 6 Plus. But the
new phones feature a larger aperture, which means improved lowlight photos with
better detail and less graininess.

But the real story for this generation, and what Apple is hoping you'll pay
extra for, is in the larger 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus. Instead of just one
12-megapixel camera, the phone has two. One is set at the usual wide angle of
other iPhones, but the second camera is a telephoto lens that's permanently
closer to subjects. This means you can now "zoom in " optically when taking
photos without losing quality.

If you have an iPhone 6s or 6s Plus, you won't see as much of a difference this
year other than the big camera upgrades. But if you have an even older iPhone,
then there is plenty to like about the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.

Both will be available Sept.

16 starting at $899 and $1049, respectively, off contract.

