

Q: I mentioned that I was thinking of upgrading from my iPhone 5 to the new
Apple iPhone 7 and my tech friend rolled her eyes and said that was a mistake.
Not wanting to seem clueless, I just said "hmmm..." but what's the issue with
the new iPhone 7?

A: It depends on who you ask about the iPhone 7 as to whether it has a huge
design flaw or is just the evolutionary next step on a smartphone that's been
out almost a decade now with essentially just incremental updates.

 The crux of what's upset people is that Apple's design team decided to remove
the audio jack from the base of the phone. Yes, if you're used to plugging in
ear buds or headphones, or even plugging it into the AUX port on your car, none
of those are quite so easy any more.

 No audio? No, no, just no audio jack. And even that's not quite true because
every iPhone 7 sold includes a tiny Lightning connector to audio jack adapter
that works just fine in a pinch.

 The real evolutionary step, however, is that Apple is really counting on us all
migrating to Bluetooth, whether its headphones, external speakers or other
devices. The most recent generation of cars, for example, include not just
Bluetooth for interfacing with devices, but also Apple CarPlay, a sort of remote
control for your iOS devices built into the vehicle.

 Included in the box with both the iPhone 7 and its bigger brother the iPhone 7
Plus are a pair of regular Apple ear pods too, except with a twist: they have a
lightning connector, not an audio jack connector. So you can use those right out
of the box, no worries, no hassles, no Bluetooth pairing.

 "Ah, but you can't listen and charge at the same time!"

 That's true. But if you had your older iPhone on a charging dock, there was no
access to the audio jack anyway.

 Still, I'm not an apologist for Apple. I bought and now own an iPhone 7 -- I
think it's a solid upgrade from the iPhone 6 and 6s and it'll be a huge step
forward from your iPhone 5 -- but appreciate people's concerns. Some folks just
don't want more radiation, more transmission waves by their skull, and they're
not going to be fans of being pushed towards Bluetooth. But, again, remember the
lightning to audio adapter included with the new phone.

 Ultimately, I think people are in an uproar over very little and in a few
months the removal of the audio jack will be just a distant memory. But have a
close look at your own usage patterns with your existing phone to ascertain
whether it'd be a huge problem for you, and if it is, consider upgrading to an
iPhone 6s instead: you can get some great deals on 'em!

 And there's always Android...

 ------

 Dave Taylor has been involved with the online world since before the creation
of the Internet and runs the popularAsk Dave Taylor --
http://www.askdavetaylor.com/ -- tech review and how-to site. You can also find
him on Twitter as @DaveTaylor.

Dave Taylor For the Camera

