

http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/CLICK02_iphone
_103116_newscom.jpg

Taiwan-based contract manufacturer Foxconn Technology Group is making wireless
charging modules that could go into Apple's (AAPL) upcoming iPhone 8, due for
release next year, the Nikkei Asian Review reported Monday.

Whether the feature will be included in the iPhone 8 will depend on Foxconn's
ability to increase the yield rate on the component, the publication said. The
yield rate refers to the number of satisfactory units built in a production
batch.

It's also possible that Apple might include wireless charging in only premium
models of the 11th-generation iPhone, Nikkei Asian Review said.

Analysts believe that the iPhone 8, which will be released in 2017 for the 10th
anniversary of the original iPhone, will be a major design revamp, compared with
the recently released iPhone 7 series.

IBD'S TAKE: Apple stock has an IBD Composite Rating of 73, meaning it has
outperformed 73% of stocks in key metrics over the past 12 months. But there are
more attractive stocks to investigate. The IBD 50 list features a proprietary
screen of leading growth stocks with strong relative price strength and
top-notch fundamentals.

The iPhone 8 is expected to have a glass front and back in a metal frame. The
premium 5.5-inch Plus model is seen having an organic light-emitting diode
(OLED) display instead of the usual LCD screen.

OLED displays are more power efficient, boast richer colors and deeper blacks,
and can be fashioned into curved screens.

Apple released its iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus handsets on Sept. 16. They are
considered minor revisions to last year's iPhone 6S series.

The iPhone 7 series features faster processors, an improved display, better
battery life and water resistance. The top-of-the-line iPhone 7 Plus has a
dual-camera system for taking digital SLR quality photos.

Apple stock fell a fraction to 113.54 in the stock market today, but it
continues to trade above its 50-day moving average after hitting a nearly
11-month high of 118.69 on Oct. 11.

RELATED:

Chinese Smartphone Makers Take Share From Apple, Samsung

Apple Seen Riding iPhone 8 'Supercycle' Next Year

5 Takeaways From Apple's Mixed Q4 Earnings Report

