

WeddingWire announces expansion in Maryland

WeddingWire Inc., one of the leading wedding planning and vendor review sites,
said Thursday it plans to expand its Maryland headquarters and add 200 people to
its workforce. The firm, founded in 2007, is adding a floor at its Chevy Chase
offices, where it employs about 350 people. The firm will be leasing an extra
18,000 square feet, for a total of 68,000 square feet. The Maryland Department
of Commerce is providing a $1 million loan to assist with the expansion, which
can be forgiven if the company fulfills its hiring plans by 2021. Montgomery
County is providing a $500,000 conditional grant. The company also is eligible
for state and local tax credits. WeddingWire has a portfolio of sites operating
in 15 countries that attract 10 million unique users a month for its
user-reviewed vendor database. It employs more than 800 people worldwide. Gov.
Larry Hogan, whose daughter is getting married in Maryland this weekend and
whose brother will celebrate nuptials in Italy later this month, visited the
company in April. "WeddingWire has consistently ranked among the fastest-growing
technology companies in the country and we are proud to support their expansion
here in Maryland," he said in a statement.

- Natalie Sherman

'Limited quantities' of iPhone 7 available

Don't expect to go into an Apple store  today and walk out with a jet black
iPhone 7. Or any color of the iPhone 7 Plus. Apple said Thursday that only
"limited quantities" of the iPhone 7 in black, silver, gold and rose gold will
be available at retail stores. The tech giant said initial supplies of the
iPhone 7 Plus in all colors and the iPhone 7 in jet black sold out during the
online pre-order period and won't be available for walk-in customers. "We
sincerely appreciate our customers' patience as we work hard to get the new
iPhone into the hands of everyone who wants one as quickly as possible," Apple
said in a statement. Analysts said there is always a short supply of new iPhones
when they launch. But this time, demand seems even greater than usual. Brian
White, global head of technology, hardware, software and equity research at
investment banking firm Drexel Hamilton, said Apple's supply chain even ramped
up ahead of time to avoid the kinds of shortages that plagued the iPhone 6
launch. "People went into this launch expecting pre-orders to be muted," he
said. "It looks like this is a pretty strong launch for Apple."

- Los Angeles Times

Tepid economic data could lead Fed to delay rate rise

U.S. factory output fell, consumers cut back at retailers and wholesale prices
went nowhere in August, the latest evidence of a less-than-robust economy. The
weak numbers could give the Federal Reserve further reason to hold off on
raising interest rates when it meets next week. The Fed reported Thursday that
factory production fell 0.4 percent last month. Overall industrial production -
which combines manufacturing, mines and utilities - dropped by an identical
amount. The Commerce Department said that retail sales fell in August for the
first time in five months.

- Associated Press

