

Apple has a busy week this week. A few hours ago, the latest quarterly results
were released. Late tomorrow, Apple has an event scheduled. The first Mac
announced itself with the word "Hello", adding: "It sure is great to get out of
that bag." The invitations for this week's event have "Hello again" on them. It
is anticipated there will be new Macs.

Last Friday, the iPhone 7 and Apple Watch Series 2 were released in Thailand,
although the iPhone 7 Plus was completely sold out beforehand. Delivery for
these is currently about three weeks or more. Despite what some insist, there
have been several changes to the iPhone, starting with the A10 Fusion chip with
its four cores: two are used for heavy processing such as games, and the other
two are dedicated to efficient operations of general applications like mail.
Some think the A10 could power a Mac.

I have been trying both models over the last few days, a 256GB iPhone 7 in Black
and a Jet Black 256GB iPhone 7 Plus. All iPhone 7 models are made with the same
Aluminium 7000 used for the iPhone 6s, but the finish of the new colours is
delightful. The matte black feels silky when I run my hands over it; but the
shiny jet back feels ultra-smooth, like the ebony keys of a piano. It is a
fingerprint magnet, but a quick wipe on my T-shirt fixes that.

Waterproofing to IP67 is helped by redesigned buttons and switches, most notably
the Home button: it doesn't actually move now. When pressed, Apple's larger
Taptic Engine gives feedback, making it feel as if the whole of the lower end of
the phone moves. It takes a little getting used to, but after a day or so I
stopped noticing. The new iPhones can deal with 1m of water for up to 30
minutes. In other words, the toilet-bowl drop (and I am told this happens more
than people care to admit).

Considerable improvements have been made to the cameras and their software. The
iPhone 7 models have six-element lenses and improved aperture of 1.8 as well as
better low light sensitivity. The photographs I have taken in the last few days
have brighter colours and are also sharper. The 4.7-inch iPhone also has image
stabilisation, previously only available on Plus models. That helps in low light
conditions, but is a major plus for videos.

I took a wild ride on the back of a motorcycle down a Thonburi soi on Saturday
and despite hitting several bumps, the output looked as if I were using a gyro
stabiliser. It is clear that the bike's mirrors are rising and falling as we
negotiated the soi. I also tried some stop-motion video standing on a footbridge
and that too was stable although I had only supported the iPhone by resting my
elbows on the handrail. I uploaded the videos to YouTube (1extensions).

I also took videos with the iPhone 7 Plus. The camera system in this device has
two lenses (3.9mm and 6.6mm) standard and x2 zoom. A small icon on the screen
changes optical input. Holding the icon and moving a finger on the screen makes
digital zoom available up to x10. Optical images are sharp and clear. Pushing
the zoom to maximum will show noise and digital artefacts, particularly in low
light. In the few days I have been using these new iPhones, I am pleased with
the better output I am able to produce.

A major change was the removal of the 3.5mm headphone jack. This caused much
hand-wringing when still only a rumour and before anyone had tried the output. I
wrote in this column months ago that I was in favour of a switch to the
Lightning port. Music still plays and the sound is neither better nor worse than
with the ancient analogue connector.

To make sure everyone was covered, Apple included a Lightning to analogue
adaptor in the box. It works fine, of course. I also tried this with the
blood-glucose analyser I have: data output is unaffected.

There are several changes also to the new Apple Watch and it is clear that
Cupertino has been paying attention. The data appears on the sharper screen much
quicker and the wait for something to happen is much shorter. Where I have been
finding the most improvements is with the messaging -- always a key feature of
the Watch for me -- and with apps for health and fitness.

I have the Apple Watch Series 2 in shiny black. It came with a black
fluoroelastomer band, but it looks so good that I decided to buy the black
Milanese Loop band too. These had run out in the stores I tried. I ordered one
online: that should be delivered to my office today.

Next week I will comment more fully on the Apple Watch.

