

We are a matter of days away from the next iteration of the iPhone, it appears.

The iPhone7 is now expected to be released next week after Apple all but
confirmed it.

The tech giant has invited the media to an event in San Francisco a week on
Wednesday - September 7 - where it is believed the latest handset will be
unveiled.

The press invitation simply reads 'See you on the 7th", which may allude to
iPhone 7, as well as the date.

The invite also features a number of translucent coloured bubbles, which may
relate to the rumour that Apple is planning to introduce new coloured handsets.
Or they could be water droplets - which would be relevant if Apple was planning
to launch a waterproof iPhone, as rumoured.

The event is taking place at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium at 10am local
time, which is 6pm in the UK.

iPhone 7 set to be released in two months - and rumours are rife

There's been no shortage of rumours about it - we outlined some here - with lots
of images being leaked on social media over the last few months.

In truth, if the leaked images are to be believed, the new model doesn't look
much different in size to the iPhone 6s, which has a thinner body and larger
screen than the iPhone 5 and iPhone 6.

5 things we learned from Apple's launch event including the iPhone SE, iPad Pro
and Apple Watch

You probably need to start saving now. It is thought models with larger storage
will set you back £619 between £699.

However, that is because Apple is looking at the thing that annoys people most
about the iPhone - its pitifully small 16GB base level storage - in favour of a
more generous 32GB base model.

The current iPhone 6s and 6s Plus lineup offers customers a choice of 16GB,
64GB, or 128GB storage options.

However, supply chain investigations by Kevin Wang, director of market research
at respected analyst firm IHS Technology, suggest the iPhone 7 base model will
come with with 32GB of storage.

Think you're an iPhone expert? Take our quiz

Because the new iPhone will likely arrive with Apple's yet-to-be-confirmed iOS
10 software and an upgraded processor, it will offer even more power and better
efficiency.

Likely to be boasting a processor called the A10 chip, the iPhone 7 will surely
boast more power - although it's anyone's guess as to how much this will
translate into actual usage.

The Bullring is the obvious place - but be aware, there's generally a LOT of
queues.

You might just be able to pick one up from the brand new store on New Street,
with major progress on the shop in evidence of late.

