

Apple's latest iPhone may be more notable for what's missing from previous
models than what's being added. The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus unveiled Wednesday won't
have an analog headphone jack - a longtime staple in just about every consumer
electronics device that can play audio.

In doing so, Apple is betting that its legions of loyal fans will embrace the
shift to wireless headphones - or, if they insist on sticking with their old
ways, that they won't mind using earbuds that plug into the iPhone's power port,
or older headsets in conjunction with a new adapter.

The redesigned earbuds - with cord - will be included with the new iPhones. Also
in the box: an adapter consisting of two plugs connected by a short length of
cable, which will connect older headphones to the charging port.

But Apple is trying to push consumers to cut the cord with their headphones and
make the leap into what it envisions as a "wireless future."

"The reason to move on is courage," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice
president of worldwide marketing. "The courage to move on and do something new
that will benefit all of us."

As part of the transition, Apple also is introducing wireless "Air-Pods" that
will sell for $160.

Getting rid of the 3.5 millimeter headphone jack helped Apple make its new
iPhone slimmer, boost its battery lifetime and add other improvements, including
stereo speakers and a sharper camera. The iPhone 7 is also water resistant, a
popular feature that rivals such as Samsung Electronics already have been
offering.

Apple is trying to reverse its first decline in iPhone sales since the company's
late founder, Steve Jobs, unveiled the trendsetting device in 2007.

Apple sold nearly 92 million iPhones during the first six months of this year,
or about 15 percent fewer than the same period last year. Industry analysts
blame the downturn on last fall's uninspiring rollout of the iPhone 6S and 6S
Plus, neither of which included enough compelling features to persuade consumers
to replace the phones that they already owned.

The most significant upgrades to this year's models include a faster processor
and a better camera, upgrades that Apple typically makes every year. The more
expensive and larger iPhone 7 Plus boasts two digital camera lenses. One will be
for wide-angle views and the other will have telephoto capabilities, which Apple
says will zoom in by up to 10 times while still providing the same clarity.

