

MICHAEL LIEDTKE

Associated Press

CUPERTINO, California

One of the best things about Apple's latest iPhones is the slick new iOS 7
software that runs the devices. But that souped-up operating system could end up
hurting sales because the free software upgrade will also work on iPhones
released since 2010, giving owners of the older models less incentive to buy
Apple's newest products.

Perhaps unwittingly, even Apple's software boss Craig Federighi alluded to this
potential problem while he was bragging about iOS 7 at the company's unveiling
of its new phones. He predicted that anyone who elects to install the software
will feel "like they're getting an all-new device".

I understood what Federighi meant once I was able to see the iOS 7's
improvements in action on Apple's two new iPhones, the 5C and the 5S. Although
Apple announced iOS 7 at a conference three months ago, Tuesday marked the first
time the company allowed reporters to experience the software hands-on.

Although the iPhone 5C is less expensive than its predecessor, the iPhone 5, iOS
7 almost made it look fancier than previous generations. As an iPhone 5 owner, I
was feeling a bit envious until I remembered that I'll be able to spiff up my
device too. The operating system will work on the iPhone 4 and later models,
iPad 2s and subsequent versions, and the iPod Touch that came out late last
year.

iOS 7 looks much different than previous versions of the operating system
because it no longer displays iPhone apps as three-dimensional, embossed objects
meant to mirror their real-world counterparts. The icons instead are flatter and
more colourful.

Any significant change in design typically upsets users familiar with the old
way of doing things, but I suspect the complaints about iOS 7 will be muted
unless there are some terrible bugs in the software that weren't evident during
the brief time that I was given to experiment.

I am fairly certain most people who download iOS 7 are going to be pleased. The
software makes it easier to navigate around an iPhone and adds some compelling
new features.

The additions include the ability to stream music through an
advertising-supported service called iTunes Radio and five free apps that used
to cost consumers anywhere from 99 cents (Bt31) to $4.99 apiece. The free apps
are Apple's photo-editing tool, iPhoto, and video-editing program, iMovie, as
well as work-oriented apps called Pages, Numbers and Keynote.

Apple doesn't appear to be removing any popular built-in apps, as best as I
could tell. The company did that last year when it replaced Google's mapping app
with its own navigation system only to be ridiculed for misguiding users with
shoddy directions. Apple isn't bringing back Google Maps with iOS 7, but it is
promising that its alternative is getting better.

The software upgrade also will make it easier to take better pictures and
automatically sort photos into different categories to denote particular events.
I particularly liked a feature that lets you control how the camera operates by
toggling between options at the bottom of the screen with the swipe of a finger.
Once the camera is open, the choices include taking a square, panoramic or
standard photo. The bottom-of-the screen controls also have a switch to video
mode.

When taking a picture, photographers can also choose a filter to use as they
snap the photo rather than waiting to touch up the shot later. When shooting
video, shots can be zoomed in while recording. I can't do any of that on my
iPhone 5 because it is still powered by iOS 6.

The new system also makes it easier to see and scroll through apps more quickly
by clicking twice on the home button. When this action is performed in iOS 6,
the iPhone apps are spread across a horizontal row at the bottom of the screen.
Do the same thing in iOS 7, and the apps are transformed into large tiles
displayed horizontally across the centre of the screen in an effort to help
users do more multitasking on the iPhone.

Apple is also making it easier to access frequently used controls such as
airplane mode by enabling users to pull up the panel from the bottom of the
display screen instead of finding and pressing a settings option.

Other than the new software, the iPhone 5C isn't anything special, as one might
expect from a cheaper phone.

The only thing that really distinguishes the 5C from the iPhone 5 is that it's
housed in plastic instead of aluminium. Some consumers will no doubt like the
plastic alternative because it comes in five colours: green, blue, yellow, pink
and white. The price also may be more appealing, with the 5C starting at $99
with a two-year wireless contract, a $100 discount from iPhone models released
in previous years.

A higher-end iPhone dubbed the 5S boasts several advantages that aren't
available on any other model. The coolest innovation allows you to use your
fingerprint to unlock the iPhone 5S instead of relying on a four-digit code that
has to be repeatedly typed in. The fingerprint reader can also be used to access
Apple's apps and iTunes store instead of a password.

Apple CEO Tim Cook thinks the fingerprint scanner will revolutionise technology
security. "There is going to be a whole new generation of kids who grow up not
knowing what a password is,'' Cook predicted.

I found the fingerprint scanner, called "Touch ID',' simple to use during my
brief test of the 5S. It just took less than a minute for the phone to record
the fingerprint on my thumb, instructing me along the way. Once my prints were
in the phone's memory bank, all I had to do was lightly press on the home button
when the 5S was locked in sleep mode and it quickly opened.

The 5S also contains a faster processor and technological wizardry designed to
take sharper pictures and even record slow-motion video.

Best of all, though, the 5S comes with the iOS 7. I am already looking forward
to downloading the software next week so I can simulate what it's like to have a
new iPhone for free.

