

Apple has finally arrived on Twitter.

The iPhone maker's Twitter account came to life on Friday, just days before the
live launch of the iPhone 7 .

The Twitter page appears to have been registered since 2011, but has previously
lain dormant as an unverified egg.

Now Apple has given it a profile picture and a cover photo, and it looks as
though the company is about to send its first actual tweet.

Apple has put out a promoted tweet to advertise the iPhone 7 unveiling at 6pm on
Wednesday, but has prevented the tweet from appearing in its own news feed.

iPhone 7 and Apple Watch 2 launch LIVE: Dual-lens camera and NO headphone jack
expected at Apple event 2016

These "dark tweets" are essentially paid-for advertising as described here -
something that Samsung used to promote its event in February.

Anyone who retweets the promoted tweet gets an automated response from the
@Apple account.

Apple is, as ever, being quite mysterious about its plans.

iPhone 7: Release date, price, leaked pictures, and all the latest news and
rumours about Apple's new iPhone

If you retweet the message, it'll reply to you using an automated service.

Our tech editor tried it out...

Naturally, given the scale of Apple's launch events, many are speculating that
@apple will be used for the iPhone 7 showcase.

Apple has live blogged its own events in the past, with pictures and text
appearing below the live stream on its website.

However, the company has always steered clear of social networks as a general
rule.

Apple broke with tradition earlier this year and launched a customer support
account on Twitter, offering "tips and tutorials" on Apple products.

However, a dedicated brand account is a different matter. It would be a
significant step for the company to switch on its own public profile.

Ultimately, the way Apple is using Twitter right now (3pm) is unusual.

If anything, it's good PR - people are curious.

We're covering the iPhone 7 launch on our live blog: tune in

The brand has spent money on promoted hashtags and a custom emoji too, which
adds to the excitement.

And for a handle that's not posted anything publicly to accrue well over 350,000
followers is really quite something.

iPhone 7: Everything you can expect from the launch of the latest Apple device

