

Click for image

It can be painful enough stretching out iPhone rumors for a year or two, but a
new report suggests Apple is changing its cycle for major iPhone refreshes from
2 years to 3. In other words, yes, the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus could be as
boring as headlines have claimed.

Nikkei reports that a slowing smartphone market and a lack of room for
enhancements have forced Apple to change its ways.

Nikkei says look to 2017 if you want excitement:

"On the other hand, the 2017 model will likely involve major enhancements and
design changes, including adoption of an organic electroluminescent display. The
new device will also be able to create more complex tactile vibrations on the
display because of a tiny, but high-performance motor equipped inside."

Apple sends WWDC invites

While the dates for Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference were already
known to be June 13-17, the company made things really official this past week
by issuing media invitations for June 13, the day it will presumably suck us in
to one of those endless announcement shows.

While the iPhone 7 will likely not be mentioned, the software that it will run -
iOS 10 - surely will.  Expect the software to include upgrades to Siri, HomeKit,
Apple Pay and Apple Music, among other things.

Data hoarders rejoice!

Word on the Web is that Apple is planning to offer 256GB storage options for its
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus in the fall, doubling the current top-of-the-line
storage choice. For those who like to do things like carry around music on their
smartphone rather than gobbling up data by streaming it, such a higher capacity
could be a boon.

Market research firm TrendForce cites a steep drop in NAND Flash prices since
the second half of last year for inspiring phone makers to up storage as a
selling point. One casualty of a move to 256GB might be the currently popular
64GB mid-range option, TrendForce says.

In addition to a storage boost, memory is likely to increase on the iPhone 7
Plus to 3GB from the current 2GB standard on Apple's iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.

Same old, same old

A new indicator that the new iPhones will look a lot like the current iPhones
comes via a leaked image on the Asian site Weibo and analyzed on sites like
9To5Mac.

On the outside, the main differences appear to be a bigger camera hole, possibly
translating into a better camera, and more discreet antenna lines, confined to
the phone's edge as opposed to the entire back of the device.

But of course what you really care about is what's on the inside, right? See the
internal storage upgrade above for that...

