

Advance bookings for the Apple iPhone 7 and 7 Plus have already surged 50% at
retail stores in India compared with the run up to the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus
launch last year, industry executives said.They cited the models' innovative
features and a delay in the local launch of competitor Samsung's Galaxy Note 7
for the surge in bookings.

These booking are happening even before Apple officially starts taking orders on
October 1. The Cupertino, California-based company is trying to double its
launch inventory in India to meet higher demand and make the most of the Note 7
debacle -Samsung recalled the model worldwide after incidents of its battery
catching fire.

Samsung is, meanwhile, expediting the launch of the new Note 7, which may hit
the Indian market around September 28-30. India is one of the first countries to
receive the rectified device, in an attempt by the Korean major to be ahead of
the new iPhone launch on October 7.

Samsung has announced the re-launch of the new Note 7 in Korea on September 28.
The company has plans to start a consumer trust campaign to highlight the safety
of the Note 7 in India, the executives said.

\x93The delay in Note 7 launch is a major setback for Samsung, but the
Apple-Samsung war is far from over this festive season. The Apple India team
wants to go all out and make the most of the scenario, while Samsung wants to
ensure relaunch of the Note 7 a few days in advance to the new iPhones,\x93 one
of the executives said.

Trade officials said despite the fact that there has been mi

nimal cancellation for pre-booked Note 7 devices in India, fresh enquiries have
nosedived, so the company is contemplating a campaign.

Meanwhile, Samsung India's plea to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation
(DGCA) to lift a ban on the use the Note 7 on flights has been turned down.India
is among several countries that put restrictions on the use of the phone on
flights citing potential fire hazard.

\x93Samsung's plea was on back of the logic that it had still not launched the
device in India.But DGCA has informed that it will follow the directive of (US
regulator) Federal Aviation

Administration. In addition, it would also want a written-declaration on the
safety of the devices in India,\x93 said an official.

While Apple India declined to comment, an email sent to Samsung India did not
elicit any response until press time on Monday. Apple is trying to or

ganise adequate stock of the new iPhones with jet-black colour which received
maximum advance bookings and enquiries.

The highest demand is for the 32 GB variant of the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus in
jet black colour.

The iPhone 7 is priced

. 60,000-80,000, while the iPho' ne 7 Plus costs '. 72,000-92,000.

\x93Among the two, iPhone 7 demand is higher since Indian consumers find the
size and price more appealing. While Apple is globally facing a shortage of the
jet black colour, the India team is trying to build adequate supplies,\x93 one
of them said.

