

For some Delhiites, the point of having an iPhone is that they get to flaunt it.
And if it is the latest version of the phone, that has not even been launched in
the country yet, even better! After all, it's not really exclusive if everyone
can buy it, right? So if you are feeling jealous when acquaintances flaunt their
very special iPhones, that their 'phoren wale chacha/mama/bhaiyya' got them,
don't worry, you can get one too!

If you are ready to pay a few extra bucks and access the black market, you can
probably get the phone in Delhi's Gaffar Market or Palika Bazar, where smuggled
iPhone 7s and 7+s are being sold. On Saturday, custom officials seized 75 iPhone
7s and 7+ worth Rs 46.39 lakh at the IGI airport. A few days ago, another
consignment of 26 iPhone 7s and seven iPhone 7+ was seized. In both the cases,
the phones were being smuggled from Hong Kong, where they were launched
recently. "He (the smuggler) told us that he had planned to sell the phones in
Delhi at high prices before the official launch.We are keeping a tight vigil to
prevent black marketing of these items," a senior police official was reported
as saying after the first case. Last year also, many consignments of iPhone 6
were seized at the airport before the official launch in India.Want an iPhone 7?
head over to Gaffar MarketWhile the official launch date for the iPhone 7 in
India is October 7, DT visited Gaffar Market to see if the phone is actually
available in the black market. Turns out, if you don't ask where the phone came
from or about authenticity and warranty, the iPhone7 is yours for the taking.
Even the smallest shop in Gaffar Market can provide you with the phone if you
can get the dealer to trust you. The sellers in the market told us that they
have been getting queries about the latest iPhone for a month, but they have
started accepting orders after its US launch. A seller in Gaffar Market told us,
"Within 24 hours of the US launch, we had received more than 10 bookings. Ab tak
toh kaafi bookings aa gayi hain."We have to be alert, just in case the customer
turns out to be a cop: SellersPolice officials tell us that to conduct a raid on
those selling smuggled iPhones, they need someone to file a complaint. Unless
they receive any complaints, they can't take action. A seller tells us that they
don't divulge any details to customers over the phone, in case it turns out to
be a cop posing as a customer. When we told sellers that we were looking to buy
an iPhone7 and asked about its availability, they responded with a number a
questions of their own. One seller told us the reason behind the queries - "We
have to be alert. What if the customer turns out to be a cop?" A seller told us,
"The demand for the new iPhone is 50% higher than last year, during the iPhone 6
launch, and the jet black colour is the most popular. We are trying to get these
phones before the official launch." Another seller said, "I had promised the
phones to some of my clients by September 20. But I couldn't deliver because of
some unavoidable issue. We are hoping to make it available soon."Who says iPhone
rates can't be negotiated?How much the phone will cost you in the black market
will depend on the dealer and your negotiation skills. We were told that they
are available for anywhere between Rs 60,000 and a lakh. And it's not just
Delhiites or NCR residents who are pre-ordering the phones. The sellers are
getting a number of queries from Meerut and Agra as well. A shopkeeper even told
us, "Come after three days, and we will probably have the 7+ model."It's not
'exclusive' after official launch: BuyersNP Pant, who works in a shipment
company, told us that buying the phone in the black market without a warranty is
not an issue, because he had bought his iPhone 5 from Gaffar Market as well. He
said, "I have pre-ordered the iPhone7 from Gaffar market and I was told that it
will be delivered the next week. I just came back from the US 10-12 days back. I
had promised my parents that I will bring them the new phone and I will have to
get it for them, even if I have to pay a few extra bucks." Vidyabhushan Choubey,
an IT specialist, said, "There is nothing exclusive about buying a phone after
its official launch. I sold my iPhone 6 before its rate dropped, and can now buy
an iPhone7 before it hits the market. I have told the dealer that if it doesn't
come in a week, I will cancel my order."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

