

So you want a new iPhone? Here's a timeline on availability, costs and features
for the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.

When can I preorder?

Friday, 12:01 a.m. PT

Preorders begin Friday for the new iPhone 7 and 7 Plus models, which promise
better battery performance, water-resistant bodies, improved power and a
dual-lens camera system that brings a wide angle and telephoto lens for the Plus
model.

When do the new iPhones go on sale?

Sept. 16

Apple hasn't said what time Apple Stores and other retailers will open to begin
selling the device. Last year, stores opened at 8 a.m. local time.
Traditionally, the first preorders promise delivery by opening day -- and
sometimes have arrived early. Many consumers have turned to preorders as a way
to skip the long retail lines that used to accompany iPhone launches. But in the
last few years, pre-orders sold out quickly. Two years ago, the iPhone 6 sold
out within hours of it first going on sale. When that happens, delivery dates
are pushed back  3-4 weeks.

How much will it cost?

The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus start at $649 and $749, with 32 GB of storage, an
upgrade for the standard 16 GB Apple has offered for several years. (This is a
big deal for consumers, because as anyone who has owned an iPhone knows, take
some pictures and videos and download some apps and you're soon out of storage.)
The previous 6S and 6S Plus models have the same pricing but upgraded storage --
they now start with 32 GB as well. The entry-level iPhone SE -- which has a
4-inch screen and many of the features of the bigger 6S model, still starts at
$399, with 16 GB storage.

When can I download iOS 10?

Sept. 13

The upgrade for Apple's mobile operating system becomes available as a free
download next Wednesday. Apple hasn't said what time, but it's usually early
Pacific  Time. This year's edition is billed as the "biggest" ever for Apple, in
terms of new features. Two key ones: Siri and iMessages. The personal digital
assistant has been added to many apps, including LinkedIn, Lyft, Square Cash and
Vonage, to dictate messages, hail a ride and make payments and calls. Texts will
be more visual in new iMessage, with stickers, bigger emojis and the ability to
draw pictures and emotions within the text itself. Recipients will need to have
recent Apple devices in order to see the visuals. Adding IOS 10 to recent
iPhones will bring these new features for free.

When can I get those new wireless earbuds?

AirPods, late October

The new, teeny wireless bluetooth headphones were unveiled Wednesday, to
accompany the controversial decision to ditch the headphone jack in favor of
next-generation wireless sound. But they won't be available until late next
month. You can use the AirPods to listen to music or talk on the phone. They
will sell for $159. (Purchasers of the new iPhone 7 and 7 Plus will get a set of
free wired headphones, called EarPods, that connect to the Lightning port of the
iPhone.)

