
DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Apple's latest iPhone may be more notable for what's missing from previous
models than what's being added. The iPhone 7 and 7 Plus unveiled Wednesday won't
have an analog headphone jack - a longtime staple in just about every consumer
electronics device that can play audio.

In doing so, Apple is betting that its legions of loyal fans will embrace the
shift to wireless headphones - or, if they insist on sticking with their old
ways, that they won't mind using earbuds that plug into the iPhone's power port,
or older headsets in conjunction with a new adapter.

The redesigned earbuds - with cord - will be included with the new iPhones. Also
in the box: an adapter consisting of two plugs connected by a short length of
cable, which will connect older headphones to the charging port.

Wireless future looms But Apple is trying to push consumers to cut the cord with
their headphones and make the leap into what it envisions as a "wireless
future."

"The reason to move on is courage," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior
vicepresident of worldwide marketing. "The courage to move on and do something
new that will benefit all of us."

As part of the transition, Apple also is introducing wireless "AirPods" that
will sell for $160.

Getting rid of the 3.5-millimetre headphone jack helped Apple make its new
iPhone slimmer, boost its battery lifetime and add other improvements, including
stereo speakers and a sharper camera. The iPhone 7 is also water resistant, a
popular feature that rivals such as Samsung Electronics already have been
offering.

Apple is trying to reverse its first decline in iPhone sales since the company's
late founder, Steve Jobs, unveiled the trendsetting device in 2007.

Apple sold nearly 92 million iPhones during the first six months of this year,
or about 15 per cent fewer than the same period last year. Industry analysts
blame the downturn on last fall's uninspiring rollout of the iPhone 6S and 6S
Plus, neither of which included enough compelling feature to persuade consumers
to replace the phones that they already owned.

Been there, done that Now the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus may be plagued by the same
syndrome.

Phone advances from Apple, Samsung and other smartphone makers in recent years
are becoming so run-of-the-mill that BGC analyst Colin Gillis says the industry
is gradually losing its ability to dazzle consumers. That's something Jobs was
famous for whenever he showed off new products.

In a Wednesday research note, Gillis predicted that shopping for a new
smartphones is becoming "like buying a microwave - something people do, but not
a major event." He believes Apple's iPhone sales could decline by five per cent
during the next year.

If that happens, it will be bad news for Apple, the world's most valuable
company. It relies on the iPhone for twothirds of its revenue, partly because
the company hasn't been able to come up with another breakthrough innovation
under the leadership of CEO Tim Cook, Jobs' hand-picked successor.

Investors weren't very enthused about what they saw Wednesday. Apple's stock
shed 29 cents to $107.41 in late afternoon trading.

