

Apple's new iPhones are getting so close to becoming the only computing device
you need, writes Henry Cooke.

--------------------

What was announced iPhone 7

The 3.5mm jack has been dropped. Front camera as a new 7MP sensor. The home
button has been modified. Storage options have been increased.

The case is water and dust resistant.

32GB: $1199 128GB: $1399 256GB: $1599.

iPhone 7 Plus

As above but with two lenses, one 56mm.

32GB: $1429 128GB: $1629 256GB: $1829 Apple Watch series 2.

Apple Watch Series 2

Waterproof to 50m .

Built-in GPS. New display is twice as bright. Prices start at NZ$599.

Kiwis can order all devices now. --------------------

Whether Apple means it to or not, the latest iPhones will accelerate the future
of gadgets. The company this week announced the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus which have
the same look and screen size - 4.7 and 5.5 inches - as the current models.

The iPhone - and, let's be honest, plenty of other phones - are so much easier
and more enjoyable to use than laptops, than smartwatches, even than tablets.

Part of this might be the technology, part of it might just be that we've
developed better habits around phones: but the end result is that the phone ends
up as not just our primary computing device, but increasingly our only one.

But this isn't exactly a new proposition. Steve Jobs introduced the iPhone by
pretending it was three different devices. How does the iPhone 7 change things?

The most obvious place is photography. The smartphone has already basically
destroyed the point and click digital camera market, but dual lens setup on the
7 Plus finishes the job.

Through the second 56mm telephoto lens, we get optical zoom: so zoom with no
quality loss, something plenty of dedicated cameras lack. I tried it - it's
astonishingly good, and basically acts like an old school "prime" portrait lens
does in terms of framing and depth of field. (Notably, this doesn't feature on
the regular old 7. Now that the Plus gets substantially better battery life and
a substantially better camera, it is basically the "iPhone Pro".)

Apple has a team of hundreds of people solely working on the camera, and it
shows. More than one hundred billion operations are performed on every image
taken in 20 milliseconds. Nikon just can't keep up with that, even if they make
much better lenses.

Apple was careful not to position the camera as a DSLR killer - but the simple
fact that it is comparing a phone and a huge $1200 dedicated photo-taker is
telling. The smartphone isn't eating the DSLR, but it is eating the wider
consumer "camera" market.

Then there's the million little other things - the tweaks that Apple is now
making instead of big leaps. These are often refined versions of stuff they've
let other companies test out for them. Water resistance. Stereo speaker sound. A
home button that won't fail with overuse (even if it feels a bit weird.) "Wide
gamut" colour so your iPhone has the most beautiful screen of any device you own
- even if it's the smallest.

Remember: Apple's most popular laptop, the Macbook Air, has never had a screen
that's come anywhere close to the iPhones in terms of pixels, or now, in colour.
Apple doesn't care. It's all in service of the iPhone.

Which is not to say the laptop or the tablet is dead. Apple borrowed a lot of
the new features from those other devices - they work very well as small sample
test cases.

But it is notable that the computer is no longer your main "anchor" device.
That's your phone. The Apple Watch is an add- on for your phone, not your
laptop. Virtual reality goggles will likely use your phone as a screen going
forwards, as much as Oculus wants us to all buy $2000 gaming PCs.

Which, in a roundabout way, explains the headphone thing. Apple is working to
shape a new category of device with none of the messiness of ports and plugs.
They don't care that the lightning earbuds that come with your new phone won't
work on your laptop (even if you bought your laptop from Apple) - why listen to
something on your laptop? What's wrong with your phone?

For all that the iPhone has evolved over the years, its largest obstacle has
never really been faced head on: the battery.

Sure, Apple touched on battery life with the iPhone 7 and have made attempts to
neuter the problem through the years. The iPhone 7 CPU will feature two "low
power" cores to take on less resource intensive tasks, like fetching emails,
without sucking down your battery using the cores meant to go fast. They promise
two extra hours of use on the iPhone 7 and one extra hour on the 7 Plus.

But this is hemming at the edges, a creative workaround rather than a proper
solution. A smartphone's battery life stops it from being a truly reliable
device. The people who need it to be reliable use ugly battery cases and heavy
battery packs, but we are fairly rare. For the iPhone, or any smartphone, to
really reach the rest of our lives, it needs to last for days - or at least a
single day of heavy use.

I know the physics might make that impossible right now, but Apple is the
richest company in the history of the world. I at least hope they are trying.

Henry Cooke travelled to San Francisco courtesy of Apple.

--------------------

CAPTION:

Apple CEO Tim Cook introducing the iPhone 7 on Thursday.

Picture: REUTERS

