

Apple launched the iPhone 5S & the iPhone 5C amidst huge hype and brouhaha over
its features and pricing, most of which were already leaked out pretty
accurately. We bring to you all the information you would need to know about the
iPhone 5S & iPhone 5C. Apple iPhone 5S Features & Pricing in India

Display & Body

The display on the iPhone 5S remains the same at 4.0 inches with a pixel density
of 326 ppi. As expected, the design is also the same as the iPhone 5. 64 bit A7
chip and M7 motion co-processor The iPhone 5S comes with the new A7 chip which
Apple claims to be the world's first 64 bit desktop-class architecture in a
smartphone. Apparently Huawei Ascend D Quad launched in Feb 2012 last year also
boasted of a 64 bit chipset. M7 motion coprocessor gathers data from the
accelerometer, gyroscope and compass to offload work from the A7 for improved
power efficiency. Apple has allowed developers' access to the new CoreMotion
APIs that take advantage of M7, thus allowing them to create better fitness and
activity apps.

Touch ID - Fingerprint Scanner Built into the home button, Touch ID uses a laser
cut sapphire crystal, together with the capacitive touch sensor, to take a
high-resolution image at about 550ppi of your fingerprint. Touch ID will allow
you to authenticate Appstore purchases and app updates besides providing
security lock to the iPhone 5S.

8MP iSight Camera with True Tone Flash The iPhone 5S boasts of a new 8MP iSight
camera, which features a larger f/2.2 aperture and a new, larger sensor with 1.5
pixels for better sensitivity and low-light performance. The camera has
capability to shoot 10 frames-per-second in burst mode, and 120
frames-per-second slow motion video at 720p.

The dual LED Flash, called the True Tone Flash by Apple adjusts colour and
intensity for over 1,000 combinations to give better images under dark light
conditions. Colours The new iPhone 5S now comes in three new different colours
called Gold, Silver and Space Grey. Apple has also introduced new leather covers
for the device with 6 colours to choose from i.e. beige, black, blue, brown,
yellow and red.

iOS 7 The iPhone 5S comes with iOS 7, Apple's latest redesigned UI along with
the option to download the iWorks apps Suite for free which includes iPhoto,
iMovie, Pages, Numbers and Keynote apps that are otherwise paid for apps.

Availability and Pricing

The iPhone 5S is priced at $199 for 16GB, $299 for 32GB and $399 for 64GB on
two-year contract in the US, while you can expect it to be priced at around Rs.
50,000 in India for the 16GB version and upwards for the others.

The iPhone 5S will be available starting Sep 20th in the US, while it is
expected to be made available in India sometime during mid-November. Apple
iPhone 5C Features & Pricing in India Body & Design The iPhone 5C comes in a new
polycarbonate shell design which we feel, resembles the Nokia Lumia 620 a bit.

It's available in five colours viz, blue, green, pink, yellow and white. Other
Features It sports the same features as the iPhone 5 which include: 4.0 inch
Retina display

8MP iSight Camera

The A6 chip

iOS 7 The iPhone 5C comes with iOS 7, Apple's latest redesigned UI along with
the option to download the iWorks apps suite for free which includes iPhoto,
iMovie, Pages, Numbers and Keynote apps that are otherwise paid apps.

Pricing & Availability

The iPhone 5C is priced at $99 for 16GB and $199 for the 32 GB version, both on
a two year contract in the US. The iPhone 5C is expected to be priced at around
Rs. 35,000 in India. While the iPhone 5C will be made available in the US on the
20th of September, it is expected to arrive in India only by the mid week of
November. Note: iOS 7 upgrade will be available for the entire Apple devices
starting from iPhone 4 & iPad 2 from September 18th. But the iWorks apps are
free only for newly bought devices with iOS7 installed on it.

