

Many iPhone users have been planning to switch to iPhone 5C, but if you have the
iPhone 5, then should you go for the iPhone 5C? Let's find out.

Monday, September 16, 2013: Since the 10 September launch of the iPhone 5S and
5C, consumers in India have been impatiently waiting for the devices to make
their debut in the country. The devices, the iPhone 5C, in particular, have
sparked quite the debate in the country. The big question everyone asks is, is
it cheap enough for us? While the iPhone 5S takes the throne as the company's
flagship device, the iPhone 5C is the one aimed at markets like India. Many
iPhone users have been planning to switch, but if you have the iPhone 5, then
should you go for the iPhone 5C? Let's find out.

We'll talk about the iPhone 5, 4S and 4 users here in this article. For iPhone 5
users, going for the iPhone 5C isn't exactly going to be an upgrade. Except the
iOS 7, there's not much that you will get and the OS update will come for your
device anyway. It is true, the iPhone 5 and iPhone 5C are basically the same
phones, with the body being the best differentiating factor. Here, your iPhone 5
has Apple's trademark metal body, while the 5C has the polycarbonate body. Yes,
it offers more colours, but still, not a good enough reason to switch.

Further, both the devices have the same Apple A6 processors and displays. There
is a difference in terms of the battery life where the iPhone 5C offers two
hours of extra battery life as compared to its predecessor, but carrying your
charger around with you is still a better idea. If you're looking to upgrade to
the iPhone 5S, then you're making a much better investment. The new flagship not
only gives you the iOS 7 and iWorks apps, it also brings the all new 64 bit A7
processor. Plus, it supports Open GL ES 3.0

The iPhone 5C may very well not be cheap enough, but if you're using the iPhone
4 or 4S, then you really do need an upgrade now. Yes, the iOS 7 is coming to
your phone too, but your phone is still going obsolete soon. For you, the iPhone
5C is a good option. Here, you're getting a batter camera, the better A6
processor and a bigger screen. The colour options now become an added bonus.

Apple users are known to be loyal to the company. So, all this is assuming that
you don't care about what the price of your device is, just as long as it is
Apple.

