

With both Samsung and Apple having faced their share of recent hiccups, all eyes
are on Tim Cook to unveil something truly path breaking!

Today's the big day -- Apple is in all likelihood poised to unveil their latest
and greatest, the iPhone 7. CEO Tim Cook will be making the necessary
announcements at an event in San Francisco tonight at 10:30PM IST. According to
all the rumors thus far, the 7th gen iPhone is expected to be a significant
upgrade over its predecessors. Let's quickly take a look at what the rumour
mills are busy churning out in the ramp up to the launch.

iPhone 7: What's doing the rounds so far

To start, the iPhone 7 will most likely sport a 4.7-inch screen and its branded
'Retina HD Display', with a 7501334 pixel resolution. It could very well be
powered by a new A10 chipset, clocked at up to 2.4GHz and paired with 2GB of
RAM. The company is rumored to be offering three storage options: 32GB, 128GB,
and 256GB -- the low-end 16GB variant may finally go away. On the camera front,
Apple might just continue with the same 12MP camera currently seen on the iPhone
6s but with an improved the sensor along with a better six-element lens, and
could add a protective shield around the phone lens to have it better withstand
physical damage.

One of the biggest rumours is that Apple may, well and truly, be ditching the
ubiquitous 3.5mm headphone jack, and will instead introduce the digital-only
Lightning connected earpods for a heightened audio experience. The new iPhones
could come in five color options: Silver, Gold, Rose Gold, along with a "dark
black" color variant which will mostly replace the Space Grey option. A newer
color might be unveiled tonight, which may be something known as 'piano black'.

iPhone 6 touchscreen woes

If Samsung is heartbroken over their Galaxy Note 7 battery explosions, Apple has
had their share of goof ups too: a recent lawsuit filed in the Silicon Valley
federal court accused Apple of knowingly selling defective iPhone 6 models with
screens that stop responding to touch. The issue, coined as "touch disease" was
causing unresponsive screens, along with a flickering gray bar that appears at
top of the display. To make matters worse, Apple refused to repair iPhones free
of charge, despite being aware that it may have been an inherent design flaw.

Viewers and investors are bound to look to Tim Cook to address this issue of
reliability during his keynote today -- it could just be one of the most
significant parts of the event, given that there's an upcoming line of Apple
phones that would need to win the trust of the broader set of Apple buyers that
exclude die-hard enthusiasts.

Although KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo -- one of the most prolific and
accurate predictors of iPhone launch details -- believes iPhone 7 shipments will
be below that of the iPhone 6s through the end of the year, coming in at 60-65
million compared to 82 million last year.

Samsung's loss, Apple's timely gift?

When Samsung unveiled the Galaxy Note 7 a few weeks ago, they staked claim to a
significant timing advantage. But the recent turn of events with Samsung needing
to replace all 2.5 million units of their flagship device just weeks after its
release due to the unfortunate issue of the exploding batteries, this could well
work in favor of Apple. Reports also indicate that the company has informed
iPhone 7 component suppliers and manufacturing partners to boost production by
10 percent.

As Galaxy Note 7 owners need to wait for two weeks before they get their hands
on a replacement device, Apple's increased production (along with an alluring
set of specs) could prove advantageous as many fence-sitters may simply choose
to jump ship to the iPhone 7 instead of waiting out their Note 7 replacement.

With both companies tied in terms of last-minute pitfalls, it all boils down to
what exactly is unveiled in San Francisco tonight. Be sure to follow us as we
cover it live on dnaindia.com.

