

Apple announced it will have an event on Wednesday, Sept. 7 at the Bill Graham
Auditorium in San Francisco.

The invitation, which includes an image of swirling, out-of-focus, multi-colored
lights, didn't offer a major hint at what the company plans to discuss. "See you
on the 7th" is all it said.

Apple's understated invitation comes at a critical time for the iPhone maker.
Sales of the iPhone, which represent two-thirds of the firm's annual revenue,
have been down in recent quarters. One possible reason: Users are upgrading
their phones less frequently.

Even under pressure to revive interest in the iPhone in the Christmas shopping
season, Apple appears to be planning small tweaks to the newest line of devices,
which would be the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus if the firm keeps with the same naming
pattern.

The new devices reportedly will have the same look as iPhone 6S and 6S Plus but
with an improved camera and possibly a new home button that vibrates to the
touch.

A dual-lens camera for the iPhone could allow users to "allow for different
focusing tricks such as the blurry background Apple has in its invite," reports
Recode .

Perhaps the biggest change to the iPhone will be getting rid of the headphone
jack, if rumors prove true. If this happens, owners of the newest iPhones will
have to rely on Bluetooth-enabled headsets. One possible reason for the change
may be to create a bit more room in order to boost the phone's battery, CNET
reported.

The Apple Watch line is expected to be updated. Rumors are split about whether
Apple will unveil new MacBook Pros at this event.

The firm may be skipping a major redesign of the iPhone this year and instead
focusing on unveiling a new line in 2017, using the device's 10th anniversary to
generate more excitement. An all-glass model with wireless charging may be in
the works.

Image: Invitation to the Apple Sept. 7, 2016 event at the Bill Graham Auditorium
in San Francisco.

The post Apple's Sept. 7 event expected to unveil small changes to the iPhone
line appeared first on SiliconBeat .

