

So, is the Apple iPhone 7 Plus the best smartphone you can buy? Given the hype
and expectation, you would want to think so. Also, the fact that the Samsung
Galaxy Note 7, Android's biggest bet this year, has pulled out adds a new
dimension to the game. In this review, we try and answer the questions you would
have before buying this flagship phone.

Apple launched two new phones in its iPhone 7 series. The iPhone 7 is an upgrade
on the iPhone 6s, while the iPhone 7 Plus will replace the iPhone 6s Plus and is
a larger, more capable phone. While the processing power of the two iPhone 7
devices is the same, the iPhone 7 Plus offers a much better camera with a dual
lens combo, which is clearly the USP of this phone. It also brings in a new
glossy jet black variant which has already become popular despite its tendency
to attract scratches as well as fingerprints. The phone does not have a 3.5 mm
jack for audio, and this space has been used to add a taptic engine inside and
an extra speaker outside, which makes it one of the loudest smartphones now.

What is the phone's best feature?

It has to be the camera of the iPhone 7 Plus. The dual lens combo at the
rear-the camera has a wide as well as a telephoto lens-uses some smart software
to give you amazing images. And the f1.8 aperture makes this one of the best
performing smartphone cameras in low light. The telephoto bit of the camera
gives you optical zoom of up to 2x which is without any noise at all. The
digital zoom lets you take this up to 10x using a really fast virtual dial.
However, there is a bit of noise to be encountered at the extreme end of this
zoom. The zoom and low-light capabilities are translated equally well when you
shoot 4K video making this a great handycam replacement.

Is this the most powerful smartphone?

The new iPhone series uses the A10 Fusion chip from Apple. This phone can have
any Android phone on the mat when it comes to scores. I could feel a significant
difference having moved to this review unit from an iPhone 6s Plus.

Apps open faster; switching between running apps is also swifter. There is a
significant boost when you play resource intensive games, and the graphics shine
more and are richer with more detail. Also, the taptic engine is adding a new
dimension to games and apps in the form of physical feedback across the phone.

Has the battery life improved?

The A10 Fusion processor is a mix of two high efficiency cores that are high
resource. So the battery of the new phone lasts much better, especially in
comparison to a year-old 6s Plus. With intense use on 4G, shooting video and
photos, the phone can last 12 hours. However, Apple devices start dropping
battery life with time. Be prepared to see a 25% drop by the end of the year.

Are there any issues?

We could not see any major issues. However, there is one quirk we noticed. The
camera, at times, takes a long while to be ready to click. This lag is often
long enough for you to take a screenshot. I guess Apple will need to update the
app to fix this. Also, the best feature of the camera is still not available to
regular users, although those in public beta can get it. The portrait mode which
uses the two cameras to create a bokeh effect will be available only later this
year.

A lot of people have been unhappy with Apple for dropping the 3.5mm jack in
favour of the lightning cable, which will now be used for audio too. This is not
such a big issue as Apple is offering a lightning headphone in the box as well
as an adapter in case you are stuck with an expensive headphone which you just
cannot let go of. But yes, there is a bit of an issue if you have to listen to
music while the phone is being charged. We hope that Apple's extensive
third-party ecosystem will kick in and come up with a fix soon.

Should you buy?

If you are looking for a top-end smartphone that really caters to all your
needs, then this is the phone for this year. However, if you are already on the
iPhone 6s series, this jump makes sense only if you are a hooked to smartphone
photography big time. Also, it makes more sense now to buy at least the 128GB
version as this extra storage has become relatively cheaper now. Whichever way
you look at it, the Apple iPhone 7 Plus is the best phone you can buy at the
moment. But it is not for everyone and is a premium device in every sense.

Estimated street price: Rs 72,000 onwards

