

Apple have just launched their next smartphone - but some experts reckon you
should wait for the iPhone 8.

The iPhone 7 was launched on Wednesday, at an event streamed live across the
world from San Francisco.

But some critics say the new smartphone from the tech giant, which introduces a
raft of new features, is holding back some ground-breaking innovations.

Many have said that, since 2017 marks the tenth anniversary of the iPhone, the
company are set to keep some pioneering developments for next year's model -
which many expect to be called the iPhone 8.

As a result, many are suggesting that users hold off on buying the iPhone 7, and
wait another year before splashing out on a Apple handset.

iPhone messages set for MAJOR changes with iOS 10 - all you need to know

In other news, eagle-eyed social media users have noticed a disclaimer on
Apple's frequently asked questions which might put them off buying a new iPhone
in 'jet black'.

Fans have longed for a black device for years, but have always had to make do
with 'space grey' - until now.

But their hopes and dreams may be dashed in the coming months and years, as it
turns out that the high-gloss finish of the new colour phone is more prone to
showing up scratches.

Apple explains: "Its surface is equally as hard as other anodised Apple
products, however, its high shine may show fine micro-abrasions with use.

"If you are concerned about this, we suggest you use one of the many cases
available to protect your iPhone."

Best iPhone 6 and iPhone 6S deals after Apple launch iPhone 7

Recently, Apple has been facing issues in the form of the dreaded 'Touch
Disease', first spotted last week by gadget repair specialist iFixit.

According to reports, a growing number of customers have been sending their
iPhone 6 handsets in for repair after a grey, flickering bar appeared at the top
of their display.

Shortly after the appearance of this grey bar, the iPhone's touchscreen has
reportedly become unresponsive, rendering the device useless.

iFixit claims that the issue can be traced back to a structural design flaw in
the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus - meaning millions of handsets could potentially be
vulnerable.

Despite this revelation, it currently remains unclear how widespread the problem
is.

Several users have been left angry by their handset's vulnerability, with many
taking to the Apple website to report the issue.

