
DATELINE: SANFRANCISCO


Apple Inc. is hoping that significant and somewhat controversial internal
changes to its iPhone lineup will be enough to reverse a recent slump in sales.

The tech giant unveiled two new smartphones Wednesday during its annual fall
iPhone event at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco.

The smartphones, called the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus, include enhanced
cameras and processing power, water-and dirtresistant capabilities, a jet black
look and a redesigned home button.

But it is what isn't there that is garnering the most attention.

In a controversial and much anticipated move, the headphone jack has been
removed to free up space internally for other things such as another speaker to
provide stereo audio.

"Our smartphones are packed with technology where we want more ... and it is all
fighting for space in that enclosure," said Phil Schiller, Apple's senior
vice-president of worldwide marketing, from the stage.

Consumers will now have to use headphones designed to work with the existing
lightning port or an adapter that will allow old headphones to exist. There will
also be AirPod wireless headphones developed by Apple coming in October. "Our
team at Apple has worked hard to deal with the challenges that have been left
there and no one has taken on," Schiller said about wireless audio technology
and the need for innovation in the space.

While Apple executives called the move "courageous," there has been strong
criticism from customers reluctant to use an adapter for their existing
headphones, especially when some have spent hundreds of dollars on them.

Wednesday's rollout, with its mostly internal changes, marks the first time
Apple has stepped away from its strategy of conducting a major design overhaul
every two years.

The purpose of the change in timing was to fall in line with carrier contracts -
particularly in the U.S. - but as carriers begin to abandon the two-year
contract and opting for monthly payment options, Apple is reacting by focusing
on internal changes this year to drive revenue.

Apple has seen slumping iPhone sales for the last two quarters, which played a
role in ending the company's 13-year streak of quarterly revenue growth. In
April, the company said iPhone sales were down 16.3 per cent for the quarter to
slightly more than 51 million units. iPhone sales also fell 15 per cent last
quarter to more than 40 million units.

"What folks really lose perspective on is Apple is targeting a middle class and
up category," said Julie Ask, a vice-president and principal analyst at
Forrester Research who attended the event.

"We are at more than 70 or 75 per cent ownership in the United States and
Canada, so when you are reaching a point of saturation, you can't expect the
same kind of growth rates historically."

Aside from the usual processing power bump, both the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus
will have Retina HD screens for better colours and a redesigned home button
which isn't actually a button but relies on haptic feedback to feel like it is
being pressed.

The iPhone 7 will have a single 12-megapixel camera, while the Plus has two
side-by-side lenses that will allow for zooming into a scene without losing
picture quality and better depth of field.

"It's very obvious Apple doesn't want to win the race to the bottom, so they
don't need to be in the category of selling $50 smartphones," said Ask. "They
are sticking to their guns around how they think about consumer privacy, data
and products. The quality of the experience is of the utmost importance to them
and they seem to be sticking true to their values."

Also announced at the event was an upgraded Apple Watch line, which hasn't seen
a new iteration since its debut in April 2015. Called Apple Watch Series 2, the
device's upgrades are aimed at the fitness crowd, with a built-in GPS so users
can run without an iPhone and water resistance up to 50 metres for swimmers.
Prices for the new models start at $359, available Sept. 16. Apple is also
expanding partnerships with the Watch as it increases it reach to the fitness
and luxury markets. Announced Wednesday was the Apple Watch Nike+, which will
include exclusive Siri commands, new designs and better compatibility with
Nike's Nike+ Run Club app. Meanwhile highend retailer Hermès is releasing a line
of Apple Watch accessories that include new styles and colours.

The biggest surprise of the event came during its software portion, when
Nintendo's Shigeru Miyamoto appeared to announce a mobile game called Super
Mario Run, which will be coming to Apple's iOS first later this year. Nintendo's
shares jumped more than 20 per cent on the news.

Niantic CEO John Hanke also appeared and said the Apple Watch would be getting a
Pokemon Go app as well, adding that the popular app has been downloaded more
than 500 million times.

jomcconnell@postmedia.com !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights
reserved.

