

NEW DELHI: Faizal Khan, a media professional, updated iOS operating system on
his iPhone 4S several hours after Apple released the version 7.1 on Tuesday.
While he liked the slicker call reject and accept icons and a few other user
interface enhancements, one improvement that pleased him the most was how fast
the phone felt with the new phone.

"It is like an almost a new phone. It feels much faster, irrespective of what I
am doing on it," he said.

iPhone 4S wasn't a exactly slow phone even with the earlier version of iOS 7.
But users who upgraded their older iPhones - in particular iPhone 4 - from iOS 6
variants had found that iOS7 made their phone feel slower. In the case of iPhone
4, the result dismayed many users, who were used to the slick and fast
performance in an Apple product. After upgrading to iOS 7 they found their
iPhone 4 almost unusable.

With iOS 7.1, Apple has fixed many of these complaints. There are many users
like Faizal who still use iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S and they are finding that their
devices feel much better with iOS 7.1. The same is true for many users of iPad 2
and iPad 3, who found the earlier versions of iOS 7 slow and prone to poor
performance.

The main reason behind why older iPhones and iPads feel smoother is because
Apple has toned down the animations introduced in iOS 7 significantly in its
latest update. The animations while a user opens an app or switches to
multitasking are less elaborate. This makes the device feel faster as well as
possibly less of a drag on the older hardware used in the older iOS devices.

In its change log for iOS 7.1, Apple specifically says that the new update
features "improved performance for iPhone 4".

iPhone 4 users who have upgraded to iOS 7.1 seem to agree. "First impression
after updating my iPhone 4 to iOS 7.1: it does feel snappier. Faster
transitions, faster Control Centre, keyboard keeps up," Riccardo Mori, an iPhone
4 user, tweeted on Tuesday.

However, the iPhone 4 users still do not get some of the feature that reportedly
require better hardware. Effects like parallax on the home screen or 3D Flyover
and turn-by-turn navigation in Apple maps are not available to iPhone 4 users.
Also, given the older hardware in iPhone 4 and iPad 2, the performance issues
persist when fast processing and more computing performance is required. Even
with iOS 7.1, these devices feel slow if users start multitasking with apps like
browsers, games and cameras or if they scroll through lists too fast.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

