

The iPhone 7 event be held on September 7 has already generated immense
excitement and curiosity in the tech universe.

The iPhone 7 event be held on September 7 has already generated immense
excitement and curiosity in the tech universe. Needless to say, half of the tech
enthusiasts are busy drawing up conclusions regarding what the features of the
iPhone 7 - what it will be like, especially as the company is doing away with
the 3.5mm headphone jack. Also, there is now a Twitter account of Apple, which
many believe, would live tweet the event, giving a detailed overview on social
media itself. Previously, the company has used its own blog to share updates. As
the buzz is getting stronger, we chalk out what tech enthusiasts should expect
from Apple's biggest launch of the year.

The curious case of the 3.5 mm jack

For some strange reason, the tech world seems to be obsessed about Apple iPhone
7 headphone jack, which traditionally has been the 3.5 mm fit seen thus far.
Everyone even remotely concerned with Apple, have been thinking whether the
company will continue with the headphone jack, or have other provisions for
headphones to be used, such as the Lightning port. There could also be a
secondary grille in place, or may be an additional speaker or microphone, where
the jack previously existed. Some renderings show special Bluetooth headsets and
earphones, with new designs to fit the human ear, without the need for a wired
connection, as well.

Multiple editions of iPhone 7

From the times of the iPhone 5, where it had 3 versions- the standard 5, the
premium 5s, and lower-end 5c, or even the iPhone 6- the smaller iPhone 6, to a
larger 6S+, it is natural that the speculations regarding multiple editions of
the phone could be headed our way. Perhaps a smaller 4.7-inch screen for the
iPhone 7 and a larger edition for the iPhone 7+, perhaps in the 5.5-inch screen
category? But as unpredictable as these things can get, Apple really likes to
keep things stored in till the last, and pull of a surprise.

The camera upgrade

Apple still manages to do a great deal with it's camera on the handsets. Most of
the 8Mp cameras on the current iPhone models manage to do a better, if not as
good a job as some of the 12 or 13MP cameras in the Android handsets. However,
there have been demands from the Apple fans with regards to optical image
stabilization (OIS), a 12MP masterpiece with even better imagery from Apple's
designing expertise, dual-lens setup for adding more details into the captured
photos and videos, or even 3D imaging. The dual lens setup could add to the
focal length reach of the camera, without adding bulk to the device, which Apple
iPhones are least likely to have anyways.

Apple, during it's Steve Jobs era, as known to introduce a device with a radical
change everytime around, so putting the guesses for a 3D image capability on the
iPhone won't be too far. But how much faith does the company have in 3D image
capturing, considering that the 3D shooters are highly priced, as the iPhone
itself being a premium buy in comparison, adding anything on the costs might
just alienate a few more users.

iOS 10 polishes

After Apple announced at the Developers' Conference in June this year, iOS 10 is
coming, and the iPhone 7 launch event seems to be the time when the audience
gets to witness it. Several changes are being wished for, including the 3D
touch, which will bring in many more apps and make the control center more
dynamic than before. Other expected enhancements include Snapchat-like features,
including stickers, doodles and even something called invisible ink, which will
allow an user to see the message only when they hover it, making it secure from
the public from viewing.

Other expectations include a new Maps application, new AI-powered set of Photo
tools (daily, auto-generated Memories galleries and the likes), spotlight
enhancements, and the ability to delete stock apps as well, in case one does not
need them. In other word, lesser the bulk, better the space for new apps and
speedy operations.

New Apple Watch

With the new Apple watch due for a while, September 7 is when the next edition
of the smart wear is expected to make an appearance. The iWatch 2 is supposed to
get some upgrades like the new Watch OS 3, which will have a new SOS feature
connected to emergency services, new apps to monitor breathing patterns of the
user, an enhanced GPS tracker for more closer fitness monitoring, and the
ability of watch users to directly log-in to their MacBook, without the
traditional methods used earlier. With IoT being even more popular by the day,
there is every reason that the universe of Apple, will be looking to step on it
with their tech craftsmanship earlier than the competitors.

Having said what has been said already, these are more or less wishful changes
that the universe of Apple users and tech enthusiasts are banking on. The list
could be more extensive, or it could just a few changes lesser, but Apple like
always, will keep the audience lingering on with the analysis of what is to
come, which will only be clear after the event on September 7.

