


HIGHLIGHT: Australian Regional Media's gadgets editor, Mark Furler, put the new
Samsung Galaxy S7 edge phone to the test ahead of its release on Friday


FROM the dim interiors of churches in Barcelona to the candlelight of my
daughter's 18th birthday, Samsung's Galaxy S7 blitzed the low-light camera test.

The S7 and S7 edge were launched in Spain with promises of an even better camera
than the S6.

So far, we haven't been disappointed.

The secret is a new F1.7 lens on both sides of the camera and larger pixels on
the rear camera that let more light in.

In a very dimly lit restaurant, it easily captured the smiling faces of my
daughter and her three closest friends.

Focus is definitely faster on the S7, thanks to its dual pixel sensor - the
first on a smartphone camera. It uses 100% of the pixels for detection.

New features of the camera also include a new motion panorama through swiping
the screen or tilting the device.

Samsung is well known for taking pretty flattering selfies. The front display is
used as the front flash, while an additional glow can be added to the face with
spotlight in beauty mode.

The overall look and feel of the phone has certainly taken a big step forward.
The curved edges make for a super sleek phone that looks good, feels great in
the hand and is slim in the pocket.

The 5.1" Galaxy S7 and 5.5" Galaxy S7 edge combine 3D glass and metal, while the
curves were perfected through a proprietary process called 3D Thermoforming. The
end result is not unlike a finely crafted surfboard.

A great party tricks of the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge is to plonk it in a glass of
liquid. As it's completely sealed from within, it is water and dust resistant
and can survive in up to 1.5 metres of water for 30 minutes.

It also comes with expandable storage of an extra 200GB through the microSD card
slot.

One of my favourite features of the phone is the always-on display, which can be
customised to show information such as the time, date and the number of unread
text messages.

The Galaxy S7 edge also offers quick access to your most frequently used apps,
functions and tasks through a right-hand-side drop of quick icons.

For gamers, there's a lot to love about the S7. The CPU is 30% faster, graphics
performance is up more than 60%, and a new internal cooling system keeps the
device from overheating.

The S7 is shaping up as the phone to beat in 2016.

The writer was a guest of Samsung Australia at Mobile World Congress in
Barcelona.

