
DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, March 17 -- Taking the smartphone world by surprise, leading South
Korean smartphone maker Samsung on Tuesday launched its highly anticipated
flagship smartphones Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge in Colombo.

Both the phones come with smooth edges and big screens and are equipped with
bigger pixels and brighter lens.

The 5.1-inch Galaxy S7 and 5.5-inch Galaxy S7 Edge come with sleek designs and
are beautifully crafted from 3D glass and metal and given ergonomic curves for a
comfortable grip. Both the phones run on Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) operating
system and come with innovations in design, software functionality, imaging and
connectivity with a host of other services.

Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge introduce the first Dual Pixel camera on a
smartphone, delivering brighter and sharper images, even in low light. Galaxy S7
and Galaxy S7 edge are powered with LTE Cat 9 connectivity.

Speaking at the launch, Youngmin Shin, Managing Director of Samsung Electronics,
Sri Lanka, said," With Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge, we bring to our consumers
devices that shape the future and meet their varied needs in the present. The
smartphones are powered by meaningful innovations that will make the lives of
people better."

Samsung Galaxy S 7 and S7 edge are equipped with the Galaxy S7 Edge features
curves on both sides and have "Always-On Display" that gives users a simplified,
zero touch experience to check about a missed call or SMS. Both the devices are
IP68 water and dust resistant. Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge deliver fast wired
and wireless charging technology and offers LTE Cat.9 connectivity.

The Samsung has also re-engineered the battery that is incredibly large in terms
of amps.

Both the new smartphones deliver powerful performance with the hybrid SIM card
slot. Adding to the convenience, it allows users to insert a microSD card up to
200GB of additional storage.

Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge will officially go on sale starting from
March 18 in BlackOnyx, Gold Platinum and Silver Titanium colours and are
available at a price of Rs 113,750 (32 GB) and Rs. 129,800 (32 GB),
respectively.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

