

SAMSUNG Electronics, the global leader in technology and consumer electronics,
is set to launch a mobile technology tour to reach out to all consumers in
different areas around the Kingdom at the end of this month.

The tour which will be taking place across different cultures in the Kingdom,
will be giving the chance to people living in these locations to be exposed to
the new ecosystem created by Samsung. The new ecosystem consists of the Samsung
Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge which is accessorized with the new Gear 360 camera
that can take 360 degree videos in high resolution and still images. The videos
can be played back by utilizing the ability of the Gear VR, transcending phone
users intovirtual reality, allowing consumers to relive the moment in an
adventurous and unique way.

Interested consumers will be able to keep up to date with Samsung on the
happenings as it takes place, across multiple social media channels to follow
the Samsung journey to respective areas and experience the new unique
technologies being brought near them.

Ferri Zekisson, Head of IT & Mobile Department at Samsung Electronics in Saudi
Arabia, said: "We believe in a world that is brighter, sharper, more convenient
and fun, as we are striving to deliver on that vision with the Galaxy S7 and
Galaxy S7 edge by marrying elegant design with sheer performance and providing a
seamless mobile experience. This tour is our way of thanking our loyal
customers, and giving them the chance to experience the outstanding ecosystem
Samsung created wherever they might be in the Kingdom."

The all new Galaxy S7 and S7 edge has many new features including a front 5MP
and back 12MP camera and introduces the first Dual Pixel camera on a smartphone,
delivering brighter and sharper images, even in low light. It also gives a
longer battery time for the consumer so that the battery capacity is now 3000mAH
for the Galaxy S7 and 3600mAH for the Galaxy S7 edge.

The campaign promises to reach out to selected cities within the Kingdom. More
details will be announced soon by Samsung, to make sure that most of the nation
will be partaking and getting the opportunity to get a hands-on experience on
these eccentric new features.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/52/146176007817.jpg

Samsung Electronics reaching out to all consumers in different areas around the
Kingdom

