

Best Buy has come up a new offer in which customers will get a free 32-inch
Samsung LED Smart HDTV worth $219.99 with Samsung Galaxy S7. To avail the offer
customer either needs to buy or lease and activate a Samsung Galaxy S7 or Galaxy
S7 edge with a two-year contract.

In order to have the offer, customers will be required to add the Galaxy S7 or
Galaxy S7 edge into their cart on Best Buy's online store. By doing so, free TV
will be automatically added to the customer's cart.

The offer also allows customers to upgrade the smart TV by signing up for
Samsung's latest flagship smartphones. By paying additional $250, customers can
see the packaged Samsung LED Smart HDTV bumped into a 48-inch one.

In order to take advantage of the upgrade, customers will have to purchase
Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 Edge through one of Best Buy's physical retail stores.
You can avail the offer until June 4, which means that customers have less than
two weeks time period.

It should be noted that interested buyers need to be bit quick as there are only
a limited quantity of the Samsung LED Smart HDTVs. As per experts, the Galaxy S7
and Galaxy S7 edge are expected to be top sellers in the United States this
quarter.

The Galaxy S7 has been ranked at the fifth position in sales for the first
quarter and now, it has been expected that the device will fare better in the
second quarter as well. Those who have been planning to buy Galaxy S7 can go
through these configurations, including a 5.1-inch AMOLED display, complemented
by 2,560 x 1,440 pixels resolution and Corning Gorilla Glass 4 protection.

Other features include a 12-megapixel rear-facing camera unit, a 5-megapixel
front-facing snapper and 32 GB or 64 GB of native storage space.

According to a report in Tech Times by  Aaron Mamiit, "Best Buy has released a
deal that will give customers a free 32-inch Samsung LED Smart HDTV, worth
$219.99, by buying or leasing and activating a Samsung Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7
edge with a two-year contract, a Sprint lease or a monthly installment plan for
Sprint, Verizon and AT&T.;"

According to data from Kantar Worldpanel, the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge are
expected to rule the United States market this quarter, with sales booming right
from the launch of the smartphones on March 11. The Galaxy S7 was ranked fifth
among smartphones in sales for the first quarter despite only being available
for a few weeks, and so it is anticipated that the device will fare even better
for the second quarter.

"Starting yesterday and running through June 4th, Best Buy is running a deal on
the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Samsung Galaxy S7 edge. Purchase or lease either
handset with a signed two-year contract, Sprint Lease or EIP via Verizon, AT&T
or Sprint, and you'll be receiving a free Samsung  32-inch Class LED Smart HDTV.
The set is valued at $219.99. This deal is available online or in the stores,"
according to a news report published by Phone Arena.

Or, if you don't mind putting up some extra cash, you can buy or lease the
Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 edge, activate the phone, and buy the Samsung 48-inch
Class LED Smart HDTV for just $250. This deal is available in Best Buy stores
only.

A report published in CNET said, "Customers who buy or lease a Samsung Galaxy S7
or S7 Edge at the retailer will also get a free 32-inch Samsung Smart HDTV, Best
Buy said Sunday. For another $250, buyers can upgrade to a 48-inch Samsung Smart
HDTV. Activation is required."

The new flagship phones, which launched last month, are dramatically different
from their predecessors. They feature expandable storage (which was missing from
the previous models) and are water-resistant again. They also sport bigger
batteries and more powerful processors.

