

THE Samsung Galaxy S7 edge boasts more improved performance, better cameras, new
features, and more. Here's what you can expect from the phone, which will be
available in Malaysia starting Mar 18.

1. HIGH QUALITY IMAGES

As it applies Dual Pixel technology, the device is able to capture high quality
images in low light environments, while a large F1.7 aperture ensures brighter,
sharper photographs. New Motion Panorama and Selfie Flash functions let users
have an entirely new phonetography experience.

2. REFINED DESIGN, SLEEK CURVES

The Galaxy S7 edge boasts more seamless connection between its glass and metal
materials, along with a slimmer rear camera. The curvy form of the devices'
glass enables a better grip. And, bringing back the microSD slot, the S7 edge is
more functional than ever.

3. WATER AND DUST RESISTANCE

For people who work, travel and play in all kinds of locations and environments,
the upgraded IP68 water and dust resistance feature should be a welcome. The
feature allows users to enjoy the sleek, curvy design without the inconvenience
of a bulky additional case.

4. MADE FOR GAMING

The optimised hardware and enhanced UX allows for smoother graphics and longer
playing time for avid gamers. With the new Game Launcher app, they now have the
ability to take control of their mobile gaming experience with numerous
customisation options.

5. STORE THOUSANDS AFTER THOUSANDS OF PHOTOS AND VIDEOS

Conveniently embedded in the Galaxy S7 edge, the hybrid SIM card tray allows
users to either insert two SIM cards, or opt for only one SIM card paired with a
microSD card for up to 200GB of additional storage.

6. SIMPLE AND SOFT UX

The phone comes with customisable lock and home screens, beautified icons and
the user-friendly Android 6.0 Marshmallow operating. The refined dual edge
screen of the Galaxy S7 edge provides practical functions and easier access to
users' frequently used content and tasks.

7. LONGER USAGE WITH BIGGER BATTERY

Compared to its predecessor the Galaxy S6 edge's 2,600mAh, the Galaxy S7 edge is
equipped with a 3,600mAh battery capacity, allowing for more hours and higher
screen brightness without draining out battery usage within a day's use. The
Galaxy S7 edge also offers fast charging technology, both wired and wirelessly.

( END )

