

Hanna Sheikh Mokhtar checks out the new Samsung Galaxy s7 edge.

WITH a 5.5-inch screen and curved design, the Samsung Galaxy s7 edge is striking
and eye-catching. At 157g, it's light and the curved wrap-around design makes it
feel like you're holding a pebble.

SCREEN

The phone has a larger Gorilla Glass 4 covering the curves and extending to the
sides, hence its name, the Galaxy s7 edge.

The QHD resolution of 2,560 x 1,440 results in a sharp and crisp display on the
5.5-inch size screen. The Super AMOLED capacitive touchscreen technology with
16M display, makes the phone look classy.

The contrast ratio - the difference between the whitest white and the blackest
black - is pretty sensational as the pixels are turned off when they are not is
use.

The Galaxy S7 edge screen also has the added benefit of the side display, which
is accessed by swiping your thumb along from the right or left side of the
screen (you can specify your preference in the settings).

Samsung has also reduced the camera protrusion on the rear of the phone down to
just 0.42mm. This means it's barely noticeable when you're placing the phone
down and yet strong enough to help protect the lens.

MINOR DRAWBACK

The sensitivity of the edge screen has caused me to accidentally send one or two
uncompleted messages. When I was typing with my thumb, my hand would
accidentally graze the edge screen and send off my unfinished message. This can
be rather awkward.

GREAT FUNCTIONALITY

The Galaxy s7 edge, with its elegant rim and clean lines, and complete with
exposed ports, is water resistant with an IP68 rating.

Although there is only a single speaker at the bottom of the Galaxy s7 edge, it
is noticeably louder than other mono speakers. Just ensure you don't cover the
speaker when music and videos are in playback mode.

Another great feature is that the Galaxy s7 edge will never be turned off and
the screen permanently displays a clock, calendar or pattern.

It also charges quickly, 1.5 hours for a full charge that lasts the whole day
though I am taking pictures and videos for most of the time.

CAMERA

Its dual-pixel technology camera is great. Even though it's only a 12 MP primary
camera, it comes with f/1.7, 26mm, phase detection autofocus, OIS, LED flash and
check quality. This results in superb quality pictures and vibrant colours. The
secondary camera is a 5MP, f/1.7, 22mm, with dual video call, and Auto HDR.

SPECS

The Galaxy s7 edge runs on the Android Marshmallow OS (version 6.0). It has 4GB
RAM and 32GB internal memory. It comes with Samsung's own chipset, the Exynos
8890 Octa. This makes it a fast phone to use for accessing emails, messages,
browsing Chrome or playing games.

VERDICT

This is an awesome phone and despite its retail price (RM3,099), it's a good
investment.

DESIGN *****

USER-FRIENDLINESS ****

FEATURES **** 1/2

VALUE-FOR-MONEY ****

( END )

