
DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, March 20 -- Two Samsung smartphones, the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge
was launched at the Galle Face Hotel in Colombo last week.

"In our relentless search for a device that embodies the future of mobility, the
Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge innovate in the areas of performance and design to
create a device that re-imagines what a smartphone can be," Managing Director,
Samsung Electronics, Sri Lanka, Youngmin Shin said.

The S7s were shipped to Sri Lanka a month after the world first caught a glimpse
of the device at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and is expected to reach
customers through local partners.

Customers making pre-orders will receive a wireless charger and a clear phone
cover with their purchase.

"The S7 come in black or gold, while the S7 Edge come in black, gold, or silver
options. The smartphones are powered by meaningful innovations that will make
the lives of people better," he said.

Shin said Samsung Research and Development (R&D) in Southwest Asia played a
significant role in the development of the new devices, with a platform to cater
to the needs of premium users in Sri Lanka with Samsung Concierge.

The consumer engagement platform has been customised to offer valuable services
such as dedicated VIP hotline, dedicated email support with 24-hour response
time, dedicated service counter at service centers in Colombo, Kandy and Galle.

The R&D team also contributed to developing the Motion Panorama feature that
will enable consumers to capture live events in detail by capturing every piece
of dynamic motion.

The Spotlight Selfie feature that provides consumers a studio-like environment
with virtual light source, was developed by engineers in Southwest Asia.

The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge use a new 3D thermoforming process, which brings metal
and glass together for an apparent seamless view.

The devices also feature a 'Always on Display' which allows users to easily
check for updates, without having to worry about unlocking the phone.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Sunday Observer (Sri Lanka).
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

