

Samsung India said it is confident the Galaxy Note 7 fiasco will not impact its
smartphone sales this quarter and is even hopeful of gaining market share.

The country's largest smartphone maker will also vacate the 3G smartphone space
and its upcoming launches will all be 4G handsets, a senior company executive
said.

The company said its festive sales are going as per expectations, which will
result in record volumes in India this year.

The company aims to achieve this by focusing on the earlier flagships -Galaxy S7
and S7 Edge, launched earlier this year and through several model launches
planned this quarter, said Manu Sharma, vice-pre

sident (mobile business), Samsung India Electronics.

\x93We have converted the Note 7 prebooked customers in India to S7 and S7 Edge.
We are humbled by the loyalty of the consumers towards the brand. There is now a
strong sales momentum on S7 and S7 Edge. By

virtue of being a full-range

player with 25 models across segments, we are confi

dent to grow our share and sales this quarter,\x93 said Sharma.

As per estimates, S7 and S7 Edge sales growth has doubled since the last week in
India when the company an nounced permanent withdra wal of the Note 7 handset
globally after reports of the \x93corrected\x93 handsets, too, catching fire.
The sales of Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge had risen 20% since their launch over the
last few months. But over the last 10 days, the sales have shot up by 40%, a
person aware of the development said.

Sharma declined to comment on the numbers. Samsung has also stepped up
promotions for the two models during this period. Samsung has already launched
eight devices this quarter and more are in the pipeline.

\x93We already have the largest 4G handset portfolio. Around 80% of the
smartphone market is now 4G handsets and, hence, we will only

launch such handsets,\x93 he said.

The cheapest Samsung 4G handset . 4,900. The is the Z2, selling at around '
prices of Samsung's 4G smartphone portfolio is likely to plunge further
considering the 3G models may reach the end of life soon.

As per market tracker GfK, Samsung had around 48.7% value share in the Indian
smartphone market as of August compared with 41.6% in August last year. Figures
for September are yet to be announced. The company was originally supposed to
launch Note 7 on September 2.

On Thursday, it announced the launch of a new version of the 'My Galaxy'
application, an entertainment hub and life-services application exclusively
available to Indian users of its smartphones. The yearold app already has
clocked around 10-million downloads on the Google Playstore so far.

