

Tech . Telecom . Media

Samsung's newest flagship smartphones, the Galaxy S7 and curve-screened Galaxy
S7 edge, don't deviate a great deal from their predecessors, but the incremental
changes they do offer are in many of the right places.

Visibly, little has changed from the major facelift Samsung gave its devices
when it introduced the Galaxy S6 and S6 edge last year.

Glass and metal still make up the body, and the screens maintain the same Quad
HD 2560x1440 resolution, as the South Korean giant refrained from making them
4K. The similarities extend to the fingerprint sensor, wireless charging (both
Qi and PMA standards), fast wired charging, speaker, microphone and micro USB
charging port at the bottom. They both also work seamlessly with Samsung's Gear
VR virtual-reality headset. (Some Canadian retailers are including the $140
headset with phone purchases free for a limited time.)

Beyond that, the slight changes do make a collective difference.

The Galaxy S7 edge is three millimetres slimmer than the S6 edge+ released in
the fall, which may not seem substantial, yet adds greater stability when
holding it with one hand. Being 14 grams lighter also helps in that regard. The
5.5-inch Super AMOLED screen is also 0.2 inches smaller than the S6 edge+. The
flat Galaxy S7 remains the same as its predecessor at 5.1 inches.

Bringing back the microSD memory-card slot for storage expansion and water
resistance may help win over some holdouts who lamented their omission last
year. The former is highly necessary because seven gigabytes of the 32 GB (the
only size available in Canada, so far) internal storage is taken up by system
memory.

Water resistance doesn't mean "waterproof" in the full sense, but both phones
can withstand being submerged in clear water down to 1.5 metres for up to 30
minutes.

This is less about snapping incessantly at the pool, and more about keeping the
phone safe from rain, splashing water and an accidental toilet bowl dip. That's
something most smartphones, including the iPhone, can't do without a case.

The rear camera is now more flush with the back, dampening the unseemly
protrusion on the previous devices. Additionally, it has a 12-megapixel image
sensor, which may seem like a downgrade from the previous 16-megapixel one (if
you buy into the megapixel myth), but is actually a step up. A wider f/1.7
aperture and larger micron pixels are the two main reasons both of these models
can shoot better images.

Indeed, the combination of a wider aperture with larger pixels allows for better
shooting in almost any low-light situation.

The great results in Auto mode notwithstanding, it is worth getting acclimated
with the Pro manual mode to achieve even better composition.

The differences between the S7 and S7 edge, other than screen size, are largely
based on the edge screen. Otherwise, they use the same internal components,
screen resolution, camera and software, making the choice largely about screen
size and the edge, which isn't aimed at a specific user, but rather anyone who
might like it. Those who choose the edge will likely do so for the look.

Another thing both have is the Always-On display feature - an interesting one
that may also be divisive. When the screen is off, pertinent information such as
the time, date, battery level and basic notifications of new e-mail, messages
and missed calls appear in plain white text. It floats across the screen slowly
to avoid "burning in" to the display, as AMOLED screens don't handle long static
images well.

The edge screen, so terribly neutered last year, has now been given a real
chance to grow on the Galaxy S7 edge, though its longevity will largely depend
on outside support from app developers.

The flat Galaxy S7 ($399 on contract; $899 outright) comes in black or silver,
while the S7 edge ($499 on contract; $999 outright) comes in black only. Both
are available now for preorder and hit stores on March 11.

