

South Korean tech giant Samsung Electronics Co. said Thursday its first-quarter
operating profit is estimated to have hovered far above the previous forecast,
apparently on the back of early sales of its flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S7.

Samsung said it is believed to have posted an operating profit of 6.6 trillion
won (US$5.6 billion) in the January-March period, up 10.37 percent from the same
period last year. From the previous quarter, the Q1 estimate marks a 7.49
percent rise.

The first-quarter sales came to 49 trillion won, up 3.99 percent from 47.12
trillion won a year earlier, according to the company's earnings guidance. The
regulatory filing did not reveal net profits.

The estimated earnings hovered far above the market consensus of 5.6 trillion
won by 22 South Korean brokerage houses, according to data compiled by Yonhap
Infomax, the financial arm of Yonhap News Agency. The securities firms had
forecast sales to reach 49.1 trillion won in the first quarter.

Analysts said the company's first-quarter mobile business is believed to have
enjoyed a favorable performance apparently on the back of the Galaxy S7, which
went on sales earlier in March.

The predecessor, the Galaxy S6, went on sales in April, having only a limited
impact on the company's first-quarter performance in 2015.

The Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge smartphones, first showcased at a trade fair in
Spain in February, come with improved batteries and are water and dust
resistant. The company also brought back the micro SD card slot that had
disappeared in the Galaxy S6 series.

"Sales of the Galaxy S7 series are estimated to have hovered above 10 million
units in the first quarter, above the expectation of 7 million," said Shin
Hyun-joon, an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co.

Hwang Joon-ho, an analyst at KDB Daewoo Securities Co., echoed the view, adding
new features adopted by the Galaxy S7 series added to the strong sales, with the
combined shipment estimated to reach 45 million for 2016.

While Samsung did not provide performances for respective business divisions,
KDB Daewoo Securities estimated the mobile arm to boast an operating profit of
3.3 trillion won, up 19 percent from a year earlier.

Industry watchers added Samsung is expected to enjoy foreign-exchange benefits,
especially in the semiconductor and display segments.

KDB Daewoo Securities estimated the semiconductor business to have posted an
operating profit of 2.5 trillion won, down 17 percent on-year.

IBK Securities Co. echoed the view, casting an estimate of 2.54 trillion won in
operating profit for semiconductors and 3.24 trillion won for the mobile
business.

If the actual earnings report, set to be delivered later this month, is in line
with the estimate, it would stand as a signal for the revival of the mobile
division, analysts said.

While the segment stood as the mainstay business for Samsung, a slump in
smartphone sales paved the way for the chip division to stand as the main source
of profit in 2015.

The semiconductor business posted an operating profit of 12.7 trillion won in
2015, hovering above 10.1 trillion won posted by the mobile arm. In 2013,
Samsung made 24.9 trillion won from its mobile business and only 6.88 trillion
won from chip sales.

Analysts, however, said the second quarter may be more challenging for Samsung
Electronics as its rivals continue to roll out more devices, while the
increasing marketing costs also remain a burden.

But Samsung's top-tier technology in the chip segment cast a brighter future for
the rest of 2016, analysts said.

Shares of Samsung Electronics Co. closed 1.98 percent higher at 1,285,000 won on
Wednesday, with the benchmark KOSPI rising 0.44 percent. The earnings guidance
was released before the stock market opened Thursday. (Yonhap)

