

By Mohammad Omer -

Samsung's Galaxy S7 is hyped up to being one of the most anticipated smartphones
of 2016, and why wouldn't it? It packs the next generation hardware, and has all
sorts of tech present inside it. While there are some details missing that will
eventually be unveiled during the grand announcement, here are seven things that
we know about the smartphone so far.

Both Snapdragon 820 and Exynos 8890 models are going to be available in the near
future. While both mobile chipsets are manufactured on the 14nm FinFET LPP (low
power plus) technology, it is hard to say which SoC is going to outperform the
other in both raw processing performance as well as energy efficiency for
battery life conservation. As for the clock speeds of the processor running
inside both chipsets, their details have been listed below:

We expect that both chipsets will have their own fast charging technology, and
will most likely charge the battery at a much quicker pace. From what we know
about Qualcomm's Quick Charge 3.0 technology, the smartphone's battery will be
charged from 0-80 percent in a matter of 35 minutes. While this is definitely
impressive, it does not mean that the battery of the smartphone will reach to a
100 percent in an even shorter period of time, indicating that the fast charging
tech has been made in order to put you at an advantage when you do not have
sufficient time on your hands to plug in the device.

Since both chipsets are manufactured on the 14nm FinFET LPP process, we can
expect better energy efficiency in terms of battery conservation, but this will
ultimately depend on your usage. As for the design, it is rumored that Galaxy S7
will retain the same design as its predecessor Galaxy S6, but let us hope that
we are wrong on this front.

Now, as stated earlier, Galaxy S7 is going to be available to purchase in two
chipset models, but the interesting thing here is that Samsung plans to go all
out as far as different models are concerned. According to the latest rumor from
BGR, the handset is going to be available in two screen sizes; 5.1 and 5.5
inches. The larger smartphone will have a 'Plus' at the end of the model name
indicating that it is a larger variant of the two. Earlier, there were leaks
suggesting that the screen size of the device is going to be 5.7 inches, but we
feel that it will clash with the company's high-end Note series that will be
unveiled later in the year so it is probably out of the question.

In order to let fans and consumers distinguish between the first and second
flagship of 2016, there has to be some difference. As for which models the
company could be expected to announce, they have been listed below:

The curved edge display will be retained from previous models and hopefully,
Samsung will be adding in a plethora of features that we will actually be able
to take advantage of rather than just being present there as a fashion statement
or a gimmick for appeal purposes. In addition, there was another leak stating
that the dual-SIM variants of the smartphone have been certified, so in total,
you are potentially looking at 16 different models (counting all the above
models, chipset and dual-SIM variants) that could be announced in the near
future.

Our advice is that you go for the dual-SIM 5.5 inched Galaxy S7 since you will
not only be able to accommodate two numbers, you will automatically have the
benefits that come with a larger device; more content on the screen and a larger
battery (if Samsung is planning to place it in). While we believe that launching
several different models is unnecessary, it is possible that some models will
remain limited to their own regions, although it would have been a better choice
for the company to discard the single-SIM model from the start and release
dual-SIM Galaxy S7 model for added convenience.

If there is one area where smartphones suffer extensively, it's in the camera
department, particularly in low-light areas. Over the years, companies like
Samsung have strived to improve the camera sensor technology present in its
devices, and the giant has done exceedingly well in this area. For Galaxy S7,
the company is intending on raising the bar, from all the camera angles.
Starting off, the rear sensor is going to be a 12.3MP one and it is not yet
confirmed if it is going to be developed by Samsung or Sony.

However, what we do know is that the aperture of the lens is going to be wider
than before; F/1.7 as opposed to the F/1.9 on devices like Galaxy Note 5 and
Galaxy A9, which is extremely impressive. This is definitely the very first
smartphone to sport a lens with such a wide aperture and it will definitely
shine in low-light environments. For those who are severely disappointed over
the megapixel count, keep in mind that all the image and video capturing magic
is done by the sensor and megapixels have very little importance in determining
the quality of the image and video being captured.

One more thing; the more megapixels you end up cramming in a sensor, the less
light will be able to enter per pixel. With a 12.3MP rear sensor, more light
will be able to enter per pixel, allowing you greater command in low-light
environments. So if you have a camera sensor like the ones present in Xperia Z5
Premium, Xperia Z5 and Xperia Z5 Compact, they might end up taking sharper
images than Galaxy S7 (if you decide to zoom in for comparison purposes), but
they will obviously loose out to the in low-light shots.

Hardware stabilization, or OIS (optical image stabilization) is definitely going
to be a part of the image sensor, and we are also hoping that a manual mode be
added to both the image and video capturing options, like LG did with its V10.
Unlike some users who do not rely on just a 'tap and shoot' function, there are
those who want to dive into the extensive settings array and tweak the living
daylights out the camera sensor in order to snap the best possible image.

Galaxy S7 has been rumored to pack in a battery capacity of 3,000mAh battery and
will support fast-charging. This is the same battery capacity present in Galaxy
Note 5 so with an improved chipset, updated OS and hopefully a refined
interface, you will be able to rake out more battery life from the device. In
fact, the latest info from the rumor mill suggests that the handset will be able
to deliver a whopping 17 hours of talk time on a full charge, which is extremely
impressive. Let us hope that the rumor stands true.

When was the last time we heard about a pressure sensitive display? That is
correct, on Apple Watch, and on Apple's iPhone 6s and 6s Plus. Looks like the
same display is going to make its way to Galaxy S7 as well. With its curved edge
display combined with a pressure sensitive screen, you will have more commands
available at your disposal. However, since this technology is particularly new,
we are afraid that it will be brushed off as nothing more than a gimmick.

This is only natural when new tech rolls out, and hopefully in the future, we
will see developers take complete advantage by implementing several of the
sensor's functions in their applications. We will have to wait and see what kind
of commands Samsung ends up putting in its upcoming handset. Hopefully, with
additional software updates, power users will be able to perform several
functions without having to pressing additional buttons.

With all the technology present inside Galaxy S7, we highly doubt that the
company will price it anywhere near what a price/performance smartphone should
cost. In fact, the handset could cost $100 higher than the original starting
price of Galaxy S6. What this means is that the regular version of the handset
could cost $849, while the curved edge display will cost $100 more. This is not
exactly what you would refer to as cheap, and as much is Samsung is charging for
its flagship, they'd better incorporate some major improvements as far as its
TouchWiz interface is concerned.

It was rumored earlier that Google was helping out Samsung in optimizing its
TouchWiz interface so let us hope that some good came out of all that help.
While Samsung has done extremely well in the hardware department, it's the
software region that is completely dismal.

While a removable battery is something that we can deal with, a lack of an
expandable storage slot is completely unacceptable for a premium priced
smartphone. That being said, it is expected that Galaxy S7 will be fitted with a
slot that will allow you to expand its existing storage. Samsung recently
announced its high-speed microSD cards and they will go extremely well with the
smartphone. Naturally, the internal storage packs impressive read and write
speeds, and while the latest iteration of storage cards will not equal their
speeds, they will certainly come close to it. Remember, when purchasing a
microSD card, never go for the cheapest since it obviously compromises on
quality and lifespan.

No doubt, Galaxy S7 is going to be a mobile powerhouse and the only way we will
get to know more about the device's specifications if is we wait for its
announcement date, which is February 21. Tell what you thought about our
predictions, and do tell us your own views in the comments below.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/83/145441873358.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/55/145441873420.png



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/94/145441873483.png



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/9/145441873494.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/27/145441873506.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/44/145441873520.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/66/145441873536.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/232/814/65/145441873640.png



