

Last week, Samsung halted sales of its latest flagship smartphone, the Galaxy
Note 7, after reports of battery explosions and said that it will voluntarily
replace every device.

"We acknowledge the inconvenience this may cause in the market but this is to
ensure that Samsung continues to deliver the highest quality products to our
customers," the firm said in a statement last week. "We are working closely with
our partners to ensure the replacement experience is as convenient and efficient
as possible."

Samsung told reporters that it had shipped 2.5 million of the devices and
confirmed 35 cases in which the batteries explode either during or after
charging normally. The phones have a failure rate of about 24 per every million,
the company said.

Although only a few dozen cases have been confirmed, those who have bought one
of the devices may be wondering: Do I really need to trade it in?

The answer is yes. Sure, it's a pain in the figurative sense. But that's better
than pain in the literal sense - which is a risk if you don't go through the
steps to return the phone.

Note 7 owners have a couple of options for returning their device.

Samsung is running an exchange program that will let smartphone users swap their
Galaxy Note 7 for a new one when they become available. Samsung is also going to
give customers the option to swap their Note 7 for another Samsung phone model -
the Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 Edge - that has not had battery issues. The company
will refund the difference in price and any accessories.

The company has also said that "consumers will receive a $25 gift card or bill
credit from select carrier retail outlets when choosing a Galaxy S7 family
device or the Galaxy Note 7 within the exchange program." AT&T is one of those
retailers.

All four major carriers - AT&T, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile - have stopped
selling the phones and suspended restocking and shipping fees for exchanges.
T-Mobile and Verizon have said that the policy is in place until at least Sept.
30.

Each carrier has given instructions on how to exchange its phones. AT&T is
letting customers trade in their Note 7s for a Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 Edge or
Galaxy S7 Active. When new Note 7 devices are available, AT&T will also allow
users to exchange for those phones. T-Mobile said customers can use their refund
money on any device, and will also let customers who preordered the phone to
keep additional promotional items, including a Netflix subscription and Gear Fit
or SD card. Sprint is also allowing customers "a similar device until the issue
is resolved," though it has not specified which devices.

Samsung has not issued an official recall for the Galaxy Note 7; a decision that
has earned the company sharp criticism from Consumer Reports, which said doing
so would make it illegal to sell the phone and provide more information to
consumers about the device's problems. Samsung did not immediately respond to a
request for comment on whether it will officially recall the Note 7.

hayley.tsukayama@washpost.com

