

Samsung India said it is confident the Galaxy Note 7 fiasco will not impact its
smartphone sales this quarter, and is also hopeful of gaining market share.

The country's largest smartphone maker will also vacate the 3G smartphone space
and all its upcoming launches will only be 4G handsets, a senior company
executive said.The company said its festive sales are going as per expectations,
which will result in record volumes in India this year. The company aims to
achieve this by focusing on the earlier flagships -Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge,
launched earlier this year and thro

ugh several model launches planned this quarter, said Manu Sharma, vice
president (mobile business), Samsung India Electronics.

\x93We have converted the Note 7 pre

boo ked cus tomers in India to S7 and S7 Edge. We are

humbled by the loyalty of the consumers towards the brand. There is now a strong
sales momentum on S7 and S7 Edge. By virtue of being a full range player with 25
models across seg ments, we are confident to

grow our share and sales this quarter,\x93 said Sharma.

As per estimates, S7 and S7 Edge sales has doubled since the last

week in India when the company announced permanent withdrawal of the Note 7
handset globally after there were reports of the \x93corrected\x93 handsets,
too, catching fire.

Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge sales growth has increased from 20% to 40% over the last
10 days, a person aware of the development said.Sharma declined to comment on
the

sales. Samsung has also stepped up promotions for the two models during this
period. Samsung has already launched eight devices this quarter and more are in
the pipeline.

\x93We already have the largest 4G handset portfolio. Around 80% of the
smartphone market is now 4G handsets and hence we will only launch such
handsets,\x93 he said.

The cheapest Samsung 4G handset . 4,900. The is the Z2 selling at around '
prices of Samsung's 4G smartphone portfolio is likely to plunge further
considering the 3G models may reach end of life soon.

As per market tracker GfK, Samsung had around 48.7% value share in the Indian
smartphone market as of August 2016 as compared to 41.6% in August last year.

