

In terms of water-resistance, the Galaxy S7 edge has an "edge" over the iPhone.

Waterproof phones have been around for over a decade. Especially, the Japanese
have affinity towards such handsets. In the land of rising Sun, brands such as
Sharp, Fujitsu, Kyocera have been churning out handsets that can withstand
water. For the rest of the world though, the first water-resistant mainstream
Android was the Motorola Defy. However, Motorola's vision for waterproof phones
was quite repulsive to look at. Soon, Sony showed the world that a waterproof
phone need not be an eyesore. Finally, it was Samsung that took the engineering
to the extremes to deliver a sleek yet waterproof Galaxy S7 edge. With the
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, Apple followed the suite. The Cupertino-based
company did a brilliant job at adding the element protection without
compromising on the aesthetics.

However, unlike Samsung, Apple isn't confident about its waterproof phone. In
fact, the American company refuses to cover liquid damage for its waterproof
iPhone under warranty. Here's the screenshot of iPhone 7's official product
page.

If you buy the new iPhone this Diwali, do not challenge your Galaxy S7 edge
wielding friend at a pool party. Now, lets move onto the explanation part. While
in general both the iPhones and Samsung's Galaxy S7 edge are waterproof. The
Galaxy S7 edge is rated IP68 whereas the iPhone 7 settles for IP67. IP stands
for Ingress Protection. The first digit represents the protection against dust.
Both the iPhone 7 and Galaxy S7 edge are rated 6, which means these handsets are
full protected against dust. The second digit represents water resistance. The
iPhone's is rated 7, which means that it is protected protected against the
effects of temporary submersion in water for 30 minutes at 3 feet. On the other
hand, Samsung's phone is rated 8, which offers protection against the effects of
permanent submersion in water up to 13 feet. Clearly, Samsung's flagship is
better equipped to survive under-water. Little wonder then, Apple is being
cautious about the warranty part. It is not the first one to do so either as
Sony has a similar policy on fully submerged phones.

