

NEW DELHI: Intel Security announced that new Samsung Galaxy S7 customers can
enjoy its mobile security solution designed to help keep them safe from a
growing number of mobile threats. Samsung Galaxy S7 and GalaxyS7 edge will come
pre-installed with McAfee VirusScan. With this collaboration, Samsung customers
will be better protected with anti-malware technology that is already helping to
provide a more secure mobile experience to more than 40 million Samsung Galaxy
users globally.

Historically, mobile malware has been something of an afterthought for
cybercriminals, with most of their efforts focused on the desktop or laptop.
However, over the past several years, there has been a dramatic increase in
sophisticated and complex new malware targeting mobile devices. According to
Intel Security's Mobile Threat Report, three million devices were affected by
malware solely through mobile app stores over the past six months. Additionally,
Intel Security found that in Q4 2015 mobile malware samples increased 24 percent
compared to Q3 2015.

"As consumers grow increasingly reliant on their mobile devices and use those
devices for sensitive transactions, increased protection against malware is
critical to better securing their data," said John Giamatteo, corporate vice
president at Intel Security. "Intel Security is combating these growing mobile
threats by collaborating with consumer brands like Samsung to help keep
customer's mobile devices more secure so they can experience the connected world
with confidence."

"Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge users can feel more comfortable in navigating the
digital world with enhanced protection by the latest anti-malware solution that
Samsung offers," said Henry Lee, vice president of Mobile Security Technologies
of Samsung Mobile. "Smartphones have become an extension of our everyday lives,
and it is important that we provide our users with a high level of protection
designed to help keep their personal data safe in their Samsung device."

McAfee VirusScan is an anti-malware system that scans apps and files on both the
device and SD Card, helping to prevent corruption from a variety of malicious
codes, from viruses to Trojans.

