

In an event titled 'Unpacked', Samsung is going to launch its next Galaxy
devices- S7 and S7 edge, on February 21 in Barcelona. The event has been
officially set for 7pm CET at the start of the annual Mobile World Congress show
in Barcelona, Spain.

People who would not be able to make to the event can watch the event on the
Samsung Mobile YouTube channel. Samsung has also launched a teaser trailer
featuring a guy that reaches out for a Galaxy cube through Gear VR goggles.

Galaxy S7 rumors going on include larger screen than Galaxy S6 and it could cost
less than Galaxy S6. There would be two versions of Galaxy S7 and that would be
one curved and one straight-sided. Galaxy S7 would be equipped with own version
of Apple's 3D Touch, pressure-sensitive screen. There are chances that Samsung
would reintroduce micro-SD card slot. One of the exciting rumored features is
that Galaxy S7 could unlock after scanning your eyes.

Before the event news came, an infamous leader Evan Blass unveiled the first
press shots of the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge. He mentioned that both the
devices will be water resistant and have larger batteries.

He even gave hint of the February 21 event by affirming that the Samsung has
plans to unveil the devices. On Sunday, Samsung confirmed the date and venue of
the event. Barcelona is considered to be the home of Mobile World Congress,
which is the world's biggest smartphone event. This year's edition is said to
take place between February 22 and February 25.

AndroidPolice reported that, Samsung has had its own dedicated Unpacked events
in recent years to talk about its new flagship phones, but this year it's doing
the deed at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Unpacked and the probable Galaxy
S7 announcement is now official for Sunday, February 21st at 7PM local time
(doors an hour earlier). That works out to 1PM on the east coast in the US for
the start of the event.

N4BB News report said, the Samsung Galaxy S7 and the S7 Edge will be the only
two flagship devices launched by Samsung this year, and here's what the Galaxy
S7 design looks like.

After several reports, leaks and rumors, we finally have the official press
renders of the S7 and S7 Edge. And by the looks of it, there aren't going to be
any substantial changes in design. The new smartphones will look like the Galaxy
S6. This year, though, Samsung will launch only two variants of the S7. There
were rumors that Samsung might go the Apple way and choose to release only two
major flagships. Last year, the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge had the same screen size,
but there was an S6 Edge Plus with a larger display.

According to the IB Times, as far as the Galaxy S7 specifications go, this
device is expected to carry a 5.1-inch display and 1440p screen resolution,
12-megapixel BRITECELL main camera, 5-megapixel selfie-clicker and a killer 4 GB
of RAM. On the software front, it will run Android Marshmallow, out of the box.

This S7 will reportedly come equipped with 64 GB of native storage space. The
microSD card slot has also been rumored to make a comeback. In any case, readers
should note that Samsung has not confirmed any S7-related details thus far.

