

Samsung on Tuesday unveiled the Galaxy Note 7, the latest of its large-screen
phones. This 5.7-inch, stylus-toting smartphone boasts a bevy of new features,
including advanced security through iris scanning, a whole lot of storage and an
edge-to-edge display that Samsung promises will blow users away.

The Note 7 is aimed squarely at power users who want their smartphones to be the
ultimate productivity machine. The most notable difference between the Note 7
and Samsung's other premium phones is the 64 gigabytes of storage, which is
double the standard on the Galaxy S7. With an SD card, the Note 7 has up to 256
GB of storage.

With a 5.7-inch display, the Note 7 is  larger than Apple's biggest phone, the
5.5-inch iPhone 6s Plus. The Note 7 also has the same processor and camera
sensors as the S7 and S7 Edge.

As for the battery, the Note 7 will hold more of a charge than the Galaxy S7. It
does, however, have the same quick-charging capabilities that have been so
popular in the Galaxy line. The Note 7 also stands apart because it charges not
with the standard micro-USB cable but with a USB-C cable. The USB-C cable is
reversible, meaning that it doesn't matter which side you plug it into.

Another feature that hasn't been in the Note's previous models is its waterproof
design. Like the Galaxy S line, it will survive a short dip in liquid without
completely frying the phone.

The Note 7 also stands out on the security front. Samsung boasts that the Note 7
has an iris scanner in addition to a fingerprint scanner, so that users have yet
another option to secure their phones. The Note 7 is compatible with Samsung's
Knox security feature and also gives users the option to secure files in a
"Secure Folder" to which they can add another layer of authentication.

The Note 7 was the main draw at Samsung's unveiling event, but it wasn't the
only one. Samsung also showed off a new version of its Gear VR headset, which
has been redesigned to be lighter and better-looking overall. Samsung has made a
strong investment in virtual reality and 360-video, which the company believes
are the future of social media.   Preorders will start Wednesday; the headset is
still $100.

The new devices come at a time when Samsung is riding high from the success of
the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge. The company reported last week that its mobile
unit accounted for half of its overall profit and revenue. Sales of the devices
far exceeded expectations for Samsung, largely thanks to its ability to sell
premium devices to a consumer market that's lost some interest in buying
high-end, flashy phones.

The Note 7 goes on sale Aug. 19. Preorders will begin Wednesday in the United
States. Samsung hasn't released pricing information.

hayley.tsukayama@washpost.com

