

FAVOURITES: The top trending smartphone models last month are Apple, Samsung and
Oppo. Chandra Devi Renganayar takes a look at what makes these models
fascinating

iPhone SE

The special-edition iPhone, like all other Apple models, created a lot of buzz
months before it was released.

Launched late last month in the United States, the iPhone SE will be available
here late next month.

Local telcos have opened registration for customers interested in buying this
phone.

Apple claims it is the most powerful and fastest four-inch device in the market.
The iPhone SE looks similar to the iPhone 5S, launched in 2012, but it is as
powerful as an iPhone 6s, with the A9 chipset.

Fans of the iPhone who disliked the bigger screen of the iPhone 6 models can
look forward to upgrading their smartphones.

The phone supports a 12-megapixel (MP) camera for capturing still photos and 4K
videos.

Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge

Launched in February at the Mobile World Congress, the Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7
Edge are refined versions of their predecessors, the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge.
These are Samsung's most powerful smartphones, powered by Samsung's Exynos 8890
octa-core processor.

Both are slim phones with big high-definition screens. The S7 has a 5.1-inch
screen, while the S7 Edge has a 5.5-inch screen.

An interesting feature is the smartphone's water-resistant capability. With an
IP68 water-protection rating, the phones can survive a quick dip in the water,
spills and splashes. Another feature that has created much excitement is the S7'
s Dual Pixel Auto Focus, which was said to be a first on a smartphone. High-end
digital single-lens reflex cameras have this feature, enabling brighter and
sharper images.

Oppo F1

In recent years, Chinese phone manufacturer Oppo has rolled out outstanding
models. The latest, launched in January, is the Oppo F1, a debut offering of the
company's F series smartphones.

The F series is all about the special camera features, and the F1 makes its mark
as a selfie-centric smartphone. The mid-range smartphone, with a five-inch IPS
display, has a 13MP rear camera and 8MP front camera.

The phone also has the "screen flash" feature, which turns the display into a
camera flash so that users can take better pictures in low-light conditions.

Another feature for a perfect selfie is the Beautify 3.0 filter, which brightens
the skin and removes blemishes.

Another model under the F series is the Oppo F1 Plus, which has a 16MP front
camera and a 13MP rear camera.

( END )

