

by Faisal Mohammed Naim faisal@timesofoman.com  Two of the best Android
smartphones pitted against each other


With almost the same specs, loaded with the latest technology, and the biggest
numbers, this duel is going to be a tough one. Finally, whoever be the winner,
we believe the other is no less. It's all about brand preferences.



Design

The best looking HTC so far, the 10 makes a very bold statement. Like its
predecessor, (the M9), the HTC 10 feels sturdy, crafted from a single block of
aluminium, featuring a new angled bevel that shimmers in the light, appearing
smooth or textured depending on the environment.

Even though slightly wide for comfortable single thumb operation, the 10 finds
good balance between the screen size and overall dimensions. The second speaker
on the device has been moved from the front to the underside, accommodating a
front-facing fingerprint sensor in its place.

The Galaxy S7 looks exotic in its glass and metal construction, but feels
fragile. The seams and joints on the body also look to weaken in due course (we
are sure you would have changed your phone by then anyway).

The typical camera bump (or hump) on the backside of the previous Galaxy has
been considerably reduced, but the protrusion still remains. Packing a bigger
battery than its predecessor, the S6, the new S7 is IP68 waterproof up to 1
metre and one hour, and dustproof as well.

S7: 4/5

10: 4.5/5

Features

Both the contenders pack a punch. Each has the latest processor Qualcomm
Snapdragon 820, along with 4GB RAM, 32GB of internal storage, 12MP rear cameras,
5MP front cameras, and a variety of value-added options. However, the HTC
storage is expandable up to a mammoth 2TB, while the Samsung can only go up till
200GB.

The S7 is waterproof with no visible external seals or gaskets, and can be
charged wirelessly. On the other hand, the HTC 10 has a USB Type-C port with USB
3.1 transfer speeds, which future proofs it for many years to come. The S7 still
uses microUSB port with USB 2.0 transfer speeds, perhaps to maintain
compatibility with the Gear VR.

The S7 has the edge in terms of screen technology. While the 10 features the
fifth generation Super LCD - one of the best LCDs currently, the S7 comes with
Super AMOLED: Better in terms of vibrance, viewing angles, and brightness,
especially outdoors.

Both devices have fingerprint scanners on the front, but here the HTC looks
superior. The 10's home button is more capacitive than physical, preventing
future mechanical problems, and the device can be unlocked without turning the
screen on, the feature absent on the S7. The HTC's fingerprint scanner also
seems faster and more responsive.
On the power front, both devices are equipped with 3,000mAh non-removable
battery, and feature almost the same backup.

S7: 4/5

10: 4/5

Camera

HTC has long suffered in this segment, and while this time it has improved its
performance significantly, it still is not up to the leader in mobile camera
technology yet.

Both the 10 and S7 sport 12MP rear camera, but the Galaxy S7 is able to focus,
expose and shoot faster than the HTC 10, in any light condition and with very
little compromise.

However, Samsung lags behind the HTC in picture originality as it manipulates
images applying artificial sharpening and noise reduction to make photos look
crisper on the mobile screen. The flaw is however clearly exposed on bigger
screens like PC or laptop. The 10, though takes more time adjusting the
exposure, captures more true to life images.

Both the phones feature professional modes, which allow for manual tweaking of
shutter speed, focus, exposure and light sensitivity. With a bit of tweaking,
the HTC 10's slightly larger pixels; 1.55 microns compared to S7's 1.4 - k
produce cleaner shots that are more easily editable post-production.

For the selfie camera, both are up with 5MP camera, however, the 10 also
features optical image stabilisation, a first in the industry for front cameras.


S7: 4.5/5

10: 4/5

Software

Both devices run on Android 6.0.1, but the HTC interface feels much better than
Samsung. It always has: No overload of features and useless widgets, and still
retains the more useful power user shortcuts, such as Motion Gestures and quick
music streaming. Features like Personal Audio Profile, which optimises sound
output for your specific headphones, are just awesome.

The ever overloaded Samsung has also tried to shed the unnecessary load a bit in
the S7, but still nowhere close to the 10. Though the service duplication is
toned down, there is still too much mirroring - from own browser to app market.


HTC's default theme also has some of the nicest icons on any Android device, and
also HTC has struck deals with Facebook to pre-instal its core app plus
Messenger and Instagram.

S7: 3.5/5

10: 4.5/5

Conclusion

If Samsung has a somewhat better screen, and little better camera results, HTC
has got much better hardware, and super-awesome design. If the S7 is water and
dust proof (only to a little extent), the HTC 10 has solid construction. When it
comes to premium all poisons are just great and it is all a matter of degree and
taste. None of the device is going to disappoint.


TOO Verdict: Just for the sake of it, we go with the HTC 10. No camera bump and
real solid construction. We let the design take it home.


© Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2016 Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

