

Samsung Electronics plans to make a 'little overhaul' to its upcoming Galaxy
smartphone as it wants to keep making the device more and more competitive while
saving costs.

'The venue for unveiling new Galaxy smartphone, tentatively named the Galaxy S7,
is still undecided. Though Samsung has so far been preferred to hold its own
unpacked event for new products, the S7 will get a little change,' a source
said, Tuesday.

This decision comes as the global smartphone industry is being reshaped due to
the rapid rise of Chinese firms.

That means, according to Samsung sources, increased to overhaul surface design
even in flagship products, which Samsung earlier highlighted in the S6 and S6
Edge, may further cost it at a time when the company is pressurized over thinner
handset margin.

'As the S6 and S6 Edge represented progress, the S7 will have improvements both
in picture quality, performance and other some new features. But because
smartphones have already been commoditized, you don't need to spend more on a
surface overhaul,' another source said by telephone.

'The key point is can consumers enjoy content with enhanced viewing quality and
boosted processing speed,' he said.

Samsung's chief rival Apple is still taking home most of the smartphone industry
profits, though the Cupertino-based outfit has so far made very little change to
its iPhone.

Counterpoint, a market research firm, recently said that Samsung's market share
gains have come at the low-end in the Galaxy J series during the third quarter
of this year, strengthening views that price and hardware-initiated
specifications are the 'factors' rather than the appealing and curvy surface
design.

Given that Samsung has been able to grow make profits faster than revenue and
sales, it seems evident that more investment in hardware features will help it
see improvements in its phone business from next year, according to analysts.

Based on that perspective, the overall surface design for the S7 will be similar
to S6 or Note 5 phablet, though it will be much more powerful, speedier and
brighter thanks to the use of the latest processors, new DRAMs with expanded
storage, and OLED displays.

Korea Investment, a local brokerage, claimed that the S7 will be introduced in
next year's mobile expo in Barcelona, Spain, as earlier unveilings of the new
smartphone will have a negative impact on the sale of Note 5 and S6.

The brokerage also remained negative on whether or not the world's top
smartphone manufacturer by shipments will put a dual-camera function on the S7.

