

Samsung Galaxy Note7 owners in Singapore will be able to indicate whether they
want a refund or have their scrapped Note7 replaced with the S7 edge, on the
company's website from Oct 26.

Announcing this yesterday, the embattled company again did not specify the
refund amount, except to say that details would be available next week.

The Note7, launched in August, sold for $1,168 here. Customers who signed a
two-year service contract with local telcos Singtel, StarHub and M1 paid for the
phone at a subsidised rate.

Those who stay with the brand will be offered the Galaxy S7 edge, its other
flagship model launched here in March, as well as "cash and other benefits".

But details will be available only next week, the company said.

Apologising for disappointing and frustrating customers, Mr Eugene Goh, Samsung
Electronics Singapore's vice-president of IT & Mobile, said: "Our focus now is
to reduce further inconvenience to our customers who have trusted and waited for
the Galaxy Note7."

The announcement follows an unprecedented decision by the world's largest
handset-maker to pull the plug on its flagship device barely two months after
its launch, owing to unresolved fire concerns.

On the company's website - www.samsung.com/sg/note7exchange - customers will be
asked for their home address and details so that their scrapped Note7 can be
picked up, and a refund in the form of a cheque or a replacement Galaxy S7 edge
delivered.

By comparison, in the United States, Samsung is giving customers a US$100
(S$139) bill credit if they switch to another Samsung device. If they leave the
brand by asking for a refund or switch to another brand of device, they get a
smaller bill credit of US$25 on their next purchase.

Some consumers here are unhappy with the lack of details, and the delay with the
refund and handset exchange programme. They were told to power down and stop
using the phone four days ago.

Mr Willy Tan, 34, who bought three Note7 sets at full price, said: "How could
Samsung have decided so quickly for US customers, but not Singapore customers'"

Retiree Herman Chia, 64, said: "Customers are advised to power down the phone
and to stop using it, but the exchange and refund is not until Oct 26."

Retiree Linda Chow, 54, may opt for a refund as she would prefer the smaller
5.1-inch Galaxy S7 over the larger 5.5-inch S7 edge.

Last month, Samsung recalled some 2.5 million handsets worldwide, including tens
of thousands of units in Singapore, and issued replacement Note7 devices.

It was initially thought to be due to a battery fault after some units caught
fire and exploded. But the problem persisted even with the replacement sets,
with one incident of a replacement phone emitting smoke and causing passengers
on a Southwest Airlines flight in Louisville on Oct 5 to be evacuated.

On Tuesday, Samsung finally advised consumers to stop using the Note7, as it
investigates the continuing problem together with the US Consumer Product Safety
Commission and other global safety authorities.

