

Samsung has reported forecast-beating earnings results that were the best in two
years as consumers snapped up its Galaxy smartphones in signs of a revival in
the electronics giant's mobile phone business.

The South Korean company said its April-June net income rose 2% over a year
earlier to 5.85 trillion won (£3.9 billion), compared with 5.75 trillion won a
year earlier.

That was slightly higher than forecasts, which have been revised up in recent
months to reflect stronger-than-expected sales of the new phones. Analysts had
forecast net income of 5.79 trillion won, according to FactSet, a financial data
provider.

Sales rose 5% to 50.94 trillion won (£34.3 billion), while operating profit
surged 18% to 8.14 trillion won (£5.4 billion), in line with the company's
guidance earlier this month.

Samsung, the world's largest smartphone maker, beat forecasts even as growth in
the overall smartphone industry slows and as its rival Apple, the world's
second-largest smartphone maker, struggles to boost iPhone sales.

Apple reported earlier this week a 27% drop in profits, hit by the decline in
iPhone sales.

Samsung's mobile business reported 4.32 trillion won (£2.9 billion) in operating
income during the three-month period, its best quarterly performance since the
second quarter of 2014.

The Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones drove the profit gain. The company
launched the latest versions of its flagship smartphones in March, several weeks
sooner than it did last year.

Early launches helped Samsung report strong sales during the first quarter but
there were doubts that it could sustain the momentum during the second quarter.
The latest results dispel that, showing consumers continued to snap up Samsung's
new phones in spring.

The stellar performance of Samsung's mobile division is also a sign that its
experiment with smartphone designs is paying off.

Samsung introduced the first of its flagship Edge smartphone series last year,
which featured curved display that wraps around two corners of the device. But
in 2015 it failed to capture demand because it ran into trouble mass producing
curved displays.

The S7 Edge, with similar designs as its predecessor, saw robust demand from
consumers and this time Samsung was able to deliver the products on time. The
company said the Galaxy S7 Edge sales proportion increased.

Success of its Galaxy S7 smartphones boosted Samsung's own component businesses.
Samsung said sales of OLED, or organic light-emitting diode, display panels went
up, helped by healthy sales of flagship smartphones and higher demand for
flexible displays for the S7 Edge. Samsung dominates the global supply of OLED
display panels for mobile phones.

AP

