


HIGHLIGHT: APN's Mark Furler is in Barcelona for the launch of the new Samsung
phone


WITH sexy new curves, water resistance, a superior camera and longer battery
life, Samsung's Galaxy S7 and S7 edge smartphones will turn plenty of heads on
the beach in 2016.

And coupled with its new Gear 360 camera, Samsung promises to take sharing
selfies with friends and scenes from everyday life to a whole new level.

The three devices were unveiled ahead of Mobile World Congress in 2016 in
Barcelona, which is expected to be attended by more than 95,000 gadget creators
and lovers over the next four days.

APN Australian Regional Media was among a group of journalists and tech writers
flown to Spain by Samsung to cover its launch.

Samsung obviously believes it's on a winner with its new devices. The Australian
group was the largest to be briefed ahead of the signature Unpacked launch.

Based on their reaction, this could be Samsung's biggest opportunity yet to
topple Apple.

So what's in the box?

The Galaxy S7 comes with a 5.1 inch screen while the Edge has a 5.5 inch screen.

The new dual edge display is something to be seen, especially when viewing
content on apps like Flipboard and navigation bars.

The wrap-around display now supports two rows of apps, instead of one, which can
be customised according to the ones you use the most. You can also create
folders for quick access to similar apps.

The Task Edge now allows access to threaded messages for email conversations
while the People Edge provides quick access to your favourite contacts.

The same screen space supports a beautiful looking "news ticker'' of headlines
and thumbnails down the righthand side.

Quick Tools provide easy access to everything from a compass and ruler to a
torch light.

The protruding camera, unpopular with some with the last model, has been honed
back to just a 0.46mm blip.

Samsung says its new phones feature a 30% faster CPU and 60% faster graphics.

An internal copper pipe, filled with water, provides a cooling system which
promises longer and better playtime for gaming enthusiasts. There's also a new
suite of features designed specifically to make it a better gaming device.

Back to the future

The water and dust resistance features popular in the S5 make a return.

The phone's internals have been reworked to ensure it is fully sealed inside,
eliminating the need to plug external holes with grommets. Samsung says it can
withstand 30 minutes in water. It was happy to drop a phone in a bucket of water
to prove its case.

The S7 also sees the return of microSD card via a new hybrid tray which caters
for both the SIM card and microSD for up to 200 gigabytes of storage. Overseas
models will allow for dual SIM cards.

Samsung Galaxy S7 will be among numerous new smartphones in 2016 to feature
always on display, which can be customised based on the information you always
want to see - whether it be time, calendar and battery status, for example.

First dual pixel sensor in camera

Samsung won well deserved acclaim for its camera in the S6 and says it has gone
to a whole new level with the S7. It sports a new F1.7 lens which it says
delivers much brighter and vibrant photos in low light.

The camera also boasts the first dual pixel sensor to be used on a smart phone,
allowing for "~instant autofocus' even in very low light conditions.

It works by using every pixel in the image, reducing the time it takes for the
camera to focus on the subject at hand.

The camera drops from 16 megapixels to 12 megapixels in the S7, but Samsung says
its larger 1.4 micron pixels provide for better, brighter pictures.

To prove its point, the tech giant demonstrated images side by side using a
giant black box. After dropping an image from 550 lux to 3.5 lux (candles), the
image retained its clarity and vitality.

So how long will it last?

Samsung has copped plenty of criticism over battery life with its previous
models after dropping the capacity of its battery from 2800 to 2500 mAh in the
S6.

The S7 Edge now packs 3600 mAh, compared to just over 3000 for the Note 5, while
the S7 also has a 3000 rating.

Samsung says that should mean the phones easily last all day and more.

