

The future of technology looks brighter than ever before.

This message rang out loud and clear during the official launch of the Samsung
Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge smartphones at Hyde Park shopping centre, Johannesburg on
Thursday. Addressing guests and the media, Justine Hume, director of product
marketing at Samsung SA said the two new devices have grown even more
functional, with more personalisation abilities.

"The seamlessly connected devices expand what your phone can be, while the
meaningful partnerships redefine experiences you can have and the S7 is at the
centre of it," Hume said about its partnerships with the likes of Google Music
and Facebook.

The new features on the S7 and S7 Edge, include water/dust resistant design,
more camera pixels, high gaming performance, increased battery life and memory,
with the option to use a memory card or a second sim card.

Combined with a thinner bezel, the devices use a process known as 3D
thermoforming to shape the curved glass backing, making for a more comfortable
grip and feel.

One of Samsung's biggest selling points for both devices comes in the form of
the VR (virtual reality) headset, which allows users to watch video games,
movies and share content with others through the Facebook-owned Oculus
technology.

Available to Galaxy S7 purchases until this Friday, the chunky black box comes
packed with several games and a year's subscription to Netflix, all for free.

"Since the inception of S4 when we started thinking about this idea of phone
plus strategy, we took into account that while the phone itself might be
excellent, if it exists in isolation, it doesn't mean very much.

"Now, as you know, music streaming in South Africa is fast gaining traction and
we have seen a plethora of services coming to this market.

"However, I think if we are honest with ourselves we would agree we have very
limited representation from android and that is set to change.

"Samsung has signed an exclusive deal with Google music where S7 and Edge
customers will receive six-months-free Google  music streaming from the end of
this month. If you remember we are the first smartphone to introduce accidental
damage from handling and that will continue with the Edge 7."

While the average repair time for headsets takes about 14 days to six weeks, "we
thought we can't leave our S7 customers with that kind of experience because we
know your smartphone is an extension of your life and an extension of your
business. So with S7 we are striving to ensure that we can repair the customer's
handset within 1 hour," Hume said.

tankisok@thenewage.co.za

