

NEW DELHI: Soon after Samsung introduced its latest flagship Galaxy Note 7
phablet on Tuesday, the price of older Galaxy Note 5 has seen a drop. The Galaxy
Note 5 is now available for as low as Rs 39,999 on e-commerce websites like
Flipkart and Amazon. The older Galaxy Note 5 was selling at a price of around Rs
53,000 before the official launch of the latest Galaxy Note 7.The new Galaxy
Note 7 phablet will launch on August 19 in the US.

The company has not revealed details about India launch so far. Also, though the
company has not revealed the the smartphone's pricing, it is expected to be
priced upwards of Rs 63,000 in India. Read also: Samsung Galaxy Note 7
smartphone: 8 big features The main highlight of Galaxy Note smartphones has
been their S Pen stylus. With Galaxy Note 7, Samsung has retained the Pen-like
locking mechanism which was introduced in the Galaxy Note 5, but has improved
its pressure sensitivity and has included a smaller 0.7mm tip. Other than the
stylus, the Galaxy Note 7 also brings several other enhancements and features to
the device versus Galaxy Note 5.Samsung Galaxy Note 7 is both IP68 dust and
waterproof, similar to the company's other two flagship devices -- Galaxy S7 and
Galaxy S7 edge. This is the first Galaxy Note phablet to come with an iris
scanner. It also has a fingerprint scanner for added security.The Galaxy Note 7
is also the first Note phablet from Samsung to feature a dual-edge screen. It is
similar to the one found in the flagship Galaxy S7 edge. Compared to Galaxy Note
5, Samsung has doubled the internal memory of the Note 7 to 64GB along with
support for microSD cards of up to 256GB.The phone sports a 5.7-inch Quad HD
dual- edge Super Amoled display of 1440x2560 pixel resolution protected with
Corning Gorilla Glass 5. Samsung Galaxy Note 7 is powered by an octa-core
processor clubbed with 4GB RAM. For imaging duties, the premium phablet has a
12MP dual-pixel rear-camera with Optical Image Stabilization, along with a 5MP
front-facing shooter.The connectivity options in the device include 4G LTE, NFC,
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS and USB Type-C. There's also a whole array of sensors
on-board, including barometer, gyro sensor, geomagnetic sensor, hall sensor,
proximity sensor and RGB light sensor.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

