

The next 'flagship' handset from the Chinese firm is getting many Indians
excited

There's one smartphone causing a big stir--and it's not even here yet. Xiaomi's
Mi 5. It's launching in India tomorrow.

One reason is that Xiaomi knows how to create a stir. The other is that the Mi 5
is packed with all sorts of stuff for an affordable price. When it starts
shipping in April, the Mi 5 will be some nice competition for the OnePlus 2.

Right now, however, people are comparing the Mi 5, which will be sort of
Xiaomi's flagship, with Samsung's flagship Galaxy S7. It isn't anywhere near as
beautiful as the S7 but it does have a lot of high-end features at half the
cost.

The Mi 5 isn't a huge phone, for a change. It's 5.1 inches and reportedly is
very nice to hold, if not behold. The Verge called it an "alarmingly good
phone." The competition will certainly think so.

The biggest specification of all, coming with the the Mi 5, is the Qualcomm
Snapdragon 820 chipset. That's what the non-Indian version of the Galaxy S7 has,
though Samsung's Exynos processor is faster on the Indian S7. But whatever --
it'll be one fast device.

There's three versions of the Mi 5 in China -- 32GB, 64GB and 128GB, with 3GB on
the low and 4GB RAM on the high end model. No MicroSD card slot on any of them,
but dual-SIM slots and support for 4G on bands used in India.

The Mi 5 also seems to be available in a "3D glass" model, which is really all
about a slight curve to the glass and metal, and a ceramic back model. It's said
to be light and great to hold.

Some may be pleased to see a USB Type C port on the Mi 5. That's nice because
it's so much easier to use, but I'd be terrified of losing the cable and then
having a tough time replacing it because they're not yet as common as regular
ones. Also connecting anything else to the phone becomes a nuisance.

The phone has fast charging 3.0, which I tell you, should become mandatory for
all. People are hoping there'll be some new power banks launched as well.

The 16MP camera on the Mi 5 is touted to be flagship level. I've seen tests
comparing that closely with the Galaxy S7's 12MP camera. Both have Phase
Detection Auto Focus or PDAF. It's not reported to be as good as the S7's
camera, but it may well turn out to be better than any in its price category.
The front facing shooter is a 4MP ultra pixel with lots of beauty filters which
you can use while video conferencing.

The Mi 5 also has a fingerprint sensor, NFC, and infra-red.

It launches tomorrow, March 31, but availability will be sometime in
April-likely through the flash sales Xiaomi is notorious for. Mi fans are
waiting for it. Are you?

Lila Ray is a corporate consultant who likes her gadgets almost more than her
shoes. Write to her at raylila@outlook.com

