

It features a 5.7 inch QHD display, Samsung Exynos 8890 Octa SoC, 4GB RAM, 12MP
rear and 5MP front camera, Android Lollipop OS, 64GB internal storage, 3500 mAh
battery and has connectivity

Samsung on Thursday launched its flagship device the Galaxy Note 7 in India at
Rs. 59,900. The Galaxy Note 7 will become available in India from September 2
and will be available in Gold Platinum, Silver Titanium, and Black Onyx colour
variants.



"The Galaxy Note7 combines productivity and entertainment, and strong security
features. Powering a robust ecosystem, it is the ideal device for those who want
to achieve more in life. Life moves faster than ever now so we created the
Galaxy Note7 to move with users - helping them get things done more easily
wherever, whenever," said DJ Koh, President of Mobile Communications Business,
Samsung Electronics.

Samsung continues to defy boundaries of engineering with the Galaxy Note7 to
perfect the user experience through innovative design. Every edge, surface and
detail of the device's design has been refined to provide a comfortable grip and
easier one-handed operation, while remaining durable with Corning Gorilla Glass
5. Although the Galaxy Note7 features a large-screen, the unique front-to-back
symmetrical dual-edge curve remains balanced and light with the sleek feel users
have come to love from the Galaxy series. The curved screen lets the Galaxy
Note7 add the powerful Edge Panel for one-tap user access to applications, news
and functions.

The Galaxy Note7 is equipped with the advanced camera introduced on the Galaxy
S7 and Galaxy S7 edge The dual-pixel sensor technology, wide aperture and fast
auto focus work together to create sharp and beautiful photos even in low-light
environments.

In addition to 64GB of internal memory, the Galaxy Note7 offers expandable
storage and microSD support up to 256GB. The Galaxy Note7 is equipped with a
3500 mAh battery, easy Power Management UX through Smart Manager, and charges
quickly using the new USB-C port. Refresh the Galaxy Note7 wherever you find
wireless charger, especially on Samsung's Fast Charge Wireless Pads.

A new line of accessories will be available to complement the Galaxy Note7,
including the new S View Standing Cover, a light and portable cover that can be
used to prop the device at a 60-degree angle for easy viewing of content, as
well as an IP68 water resistant Backpack for on-the-go charging.

The Galaxy Note 7's highlight features are its iris scanner, the first time
Samsung has introduced the feature on one of its smartphones, apart from the
improved S Pen stylus and dual-edge 5.7 inch QHD (1440 x 2560 pixels) Super
Amoled display with Corning Gorilla Glass 5. The smartphone (and the S Pen
stylus bundled alongside) is also IP68 certified for dust and water resistance,
just like the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge from earlier this
year. As with previous flagship models, the phablet packs a fingerprint sensor
on the home button and is also compatible with the Samsung Pay mobile payment
service.

Running Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow with Samsung's own skin atop, the Galaxy Note
7 variant in India is powered by a Samsung Exynos 8890 Octa SoC (four cores
clocked at 2.3GHz and four cores clocked at 1.6GHz), coupled with 4GB of LPDDR4
RAM. Some regions including the US will receive a variant powered by the
Snapdragon 820 SoC (two Kryo cores clocked at 2.15GHz and two Kyro cores clocked
at 1.6GHz).

As for optics, the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 sports a 12-megapixel rear camera with
Dual Pixel technology for better low-light photography, phase detection
autofocus (PDAF), optical image stabilisation (OIS), an f/1.7 aperture, dual-LED
flash, and Auto-HDR feature. The front camera on the other hand sports a
5-megapixel sensor with an f/1.7 aperture.

For Connectivity Samsung Galaxy Note 7 include - 4G LTE, Wi-Fi 802.11ac,
Bluetooth v4.2, GPS/ A-GPS, NFC, MST, and USB Type-C. Sensors on board include
an acceleromenter, ambient light sensor, barometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, and
a proximity sensor. The smartphone weighs in at 169 grams, and measures
153.5x73.9x7.9mm.

