

Since the first HTC One, the Taiwanese electronics company has seen a
significant fall in its revenue and profit, but with its latest model HTC 10,
the smartphone vendor is looking forward to bounce back and win the hearts of
customers in Australia. The 5.2-inch QHD Super LCD flagship boasts of a sizable
3,000 mAh battery, USB-C connector, and many other features.

However, for a moment it appeared that the Australian market would be slow in
picking up the device. The HTC 10 was announced on April 12, 2015, and soon
after the announcement it went on pre-order in a number of markets like as the
US and the UK.

There are many customers who have given the device favorable reviews, however a
huge majority also said that the efforts of the company have only hardly keep it
at a level similar to that of its competitors, including Samsung and LG.

However, for the ones who aren't in favor of spending that much cash to purchase
what has been called possibly the best Android handset available in market at
present, Samsung's Galaxy S7 and S7 edge, the offering by HTC has come up a bit
cheaper with Australian carriers.

The news regarding the arrival of HTC 10 on Australian shores was welcomed on
May 3, however at that time no carriers had selected the device for offering the
HTC smartphone on a more reasonably priced plan.

The price of off-contract and unlocked HTC 10 will be $1,080 AU. Though it is
quite costly, still it's nearly $100 AU cheaper than Samsung's Galaxy S7 and in
total $200 AU cheaper as compared to the Galaxy S7 edge.

A report published in TechTimes revealed, "The Taiwanese company has seen its
revenue and profit fall considerably since the first HTC One, but with the HTC
10, it does hope to bounce back and win over customers in Australia."

"HTC might launch both HTC 10 and HTC 10 Lifestyle in India. Soon after
announcing both smartphones, the company listed the Lifestyle variant on its
Indian website. The listing hints that the lowered down variant might makes its
way to India," according to a news report published by MakTechBlog.

HTC 10 Lifestyle is powered by a Snapdragon 652 and has 3GB RAM. While the
flagship smartphone is powered by Snapdragon 820 and has 4GB RAM. So the
Lifestyle will be priced much lower than the higher model due to difference in
processor.

According to a report in Neurogadget by Costea Lestoc, "In 2015, Google has
released two Nexus smartphones: a smaller one created by LG and a flagship
phablet created by Hauwei, and they came preinstalled with Android 6.0
Marshmallow. This year, there will be at least one Nexus that will run on the
upcoming Android N OS, which is being tested by many Nexus owners, and which
will have a launch by this fall. According to rumors, LG will take a break and
not work on another Nexus mid-tier device, allowing Huawei and HTC to return."

Waterproofing is a feature that Google's OEMs avoided to introduce on their
Nexuses, but this wish might be materialized in 2016. Another change that users
want to see on the next Nexus smartphone is a pressure-sensitive touch display,
just like that of the iPhone 6S, and Android N already included support for
pressure-sensitive touch-display panels. Some rumors say that HTC has added this
feature on the list and will implement it on whatever Nexus model will create
for Google.

