

Galaxy Note 7, the flagship smartphone from Samsung is all set to go under the
manufacturing process starting next month

Galaxy Note 7 is all set to go under the manufacturing table starting from the
month of July. After that, Samsung is expected to make an official announcement
during the month of August, which is exactly a whole month away from Apple
announcing its iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus. The announcement of Galaxy Note 7 and
iPhone 7 Plus will make a nice little comparison between the phablet
smartphones. The hardware and features expected to be present inside Samsung's
phablet device is somewhat tricky to conclude.

It's because a series of leaks and rumors suggests that the smartphone will
either have a Snapdragon 823 SoC or an Exynos 8890. In terms of the technology,
there is going to be no difference between Snapdragon 823 and Snapdragon 820
since both of them will be manufactured on the same 14nm FinFET technology.
Snapdragon 823 however, will have a higher processor clock speed, making it able
to perform better than the CPU present in Snapdragon 820.

While this can also mean that Galaxy Note 7 will have shorter battery timing
compared to Galaxy S7 edge, the latest update reports that the smartphone will
have a 4,000mAh battery and a 5.8-inch screen with a Quad HD resolution. There
is also a possibility that the phone could come with both a fingerprint scanner
and an iris scanner, to give the user a higher form of security. We are not
quite sure if the iris scanner will be integrated with Samsung Pay, but it looks
like the official announcement taking place in August is going to provide us
with sufficient information.

Galaxy Note 7 is also rumored to feature a dual-camera function, since there
needs to be some level of distinguishing between Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 edge and
the upcoming phone. One thing that we're really hoping to see from the upcoming
handset is a storage card slot. Samsung has released microSD cards with faster
write speeds so this will help reduce the performance gap between the internal
memory and of course the speed barrier of that storage card.

Source

