

NEW DELHI: Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg made a surprise entry duringin
Barcelona, on the sidelines of MWC 2016. But before the media present there
could get enough of him, Zuckerberg was gone, leaving behind a thought -- the
next level of social media is virtual reality aka VR.

Soon after the new flagship Galaxy S7 and S7 edge were unveiled by Samsung's new
president of mobile communications business DJ Koh, the company's global VP of
research Pranav Mistry appeared on stage to present the attendees with more
details about the new Gear 360 camera.

Mistry requested the audience to put on the Gear VR headset to experience the
Gear 360 camera for a visual demo. After a brief moment of 'oohs and aahs', the
attendees saw Zuckerberg on the stage when they took off their VR headsets.

The question remains: what was Zuckerberg doing there? If we have gotten over
the horrors of the image (below) of our future, we are now left to imagine
whether Zuckerberg was trying to hardsell VR altogether.

If Oculus was not just enough for Facebook, Zuckerberg suggested letting any
company -- big or small -- with VR ambitions team up and introduce more
consumers to the future of virtual reality. The Facebook chief left no stones
unturned to praise Samsung and its Gear VR.

Zuckerberg even said that only Samsung can provide the ideal VR experience that
Facebook wants for its virtual reality video platform, citing the reason that
currently Samsung is the only company that can manufacture low persistence
rendering OLED displays at scale.

And Zuckerberg definitely wants VR to reach the masses. "Gear VR will be in the
hands of millions of people this year," he expects. How? By making it
affordable.

It would be interesting to see how many actually get inspired by Zuckerberg's
vision to opt for the $99 Gear VR. Notably, Samsung will be giving away free
Gear VR headsets to those who pre-order the Galaxy S7 or S7 edge.

During his brief time on stage, Zuckerberg showed off the strong partnership of
"best mobile hardware from Samsung" and "best VR software from Facebook and
Oculus" with some jaw-dropping Facebook 360 videos with Gear VR and the power of
Facebook social VR apps.

It is still early to comment on the fate of VR headsets, but Zuckerberg believes
that VR will soon go beyond just gaming. "Facebook is investing a lot in VR, so
that we can bring these social experiences," he said pointing at a Facebook 360
video.

But do we really want a future that looks like this?

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

