

Despite having powerful specs, HTC 10 unlike its other premium rivals, like
Samsung's Galaxy S7, doesn't offer waterproofing capabilities. Hereas why.

''HTC 10 sports a metal body which makes it difficult for us to integrate
waterproofing abilities to the device, unlike other plastic casing smartphones
like the Galaxy S7,'' said Darren Sng, VP for global product marketing at HTC.

The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge smartphones by Samsung can withstand water for up to 1
meter for 30 minutes as per company's claims. The South Korean electronics giant
is also touting the feature in its retail outlets, submerging the devices in
water filled cases.

HTC also claims that its working to bring in water resistant capabilities to its
metal encased smartphones.

''We are working to make our metal body smartphones water resistant which at
present comes as a big challenge,'' added Darren.

HTC 10 which was launched yesterday by the Taiwanese smartphone and tablet maker
comes as the most premium smartphone offering of the company, priced at INR
52,990.

A quick hand-on review of the device certified its premium appearance as HTC,
following suite from its previous flagships has utilized a full metal body
design with a curved rear.

The phone is also equipped with powerful specs including a dual core 2.15 Ghz
Kryo chip, coupled with 4GB of RAM and a 12MP camera capable of 4K video
recording. On the display front, the device comes with a 5.2 inch QHD screen,
offering an impressive resolution of 1440x2560 pixels with a pixel density of
546ppi, one among the highest in the segment.

The 12MP camera mounted at the rear of the device performed exceptionally well
while capturing snapshots. What's also impressing is the camera's ability to
furnish vibrant colors in a low light environment.

We tried the HTC 10's rear camera and it performed really well. We were
especially impressed with the camera's color reproduction and its ability to
click images within a snap, even in dim and artificially lighted conditions

For those unaware, the smartphone houses a 12MP UltraPixel 2 camera with a pixel
size of 1.55um, meaning more light is captured in one shot. This results in
relatively brighter images, especially in low light conditions. The rear
autofocus camera works in tandem with the BSI sensor, optical image
stabilization and f/1.8 aperture to capture clear and sharp images.

The company in a video also claimed that HTC 10 surpassed Apple's iPhone 6S and
Galaxy S7 smartphones in 'drop tests', surviving 30 drops head on without
noticeable scratches on the unit.

