

After ending a two-year smartphone slide with the Galaxy S7, Samsung Electronics
Co. could be about to hike capital spending to sustain a revival across the
company.

At least $5 billion (U.S.) more of investment is headed to the display and
semiconductor businesses, according to a survey of analyst estimates, to help
Samsung ride out bumps in the market. The move reflects new optimism after the
success of the Galaxy S7, with the shares rallying 13 per cent this year.

Samsung's rise into an electronics behemoth has been fuelled by getting its
memory chips and displays, often the most expensive parts, into devices made by
others.

With the South Korean company said to be in talks to supply Apple with
next-generation OLED screens and bring out its own phones with bendable screens,
Samsung can use its cash pile of more than $60 billion to extend its lead on
rivals.

"Samsung's smartphone business has finally had a soft landing after a bumpy
ride," said Chung Chang Won, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Seoul.
Samsung will probably boost spending on memory and displays, which "are poised
for a sudden rise as the next growth-drivers."

The shares slid 3.3 per cent to close Wednesday at 1.42 million won. Analysts,
however, are betting they've got room to rise. Since the company's last earnings
report, the average target price of analysts has risen by 6.7 per cent, backing
the Galaxy S7's ability to keep winning customers. In the same period, profit
estimates have risen by almost half a billion dollars.

Samsung will report preliminary second-quarter earnings Thursday, expecting
operating income to rise about 7 per cent to 7.4 trillion won ($6.4 billion),
according to the average estimate. Sales are projected to increase 4.9 per cent
to 50.9 trillion won.

But with global smartphone growth evaporating, it needs to build up other major
businesses as competitors bring out new products.

"The mobile business is holding up well, but it's still questionable whether
this trend will be sustained over the coming quarters with more new devices in
the pipeline from rivals," said Lee Jae-yun, an analyst at Yuanta Securities Co.

The Korean technology giant hasn't been afraid to make bold investments in
advanced technologies and plants during a severe economic downturn. That has
helped it outrun competitors in Japan and combat Chinese producers as it rose to
the top of smartphones, chips and TVs.

Samsung had almost $23 billion of capital spending in 2015, the fourth straight
year capital spending topped $20 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company said in April it spent 4.6 trillion won in the first
quarter and annual spending could increase slightly.

OLED is one such example, with Samsung championing the screens as thinner,
brighter and less taxing on the battery compared to liquid-crystal displays. By
using the technology in its own Galaxy range, Samsung has become the biggest
producer for mobile devices.

The Galaxy S7 models popularity, with its curved display, is expected to have
continued into the second quarter, helping to bail out its mobile division from
a slump that has hit Apple and Chinese companies.

