
DATELINE: Lahore



 Berkshire: Telef&oacute;nica UK Limited has issued the following news release:



 Sunday evenings are usually pretty 'blah' &ndash; the weekend's passed too
quickly and is drawing to a close; work begins again tomorrow. Blah.





 Today, however, is different &ndash; thanks to an exciting announcement from
Samsung at this year's Mobile World Congress: the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy
S7 edge are coming. And they're coming to O2!



 Ever since the launch of the first Galaxy S back in 2010, Samsung have set the
benchmark for phone specs with innovative features that are often way ahead of
the curve. The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge are no exception, with some notable
upgrades from the vastly capable Galaxy S6.



 First up, the new camera on the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge boasts 2DP professional
SLR technology, which offers unprecedented speed and lowlight performance. And
with instant backup to Google Photos, you can always be sure that your photos
are safe.



 They're also pretty life-proof, being dust and water resistant to an IP68
rating. At the same time, the two newest Galaxy devices remain amongst the
best-looking phones on the market. Beauty *and* practicality &ndash; a winning
mix.



 The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge also see the return of the expandable memory slot, so
you can be sure that you'll always have enough space to store everything you
need. Add that to a battery that lasts longer and charges faster (you can get a
full charge wirelessly on the S7 range faster than you can from a wired charge
on the iPhone 6s) and you've got a truly winning combination.



 As you might expect, Samsung Galaxy S7 and S7 edge are coming to O2 with some
great offers.



 For example, those who pre-order on a 3GB or higher will get a free pair of
Jabra Sport Pulse Wireless earbuds worth &pound;149.99. These aren't just any
earphones &ndash; as well as delivering sound to an incredible quality and
enabling you to make and receive calls, they also have an in-ear heart rate
monitor which offers clinical-grade accuracy.



 Another great reason to pre-order before Monday 7 March is that you'll be
amongst the first to experience the latest Galaxy phones; we'll send your phone
up to 3 days before the general release on Friday 11 March.



 Finally, O2 customers who get their Galaxy S7 or S7 edge on our new 30GB tariff
will be able to trade in and upgrade at no extra cost after 12 months.



 To preorder your new Samsung Galaxy S7 or S7 edge, click here to visit the O2
website. Oh, and don't worry about transferring all your personal stuff to your
new phone &ndash; Samsung's got that covered too, with a transfer kit in the box
to help you move in minutes, even if you're new to Android.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content, please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

