

Samsung sells Galaxy S7 phones that aren't tied to carrier

NEW YORK -- Samsung will sell unlocked versions of its flagship Galaxy S7 phones
in the U.S. so consumers can switch carriers more easily.

Although two-year service contracts are now rare, consumers are instead stuck
with two-year installment plans and cannot take a phone to a rival until it's
paid off.

Unlocked phones have no such restrictions. They are also free of
carrier-specific apps for messaging, video and other tasks, though Samsung still
adds several beyond the standard version of Android from Google.

Samsung's Galaxy S7 will sell for $670, and a model with a curved side screen
called Edge will go for $770. The prices are cheaper than Verizon, AT&T and
T-Mobile, though more expensive than Sprint. You pay the phone's full price
rather than monthly installments.

Spanish tax inspectors search Google office in Madrid

MADRID -- A Madrid court says it authorized tax inspectors to enter Google's
offices in Madrid as part of a tax department investigation.

A Google statement on Thursday says the company is cooperating with Spanish
authorities and that it complied with Spain's fiscal legislation as it does in
all countries where it operates.

It was not immediately possible to get comment from Spain's tax agency.

Leading newspaper El Pais and other media outlets said the searches at two
Madrid offices were part of a tax evasion probe.

The complex tax arrangements of Google and other tech firms have come under
increasing scrutiny in many European countries in recent years. French police
raided Google's French headquarters in May as part of a similar investigation.

Google Calendar outage leaves users frustrated

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Google says it expects to have Google Calendar up and
running normally following widespread reports of an outage.

Google said Thursday that users had been seeing "server error" messages when
opening the app. It later said that service had been restored for some users
already and it expected a resolution for all users in the near future.

Exasperated users took to Twitter to voice their frustration during the outage
for the popular scheduling service. One user noted that Google Calendar going
down "is like a snow day for adults."

Eurozone inflation back above zero in June, but still low

FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) -- The annual rate of inflation in the 19 countries that
use the euro rose to 0.1 percent in June from below zero, but is still far short
of official targets.

The Eurostat statistical agency said Thursday that a recent pick-up in oil
prices helped push the reading up from minus 0.1 percent in May.

The European Central Bank remains far from achieving its goal of inflation just
under 2 percent, considered consistent with a strong economy. The bank has cut
its benchmark interest rate to zero and is pumping 1.74 trillion euros ($1.94
trillion) of newly created money into the banking system, steps that should
increase inflation.

The eurozone economy grew 0.6 percent in the first quarter but remains burdened
by high unemployment and debt in some countries.

