

The S7 Edge will keep Samsung ahead of the pack, writes Jennifer
Dudley-Nicholson

GALAXY S7 EDGE SAMSUNG ***** $1249, samsung.com/au YOU can spill water on this
phone, drop it in the sink, rinse it under a tap, dunk it in a pool or just
watch its screen glow underwater. Rest assured we've already done that. And the
phone survived.

Samsung not only brings back water resistance in the Galaxy S7 Edge but improves
it. What's more, it does so just as owners of the last water-loving Samsung
phone emerge, Ursula Andress-style, from their two-year contracts. It isn't the
only thing to appreciate about this seriously smart update, however. Samsung has
laid out some compelling reasons why Galaxy users should reinvest and Apple
iPhone users should reconsider their allegiances.

WATER, BABY If you sully this IP68 phone with pizza fingers, you can simply
rinse it clean under a tap. It will survive in up to 1.5m of water (up from 1m
in the Galaxy S5) and you don't need to plug its ports to protect it as they are
protected by internal rubber seals. And, given it will survive being submerged
for 30 minutes, you have time to fetch gloves before retrieving it from the
toilet.

THE MORE-WITH-LESS CAMERA Controversially, the resolution of the GS7 Edge camera
has shrunk from 16 to 12 megapixels. It's genuinely surprising, then, just how
much better it is.

Side by side, it is brighter, focuses closer and faster than the Apple iPhone 6S
camera. It's better in low light, better at tracking focus and it offers a more
accurate white balance, darker blacks and better contrast than before. At the
heart of this improvement is the largest phone camera aperture available (at
f1.7), larger pixels (at 1.44 microns) and a new style of autofocus called Dual
Pixel that is more commonly seen in DSLR cameras. There is a trade-off, however.
It only captures full-resolution photos in 4:3 format and users must drop down
to 9.1 megapixels to fill the phone's entire screen.

BATTERY After a day of normal use, we still had 70 per cent battery power by
7pm. This phone is slightly thicker and heavier than the last model, but the
trade-off is a 3600mAh battery that is 38 per cent bigger than its predecessor
and 30 per cent bigger than an iPhone 6S Plus.

OTHER FEATURES Expandable memory is back in this phone and you can add a MicroSD
card up to 200GB in size, plus its curved screen edge now delivers two rows of
app shortcuts and other options such as a news feed, tasks and location-based
shortcuts. The GS7 Edge uses a faster octa-core chip and 4GB RAM to keep Android
Marshmallow rolling, and it supports LTE Category 9 that offers up to 450
megabit download speeds. It also offers an Always On Display that shows a clock
on its otherwise blank screen, as well as wireless charging, a water-cooling
system to make the most of mobile gameplay, and it can be used with upcoming
wireless payment services. It does not, however, bring back the infra-red
blasting, TV control of the GS5 and, to get the curved screen, you must invest
in 5.5-inch Edge model rather than the 5.1-inch GS7.

VERDICT From its strange love of water to its fast-focusing camera, there are
plenty of reasons to switch to Samsung's latest smartphone.Bringing back water
resistance and expandable memory should appease Samsung GS5 loyalists, while
other smartphone users could be swayed by its low light-loving, phase-detection
camera that treats darkness like an old friend. This is one of the smartest
smartphone updates and one that will give Apple plenty to ponder.

