

Technology can be bewildering at times. Imagine standing on top of the Eiffel
Tower in Paris and having a 360 degree aerial view of the entire city. Or, for
that matter, standing on one of the towers of the Golden Gate Bridge in San
Francisco and enjoying a splendid view of the blue ocean, or looking at the cars
crossing the suspension bridge. In real life, you might not be able to go up on
top of either of the towers, but virtual reality technology can let you enjoy
the viewing experience mentioned above. Put simply, it is like actually being
there.

Bringing this experience closer to the consumer is an innovative piece of
technology from the South Korean consumer electronics major, Samsung. It's
called the Samsung Gear VR which lets you enjoy a cinematic wide view, immersive
360 degree experience and realistic VR games. Put on the Gear VR, and you're
there in the moment. A crystal-clear AMOLED display, wide field of view, precise
head-tracking and low latency brings reality to the virtual. Just for a sample,
think of playing Temple Run in a 3D environment with all the exhilarating
running, jumping and sliding. Take my word, this Samsung headgear will redefine
mobile gaming.

The Samsung Gear VR (also referred to as Gear VR) is a head-mounted, virtual
reality device that provides an immersive experience for a wide range of users.
The South Korean firm developed the Gear VR with the virtual-reality startup
Oculus (now part of Facebook). It retails for R8,200 and works seamlessly with
Galaxy smartphones. It is compatible with Galaxy S7|S7 edge, Note5, S6, and S6
edge.

When you connect a mobile device to the Gear VR, you can enjoy 2D or 3D content
and play games by launching apps on the mobile device. At my end, I connected
the Gear VR to a Samsung Galaxy S7 edge and also synced in a Bluetooth headset
for a good audio experience. But do not put on the Gear VR when you are wearing
glasses; that is a mistake I committed and felt disoriented.

You don't have to be a geek to do the entire setup; even an ordinary mobile
phone user can do it. At my end, I was up and running within minutes of
unpacking the box. The product box will come with Gear VR, head strap, main
strap and user manual. I must insist the manual to be a must-read in order to
enjoy the device to its fullest. The Gear VR does not require charging as it is
powered using the mobile device's battery. After placing the straps firmly to
make it a safe head-mounted contraption, remove the front cover and insert the
mobile device into the centre of the Gear VR and gently push the device holder
to the left until the phone locks into place.

To use the Gear VR, you must manually install the Gear VR software. When you
connect the mobile device to the Gear VR for the first time, the software
installation will start automatically. After that, just follow the instructions
and it is done. The default VR apps are automatically installed. Follow the
on-screen instructions to create an Oculus account. When the software is
installed, the Oculus Store app will appear on the Apps screen on the mobile
device.

The touchpad is located on the right side of the Gear VR. Use the touchpad to
select items or to control the Gear VR. The Oculus Home screen is the starting
point for accessing apps and features. You can launch or download VR apps on the
Oculus Home screen.

Let me talk about the actual usage of the device. The best place to start your
Gear VR experience is not with a game but with the 360 Photos and Oculus video
demos which give you a feel of what virtual

reality is all about; some of these really stand out. I particularly enjoyed the
San Francisco tour photos and you can

almost feel the cold weather.

Gaming is another treat to indulge on the Gear VR. I downloaded some of the
popular ones, such as Temple Run, Titans of Space, and the overall experience is
excellent. The visuals are great the action works out brilliantly in 3D. This
sort of immersive virtual reality is mind blowing .

Overall, Gear VR is an impressive piece of technology with awesome viewing
experience. So what are you waiting for, slot in the phone, stick on the headset
and you're into your virtual reality experience. Highly recommended.

Estimated street price: Rs 8,200

