

Here's the case for these Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge accessories

1. BRILLIANCE CASE-MATE How do you ensure Samsung's curvy, flagship phone stands
out? Fit it with a case paved with genuine crystals. The Case-Mate Brilliance is
covered in faceted stones that reflect light and it features a
champagne-coloured frame and matching button covers to set them off. It's not
just good looking, though. This cover comes in two parts, including a silicon
lining to provide impact resistance in the unlikely case the crystals slip from
your grip. The blinged-up accessory does add 50g and 3mm to the size of
Samsung's slender phone, but it will be worth it for those who want to be
noticed.

$78.49 / mobilezap.com.au

2. LENS COVER SAMSUNG Of all the cases, covers, and slips for Samsung's new
smartphones, this is the smartest. The Lens Cover, out this month, takes the
phone's camera to the next level, letting users attach a high-quality, metal and
glass lens for surprisingly crisp results. It's the first time Samsung has made
a phone lens but the company's photographic experience shines through. The
wide-angle addition we tested showed little distortion at the edges yet allowed
plenty of extra detail into the frame. The case itself features a soft lining,
and understated leather-like exterior, and even though the lens screws on in
just one turn, it remains securely in place. Macro lens next, please.

$TBA / samsung.com.au

3. AEROSHIELD CYGNETT Australian firm Cygnett attempts to solve the Galaxy S7
Edge conundrum with this cover. Namely, how to keep its design on show while
protecting it from scratches and slips. The Aeroshield is a clear case,
available with coloured edges if you prefer, that hugs this phone's curves with
a polyurethane frame and polycarbonate shell to provide protection from drops.
It also features four raised corners on the back of the case to keep it in place
on a slippery surfaces. Its lack of weight and bulk is commendable, though this
cover does scratch quite easily.

$25 / cygnett.com

4. EVO WALLET TECH21 This case can have your new phone completely surrounded.
The Tech21 creation not only hugs the rounded edges of the Galaxy S7 Edge with
impact-reducing FlexShock material, but it then covers it with a water-resisting
material to keep scratches off its screen. Inside the flip-up cover lies space
for a credit card for use as a real wallet, while a microfibre lining helps keep
its screen pristine. The case does weigh 30g and some may not like it covering
the phone's Always On display, but the Evo Wallet provides plenty of protection
when you just want to throw your phone into a bag.$60 / tech21.com

