

Samsung Electronics unveiled its latest big-screen Galaxy Note smartphone at a
packed Manhattan venue Tuesday --and jumped from last year's model, the Galaxy
Note 5, to what is being called the Galaxy Note 7.

By skipping what would have been a Note 6, Samsung seems to be delivering two
messages: that this latest Note device is essentially built on the same
foundation as Samsung's popular flagship S7 and S7 edge smartphones, which
arrived in March and  have helped the company turn around what had been a
slumping handset business; and that Note 7 represents a  significant leap
forward.

I'll reserve judgment on just how big a leap once I've gotten extended time with
Note 7.

My first takeaway is very positive -- though the phone, which will start to
become available Aug. 19 -- is expensive. It will cost $850 at T-Mobile and is a
bit higher on other carriers.

Samsung pioneered the "phablet" category when it launched the original Note in
2011, a device met at the time with considerable skepticism. What set Note
devices apart from Samsung's (and other) more "mainstream" handsets were what
were considered to be relatively humongous screens  and the presence of a
digital stylus known as S Pen.

The newest incarnation has a 5.7-inch display, which while large, is hardly an
aberration nowadays.

And Notes have emerged as one of Samsung's most successful products. The company
says Note customers are its most loyal and are the most satisfied. Note users
spend about 20% more time consuming videos, 30% more time on games and 50% more
time on business than users on other devices.

With Note 7, the S Pen that you can stash away into a slot on the device is more
precise than on earlier models. The pen tip is finer, and there are deeper
levels of pressure sensitivity, so that when you press harder you can draw
thicker lines or press more gently for a thinner result. The new S Pen felt
natural to write with.

Note-taking is faster. You can quickly pin a handwritten note --maybe your
grocery list -- to an "always-on" display. And because Note 7 and the pen itself
are water-resistant, you can even write on a screen that gets wet, something I
got to successfully demonstrate.

You can employ the pen for other tricks: By hovering over words within an
application, you can translate those words from 38 different languages into 71
other languages. (You'll have to set up the language you want to use ahead of
time.) You can also hover over text to zoom in by up to 300%. And using the S
Pen, you can create animated GIFs.

Iris scans

Samsung has also beefed up security on the device. In addition to its Knox
security system and the fingerprint scanner on earlier models, Samsung will now
let you authenticate your identify with iris recognition. I was able to quickly
train a Note 7 to recognize me, which meant I could get past the lock screen
just by staring into the front camera. Samsung is teaming up with a half-dozen
banks including Citi, Bank of America and US Bank, in integrating what it calls
Samsung Pass, which would let you use iris scans in lieu of passwords.

Also new is a  Secure Folder, where you can stash  your most sensitive
information because it gets an extra layer of security.

Other quick notes on Note: The sub-6-ounce, Android (Marshmallow) phone has a
curved, dual-edge Quad HD 5.7-inch display (2560-by-1440) with a secondary
edge-panel display similar to the S7 edge. From the customizable edge display,
you can get one-touch access to headlines, apps, a selfie camera and more.

I haven't taken pictures yet, but the phone has a 12-megapixel camera with
optical image stabilization and a front-facing 5-megapixel camera, just like on
the S7.

wireless charging

The phone  supports fast charging and wireless charging (with an optional pad).
It has a USB-C type connector but  includes an adapter for  older accessories.
It  comes with 64 GB of internal memory, which you can expand through microSD
cards.  Under a temporary promotion, Note 7 (or Galaxy S7 edge) buyers can get a
256 GB memory card  free or a Gear Fit2 fitness tracker.

Galaxy Note 7 is  compatible with a brand-new version of Samsung's Gear VR
headset, which Samsung  announced  Tuesday.

"Samsung has ... had a very good 2016 so far," says Patrick Moorhead, president
of Moor Insights & Strategy.

If it lives up to its  promise, the Note 7 may make it even better.

