

Being mindful and informed about the display quality of the screen will enhance
user experience.

The first point of contact with any smart-device, is usually its screen. Other
than looking at some of the obvious physical dimensions, consumers tend to
overlook the more minute technology bits, such as resolution, screen type, etc.
Here we have a list of 5 Android smartphones, which are known for their screen
quality:

1) Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge

It goes without a saying in the world of technology, that Samsung has some of
the best possible displays on the market, including its flagship devices like
the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge. With an overall screen resolution of 1440x 2560
pixels, with Quad HD quality, and the Super AMOLED technology, the S7 Edge
stands out for the distinct quality of screens.

2) Motorola Moto X-Force

Very few phones on the current market produce the perfect balance, the way
Motorola Moto X-Force does. With a shatterproof 5-layer WQHD display, the screen
is known to have a pixel density of 540 Ppi, and produces the most enriched and
realistic colors. The company is known to have spent 4 years developing the
5-layer screen, to ensure durability as well as user friendly design.

3) Xiaomi Redmi Note 3

Though the Redmi Note 3 falls under the budget category of smartphones, the
screen quality is at par with some flagships in the market. Other than the
reflective glare from being under the sun, which can be adjusted well under the
Sunlight Display feature, the screen adjusts well according to the surroundings
and has decent outdoor visibility. This 5.5-inch Full HD IPS screen has viewing
angles up to 178-degrees, and the pixel density 403 Ppi.

4) HTC 10

HTC is synonymous with great physical design in its smartphones, and that is
exactly what it has done with the HTC 10 flagship. Though it is 5.2-inches in
size, it is a QHD display with a resolution of 1440x 2560 pixels, and covered
with Corning Gorilla Glass, which is famous for being durable.

5) Sony Xperia Z5 Premium

If you are someone who spends a lot of time staring at your smart-phone screen,
then the Sony Z5 premium's screen is exactly what you need. The 4k display of
the handset, comes into effect with the pre-installed albums and movie
applications from Sony, and working on Full HD mode otherwise.

