

By Jean-Claude Elias - Mar 24,2016 - Last updated at Mar 24,2016

In an apparently strange move, Samsung's newest flagship smartphone, the Galaxy
S7, features a 12-megapixel (MP) camera, whereas two models ago the company S5's
camera sported 16MP. Does this constitute a step backward, a bad thing?

On the contrary, it is a wise move forward and the decision of a manufacturer
that is now mature. More importantly it tells you a lot about deceptive numbers
versus quality. If this known commercial behaviour can be found in many fields,
it is more particularity flagrant in the world of high-tech where vendors try to
entice you to buy their products by impressing you with raw numbers that do not
really reflect the final quality or performance.

As a matter of fact, the new Galaxy S7 camera performs significantly better than
previous models that have higher MP count and has already received a milestone
of 88 per cent, the highest mark by any smartphone camera on the respected
DXOMark web reference test. The explanation is simple, regardless of MP count,
the S7 lens is of a much better quality. Besides, professional photographers are
rarely impressed by the MP count that only reflects the size of the photo you
get in the end, not its quality. And since 12MP already produce a quite large
picture, who needs more then on a phone set?

Transpose the concept to Internet subscriptions now. In Amman you can get a 24Mb
ADSL line or a 4Mb leased line, among other options of course. Here again, 24Mb
seems faster at first sight. The truth is it is not. The inherent structure of
ADSL means that you are actually sharing the line with a few other subscribers
and that what you actually get depends on everybody's usage at any given moment.
In other words, the real speed is totally inconsistent and oscillates between
some values, the highest of which is 24Mb, if you are very, very lucky.

On the other hand, a leased like is just for you, fully dedicated, no one else
uses it and you always get consistent 4Mb, both in upload and download, which
anyway is never the case in ADSL mode. Now of course, ADSL even at 24Mb will
cost you between 400 and 800 dinars per year (depending on whether you are a
home user or a business client), whereas leased lines are five to six times more
expensive; but this is another subject altogether.

On to hard disks. Forget about terabytes, although the flashy numbers can always
help you to impress your friends over social talk in the evening. Typically
vendors will only tell you about how large the capacity of the hard disk is,
1TB, 2TB, etc., but its actual working speed is kept in the background, in the
shadow. Hard disks rotational speed varies from as "slow" as 4,500 rpm
(rotations per minute) to superfast models operating at 15,000 rpm. In between
these two extremes, you get 5,400, 7,500 or 10,000 rpm. The slowest are usually
found on entry-level laptop computers, whereas the fastest are installed on
servers.

Naturally, in the end it all boils down to numbers when it comes to technology,
but vendors should give you all the numbers, not just those they choose to put
forward, and the accurate ones what's more. It's like telling the truth in
court, in cannot be just partial, it must be complete so as not to deceive.

