
DATELINE: Lahore



 Berkshire: Telef&oacute;nica UK Limited has issued the following news release:



 O2 today announces that pre-orders for Samsung's newest flagship smartphones,
the Galaxy S7 and S7 edge, are now open &ndash; and that customers who take O2's
latest tariff will be guaranteed an upgrade at no extra cost after twelve
months. To pre-order now, visit o2.co.uk/shop.



 Samsung Galaxy S7



 Samsung Galaxy S7



 Furthermore, customers who pre-order either device before Monday 7 March will
have their order sent to them on Tuesday 8 March, three days before the phone
goes on general sale on Friday 11 March. Meanwhile any customer who purchases
either phone before Wednes-day 27 April will also receive a free pair of Jabra
Sport Pulse headphones.



 500MB to 30GB tariffs



 The Galaxy S7 and S7 edge come in Black Onyx and Gold Platinum and are the
latest members of Samsung's range of Galaxy S smartphones. With water
resistance, fast charging and expandable storage, it's got all the features
customers know and love. Plus the S7 and S7 edge's camera technology means
perfect photos every time, even in low light.



 Both phones are available on a range of O2 Refresh tariffs, offering customers
between 500MB and 30GB data, and up to unlimited minutes and texts.



 Tariffs on offer for the Galaxy S7 include unlimited minutes, texts and 3GB
data for &pound;46 per month with an upfront cost of &pound;29.99. Those opting
for the Galaxy S7 edge can choose from options such as paying &pound;51 per
month for unlimited minutes, texts and 3GB data with an upfront cost of
&pound;9.99.



 Extra flexibility, only with O2

 "We know that there's nothing better than always having the latest phone, which
is why we've created a tariff to always keep Samsung fans ahead of the curve"

 Nina Bibby, O2's Marketing and Consumer Director



 Customers who choose O2's 30GB tariff will also have extra flexibility when it
comes to up-grading their S7 or S7 edge.



 While O2's current Refresh tariff gives customers complete control over their
monthly spend and the ability to upgrade at any time by simply paying off what's
left of the cost of their phone, customers taking the new 30GB tariff will have
that payment made for them by O2 when they trade their phone in.



 Tariffs on offer with 30GB data include &pound;59 per month and a &pound;9.99
upfront cost for the Galaxy S7 and &pound;64 per month with a &pound;9.99
upfront cost for the Galaxy S7 edge. All tariffs with 30GB data offer unlimited
minutes and texts.





 Customers who take this option and trade in their S7 or S7 edge at an O2 store
after twelve months will have any outstanding Phone Plan payments waived and be
able to walk straight out with their new phone and new O2 Refresh tariff.



 "We know that there's nothing better than always having the latest phone, which
is why we've created a tariff to always keep Samsung fans ahead of the curve,"
said Nina Bibby, O2's Marketing and Consumer Director. "Plus, with data
allowances of up to 30GB, our customers will have complete flexibility with how
they use their new Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 edge and how they upgrade it too."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content, please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

