

SAMSUNG GALAXY S7 EDGE One of the chief complaints about the S6 Edge was its
magical sidebar's dire consequences for battery life. The new model comes with
an upgraded 3,600 mAh battery (compared to the S7's 3,000 mAh) plus a fast
charger that restores full power in around 100 minutes. The curvaceous, metallic
handset uses a similar sized 5.5-inch Quad HD display as the standard S7, with a
slightly smaller 534 pixels per inch count (compared to 577ppi). The curved
glass finish feels satisfying but makes it easier to drop. Fortunately, it can
be submerged in 1.5m of water for up to 30 minutes without coming to harm.

The edge-based shortcuts are still a little gimmicky but hardware specs have
received a substantial boost. Processor speed is up 30% compared to the S6 model
and there are even greater improvements in the graphical department, allowing
users to make the most of the bundled Galaxy Gear VR headset. Available in
black, white, gold and silver, RAM has been bumped up from 3GB to 4GB to cope
with increased workloads while memory can be expanded via a microSD slot. The
dual pixel 12MP camera gives impressive results in low light settings. Images
are pin sharp when shot during the day and colours are vivid without being
over-saturated. There are several shooting options, including Motion Photo which
captures three seconds of video before the shutter is pressed for some
hilarious, and often awkward, results. A powerhouse of a phone, the S7 Edge has
curves in all the right places. From (EURO)119 on contract, www.samsung.com
ADIDAS X PARLEY Adidas's latest runners are made using plastics harvested from
the Indian Ocean and illegal, deep-sea gill nets. Produced to coincide with last
Wednesday's World Oceans Day, the sportswear firm teamed up with environmental
collective Parley for the shoes which are made from plastics collected from
coastal areas around the Maldives. Just 50 pairs are being made initially. Other
footwear made from similar materials is expected to go on sale later this year.
For now, they are more of a statement of intent about the firm's mission to
tackle marine pollution and are only available to Instagrammers who submit
videos showing their commitment to stop using single-use plastics. www.parley.tv
FOLDIMATE If you thought this was a nasty case of a shirt getting caught in an
air conditioning unit think again. FoldiMate is a robotic clothes folder
designed to take the hassle out of laundry processing. The wi-fi-enabled device,
which is at the prototype stage, is expected to go on sale next year. Makers
claim it will take up to 30 items of clothing at a time. Folding takes just 10
seconds while it takes another 30 seconds to decrease each garment. It will not
cope with large or small items and some items require additional ironing to look
their best but anything that makes domestic life easier is OK with us.
(EURO)750, www.foldimate.com LA ROCHE POSAY UV PATCH La Roche-Posay's UV patch,
designed in conjunction with Irish firm PCH International, is a world first for
wearables. Half the thickness of a human hair, the heart-shaped patch is applied
to exposed skin and contains photosensitive dyes that change colour in sunlight.
Users download an app to their Android or iOS smartphone, tap in their skin tone
and take a picture of the patch to monitor exposure levels. Android users can
pair to the device using NFC so there's no need to take pictures. With its
series of blue and white digital squares it looks like a child's temporary
transfer but has potential to be a lifesaver. After a three-hour, mid-afternoon
trip to the beach without suncream, I was exposed to two full days' worth of UV
allowance. La Roche-Posay is in the process of recruiting 7,000 testers to try
out the device from next month. Anyone interested can register on the website.
free, www.laroche-posay.ie LITHIUM CYCLES SUPER 73 We reckon this motorised
machine has the potential to become the Raleigh Chopper of the e-bike market.
The retro-styled Lithium Cycles Super 73 comes with an electric motor with a
range of 38kph and top speed of 48kph. The removeable lithium-ion battery is
suspended under the seat cushion and there's a set of pedals in case you run out
of power on the way home. It rides on 4-inch thick tyres that look they've come
from a motorbike and has an LCD display that shows speed, distance travelled and
battery life. Other features include disc brakes, a cup-holder and bottle-opener
plus a USB port for charging a phone. The Super 73 has smashed its (EURO)25,000
((EURO)22,000) Kickstarter crowdfunding goal with 15 days still to run but
backers will have to wait until October before deliveries commence. (EURO)1,677,
www.lithiumcycles.com

