

Mobile phone retailers and industry insiders reveal Samsung's Galaxy S7 and
Galaxy S7 Edge models have had massive success in India just after launch, which
can potentially catapult the South Korean company to the front of the premium
devices segment, outpacing rival and pack leader Apple.

Retail channels said Samsung has sold over 60,000 S7 models within a month of
launch -roughly twice the number of its predecessor S6 in the same time.Analysts
said the strong initial demand could well put Samsung in the lead in the
April-June quarter in the premium segment, outpacing current leader Apple.

Cupertino-based Apple, which held the No 1spot in the OctoberDecember quarter,
launches a smaller screen rival, iPhone SE, on April 8, but that hasn't
generated any buzz among consumers, retailers told ET.

"We believe S7 series, in the April-June quarter, will help Samsung strengthen
and occupy pole-position in the Indian premium smartphone market, looking into
the seasonality cycle of iPhone 6s series and lukewarm response to new Apple iP

hone SE," said Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at Counterpoint Research.

The research firm's initial estimates for sell-in (stocks going to distributors)
for initial two weeks suggest a 65% on-year increase for Galaxy S7 series in
India, compared with Galaxy S6 series last year.

According to some large format retailers, the demand for S7 series has soared
since launch, far higher than what they saw

for the S6, which was launched last year. Some said their stocks have dried up
due to high demand. The sales spurt will help Samsung cement its position
against Apple, and as a

result, the segment is expect to grow 60% on-year in the second quarter this
year, Pathak said.

Industry executives aware of the demand-supply gap said orders for about 20,000
phones are in the pipeline, and of the total sales so far, about 80% belong to
the higher quoting Galaxy S7 Edge.

"Galaxy S7 and S7 edge are receiving a great response from

our customers with pre-orders which are almost double than that of the Galaxy S6
and S6 edge," said Manu Sharma, VPproduct marketing at Samsung India
Electronics.

The strong pre-order performance for the new Galaxy S7 and S7 edge illustrates
strong customer appetite for our premium smartphones in India, he added.
Industry executives, who did not wish to be named, said the company was doubling
shifts at its Noida plant to ramp up supplies. Samsung didn't comment on this.

"Demand for the Galaxy S7 has been very good and we don't have enough stock to
meet orders," said Subhash Chandra,

managing director of Bengaluru-based Sangeetha Mobiles.

Samsung launched the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge in India on March 18, priced '
. 48,900 and . 56,900, respectively. The com' pany has been bundling or giving
sharp discounts on VR headsets along with the devices.

On the other hand, sales of the iPhone SE are set to begin on April 8. The
models are priced at . 39,000 for 16 GB and ' ' . 49,000 for 64 GB. Although
Apple has started taking pre-orders, retailers in Delhi said the pace at which
inquiries were coming in indicated tepid demand. "The response has been very
lukewarm, unlike what we usually see," a Delhi-based retailer said.

