

[THE INVESTOR] Samsung Electronics said July 28 that its operating profit
increased 18 percent on-year to 8.14 trillion won (US$7.19 billion) in the
April-June period on the back of strong sales of the firm's smartphones, the
Galaxy S7 and its Edge variant in particular.

Quarterly revenue increased 5 percent to 50.94 trillion won from a year earlier.

Samsung's IT & Mobile Communications division, in charge of the smartphone
business, posted a whopping 4.32 trillion won operating profit, up from 2.76
trillion won in the second quarter last year, accounting for 53 percent of the
company's entire operating profit.

The upbeat performance was largely driven by strong sales of the Korean tech
giant's flagship smartphone Galaxy S7 and its Edge variant, the company said.

The consumer electronics division for home appliances posted 1.3 trillion won in
operating profit, up from 0.21 trillion won in the second quarter last year.

Premium products, such as SUHD TVs, the Chef Collection refrigerator, and the
AddWash washer, contributed to the profit improvement, according to Samsung. The
firm's component businesses, however, suffered a profit decrease from a year
earlier.

Samsung's semiconductor segment saw its operating income drop 22.3 percent
on-year to 2.64 trillion won while the display business's operating profit
dipped by 74 percent to 140 billion won

A prolonged price drop in the global DRAM market is said to have undermined
Samsung's profit in the chip business.

Despite the improved production yields of liquid-crystal displays, the Korean
tech firm suffered from the price decrease of displays in the global market due
to supply glut.

The company anticipated improved demand and supply conditions will boost the
component businesses.

"Marketing expenditure for the IM business will increase mainly due to a new
flagship product (the Galaxy Note 7) launch and fierce competition in the
industry," Samsung said.

Samsung said its capital expenditure this year, an indicator of how much a
company spend to beef up infrastructure, will slightly increase compared to last
year and it will mainly focus on smartphone OLED displays and vertical NAND
flash memory chips, both of which have saw an increasing demand recently.

Samsung is expected to supply OLED displays and V-NAND memory chips for Apple's
next iPhones.

By Kim Young-won (

