

NEW DELHI | KOLKATA: Apple and Samsung Electronics are set to battle it out in
the upcoming festive season in India. Cupertino-based Apple, which will look to
win over customers with the iPhone 7 and iPhone7 Plus introduced on Wednesday,
has earmarked Rs 100 crore for marketing, branding and advertising to take on
market leader Samsung, which plans to spend about Rs 125 crore in the days
leading up to Diwali.

Samsung will roll out discounts, cashbacks, exchange offers and EMI schemes on
the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 Edge starting at the end of this week in a bid to
protect market share and keep people from buying Apple's new phones, said people
aware of the plans of the companies.

"Samsung will offer cashbacks of up to Rs 5,000 on buying an S7 or S7 edge,
besides hefty exchange prices for old smartphones," a person privy to Samsung's
plans said, requesting anonymity. Monthly instalments over 12 or 18 months with
Bajaj Finance will be offered with no down payment and buyers will be given
virtual reality headsets at Rs 1,990.

"Apple is sprucing up its reach in the smaller neighbourhood stores, too, which
will play a big role in the launch of the new iPhone 7 and 7 Plus," said a
senior executive at a leading Apple trade partner. Marketing spends will be
mostly on digital, while outdoor and print media will also be a significant part
of the mix, a senior trade executive said.

The new iPhones have generated huge interest in the grey market and dealers may
charge a premium of as much as Rs 20,000 each. Apple declined to comment, while
a Samsung India spokesperson said, "We are confident that the new innovative
product portfolio and marketing programmes will help us increase our growth
rates during the festive season."

Apple and Samsung intend to make the most of the market as a good monsoon is
expected to drive consumer purchases this festive season. Both brands are
neck-and-neck in the premium segment - devices costing upwards of Rs 30,000 -
which accounts for almost a quarter of annual smartphone sales by value.

While Samsung is No. 1 in this segment with a 49% share in the quarter ended
June, Apple improved its share to 47% from 37% in the three months ended March.
Samsung had a 62% share in March-ended quarter, according to data from Hong
Kongbased Counterpoint Technology Market Research.

Samsung had a chance to widen its lead over Apple with the iris-scanning Galaxy
Note7, but sales were halted until the month-end after some batteries exploded,
leading to a 2.5 million unit global recall. In India, Samsung will give
freebies, including accessories and content, to retain the 15,000-20,000
customers who had had booked the Note7.

Apple, which increased its focus on India since last year by announcing app and
map development centres in the country, may extend its midnight launches to some
large neighbourhood retail stores this year, besides the exclusive outlets and
large retail chains.

The company has informed trade partners that stocks of the new iPhones would
reach retailers by end-September. Retailers expect the company to cut prices of
older models, besides offering discounts and cashbacks.

Apple, which will start selling its new phones overseas on September 16, may
have taken price sensitivity of the Indian market into account this time. The
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus go on sale in India from October 7, starting at Rs
60,000 for 32 GB storage.

That's lower than Apple's 2015 flagship iPhone 6s, which was launched at Rs
62,000 for the base 16 GB model and cost and additional Rs 10,000 for the 32 GB
device.

Analysts said the price would excite consumers and may even attract some Samsung
premium segment users. Retailers expect the jet black iPhone - one of two new
colours - to be in high demand.

"The fanboys would be booking it immediately," said Vishal Tripathi, research
director at Gartner India. "A certain percentage of premium segment users who
have the buying capacity and are not locked to a certain OS may migrate to the
iPhone 7." In the grey market, there have been more enquiries about the new
iPhone 7 and iPhone 7Plus than last year and dealers said they may charge a
premium of Rs 15,000-20,000 apiece.

Official prices of the higher storage variants are yet to be released, but the
models will be priced Rs 10,000-11,000 higher than the existing one. The iPhone
7 Plus 32 GB entry model may be priced at Rs 72,000.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

