

MANUFACTURING

ATS Automation picks up $40M order from U.S. firm

CAMBRIDGE - ATS Automation Tooling Systems says it has received an order worth
about $40 million from a U.S.-based medical device company. The order involves
the design, delivery and installation of a new manufacturing system to produce
the unnamed customer's drug delivery device, the Cambridge-based company said
Wednesday. ATS said the system is based on proprietary technology that
"facilitates high volume and reliable manufacturing in a compact footprint." It
added that there is potential for additional orders depending on the success of
the customer's product. ATS employs about 3,500 people at plants and offices
around the world.

SMARTPHONES

Samsung announces details of Canadian Note 7 recall

MISSISSAUGA - Samsung has released Canadian details for the 10-country recall of
2.5 million Galaxy Note 7 smartphones following reports that some of their
batteries have exploded or caught fire. Samsung Electronics Canada says there
has been no confirmed incident in this country, but it's offering a voluntary
exchange program for its Canadian customers. Owners of the phone can exchange
their Galaxy Note 7 for a new one. The company says another option is to
exchange the phone for a Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 Edge through the carrier or
retailer that sold the device. Samsung says Note 7 owners can initiate the
exchange by visiting the website CanadaNote7exchange.expertinquiry.com. It also
has a toll-free phone number: 1-800-517-3507.

MEDIA

Postmedia debt restructuring plan wins approval

TORONTO - Postmedia's shareholders and debt holders approved the media
conglomerate's proposal to restructure its $648-million debt on Wednesday. Under
the plan, second lien debt holders of the company will exchange the roughly $345
million they are owed for a 98 per cent stake in the owner of the National Post,
Toronto Sun, Ottawa Citizen and other daily newspapers. Current shareholders
will be left with a two per cent stake. The company will also issue about $110
million worth of new second lien notes that mature in July 2023. It also plans
to repay $78 million of its first lien debt and will be granted a four-year
extension that gives it until July 2021 to repay the outstanding $225 million.

RETAIL

Two gas stations to be sold due to competition concerns

MONTREAL - Alimentation Couche-Tard has agreed to sell two gasoline stations in
Ontario and Quebec to resolve Competition Bureau concerns about the convenience
store chain's purchase of nearly 300 Esso locations from Imperial Oil for about
$1.7 billion. The federal agency says the Quebec-based retailer will sell a
Mac's-branded retail gas station in Carleton Place, Ont., and the Esso-branded
station in St-Bruno-de-Montarville, Que. Imperial Oil agreed last March to sell
its 497 Esso retail stations to five fuel distributors, including Couche-Tard.

TECHNOLOGY

Intel to spin out McAfee cybersecurity business

SAN FRANCISCO - Intel is spinning out its cybersecurity unit into a new company,
called McAfee, in a deal with private equity firm TPG. The deal values McAfee at
$4.2 billion, including its debt of about $2 billion. Intel bought McAfee in
2011 for $7.68 billion. Intel said Wednesday that McAfee will be one of the
largest cybersecurity firms and will be led by Chris Young, senior
vice-president and general manager of Intel's security group. Intel will get
$3.1 billion cash and retain a 49 per cent stake in the new company. TPG, based
in Fort Worth, Texas, will invest $1.1 billion in McAfee and own 51 per cent of
the company.

