

Samsung unveils a phablet you can unlock with your eyes

IF there's one thing Samsung has learnt to do well over the years, it is
building on its successes.

The Galaxy S3 and S4 smartphones solidified the 5-inch display format as the
size of choice. Following these pace-setters, each successive flagship phone
packed more image-enhancement into a similar size.

The Galaxy S6 edge was the first phone with dual curved edges. Its successor,
the S7 edge, had better functionality on the edge screen and a boost in screen
size without increasing the size much. The cameras on both generations of edge
phone redefined the notion of image quality, leapfrogging the iPhone.

Meanwhile, the larger Galaxy Note had introduced the concept of the phablet,
confounding numerous critics of the "oversized" screen and S-Pen stylus by
becoming a wildly successful format. Apple eventually caved in under the weight
of Note sales, and offered an iPhone in phablet-level 5.5-inch display.

This week, the new Galaxy Note 7 was launched with a relatively low-key
celebration inside a New York theatre but packing in a legacy that shouted from
the rooftops.

Ostensibly a phablet, the combined impact of the various legacies has made it
something more. The 5.7-inch display uses a Super AMOLED capacitive touchscreen
- it is highly sensitive to touch - and offers a pixel density of 518ppi (pixels
per inch). The iPhone 6s Plus, by contrast, is only 401ppi.

The camera comes right out of the S7 edge, with the same 12megapixel rear camera
and 26mm lens and, more importantly, a focal length of f/1.7, which makes it the
best phone camera on the market.

The rest of the camera's specifications add up to more features than early
smartphones had in total.

Simultaneous 4K (double high-definition) video and 9MP image recording, HDR
video, face and smile detection, touch focus, HDR video and geotagging mean this
is not your father's phone camera. It's not even your older brother's phone
camera.

However, the curved edges of the device are what stand out. Where the S7
dual-edge curved screen makes for a stunning front view of the phone, the Note 7
offers both dual-edge curved screen and curved rear edges that flow smoothly
from front to back. The result is a silky and comfortable grip, and probably a
resistance to buying phone covers that will rob the user of one of the most
tactile experiences available in smartphones.

If the Note 7 sounds like an aggregation of everything Samsung has packed into
previous Galaxy devices - everything that has worked, that is - there is one
feature that leads the brand into the next phase of smart devices.

It uses an iris scanner to authenticate the user and extends this functionality
into the Samsung Pay app for those markets where this mobile payments
application has been rolled out.

More significantly, the iris scanner will be used in conjunction with a new
authentication service called Samsung Pass, for security-sensitive websites and
apps like online banking and transactions. In the US, Bank of America, Citibank
and US Bank have all agreed to integrate the technology into their systems.

An enhanced S-Pen, with a much thinner nib, expandable storage up to 256GB, a
heavyweight 3500mAh battery and water-resistant technology are improvements that
suggest Samsung has still not reached the edge of handset evolution.

oGoldstuck is the founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of
Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @art2gee

