

Samsung has officially scrapped the Note 7. So what's next for consumers?

I HAVE ONE OF THE REPLACEMENT PHONES. DO I REALLY NEED TO STOP

USING IT?

Absolutely. The multiple investigations into

replacement units catching fire and the fact Samsung has pulled the plug on the
model should tell you something. In addition, South Korean safety authorities
said Tuesday that they may have found a new defect that may not be related to
the batteries.

HOW BAD HAVE THE FIRES BEEN? Social media is filled with pictures of smoldering
phones. While dramatic, these occurrences are far from common. But you don't
want to become the next headline. When U.S. regulators announced their recall of
the original Note 7s last month, they cited 92 reports of the batteries
overheating in the U.S., including 26 reports of burns and 55 of property
damage. The property damage included fires in cars and a garage.

DID I JUST WASTE NEARLY A

THOUSAND DOLLARS ON THE NOTE 7? Samsung has been slow to release specific
information on the replacement phones. Its initial recall offered owners a
refund, a replacement Note 7 or another Samsung phone such as the Galaxy S7 with
a refund of any difference in price. Customers who exchange a Note 7 for another
Samsung product also get a $25 in the form of a gift card, in-store credit or
bill credit from select carriers or retailers.

WHAT ABOUT ACCESSORIES?

It depends on the carrier. T-Mobile and AT&T, for instance, are giving full
refunds on accessories.

Some Samsung gadgets, such as its Gear Fit2 fitness tracker, will work with
other Android phones. The Gear VR virtual reality headset requires a recent
Samsung phone, though.

I'D LIKE TO STICK WITH SAMSUNG.

WHAT'S AVAILABLE?

The Galaxy S7, which came out in March, doesn't offer the same huge screen as
the Note 7, but it has many of the same features. Notable exceptions are the
Note 7's iris scanner and pen.

Samsung's Galaxy S8 is expected in February or March, making the S7 feel old
already. Even older is last year's Note 5 (there was no Note 6).

COULD OTHER PHONES CATCH FIRE? Given consumer demand for batteries that are more
powerful, last longer and charge faster, it's a little surprising that Note 7 is
the only phone catching fire these days. The Note 7 is still being dissected by
tech experts for Samsung and the government. They may find that the problem
isn't with the battery at all.

