

Samsung Pay, the mobile payment service, has entered the European soil with its
launch in Spain. This release has provided the service with an early-entry
advantage over its strong rivals like Apple Pay and Android Pay, which have not
yet stepped foot inside in Europe. During this year itself, Apple Pay is also
planning to get launched in Spain, which will be the services first market in
Europe like Samsung Pay.

Android Pay is also scheduling its entry into the European market, according to
Spencer Spinnell, the Director of Emerging Platforms at Google. Similar to its
other markets, Samsung will make Samsung Pay available on the flagship
smartphones of the company, which are the models within the Galaxy S7 and S6
series. The coming few weeks will witness the addition of this new feature to
the new model of the Galaxy A5.

Spain was selected as the first market for launch in Europe by the South Korean
multinational technology conglomerate since the country boasts of soaring levels
of smartphone ownership and credit card usage. Samsung conducted a research,
which revealed that 64% consumers in Spain make partial or complete payments for
their purchases through cards. Samsung Pay has joined hands with banks CaixaBank
and imaginBank in Spain as of now.

Customers of Abanca and Banco Sabadell will possibly get access to Samsung Pay
shortly. Android Authority revealed that a major feature of Samsung Pay is
absent in Spain. The missing feature is magnetic secure transmission (MST)
terminals and only that operates with near-field communication (NFC)-enabled
contactless payment terminals.

In January, CaixaBank had already disclosed that Samsung Pay's MST will not be
supported by it since contactless point-of-sale systems are highly-prevalent in
the country. In the United States, Samsung Pay gets a step ahead to Apple Pay
and Android Pay through its MST feature, since it prevents outlets from
installing new NFC-enabled terminals.

According to a story published on the topic by Tech Crunch, "Samsung Pay has
launched in Spain, its first European country. This gives the mobile payment
service a headstart over competitors Apple Pay and Android Pay, since the two
haven't landed in Europe yet."

Apple Pay is supposed to arrive in Spain (which would also be its first European
market) sometime this year, while Google director of emerging platforms Spencer
Spinnell recently said Android Pay plans to enter Europe soon.

In Spain, as in other markets, Samsung Pay is available on Samsung's flagship
smartphones, the Galaxy S7 and S6 series. It will also be added to this year's
model of the Galaxy A5 in the next few weeks.

"Samsung has launched its contactless payment service, Samsung Pay, in Spain.
This is the company's first foray into the European payments market, giving the
owners of devices such as the Galaxy S7 an extra use for their phone," according
to a news report published by Fortune.

"Samsung operates an open model of partnership and collaboration to deliver the
best possible customer experience," said Victor Kim, the global director for
Samsung Pay. "We're confident that we're providing Spanish customers with the
mobile payments service that they're looking for."

The company's first banking partners in Spain are CaixaBank and imaginBank,
while customers of Abanca and Banco Sabadell will soon also be able to link
their accounts with their Samsung phones.

A report published in CNET said, "Like rival services Apple Pay and Android Pay
-- the latter recently arrived in the UK -- Samsung Pay sees customers adding
credit or debit cards to their phone, which can then be tapped on tills to make
a contactless payment. Unlike those services, it can be used with older magnetic
strip systems."

"The opportunity for Samsung Pay in Spain is significant, due to the high
smartphone penetration rate and the digitalisation of the banking sector," said
Celestino Garcia, corporate vice president of Samsung Spain.

Samsung Pay launched in the US in September 2015. In February the company said
it had 5 million registered Samsung Pay customers, and claimed a "strong"
adoption rate in the US and South Korea.

