

Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. is stopping production of the Galaxy Note 7, one of
its most popular smartphones, after being unable to halt a rash of spontaneous
fires and explosions.

How many consumers are affected?

In September, the company recalled 2.5 million of the devices to replace
batteries that were catching on fire, but after reports replacements also burst
into flames, the company discontinued the product. Estimates are that four
million of the devices were sold worldwide.

Starting on Oct. 13, at their point of purchase, Samsung Note 7 owners can bring
their device in for an exchange to a Galaxy S7 or Galaxy S7 edge device or a
fulldevice hardware and Note 7-specific accessories refund.

How much will this cost Samsung?

Investors burned off $20-billion (U.S.) of Samsung Electronics' market value on
Tuesday as its shares closed down 8 per cent, the biggest single-day decline
since 2008. The company expected to sell upwards of 12 million Note 7s, and
analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. have predicted that if the model cannot be
rehabilitated and sold to consumers, it could cost Samsung $5-billion in
operating profit.

How popular is Samsung?

Samsung is the smartphone market-share leader in almost every region outside of
North America and Japan (where Apple is top dog) and China's fragmented market,
which is owned mainly by Chinese brands like Huawei, Oppo and Xiaomi.

According to IDC Canada, 4.9 million smartphones were sold in Canada in the
first half of 2016, and 36.7 per cent of which were Samsung models. Typically,
the Note has made up to 10 per cent of Samsung's smartphone unit sales
worldwide.

What does this mean for Canadians?

Canada's Big Three national carriers - BCE Inc., Rogers Communications Inc. and
Telus Corp. - have stopped selling the Note 7.

BCE says it will refund customers or exchange for another device at the store
where they bought the Note 7, while Telus says it is "working on a refund or
exchange process and will provide details as soon as possible."

Rogers says customers can bring their Note 7 back to the store where they got it
for a refund or exchange, and those who ordered one online can "call us to start
the exchange or refund process."

As of Sept. 12, Health Canada reported Samsung had sold about 21,953 Note 7s in
Canada, and about one million in the United States. That was with less than a
month in the market, but it is still not a huge number in Canada's overall
wireless market of about 29 million subscribers.

So the Note 7 will not be part of the carriers' lineup for the holiday season,
but smartphones from Samsung and other companies can likely fill that gap.

"Samsung's a great partner and one of our top selling mobile brands. We expect
that to continue," BCE spokesman Mark Langton said on Tuesday.

Why are the phones exploding?

The volatile chemistry of lithiumion batteries is well known to electronics
manufacturers. In late 2015, the "hoverboard" selfbalancing scooter fad was
derailed by dozens of lithium-ion battery failures and fires, and even Apple's
iPhone had reports of a few battery fires in 2015 and 2016.

A li-ion battery is essentially a layer-cake of different materials: a positive
electrode (often made of lithium iron phosphate), a negative electrode (usually
made of carbon), and in between them a chemical or liquid electrolyte.

Pure lithium is unstable and highly reactive, and the electrolytes are often
such volatile chemicals as dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate
(EMC), which can hit flashpoints at room temperature (between 16 and 33 C).
Anything that punctures the layers that separate these materials can become a
"hot spot" for electrical current and cause the battery to explode.

After li-ion battery fires in laptops in 2007, researchers looked for ways to
monitor and stop the formation of metallic fibres, called dendrites, that can
grow inside the batteries and cause short-circuits.

It is not clear exactly what is wrong with Samsung's batteries, but something is
compromising those layers - which do not fail in most li-ion batteries.

Maybe we should not use these batteries?

Do not count on a switch away from li-ion soon: Despite the risk of fire, they
are the dominant power cell in mobile phones and electric cars. Allied Market
Research estimates the global market for lithium-ion batteries will generate
$46-billion in revenue by 2022, up from $29-billion in 2015. Samsung SDI Co.
Ltd. is one of the big four battery makers, with Panasonic Corp., Automotive
Energy Supply Corporation (AESC) and LG Chem Power.

With reports from Christine Dobby and Reuters

