

Want to protect your new Samsung mobile? You'll be spoiled for choice, writes
Jennifer Dudley-Nicholson

SAMSUNG'S new smartphones are arguably its most attractive to date. But, one
month after launch, it's time to think about how to keep those beautiful glass
and metal bodies protected from everyday life, and maybe even make them more
eye-catching.

We scoured the market for the best, prettiest and most useful Samsung Galaxy S7
and S7 Edge cases, and can recommend five that will change the way you look at
your phone.

Aeroshield Cygnett, $25 cygnett.com *** 1/2 Australian firm Cygnett attempts to
solve the Galaxy S7 Edge conundrum with this cover, below. Namely, how to keep
its design on show while protecting it from scratches and slips. The Aeroshield
is a clear case, available with coloured edges if you prefer, that hugs this
phone's curves with a polyurethane frame and polycarbonate shell to provide
protection from drops. It also features four raised corners on the back of the
case to keep it in place on slippery surfaces. Its lack of weight and bulk is
commendable, though this cover does scratch quite easily.

Samsung Lens Cover Samsung, $TBA samsung.com/au ***** Of all the cases, covers,
and slips for Samsung's new smartphones, this is the smartest. The Lens Cover,
right, out this month, takes the phone's camera to the next level, letting users
attach a high-quality, metal and glass lens for surprisingly crisp results. It's
the first time Samsung has made a phone lens but the company's photographic
experience shines through. The wide-angle addition we tested showed little
distortion at the edges yet allowed plenty of extra detail into the frame. The
case itself features a soft lining and understated leather-like exterior and,
even though the lens screws on in just one turn, it remains securely in place.
Macro lens next, please.

Tech21 Evo Wallet Tech21, $60 tech21.com **** This case can have your new phone
completely surrounded. The Tech21 creation, below, not only hugs the rounded
edges of the Galaxy S7 Edge with impact-reducing FlexShock material, but it then
covers it with a water-resisting material to keep scratches off its screen.
Inside the flip-up cover lies space for a credit card for use as a real wallet,
while a microfibre lining helps keep its screen pristine. The case does weigh
30g and some may not like it covering the phone's Always On display, but the Evo
Wallet provides plenty of protection when you just want to throw your phone into
a bag.

Case-Mate Brilliance Case-Mate, $78.49 mobilezap.com.au **** How do you ensure
Samsung's curvy, flagship phone stands out? Fit it with a case paved with
genuine crystals. The Case-Mate Brilliance is covered in faceted stones that
reflect light and it features a champagne-coloured frame and matching button
covers to set them off. It's not just good-looking, though. This cover comes in
two parts, including a silicon lining to provide impact resistance in the
unlikely case the crystals slip from your grip. The blinged-up accessory does
add 50g and 3mm to the size of Samsung's slender phone but it will be worth it
for those who want to be noticed.

Tech21 Evo Check Tech21, $50 tech21.com ****You shouldn't throw your phone
around but, if you happen to drop it from 2m, this case promises to absorb the
impact. Mercifully, the Evo Check case is not as bulky as you'd expect of a case
making that promise, with a slender profile, light weight and just a little
extra padding around the outside of the phone. The "check" in its name refers to
the pattern on this case, curiously positioned inside rather than outside for
slip resistance, and it's available for the S7 in three colours, including pink,
below. It's a slick take on a protective case for clumsier types.

