

Explaining virtual reality in writing to a layman may prove to be quite a task.
It is something best experienced and differentiated when someone actually puts
on a VR headset. Google was among the first to make the attempt to help VR
headsets reach masses through its Cardboard, couple of years back. But it
couldn't tickle consumer interests in India.

The cheap paper cardboard headset, priced under Rs 200, was just a step towards
virtual reality. While several improved versions of the original Google
Cardboard appeared, including the Lenovo ANT VR headset, Samsung's Gear VR
headset is the only real deal in the country.

The Lenovo K4 Note and ANT VR combo should not be considered as a cheaper
replacement for the Gear VR combo. It is nowhere close.

The Gear VR gives a mere glimpse of the myriad possibilities and makes a silent
statement that a proper VR headset is way more than just another Google
Cardboard rip-off.

Priced at Rs 8,200, the Gear VR is compatible only with flagship Samsung Galaxy
smartphones -- S6, S6 edge, S6 edge plus, S7, S7 edge and Note 5.

Getting a flagship Galaxy smartphone and Gear VR combo may appear as an
expensive option, but Samsung ensures you get the value for the money you pay.
After playing with the Gear VR for some time, here is our review.

Design

The Gear VR offers a perfect fit for all compatible Galaxy smartphones. The
build quality of the headset is good and is comfortable to wear. It can be also
worn with regular glasses. This VR headset is completely wireless and comes with
a built-in navigation touchpad, volume rockers and focus ring to adjust depth.

The lens are of good quality but given our hot and humid weather, expect it to
get misty and oily. The Gear VR alone is lightweight but the weight of the
smartphone attached to it adds up. However, the straps does a good job in
balancing the weight and keeping the headset stable with minimal wobble.

This headset is not something exactly portable for good reasons. It is always
better to experience virtual reality in the safety of one's room.

Setup

Setup is very easy. After installing Gear VR Oculus app, the smartphone needs to
be placed inside the Gear VR by connecting it to the charging port. Once
connected, the Oculus app starts automatically and its homepage greets the user.
The navigation touchpad along with the back button on the right side is all that
users have got to explore. Initially, if the view is unclear, the focus needs to
be adjusted by using the ring on top.

Content: Limited free

Oculus store has some quality-free VR content which will easily impress any
first-time user. For seamless experience, a high-speed Wi-Fi connection is a
must. However, if connectivity is a problem, users can also play regular videos
and movies (stored in their phones) to get an immersive experience and a feeling
of a personal theatre. It is difficult to watch a full movie using the VR and it
is not advisable either on a daily basis.

VR content is expensive. Once the free games and videos are already viewed,
there is very little motivation to pay to experience more. Also, most content
will be a one-time watch.

On the gaming front, the biggest surprise stored for first-time users is Temple
Run. Playing most popular Temple Run game on the Gear VR is a different story
altogether. The experience is extraordinary, however, within just 15 minutes, it
feels nauseating.

Overall, Gear VR is the only and best option currently. And it stands by the
promise of showing the future.

Performance and battery

The Gear VR feeds on the smartphone's battery. Users can also plug a charging
cable to the headset to avoid draining battery of the smartphone. A maximum of
15% to 20% battery drainage on the phone can be expected from 30 minutes of Gear
VR usage. Also, expect the smartphone to heat up badly.

Verdict

The Gear VR is a luxury for flagship Samsung smartphone users which they
shouldn't miss out. It truly brings out more value from these high-end phones.
If you already own a compatible phone or is planning to get one then definitely
buy the Gear VR. However, buying a Samsung flagship for the Gear VR alone
doesn't make sense.

While the Gear VR has everything to woo any user, the challenge here is that
they will get bored very easily. And for most, the headset will find its place
in some shelf, accumulating dust.

For those who do not intend to buy a Samsung flagship, the good old Google
Cardboard (and its rip-offs) is still the best bet.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

