

Hot tech on show in Barcelona

1. XPERIA EAR SONY Not unlike the movie Her, this smart Sony device sits in your
ear and tells you important information. After connecting to a smartphone with
NFC and Bluetooth, the Ear can give you the weather forecast and read you news
stories, read out SMS, Facebook, or WhatsApp messages as they arrive, and can
even deliver street-by-street navigation so you don't have to look at a phone
screen. The Xperia Ear comes with a dock in which it charges, and its battery is
designed to last a full day with 31/2 hours of talk time. It also features
sensors, including an accelerometer and gyroscope.

price TBA / sony.com 2. GALAXZY S7 SAMSUNG Australians who bought a
water-resistant Galaxy S5 are likely to be impressed with Samsung's smartphone
update, just in time for their new contract. The Galaxy S7 brings back water
resistance and strengthens it, with a better IP68 rating, allowing users to dunk
this phone in water for up to 30 minutes without consequence. The 5.1-inch phone
is 14g heavier than before, but it also offers a faster octa-core chip, an extra
gigabyte of RAM, a significantly larger battery and a redesigned camera that,
while it shrinks to 12 megapixels, promises almost instant autofocus and uses a
wide f1.7 aperture to make the best out of low-light situations.

$1149/ samsung.com.au 3. MATEBOOK HUAWEI Hybrid computers are growing in
popularity and this slender model from Huawei offers plenty of options to make
it feel like a laptop. MateBook sports a 12-inch screen, a metal body and a
10-hour battery life. It powers through tasks with a 3.1GHz Intel chip and up to
8GB RAM, and runs Windows 10 software. Unlike its rivals, the 640g, 6.9mm-thick
computer also features a fingerprint scanner on its side and a USB-C port for
charging. Accessories include the MatePen, a keyboard case with PU leather and
the MateDock that offers extra ports.

$US699-$US1599 / consumer.huawei.com 4. 360 CAM LG Some virtual reality content
will be homemade this year, with cameras such as this model from LG behind the
push. The 360 Cam is a stick-shaped camera with two 13-megapixel cameras on
either side. It's simple to use: Just hold it in the air, snap a photo or 2K
video and view it on a connected smartphone. Photos can be shared as a large
flat image or added to Google's Street View or YouTube360 as an interactive
image that captures the entire room.price TBA / lg.com.au

